[Peter] This is Wes on the motorcycle. He met me at the hotel because he said, &quot;Hey, there's no easy way into my place, [Peter] When you have [Wes] Yep. [Peter] You're fifth generation, -What would you do out here -Buddy if there wasn't this place would just dry up. -Dry up? -But these look like -This is all retired coal miners. 95% of the men you meet here, all went to coal mines at 18 years old. Some of them younger, -So they go right out of high school? -You dad lives up here? -Yeah, dad lives Dad's health started I come up to be around him. My grandpa got killed in '57. -How'd he die? -Coal mines. When I started in the mines, Just in this community, But just Cawood, there were probably -Oh wow. Coal mining started here in 1903 I think. It was actually before then Back in the day They'd just dig out the bank. -They'd have family mines here? They actually used it for heat, And then when coal finally picked up they did come in here Some of the guys got rich, I got a 12-year-old, -You don't want him in the mines -No, no, no, no, no, His academics is unreal. For him to just be going into sixth grade, I mean, medals -So you're super proud? -So it's been five generations -Yeah, my oldest son, -And he worked. When I decided to come out... Which I know'd I had black lung. I was already seeing but the mines was declining and told him, I said, &quot;You need to be looking Now today he makes -Doing what? He's electrical-- He works for -Black lung... Explain that to us. From the sounds of it, your lungs turn the color of coal, right? Well what it does, it scars your lungs. Also a lot of the rock, Doctors when the describe it to you, -And it just cuts, and cuts, and scars. -Dad had six... let's see, five brothers. He's the only one living. And the sister's husbands also, and we watched every one of 'em die. And the doctors describe it as when they pass away I mean you go in there That's what's gonna happen When I started, I mean it it sounds crazy, But back then... Minimum wage was probably -Okay. -So really, you started out And as it went along, when I come out, Now my cousin, We may be able to get him He's still working, -[surprised] 34 years in the mines? -Yeah, he's real close to it. -So in this-- Is this a holler or no? -This is what you would call a ridge. In the ridge, -Yeah, this is all family, -That's very Appalachian, right? -You grow up, you stay, And then these parts, -Yeah, and the families are so tight-knit. When Dad's dad got killed in '57, they've got all these kids... Back then it was normal for a family So they all had to chip in, and just take care of each other, [Jeny] We say what we mean If we like you, we like you, And you'll always know because if we don't like you We won't be mean to you. We won't be mean to you at all. You know, we'll say, and I don't know who you are but, You know, but if we like you, say our howdys and keep on going. -No BS? -No, there's no bullcrap in here. J-E-N-Y, Jeny as you would say, I've been with a coal miner since 1999. -[Wes] Me and him started same time. His dad was a coal miner -Along with his uncle, which is his dad. -Great-grandpa too? Great-grandpa was a coal miner. -So you had four generations right there. -Five? See he knows But as far as uncles... But as far as wanting better for our kids, yes, because coal is something -So that's gotta be hard for you because it keeps the lights on, It's one of the few industries-- But then you don't want... -Absolutely not. -Do you want them to move out of town or? -Well, they'll go to school. -Go to school, do an education. -Just like my daughter, we wanted her We didn't want her-- She's a girl. A girl probably wouldn't But we wanted her to go to school. His 16-year-old brother, We want him to go to college -So that just recently changed then? This whole, &quot;Get the family out of coal.&quot;? -No, actually my dad and not go to coal mines. -Oh, okay, okay. -Because of the way his health declined. I mean my dad's been down now since what? -[Jeny] 15 years at least. -Last week my Jeff [Peter] That's normal? -Yes, that's normal for him. -So you're not seeing him? He has to be at work by 6:00 and he comes in at 6:00 or 7:00 To provide for his family -They had to call me at the school because he hears me about going back to the coal mines. -My Jeff works They're out of Knoxville, Tennessee And we're in limbo right now is going to come in and take over or they're going to shut the doors. But they are doing it the right way. They did give us the WARN Act as far as layoff letters They've done everything. is letting the miners know [Wes] And they won't. -And... [Peter] So that happens a lot -No, when the mines are-- Wes, how would you answer that? -Well I mean like when Jay Justice People went from I mean I worked and that was good money around here. Jay comes in, raises the wages To twenty-some dollars an hour. Then when he decides you just go into work one day, and, you know, where I was a foreman, &quot;Tell everybody go home.&quot; -&quot;We're shut down.&quot; &quot;This letter shall serve 14 days from the beginning of June 2nd.&quot; -So very stressful for you right now? -Yeah, not knowing. -You know what I mean? Thank the good lord above, Like a few months ago. -That takes a load off. -And the only thing Such as a side-by-side, a boat, -Wait, you forgot the race car. -Oh no, don't be -[Wes chuckles] That's what he drives to work every day. -Oh, okay. -That's what he drives back and forth - You're sating this is... In the last four, five years?... - For the last 10 years things crime and drugs and stuff Probably back in... 1993, '94, '95, even in the early 2000s you and even your screen doors open but as time has went on and you're for sure to close your and lock your personal stuff up you don't never know when and maybe take 'em, I mean... - [Peter] In this neighborhood - [Jeny] Yeah. - [Peter] Wes, you're the same? - [Wes] Well, I'm a little different. I leave my door open 'cause at the same time You know... The corner's gonna be the - [Peter] You got a good - I'm well protected. I'm not gonna let nobody take I'm not gonna let nobody come - They know too, they know who they can steal from and who they can't, I mean... They prey on like the older people, - Yeah. - [Peter] That's harsh, and so... -And they know like when No doubt they know. - But again, we are protected also. And we won't discuss what But you come on our property, One way or the other, we will prosecute to the - And like.. If they go out of town I drive by here several times a day - If I go out of town they drive by. Dad's always home, he's - [Jeny] That's my husband, -So he has one of his random days off? He got today off as it's the 4th of July. They're gonna work him on the 4th? -That's not very patriotic. [roaring engine drowns out Jeny] [Peter] Something tells me because it's in perfect shape. Custom-made doors? [Jeff] They actually make 'em. I didn't want to pay $700 and she was on Marketplace, [Peter giggling] Look at that, -Yeah. You got a... [clicking] That's a flag up there on the light bar. So it don't blind everybody, with that right there on [Peter] Oh jeez, with the kit under there, huh? [laughing] Don't be a pud-muffin. -Pud-muffin? -So you're saying don't wear a seat belt? -I have Kentucky's best driver, -[Jeny] Have fun. somber country -[Peter] Old strip job? -That's where they just -Yeah, and get the coal. -Do you work on top or in the-- -I work under the mountain. -Under the mountain? Sometimes it's got like five entries. -See how this rock right here is? There's a coal seam right there. They go under it and we use What we call route bolts to help support the top as we drive. There'd be like five different entries -So when you say coal seam, -And that's where you guys tap in? -I'm going into my 35th year this year. -How many do you want to do? -I don't wanna quit work. I can't see myself living I mean that's just -And you must be good at what you do. -Well.. so-so. I'm all right. -Are you down there -The coal seam I'm in right now, it's not that low, And... get around that way. But now when I first started, you're talking anywhere from -Nineteen? -So you're-- -In the coal seam. So when you're in the coal seam Which is basically... this. How far in are you going? -It just depends on -But you're talking -Oh no, It'll just run up and down. Sometimes you'll run into -Okay. -It'll pop down to like 19 inches may go 500 foot that low. It'll pick back up to... -You ever freak out -No. [Peter] So what is this, -Deep mines. What we call a shaft mine -Kay. -Straight down into the ground, What we work in-- [Wes speaking in the distance] Aiden is Wes' son. [Jeff] We got sidetracked, Wes. [Peter] Oh, cool. [Peter grunts] There it is. [Peter] Oh, it gets cool immediately. [Wes] Oh, yeah. [Peter] Wow, that's like [Jeff] That's the thing It's... maybe 10 degrees -Okay, what's the temperature -'Bout 60s... 65. [Wes] You can see When a miner cuts it out Like, you know, the wall. -[Jeff] Straight up and down. [Wes] Yeah, this was cut out and they used ponies. [Peter] That is some crazy work, I mean it's lit up but... [Wes] I mean it's lit up But when we worked in Wilcox -I see your light [Jeff] When we'd come out everything was Only thing you could see [Peter] Oh, it just gets So what were you saying about-- [Aiden] Oh, shoot! [Wes] Yeah. [Peter] What were you saying? [Wes] The coal-- This is just where [Jeff] This here's just dribbled off, [Peter] So that's the coal seam? -That's the coal seam there, [Peter] You're trying to look like you were saying, 19 inches? [Jeff] Yeah. -You just go in between. -Clean the rock with it. -Is that a rush when you find it? -Uh... That... I never did have to hunt for it. -That was out of my category. I just mined it. [chuckles] -They'll coal drill up top. And they'll coal drill down Then they'll come in and post it up Which back in the day and time Well see, right there's the coal. See? They just follow that coal in. -[Peter] Yep, right there. -And just dug it out by hand. [rocks crumbling] That's how Papaw got killed. He was... He was loading in a break and my uncle brought the pony And Papaw stayed back to load another car so they would and he got killed Left eight kids. -[Aiden] You told me it collapsed. It killed Papaw. I've got the thing thing where says &quot;Coal miner dies And the only thing Granny got out of it, They make it out of cement and... -Mm-hmm. -She never got nothing, did she? Nothing. somber country [engine] [Peter] We're going up this? [chuckles] Nice. Woo. [music continues] [Jeff] You see the campers, -Yep. There was coal mines as it went back in -So your place is literally -Yeah. -Does it make you happy to see all this? All the mines that have taken place? -Well, there've been a lot of good people Especially back in the day. I mean it's not near as dangerous -What's that say? That's the truth to that right there, for coal mining. -What would you want to tell those What would you tell 'em? -Stay away from it, -Really? -Yeah. 'Cause in... While you're young you don't realize it the wear and tear it does, and stuff like that. -Yeah. -That's where it comes into play. -So what would you tell someone this is what you got? You would tell -Go to school, get an education. -But then they'd have to leave for a job. -Uh, no, not necessarily because my girl, you know, she's been raised right here. She went to school, got an education, and now she's That's all through the community college. -Great. -Tryin' to help teaching them so maybe There's medical programs Where they can stay at home -Okay. So in a way, you're very proud but you're also rational, saying, -Right. My dad always told me, &quot;Son, I'll beat you He beat you a lot then? [Wes] Mine told me the same thing. He beat you then? -No. -He didn't stay to his word. He seen that I wasn't and he know'd I was gon' have to be -And part of you loves it though, right? -Getting in there, doing the hard work? I couldn't stand being out in the city I'm just... I'm too... Let's say too active a person -Yeah. How are your lungs right now? 'Cause you look really healthy, -My lungs is... Last thing I done, I may have just the beginning 'Cause you got three stages. You got first stage, -Okay, yeah. -And then you got complications. Like Wes now, But black lung 'Cause you got what they call If you got a wet lung, and it's sticking to 'em, it's just gonna smother you down. I dry lung, you know, -Oh, so you probably have a dry lung? -It's just like a mud hole. -Okay. -You got a dried-up mud hole -Yeah. [Peter] I gotta get -Can you turn around, Wes? -I'm just looking at your phone case. -That's my wallet. Oh, it's your wallet, okay. So quick question, Wes. -And shut me up when you want, all right? -'Cause I saw the Confederate flag So a lot of people... where I've asked this question a lot. But a lot of people... You know, -No. -It's my heritage. I mean my family... my family fought so we could be free. We still have to do that. All I hear is it was It wadn't. it was about many different things. -You guys didn't have -Part of Kentucky. -No, not in the hills. No. But I mean... it's not. It's heritage, man. We don't look at it that way. My grand daughter, My niece and nephews, they're mixed. I don't have no problem. I got some of the best friends I got a guy I met We speak every single day. Every morning he tells me, &quot;Good morning, how you doing, Wes?&quot; &quot;Where you riding today&quot; -We got bikes in common. It's just, you know? I mean... People can think what they want, I know what it stands for, I mean if I wanted to come out You know what I'm saying, I think everybody's equal. I mean you got... I don't want to come out but there's blacks in every crew, there's good people you know what I'm saying? -Yeah, it's interesting they just give it an easy label and they -But I mean you see rebel flags I mean they have this Man, I've been here for all my life You know what I mean? It's not like You know, we just try to get along. We just want everybody to get along. I want things to look better, you know? I don't care if it's a black president that's a wonder, you know? If there's an Afghani president in there, that's great, man. That's all we're looking for, Run the country, give people jobs, make people want to work again, I'm glad my oldest son and better himself, got a good job. -How many kids do you have? -Four? -All right, this your youngest? I've had him ever since he was born. -[Peter chuckles] -I'm a single dad with him. We keep a girlfriend around [Aiden] Yeah, on occasion. -Biggest part is Me and him just do the bachelor thing, [Aiden] Or at least try. -We do good, son. You got it made there, buddy, -[Peter laughing] -Show him your shirt. -What do you got? -It's the Chernokal Peacemakers. -What's that, a local group here? -It's one of the motorcycle clubs We got a lot of really good people. Good people. -Who's this on your-- -Okay. What else you got? -Little bit of everything. -The moto, the car... -That's my first car, my first bike. -Tell him about the heart. -When my mom died I said when mom died it turned Cardinals when my grandmother died. And under them is... [sniffs] I actually took the letters they wrote me, and put it under each of 'em. And my mom was my world, you know? She was my rock I mean she's It's like they know stuff. Like my Grandma Browning, she called mom and dad one night, 1:30 in the morning. I'm a 16-year-old, wild. -You got a bee there. -I had... [sniffs] I had got out and wrecked a motorcycle. Few minutes later they got a phone call I lost a lot of blood and so forth. Just like she knew it. And my Grandma Meadin, she could... She could read out of the bible. Visions 16:5 I think it is. And if you're bleeding it will stop bleeding. Now people gonna look at this and say, You know what I'm saying but it's... It's true... I mean it's true. Up here the other day, [Aiden] He made a homemade tourniquet. -When the state police come up &quot;Why did you bring a Bible up here?&quot; The hell's that Bible for? I said, &quot;You ever hear of Visions?&quot; I said dude's a bleeder, he's dying. You know? They said, &quot;So you brought Said, &quot;What you gonna do, Just kind of But I don't know, I keep a Bible in my truck I'm not no big Christian I just raised-- Most people in -Is... church attendance -Or is it pretty busy here? I mean actually here in Hardin County actually the churches -The one I went to yesterday had-- -It used to have 5 -[Peter] At church? -Yeah, so I mean, you know... It's not exactly the Bible belt. I mean it's not-- or nothing like that They'll ask you, -Right. -Tell him about how Bag used to read [Wes laughs] -Bags was something else, buddy boy. -Probably worked. -So family ties, strong family connections -Everything... everything. -You guys are pretty-- Today, tomorrow... -So either you're born into or you're born into some drug... -Buddy, I'll just be honest with you. I got hurt in the mines back in '94. Was put on Oxycontins [sniffs] I got on the Oxycontins and my family stood beside me and seen that I got clean And stayed right with me, They... -How long were you on Oxy for? -Well for a while, Did they-- That was the time -Exactly. -Yes, sir. -And this was -Right here and West Virginia. -So a lot of people got addicted, right? -'Cause you had injuries, -Oh God, they started me on 40 milligram. Within a month I was up to three Xanax's a day. I mean then five years later &quot;Oh, we cant get you these anymore.&quot; -Did the doctors... Did the doctors -Yeah. -Yeah, my doctor got 17 years in prison. -No way. I got 20. [sniffs] -You got 20, what do you mean? -In prison? You've been in prison for 20 years? -I didn't do 20, I done 9 and a half. -For doing... Can I ask? -For popping the pills? -Well... when they cut me off, I mean you're so sick, you know? So I decided, sell a few and make a buck, -So you were selling them? This sounds crazy, I know people but honest to God I mean I didn't even sell it to a guy, He said his wife wouldn't take unless she got pills And next thing I know got me in jail, got me in court, -Wow. -And that was-- -All that Oxy? I mean it hurt it really bad and was going great, I mean everybody was sober it seemed like and then this sh*t hits around here, Which I mean you don't find many people, And that's what's so sad because you see I mean it really is, it's sad. -And, you know-- -A lot... A lot. The schoolhouse, you actually Which that's part of the parking lot they had four die in one house there. [Peter] Jeff, you never had -[Jeff] No I-- [Jeff] Biggest thing I probably done is [all chuckling] [Wes] I was the first person ever prescribed Oxycontin. -The first person in the county -Yes Sir, Doctor Ollie Squaw. -Naw, I think he's out, -So in your guy's days it was you needed pain relief. Like Oxy, right? [Wes] They'd load you up on pain pills -Okay, but now you're saying they're not in the mines, -They're getting dope running and selling it for somebody else, Cartels and stuff sending it in here. They say Louisville's a hub for it. Louisville's what, -Louisville's a hub? -Should be more rehabs. I mean I think there should be Prison don't help you, I mean prison can make you It just done me just the opposite. It made me think of My son was nine years old and when he comes out, he was 18. You know, he drove -So that's what you think we need More family structure which is hard to-- I don't know how you fix that but... -And you need... You need... You need it out of here. You need to shut the borders down. You need... I mean... Like I said, I'm not racist You know, think about the Americans first 'fore you start bringing Worry about your problems And then worry about everybody else. I mean take care of America, man. You know what I mean? This might not be nothing to nobody. I mean to me-- It might not be nothing You got family. I mean I could knock on any door out there -You, you're not even from around here. -I guarantee you could go &quot;I'm thirsty, I need a bite to eat.&quot; -Yeah. &quot;Could you give me a drink of water? You know what I'm saying? that 99.9% of 'em would take you in, Give you something to drink. -No... This trip I've felt nothing but that One guy bought my meal. Just one stranger -Around here, -Everyone's been very cool. And I think that's what doesn't go out Like deep Appalachia like this, And those connections, They can be-- I mean you're either loved -But you bring that on yourself also. -You get what you give, right? -If you give... and show 'em that you really need it, they'll help you man, they will. I mean honestly. There's times my family and said, &quot;We're done.&quot; But instead they kept pushing. You know, &quot;You're better than this. somber country -This is old grates They would have two-sided chimneys and this would be for They would have on the other side and at night you would bank it What they call banking, in other words, they'd put ashes on top of it -That's what you'd heat the house with. -And the old Buck Stove we got in here. They would use them This is actually an old lawnmower. They use to use the ponies Got our old pony shoes. -Ponies to pull the coal out? In here we got mainly mining stuff. I'm sorry we got but they called these breast augers. -And you can see that's the bit. -And some of them's But the men would... Two men would operate it. One man would -Okay. -And they would drill into the coal. And then they would be able -So drill then put a stick of dynamite in? This is just all old bottles and stuff. My great-grandad and this is just bottles and stuff And like we was looking -Oh yeah, this? -That's like a four pound toy car. -There's some of the fossils You find a lot of fossils. -What is that? Do you know? That's an actual old tree. -Just petrified wood. Oh, wow. -Yeah. -That's like... -Oh yeah. Yeah, it's heavy. -And just different things. Through the years You got the old Civil War thing, and pour it into casts for balls. You know, for the lead balls. And... -This is... you'd heat this up with coal? This is what -You just did that, right? You just set it on top, then when It's got a striker on the bottom... And when you would go if the light went out you would know because you know So the miner know'd And if the flame burnt a certain color So they know'd to back out. -Did you ever have -We cut into one old mines and it wadn't on the map and we had low oxygen and it took a while to get out and everything was good. -Super scary? -Uh... Not so much, I mean that wadn't -You just gotta stay calm, huh? -My son was like 17 at the time because I was kind of You know, kind of helping the guy out and they had a problem. And he got madder than hell Know what I'm saying? To set pumps and stuff, You know what I mean? -So you guys would sacrifice yourselves -Well I mean... they called it suck. I guess sometimes. You know, I missed five years First five years I bossed for Christmas, Thanksgiving, whatever. We were in the mines, the pumps had to be made every day, And I would have to go out and pump water, and check pumps all day, and make 'em when I was foreman, so... But I kind of regret that in a way because just got to spend my grandma's and stuff, that was her birthday. She lived here. -We actually-- -Yeah, she lived right here, and old, old, camp house And there were, I think there was 19 houses through here. -In this valley here? -So this is all family? Everybody up there is family. -[Peter] You dropping me off? -It's the end of the story, Jeff? -What time you up tomorrow morning? Bright and early. -I appreciate it. -See ya, old buddy. -You're a great guy. I don't need to tell you [Wes] That's medals he got -These are your medals here, Aiden? [Wes] Governor's scholar and... -That one's for future problem solving. We competed in district but we lost. And we went to region and we won region. -This was my dad's. It got covered up, -Someone shooting up there? -Ah yeah, they shoot, -Oh, okay. -It actually broke his light Broke his bill off his hat. He run a miner, it had him shoved down in the deck. And he'd tell you about sitting It took about six hours And when we come in from school, So of course we was freaked out. But he would not go on to the hospital That was granddad's hat. Then it was passed down to me. I wore it probably till where it was a cut-down hat. And then-- -The inspectors wouldn't -Well they didn't say nothing I started bossing, I'd get so mad, I broke it where it's cut down. I just taped it up and started wearing it, I ended up... I wore that until 2017. I come out in '17. [hands slap] -Thank you, brother, appreciate it. Thanks for bringing me in today. -I got some stuff Straight out of Smith, Kentucky. It's about 140 proof. -Home made? -Yep, of course. I won't say a whole lot more -[Peter chuckling] Thank you. This was made also, and I'm sure -Wow. -Yeah. -I want you to have both of them. One more... Thank you, brother. -Good meeting you, man. Thanks for... being brave 'Cause I know most people that come -Nah, man. You're sick of media coming in -Don't want to look stupid, man, -It's very evident -Just a little simpler life but man, I wouldn't have it no other way. All right, guys. Another view into a world A few big takeaways for me. Firstly, it's complicated. You know, Jeff is in coal, it pays for the lifestyle But would never want And while it's gone for four, or five, with this generation it seems like But then they're torn They're tied to their land, Couldn't imagine being anywhere else. So this is what pays And secondly, I know coal I love clean air and water I learned that I don't know it through and through um, look, if that's your way of life whatever industry you might be in. Say you're in Silicon Valley And imagine... obviously this can't happen your industry will be gone, And whatever you might be in, That's sort of So these people As in the letter comes in, and maybe they'll be ousted But I think it's a stressful worry that your work, your talent, your knowledge, And you really have So thanks for coming along Got a larger series Very fascinating part And also would love you We have a newsletter, All right, until the next one. somber country