If you choose to go on a diet.. I want is basically the best medical science they took more than 5,000 people diabetic and either overweight, or obese, diet with an unbelievable amount of individual consults. They had physical nutritionists. They had psychologists. barriers to weight loss and strategized They had over 300 contacts each with study. And at the end of it in the intensive diet group had lost 5.7 the control group. About a quarter of and kept it off which is the gold And just about exactly the same number were pretty much where they'd been to and it's pretty underwhelming, So why is it so hard to keep The answer to that is not in your I'd like to introduce you to the basically serves as a thermostat to happens with your house's thermostat if alone and you decide that you want to say in the winter. Anybody who's ever landlord doesn't allow you to control familiar with this process that the place cools off for a while and thermostat says to itself this place is pour some more heat in. Something very, you lose weight. Everybody has a, scientists call it the defended range, It's for most people somewhere in the where your body is comfortable. your body will try to get you, your brain while, kind of half-heartedly. If you get below that you back up to And that is the solution hundreds of thousands, or millions of mechanism to solve a problem that we no the ever present scarcity of you know, in a hunter gatherer tribe for pretty slim. On the other hand your odds of And so your brain puts a lot not starving to really seem to take into account where For most people, you know, you you can maintain always go back to after you've been on a that is probably your defended brain do this? controller that changes a whole bunch of memorize this, there won't be a quiz, but controlling a bunch of hormone and have two major aims: increase energy amount of energy that you burn, and amount of energy that you burn through you're a hunter gatherer who's having become a Prius and you get more miles per farther, looking for more. It's not so to burn 500 calories. increase your appetite and increase food suggested that that effect is larger everybody likes to think about the something you couldn't possibly help, But people eat more without quite a lot more. Dieting has a variety good for you also. I already mentioned also there's a strong risk especially of eating disorders including binge of the mechanism behind the weight gain that's kind of more subtle but really you are teaching yourself to eat yourself to eat according to And people who do that get out of trouble telling when they're hungry and hungry you're going to have trouble They frequently eat when they're reasons. They eat for social reasons. They on the table in front of them. So these, characteristics of frequent the idea that somebody else should be So I want to show you one more study study that asked people about four servings of fruits and vegetables a day? week? did they not smoke? did they drink And normal weight you can see people had the better off they were in Same thing in the overweight group. it becomes very clear that the problem correlation of obesity with bad just at the people with four healthy weight. So these are the facts. These are the from a doctor of Public Health at insisting that everybody needs to lose and even he decrease your risk of death and improve lifestyle habits. So my basic position, you the facts you can do what you want is that we should, we're wrong end. We're insisting that everybody helps the least. Okay? Does that make any sense? How about we start by getting everybody before we even begin to ask them how to eat some more vegetables before we take hold of this problem from the end there's nothing in your brain for half an hour. And if there is you Right? If you're on a diet you have All right, so that's my pitch. That's