Indiana. It's spanned by vast fields of most agriculturally productive states in the national parks in the Midwest, stand hundreds and beautiful forests, hills, and river valleys Home to a major city, a number of smaller ones, metropolises in the world, it's home to a fairly whose limestone and steel built some of the maintains an important role in the country. and the twentieth place I will cover in the territory, and federal district in the country, Is Interesting. I'm your host Carter. This is (intro) According to the Koppen Climate Classification, in half between two climate zones, the southern with hot summers, mild winters, and humidity, humid continental climate zone, with four distinct about in the middle in terms of rainfall, getting which places it at 27th out of the 50 states. little more precipitation than the northern half. of the state sits in Eastern Time, including its and southwestern corners are both in Central there near state lines. In the Northwest, suburbs far from the Illinois border. Nearly 700,000 50,000 of them commute across state lines every city in another state, it wouldn't make sense to time zone, so they're located in Central. It's the corner of which juts out in between Illinois located there, not far from the other two states, central as well. Though these corners take up population is in a different time zone from most and people from Indiana are officially known demonym that isn't based off of the state's and you'll never really hear anyone from Indiana No one can seem to agree on how the term Hoosier theories that the Indiana state government lists, corn that might not exist, being the last name Indiana, being a shortened version of "who's or even "whose ear?" after bar fights broke out. the state government lists as the most probable, In Cumberland, a region in the north of this word for hill became hoozer. Immigrants from them to the United States, where it turned into the hills. In the hilly southern part of Indiana, to refer to themselves. I'm sure there are many go let me know in the comments where you As a lot of early highways and routes west nicknamed "the Crossroads of America." The a misnomer for the indigenous people of the who had been trying to reach what Europeans called from India all the way to countries like Malaysia, Columbus initially thought he landed, and called was used for much of history but has fallen out Even today, the islands of the Caribbean are the powerful Haudenosaunee, or Iroquois land they'd conquered in what is now West The company referenced the Iroqouis in naming or the land of the Indians. Virginia, whose and won out over the so named Indiana Land breaking up the massive lands once claimed by and territories. In the case of Indiana, they took even though they had not used the name for the US Explained you know I'm not a fan of the state not do! Though it has the dark blue background and it has a simple and recognizable design that it shows a torch for liberty with rays of light around it, as Indiana was the 19th state, and it's a really nice flag, in my opinion one of Indiana takes up 35,826 square miles, or 92,788 side, at 38th out of the 50 states, and all the smaller than Kentucky and slightly larger than side. With 6.79 million people, it ranks 17th out more than Maryland. Home to a large city, that are fairly heavily populated as well as the Indiana has a population density that's on the or 73 per square kilometer, it sits at 16th density than North Carolina but a higher one part of the Eastern half of the US, in the region known as the Rust Belt, a former powerhouse of Lakes which has since seen some of the most severe recent decades as industrial jobs were replaced once a major city that was one of the largest manufacturing, has also been one of the hardest seeing its population decrease by 61%, one of the so that much of its downtown is abandoned and industrial decline in America and the issues the better than most of its Rust Belt neighbors. and Pennsylvania have seen a much more stagnant, trends but in the last few decades has seen its making it a bit of a regional outlier. It's been as well as the suburbs of Louisville and growth It borders four other states and has a shore its south Kentucky, to its west Illinois, and to Indiana's borders are fairly simple. Its the north-south border dividing Chicago from the for three and a half miles out into the lake, so onto the breakwater, you'll eventually reach through the Chicago suburbs and through the rural 262 kilometers until it reaches the Wabash River follows the Wabash southwest until it meets its other side of the Ohio sits Kentucky. The border generally flowing from east to west, though itself. It passes through the city of Evansville Kentucky city of Louisville from suburbs on the At the mouth of the Great Miami River, it becomes Cincinnati sit just five miles away on the other edge sit on the Indiana side, the loop of highways bit. From the Ohio River, the Indiana-Ohio or 288 kilometers. It then becomes a north-south until a spot near the town of Clear Lake where it the state. It continues west for 104 miles or 167 Michigan at the town of Michiana Shores, created and directly across the border from the Michigan the lake as a water border for 36 miles or 58 of the Illinois border not far from Chicago. The about halfway across the lake, with Illinois The long and thin state is geographically quite in the culture of its different regions as well. smoothed over by glaciers that left behind rich powerhouse. Corn and soybeans are grown there and it's the eighth largest agricultural producer this flat land and fertile soil has meant that not but you can easily build a house nearly dotted with small towns as well as a number of in rural areas it's generally no more than a ten the next, and even outside of the towns you're The state is home to a number of major rivers - the north, water flows in a number of different Michigan, the Kankakee into the Illinois River and into Lake Erie. Much of the state is dominated by fed by other rivers like the White River and the flows across the north central part of the eventually forming its western border. Most of The northern third of the state is home to tip of Lake Michigan, a strategic location that is home to the beautiful Indiana Dunes, a string one of just five national parks located in the and one of the newest in the country. I've been a visit. Nicknamed the Region, the area around population center. Chicago, the third largest in the world, sits just across the border in Portage, Merrillville, East Chicago, and Whiting Altogether, the Chicago suburbs in Indiana are the second largest urban area in the state. that haven't yet become absorbed into the Chicago City, but are well within the orbit of the city. sized cities in the northern part of Indiana. in the very north of the state not far from the cities overlap and even stretch into Michigan. Bend is the third largest urban area centered its suburbs. Elkhart sits at number 6 with 148,000 the Maumee River in the northeastern part of the it's the second most populous urban area centered more people, and it's a nice smaller sized but of northeastern Indiana. Northern Indiana's also Goshen, Plymouth, Logansport, Huntington, and by people of mostly British ancestry moving mark culturally. Northern Indiana feels very south of the state, as well as from Central really feels like the Rust Belt. It sits on Hammond, and South Bend were major centers of with other parts of the industrial Great Lakes influenced by Black migrants from the South, as Irish immigrants who came to work in industrial population decline in the past, generally Northern beginning to grow again, especially in Fort Wayne. capital and by far its largest city, Indianapolis. on the White River, it's home to 1.7 million most populous urban area in Indiana and the 32nd but larger than Cincinnati. The Indianapolis and the whole urban area is fast growing, having in recent decades. A number of other smaller Lafayette, a college town across the Wabash River making it the fifth largest city in the state. the Wabash River, as well as Muncie, New Castle, less of an industrial feel than the north, feels very much like the classic Midwest, and it's though outside of Indianapolis and Lafayette, The southern third of Indiana is a really Southern. It's also the most unique part of the much of the southern part of the state, such as You might not think of forests or hills when you overall, has a lot more geographic diversity and credit for. It's generally a mix of rolling hills, Kentucky, and in fact it shares a lot of cultural River just across from Louisville, it similarly Much of the region, for example, was settled by through Kentucky, Tennessee, and North Carolina. urban area in the state, home to 207,000 people edge of the state, right on the Ohio River Louisville, Kentucky's largest city, sits right at 203,000, the Louisville suburbs stretch across and Clarksville sit right across from downtown of the city, and are culturally and economically of the region and a huge population center. cities sit along the river, their urban areas large and small, sit either within Indiana in. These urban areas sit right on both sides of of that, the cities, and the rural areas on are a fascinating cultural mix of Southern and and right across from it is the Kentucky city of a few of the suburbs of Cincinnati stretch across closer to Indianapolis, just west of the hills urban area in the state, home to 110,000 people. a beautiful campus made of Indiana limestone, natural areas right at its doorstep. On the other basically an architect's playground. Industrialist based in the city, knew that when he was making wasn't a particularly appealing place to live, Miller loved modern architecture, and set out to offering to pay all architect fees for any Architects such as I.M. Pei and Eero that transformed the city. Today, it's been significant city in the United States, and is What is now Indiana was originally home to a peoples such as the Mississippians built large Angel Mounds near Evansville. They were followed the north, the Wea in the west, the Osage in the much of the region. As European colonists them diseases such as smallpox, which the native and as such had little immunity. Disease decimated of them, and those that survived often died at the settlement westward. A confederation of Iroquoian the Haudenosaunee, or Iroquois Confederacy, built continent as far west as Illinois. Local tribes Beaver Wars, but eventually the Iroquois took hunting and trapping ground. Meanwhile, on the grew, the native people there fled west, many the Shawnee from what is now Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey, the Mohicans, from the Nanticoke from Maryland all fled into Indiana. the French, who made it part of an enormous colony mostly used for fur trading, aside from a few of French interests, few French settlers actually themselves with the local native people and traded though initially confined to the Atlantic coast, Ohio Valley. A strategic location, the Ohio River River reached, and control of the river would of the continent. War broke out between Britain with various native peoples allied with each side. and took control of the colony of Canada, which people and the British engulfed the region, not wanting to risk more war, prevented British was mostly home to native people at that point. As much of the British colony of Quebec was States. Mostly wilderness, home to a large all the new American lands once part of Quebec made into a massive territory, called the of the new country, many of the native people especially as American settlers pushed west Northwest Territory. The United States and native for control of the Northwest Territory. The saw many native people killed or pushed west. The frontiers. Settlers and pioneers crossed over try their luck in what was then the country's the federal government began breaking it up into The first division of the Northwest territory from the tip of Michigan's Lower Peninsula down remained the Northwest Territory. The land to the River became a new territory, given the name of an side of the Ohio River - the Indiana Territory. Northwest Territory became the state of Ohio, and out to what they are today, and the rest of the years after that, the peninsula was broken off of four years after that, in 1809, Indiana was shrunk northwest became the new Illinois Territory. In last major resistance in the region by native of the Indiana Territory - William Henry Harrison, more land to the government so they could open it the territory could gain statehood. He negotiated Treaty of Fort Wayne, which gave a huge swath of of native tribes to the territorial government. unhappy with this result. Tribes like the Shawnee which saw more US settlers pouring into their infuriated, and led an army of many different Tecumseh's Confederacy lost the decisive Battle Lafayette. It marked the beginning of the end Territory and saw William Henry Harrison rise to to the presidency. It also saw the territory's poured into the region, mostly Germans from New England and New York. In that decade alone, and on December 11th, 1816, it was admitted new state's population would skyrocket upwards in Appalachians, Indiana was a promising destination. and boats often stopped in Indiana, bringing located between Indiana and Kentucky, meant that move their goods, and disembark their passengers This strategic location turned the area into an sides of the river - Louisville in Kentucky and cities, such as Clarksville, Jeffersonville and wasn't far from the falls. Boats weren't the only the country's first major road west, the travel by road or by ship up the Potomac River to them across the Appalachians through Pennsylvania, The road brought people to the center of the and the new capital city, a planned town in nearly On top of that, settlers traveled north across Many were Scots-Irish, descendants of people from from Northern England and Southern Scotland as The flat, fertile state soon became filled with statehood, Indiana was home to just 147,000 its population had increased tenfold to 1.35 state in the entire country, surpassed only Huge waves of German immigration helped moved across the state, many of them farmers who their descendants make up the largest ancestry Indiana remained loyal to the Union. Though Indiana was right across from the border state the state, in Corydon in Southern Indiana, and the Ohio River near Evansville, for a few days, the during the war. The state contributed hundreds Key in Indiana's rapid success post-war was not fertile farmland, but its role as an industrial like the Baltimore and Ohio, or B&amp;O Railroad, and Northern Indiana especially would turn the role in the steel industry. The state's location Steel production essentially requires two main in a number of different states, but some of the Ohio, and Kentucky, are all in the Appalachians. as well. Deposits of iron ore, however, are in Minnesota's Iron Range, and the Upper Peninsula cities like Duluth, Minnesota across Lake Superior coal would be transported from the Appalachians to iron and be smelted into steel, and the steel of the country and the world. Because of this, developed around the Great Lakes. Elbert Henry later began building a massive complex of steel the ships carrying iron could meet the transports Gary's steel manufacturing plants needed a place that he named Gary after himself. The city grew to in the state after just Indianapolis. John D. refinery in nearby Whiting, just across the at the time the largest oil refinery in the in the US came through Whiting. It helped Indiana were located near the rising megacity of city's status as a rail and transportation hub, as seeking industrial jobs. Chicago grew because the and from it the St. Lawrence River and the Des Plaines River, which flows into the Illinois Gulf of Mexico. It's the closest the watershed the Mississippi, and so it became the site of a move their cargo a short distance to the other further ensuring the city's strategic success. to the Calumet River, a Lake Michigan tributary the Indiana border, and another canal, called the Calumet to Lake Michigan in the Indiana Indiana to the systems of trade and transportation made Chicago what it is today. Further east, was linked to the canal system as well. Connected Burns Harbor and East Chicago developed enormous largest steel producers in the country, all Immigrants and migrants poured into Gary and other jobs in Indiana's factories, mills, refineries, Indiana generally followed the same migration Poland and Ireland flocked to Northern Indiana, growth as a population center, contributing Sitting just north of the traditional north-south became a destination for Black American migrants fleeing segregation, racist Jim Crow laws, and an made the journey north as jobs opened up in in what was known as the Great Migration. states sitting directly to the south of it, like Indianapolis as well as cities near Chicago Migration migrants, and saw Indiana gain a pretty the KKK, a racist, anti-Catholic, anti-Semitic, in Indiana in the 1920s. The Indiana branch of first half of the 20th century, Indiana had more counties, 30, even 40% of men in Indiana were time as a powerful political machine, endorsing their peak, they were responsible for the election a member of the Klan himself and basically in the state lasted for decades, and was a very which had already seen success due to its status Road, continued to be an important transportation population centers and natural resources, and as followed. Surrounded by agriculture and filled center. In 1876, an Indianapolis pharmacist company he named after himself. It would grow and is today the largest company in the state. was founded in South Bend, and was responsible for automobile manufacturer. Indiana is also known as near the town of Bedford, is filled with built iconic structures like the Empire State the buildings in Chicago, as well as many of the the National Cathedral, the Treasury building, and least in part, out of Indiana limestone. Most of of limestone from nearby quarries, and it gives Indiana especially, saw major challenges with the out, later went bankrupt and stopped producing ways a company town. Gary was one of the hardest second largest city, it's lost 61% of its industry has been in decline and companies have the steel industry, and huge layoffs and closures as white people left the city while black people, and other services that had helped many poor nowhere else to go. These practices plunged black and while white people fled elsewhere, many of redlining often could not afford to move to to buy homes there. As the once diverse city's segregated. At the height of the Great Migration, more black people moved there, but because most its population, one of the highest rates of described as one of America's few "ghost cities." do still live there, but it was built for a much of its downtown buildings are completely empty. and buildings and houses that are empty, burned one of the few places in the country where you'll abandoned. Many of them have been torn down, where they used to be, whole blocks of the city are abandoned, and people will actually visit place that's eerily beautiful in its own way, but nearly a third of whom live in poverty, one The rest of the region around Lake Michigan has other cities nearby were always in Chicago's declined, and the suburbs of Chicago have sprawled used to be more independent have become pretty middle class suburbia has taken over a lot of the remains very industrialized, though less busy. Indiana's been more successful than other Rust like Indianapolis and Fort Wayne have done Even the steel industry didn't see as much decline and Indiana's the country's largest steel has seen rapid growth, especially in its It's the largest city in the state by far, home makes it the 32nd most populous urban area in the state. It sits on the White River, a non-navigable the geographic center of the state, the land Indiana's capital city in a place where it would state, and its streets are laid out in a grid which surrounds the massive and beautiful Soldiers it's filled with parks and canals with trails and Indianapolis has more war memorials than any other There's also a memorial to Robert Kennedy's famous assassination. It's home to brick roads downtown, like the Salesforce Tower, which is the tallest buildings are in Indianapolis, and it's home to downtown, lined by museums, memorials, churches, sits right downtown, and is a beautiful building Indianapolis, or Indy, as it's often called. It's of Indianapolis, the largest children's museum on St. Elmo Steakhouse. Indianapolis, however, is race is one of, if not the, most prestigious sporting event in the world that takes place Speedway, or the Brickyard, a huge racetrack that in the world, able to fit as many as 400,000 Broad Ripple Village and the Wholesale District, and Fishers. On top of that, the beautiful an hour's drive south, so nature isn't far away. people in it and its suburbs, the second though it's smaller than the Chicago suburbs the capital city of the Miami native people, and the small city sits where the St. Marys and St. River, a strategic location that helped the a huge manufacturing center, and was where the were all invented. Today, it's a really nice small Today, 78.5% of Hoosiers are white, 9.3% are American. The state is home to a large German of Hoosiers have German ancestry, making it the have Irish ancestry. It's also home to the third after nearby Pennsylvania and Ohio, and in fact, country that are Amish, nearly one percent of lifestyle, not using cars and a lot of technology, riding horses and buggies. They live in rural In large part because of the state's Amish language in the state, when it's only the tenth Christianity dominates in Indiana. and other individual religious groups at most only 52% of the state's population, and most of them, The two most iconic Indiana foods are the pork piece of pork that's deep fried and served on a cinnamon sugar on top. The largest newspaper in in Indianapolis. It's home to a number of renowned Lafayette, the flagship campus of Indiana Terre Haute, and Notre Dame, a famous Catholic popular TV shows, like Parks and Recreation and towns, though neither are filmed there. Indiana Indianapolis. There's the NFL's Indianapolis and the NBA's Indiana Pacers, who play at the tend to root for Chicago rather than Indianapolis International Airport. Its largest corporations Indianapolis pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly, Wayne. Probably the most famous Hoosier is Michael are from Gary. Other famous Hoosiers include David Jenna Fischer, Larry Bird, Kurt Vonnegut, John Kentucky, Colonel Harlan Sanders. No presidents based his political career out of the state. He Cincinnati, and moved to Indianapolis as a young Senator from the state before being elected to the William Henry Harrison, had been Indiana's the congressional delegate from its predecessor, he continued his political career out Abraham Lincoln was born in Kentucky and built up and spent most of his childhood in a cabin also been two recent vice presidents from Indiana. a congressman and then Senator from Indiana before president, Mike Pence, was a congressman and then of Transportation, was the mayor of South Bend successful presidential campaign. Current Chief outside of Michigan City. Politically, Indiana Voting Index, or PVI, of R+11, meaning in a given better in Indiana than in the country on average. Indiana actually narrowly voted for Barack Obama of the House of Representatives, 2 are Democrats Mike Braun and Todd Young, are Republicans, That is it for Indiana. I want to give a big thank Through it you can access different things such as create, an exclusive Discord Q&amp;A with me, ad-free Please be sure to check out the TII Store, where That Is Interesting products and merchandise, masks, mugs, embroidered backpacks, laptop please subscribe to my brother's channel, Quinn beginning of this video that I'll use in all support! I tried to be pretty thorough with this missed as there was a lot to talk about. I want to helped give me information for this video, leaving well as Discord. I truly would not have been able video in this series will be on Mississippi. help I can get. If you're from Mississippi, please or leave something in the Discord server to about your home state. I really appreciate the Discord server. If you haven't joined the continue conversations about the topics discussed and help provide information about upcoming and we do fun stuff like geography game nights, the Patreon and the Discord in the description. you learned something new subscribe for more people and places of the world and Beyond these