Linwood Briley sits in his dark cell; the sounds row. Briley rubs his hands together as he thinks. and will be executed unless he can find a way smiles. "That's it," Linwood whispers to himself. five other murderers are about to escape death The inmate population of the Mecklenburg dangerous criminals in the country. Everyone in of the State for the crimes they've committed. be inescapable, but Briley and the other inmates The next day as all the inmates gather in Linwood Briley meets with his brother James. James for seven murders. &quot;I have an idea that I think Linwood explains the plan he came up with the his brother finishes, he smiles. &quot;Let's do it,&quot; Linwood nods. &quot;Leave it to me.&quot; Unknown to the guards at the facility, been briefed about the plan by Linwood. But the prisoners need to gather more information The inmates watch the officers at the in the security. Several inmates report that the if they are just going through the motions, with It is these observations that allow Briley and the In preparation for the prison break, a number from landscaping equipment into their metal into shivs so when the time is right, The officers at Mecklenburg weren't searching so at no point did they find any of the to the inmates' plan to escape death row. This of the facility eventually leads to one of On the evening of May 31, 1983, the prisoners The inmates return to their cells from their at the guards to see if they are watching. A the officers aren't paying attention to Clanton has been sentenced to death for the He has no plans of waiting around When no one is looking, Clanton slips into The bathroom sits right next to the If he can gain access to the controls, he can inmates to flood out and overwhelm the guards. The clock ticks by, Clanton has been hiding calls the guard near the control room over minds retrieving a book for him that he on the other side of the prison. The He only thinks for a moment before walking and signals to Clanton, who is peering out Clanton makes a dash for the control room. The When the guard realizes that it is an inmate they jump out of their chair and try to subdue on the unsuspecting guard. He throws them on the control panel. The cell doors swing The men come running out of their cells and The officers look on in horror as an They are not allowed to carry firearms, so all quickly realize that they are not only outnumbered hold shivs in their hands from the sharpened The nightsticks would usually be a deterrent, but Some of the officers have bean encroaching inmates. But there are too dragged to the ground and knocked out. Eventually, all of the guards are dealt with, the facility. Their calculated escape plan to subdue the guards before they can Correctional Center except for the officers gone wrong. And things are about to go from The prisoners strip the guards of take their badges, wallets, The Briley brothers gather everyone together They hadn't expected the plan to go so smoothly, &quot;There are still a bunch of guards &quot;We need to lure them in here &quot;I have an idea,&quot; one of the inmates says. the other officers in the facility. &quot;We says. &quot;Some of the inmates are getting Officer Hawkins responds to the call and climbs he reaches the top of the stairs, Hawkins At first, he recognizes the guard but can't His eyes open wide as he turns to run back down of him is not one of his fellow officers but an He leaps down the steps fumbling for his radio. a shiv. "If you try to escape or call for Briley hisses as he holds up Hawkins raises his hands in surrender and is led The inmates regroup and radio for more help They know there are more guards outside of so if the inmates can lure them in one by one, Officer Prince Thomas responds to the fake request Thomas immediately knows something is wrong. who was convicted of murder and sexual man is and turns to warn the others If he can make it to the exit and let the rest the whole escape plan will fail--Thomas sprints killer named Lem Tuggle catch him from He reaches his hand out towards the door and see him struggling. But no one comes; the rest that the officers at Mecklenburg Correctional As Thomas is stripped of his uniform as the other guards are being led to the officer Coraleen Epps is the only Many of these men are on death row for that Coraleen Epps is in significant danger, They watch helplessly as Epps is led to another Coraleen screams as she is dragged to one of baby!" she yells. But her pleas fall on deaf ears. men, but they are too strong, and there are too the doorway, arguing what to do with her. Before the man who had broken into the control room and He stands in front of the cell, a determined look on his face. "No one goes shiv and stares down the other prisoners, Clanton turns and looks at Coraleen Epps. In a anything happen to my little girl, and I'm not Coraleen watches in astonishment as Earl and stands in the cell doorway to Earl Clanton had made mistakes in his life, but The Briley brothers gather everyone &quot;It is time to make moves,&quot; says Linwood. authorities that we have taken over the prison. "How are we going to get past the There is silence as everyone thinks. several guards and control most of the escape if they can't figure out a way "Wait," Linwood says with a smile He runs to one of the other rooms and grabs He throws a sheet over the top of the TV and "We're going to call in a bomb threat," Linwood Not everyone can make it out due to the inmates have already decided to stay behind. they have no intentions of actively six men will escape using the fake bomb as their The Briley brothers, Earl Clanton, Lem Tuggle, Derrick Peterson, and Willie Leroy Jones, are Peterson was convicted of robbery-murder. murdering an elderly couple. All six of these and all six know their best chance to stay The six men make sure their stolen guard's they've confiscated in prominent positions so cart with the TV on it towards the doorway. procedures were not being practiced or followed chaos to allow them to sneak out. When they "We've got a live bomb in the death row cell the walkie-talkie. "Open the doors and clear a off!" The six inmates wait in silence to see either they successfully trick the guards, Seconds go by, but it seems more It doesn't seem the other guards Then there is a buzz. The door unlocks. The of relief. They begin wheeling the fake bomb extinguishers that they are spraying at the bomb from detonating. Really the extinguishers hidden from anyone who is watching the bomb The prisoners hustle down the hallway, spraying their fire extinguishers. "We take the bomb away from the prison!" one of They see the final two gates as they run down above them is red, indicating the gates remain The six inmates disguised as guards speed up their They approach the final gates, but the light the gates are still locked. Just before they crash gates unlock. The inmates push them open and When they look around, they can't believe brought a van around. The sliding doors are open from the prison grounds. The inmates can't load the sheet-covered TV into it, and Linwood Briley puts the van in drive The six death row inmates speed away, As the prison fades in the rearview They have done it. They broke out of death row and But they are not out of danger yet. At some point realize that they have been tricked. The six between themselves and the prison as possible also will need to ditch the police van and change Tensions begin to rise in the escape The escaped convicts can't decide what you can get out and go back to "But my brother and I are heading to Pennsylvania Clanton and Peterson don't think this is the best van rolls to a stop in Warrenton, Virginia. Mecklenburg Correctional Center. Clanton and Clanton says to the other inmates still in before word gets out about our escape." Clanton The Briley brothers, Jones, and Tuggle drive a schoolyard and abandon the police van. the prison remained confused, but it is for them by this point. The escaped convicts or they will be caught and sent back to death the night as they plan their next move for The sun rises in Warrenton early the next way to a market and buy some cheese and wine to celebrate their newfound freedom. They have stolen uniforms to make them less laundromat with their celebratory meal in While they're in the laundromat, a patrol Their pictures and descriptions have been sent The officer pulls around the corner and radios for and take large gulps of wine as they haven't They scout the laundromat for Suddenly a squad of police officers burst through hands above your head!" an office yells. Everyone Peterson. The police officers rush over to the two the floor as Clanton and Peterson are handcuffed. The rest of the inmates have made their way out As the Briley brothers, Tuggle, and eyes out for a vehicle to steal. They come The convicts jump in the truck and speed The only problem is that the stolen truck The convicts head north and cross the border They make it to Philadelphia, dropped off at their uncle's car garage. "Not sure exactly," Tuggle responds. "But we're Canada." Linwood nods his head. "Good luck." Tuggle and Jones continue on their way up area and make it to Vermont. They know that fugitives that are facing the death penalty. If but at least they won't face the electric "We're going to make it," Tuggle says as He wipes his arm across his forehead to get Suddenly the engine starts to sputter. He opens the guard's wallet he stole. It's empty. They are in Jay, Vermont, the last town in "We can still make it," Tuggle says to Jones. Tuggle gets out of the truck and starts walking But as time goes by, he starts to get anxious. nap, but the thought of being captured when he is Tuggle enters a gift shop on the edge of town. escaped death row. The store clerk gives him the leaves. He knows he only has minutes to get back him. He sprints down the road, but there is The cop puts his lights and siren When the police officer catches up, he cuts Tuggle &quot;Freeze!&quot; the cop shouts. Tuggle raises his He knows he is going back to prison, and As more and more time goes by, Jones starts back by now. They have been on the run for over a Jones is tired. He is dehydrated, hungry, and summer heat. Jones opens the door and walks into After a brief conversation, she convinces him to his escape from death row ends less Out of all the men who escaped from only two remain. The Briley brothers They are working at a garage under false The police visit the uncle's shop, but he The police don't believe him, so they tap his Nineteen days after the Briley brothers escaped, in New York City. The FBI manages to trace the The police and SWAT teams storm the garage. They hop over engine blocks and &quot;Stop or we'll open fire!&quot; the cops yell. The been covered. They are tackled to the ground and Birley brothers are arrested and brought back to Upon the return of the convicts, The Mecklenburg procedures. It is now clear that the prison been returned and are locked in their cells. A year and a half passes without incident. shackles. He is led down the walkway of The other inmates look on as the infamous They know it will be the last time The procession exits death row and heads towards A door opens, and Linwood He is strapped into an electric chair. A priest Several people look on behind shielded glass as Each of the six men who escaped Mecklenburg death The Briley brothers were the first who is claimed to be the mastermind behind His brother was executed the following put to death using the electric chair except injection on December 12, 1996. He was the Now watch "50 Things Nobody Or check out "Last 60 Minutes