- This satellite could be your next ISP. Ask yourself if your internet is fast or slow, like an old pickup truck. 'The internet is not a big Well, we came to meet the folks who are taking the and putting it into space. - There are 3 to 4 world that do not have reliable access to They have smartphones just like we do, but those smartphones are still stuck on a 2G internet connection. You know, the equivalent of dial-up. And that's what we've gotta fix. - Why do this? Well, ever since the internet it's become more and more Now, if you don't have you're essentially cut - The traditional ways to the internet just don't work for the next 4 billion people. You would never think that the only way to connect somebody is by having it blast into orbit and like be bathed in Like how is that the cheapest and most effective way? But, but it is. - But this is about more It's about a whole new approach Something that's extra important stick around to see why. This is &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; a series about rebuilding This is my old office I used to work in this not And while I worked here, even supposedly one of the most we couldn't even get DSL. The only way to get broadband access was to install either a microwave to an antenna on Mount or a dish that could talk At the time, satellite expensive and extremely slow. And that apparently left these companies with very small budgets - 'Directway is the high-speed internet that works anywhere in - You can see what I mean. - There are 4 billion that are not connected to the internet. These aren't people that are, you know, all in far-flung places around the world. Some of these people are If a hospital in Alaska wanted which in San Francisco it's like what? $80, $100 per month? It might literally cost - That's Christian. for a new startup right next to change all of that. - We came to Astranis to see how they're connecting millions, to the internet with satellites in space. - This is what a fancy It's very clean, but let me just say, it turns out there's a lot of Anyway- You've probably heard of satellite internet but this is very different. Starlink satellites are for low Earth orbit. That means they have to to avoid falling back It also means that any to track those satellites And anytime that dish needs to jump to tracking the next satellite, it'll lose connection with the internet. - The challenge with low Earth thousands of satellites of a usable service, because each satellite is or six minutes at a time. - This is John. He's and he took an idea from one and turned it into a business. - Arthur C. Clark actually He came up with this idea that if you can put a distance from Earth, its of the Earth's surface and you could bounce signals off of it. - Astranis is putting or geostationary equatorial orbit, which is about 20 times further away. - Oh, no it's, no, it's - Oh, well that is very far. - Yeah, it's about a 10th - Anyway, because these as the rotation of the Earth, from our perspective, they - Every geostationary orbital is exactly 35,786 kilometers away and is exactly at the equator. - We actually call it the &quot;most valuable real estate in the solar system&quot; because each or in our case a cluster of there's only so many So we really have to make sure we're making maximum use of those. - That means you don't need a fancy dish that can track LEO satellites And it means a single satellite can cover a much larger area. All this is possible because to launch things into space, thanks to companies like SpaceX. Astranis started with a 3U of a loaf of bread, but now model, more like the size - We have satellites around in this way, but they're huge Goliath of millions of dollars and often to build and launch. - They were able to do all of this by completely throwing away to build hardware for high orbits and start from first principles. - But space is hard: between the flight computer, all the software running on and then all of the that has to be packed in. Getting all of that to work along with all the ground systems, it really all has to line to work, especially on the very first try. - Well, let's just call that Getting all these different parts to work together requires a lot with these smocks. - Let's see if anyone here - B Money. - That's pretty good. I don't have a personalized - So we refer to this area Basically, the satellite's - Is that big reflective those the fuel tank? - Yeah. It's one of our tanks So we call that stage of resemble the tie fighter, with it-company of engineers so we like Star Wars jokes. - Yeah. It's not unusual. - This is Effie. She's the mechanical integration lead and a googly eye specialist. - This is basically what a fully assembled vehicle would look like. It's on our breakover fixture. So - So the purpose of is is to take all panels you've built over here, put 'em on this, shake the heck out of 'em, - Yep. - I'm guessing and do all the sort of like testing on this sort of fake version - Yep. The first you- giant paint shaker from- - Yeah, I mean, so this vibe table right here. - Oh, this is the shaker? - Yep. So right now it's set up to do x, y and then the shaker head will rotate up and that's how it does the Z-axis. Wow, okay. - But yeah, for a few low-level runs, we put some googly eyes on it. - Oh yeah. - And it was just like, it's adorable seeing the eyes like roll around. So we always joke that we - But passing the literal only thing that's done here. There are tests done in where the satellite fluctuations, just like in space, A propulsion test chamber behind this ominous structure And there's also an RF dead zone so they can test the electronics to ensure they don't Basically, they test for everything because once you send it up to space, there's no sending a repairman after it: A fact that will become this story. Anyway- - Things are gonna get hot, things are gonna shake up and down, left and right on that rocket going up. You're gonna have stars exploding all around you sending a bunch of Can your hardware handle it, In our case, not the latter. - That's Brady Salz: He's the electrical integration lead and he's got the coolest - I have to ask this, - Yes, this is, so my dad, And when, back when they he invented our dollar sign So it's, you know, - Oh, very nice. If any my - Brady's brothers have not asked. Anyway- B Money is making sure that all this expensive hardware powered and returns the - How do you make sure that that thing is gonna go work in space? Right? If you have a or high frequency things, spoiler alert, circuits are like people, they wanna talk to each other, right? They're all gonna be bouncing to each other, going up, down, left, right figuring this out- and proving that's not gonna be an issue and really getting that right is really difficult in simulation, and it's even harder in real life. - Right. - So you spend a lot more getting it just right. - All this R &amp; D, production, testing and assembly happens right here on site so that all the teams can before getting ready for launch. - Oh Effie, that's amazing. - Yeah. That's the, that's the Arcturus down - That's where Astranis sent 'Arcturus' into space. Can satellites finish the - 'I took the initiative in creating the internet.' - Let's find out. - This is our San Francisco We actually have a backup in In case the big earthquake something happens, we can quickly shift our operations over to there. Wow, - Wow. You couldn't get Houston. 'cause I hear that's a - Everyone wanted to go there, but all the, yeah, it was all taken. - This is mission control Right now, they're just the one with its antennas - A lot of time we're monitoring, but things do happen on the spacecraft, but everything is deployed Yeah. I wouldn't want this to Yes, very much so. Yes. - But soon they're hoping to have as many as 24 satellites built and launched every year where people need access to information but can't get Comcast to Right now you're probably connected to the internet. Pause and think for a moment Think about the vast web and other means of transmission of information to you every second. Now remember that the Earth is immense and connecting humans and consistency across vast But with technology you could be a thousand miles or the nearest telephone line and still be able to - 'Ground control to Major Tom.' Or this show-either one is fine. - The experience is what people are used to And this isn't very expensive It's like a piece of stamped aluminum. - A single satellite can provide and that means one tiny dot need to string thousands and thousands of miles to all those remote locations. Satellite connections They are terrible for low-latency - I would not advise that You will not do very well. You will be last place or something, but it's limited by the laws of physics. It's just how fast can the - If you can figure out a way to speed up the the speed of light, lemme know and then we'll implement it immediately. We are building four more SpaceX Falcon 9 Rocket later this year, and they'll be going up to countries all over the world. And then we are gonna be as we see that increased demand to add capacity to those countries. - But it's important to remember that Arcturus is their first So it's not shocking to learn that not everything A month after filming, we learned that one of the solar panel drive by a third party vendor which is space talk for, That means Arcturus won't be able to provide internet service to Alaska. Also, me playing around outside had nothing Sorry, Alaska. - We're pretty sure. But this anomaly, despite being proves the whole point of Astranis. If this had happened to a of millions or billions of dollars, it would've been a staggering blow. But Astranis is banking on smaller and more flexible hardware. So they're already planning to launch a new satellite utility set, which definitely does not but they can afford to do this because the satellites are because they're so much more adaptable. - In the old days, each satellite for the part of the world because every part of the world has actually they're allowed to operate on. There was no digital signal those satellites of any kind, and many of the satellites that they're still analog satellites. It'd be like getting a radio where you can't change the channel after you get it from the hardware store. So it is only in the last few years that we've had the processing to do the kind of digital - The idea behind all satellites and internet connection. It's about how we build the systems that make our world function. - This is a hard reset for the type of internet infrastructure that you build. We wanna have micro projects that we are deploying exactly where they're needed - So, picture a scenario where the grid doesn't but from everywhere at once. Imagine you didn't need to wait for some giant utility company or government to invest to your small town or state or country. And because those investments to recover from setbacks and makes the whole thing more resilient. - So instead of investing a to provide, you know, a we want to invest, you of dollars over 18 months to provide connectivity exactly where it's needed-to one state - Astranis and other companies which makes hardware for DIY, cell phone networks represent a new bottom-up approach to building infrastructure. It's an approach that can that are mostly overlooked. - If you have the next 4 to the internet, all of that global conversation, right? Like they're contributing and they're contributing and they're, they're teaching that the rest of the world There's a two-way street It's a thing that we're - So how many more amazing we take for granted when as universal as the stars in the sky? Well, we'll find out soon.