Now, this morning, I want to speak to you Katherine Kuhlman said the following, Christian because of their ignorance concerning the Holy verse 17, He says, the Holy Spirit, who is about it neither knows Him. Apostle Paul goes to one of the Holy Spirit, and they're like, we have not quote unquote, Christians. I believe there are four Spirit. The first one is the foggy way. The foggy Like Jesus, 2000 years ago, died on the cross, loves everybody, sits on the throne. Holy falling on the floor, running with the you don't want to get too close to that because of the Holy Spirit. Let me just make something People He uses can be weird. The Holy Spirit is holy spirit is not, but the Holy Spirit is wild. He God doesn't want us to be foggy, unclear about the Holy Spirit and that is this is that they are Holy Spirit meaning, they grew up in a church where maybe have read a little bit about the doctrine, they are familiar with the Holy Spirit, and maybe very strict Pentecostal church. I mean Pentecostal, Pentecostal. We had women and men seated separately. if you didn't wear makeup, earrings and no like long skirt, and a long covering. And my idea of prayers. I'm talking about like, no music, no drums, ...very very very very loud. It's like something remember, I was like 13 year crying very very very loud, and I'm like I don't powerful. So, I would close my eyes and just start Spirit. He comes on people, they yell uncontrollably, and this was amazing. Then I come to the United the church, he says, you know these guys are 13, so them all filled with the Holy Spirit, which I knew So 13 and a half, 14, we get in a circle, kids, you're gonna speak in tongues. Why? Because before Now, out of all the teenagers, I was the most self-righteous, but I really thought I was better Everybody starts speaking in tongues instantly. deserve Holy Spirit, [Music] and the one that was get tongues. Then, I finally got tongues. Saturday, 2PM those six months while everybody spoke in tongues by, so I had to now press in, fast and pray. what came easy for other people took me some time. first time I uttered some syllables, But, also so scary, because like something is this what it feels like, he's like And that Sunday, I remember, I came to Sunday, and there I thought, that's it, I got the ceiling, I got the Holy Ghost. That's it. I arrived. still struggled with many things, and nothing else wasn't a person to me, He was more like a force, was what that was. I was familiar, but I didn't later, speaking in tongues for all those 13 years, I bad, it's just the sameness, in the youth group, we for actually a year and a half without water actually for eight months without seeing one Our youth service was this, this and this. On the this row. When it was a really big revival, it was In fact, the pulpit was always right here, for 13 to put it right here because it never nobody came Until, something happened personally to me. The Holy he became a person to me. Now, how did that happen. to give our savings, all of our savings away, so trying to buy a blessing. I really felt that that's it was what needed. Came to this pastor, in the every single Sunday. And I'm from America, a young want power, miracles and big church. He said, He's like, you need to know the Holy Spirit, I was don't get it. You need to know the Holy Spirit. Spirit. I know Holy Spirit. I read the Good Morning Holy Spirit. I've read the books. I know the Holy And he says, you don't understand, he says, you I was pretty offended. The reason why is because to tell me something I already know. And he God will release miracles. He said, but my biggest that you know the Holy Spirit. When I came home and to know the Holy Spirit. Not just I want to speak want to know who the Holy Spirit is. I want to know so I can know Him, so he can change me, change the a chair and put a chair in my prayer room, again, mature in that area, put a chair, and I put on my prayer, I did my prayer, praise God, worship Jesus, next chair and I imagined, sanctified imagination, sits there. And I would take about three four minutes Nothing super spiritual, also nothing super casual, in my head, but he was here. So, I wasn't coming with us, and He wants to talk with us, and I started talking back to me, and through His scripture and with the Holy Spirit. I started to wake up in the would get a little bit tense, and my wife would that I thought I got delivered from, you know, I a little bit of help to zip my mouth, muzzle my my start noticing that personally, I started to just, as a person, it didn't make me better because the Holy Ghost is not there to make you you, and so he started to make me different. And pray for the sick every single service, I would it was this second story, small youth group already, I'm praying, every time, I give a call for and then before I dismiss everybody, say, if you're didn't see one healing, but I still prayed. I was So, I prayed, nothing happened, a month later, a lady and the lady goes through screening, and she says, something with my shoulder, it was deeply wounded, I was scheduled for surgery, but I came to one of and Vlad did this prayerful healing, I felt heat they said, they found out that I absolutely don't So, then this lady comes up, and she tells me that, what happened, you felt heat, describe it to me that when I pray something happened. Now, I could So, sometimes when people come up for prayers like, get worse because my percentage of things So, I'm like yeah, let's just keep that one headache I just didn't see a lot of results in prayer, I'll with you just because I speak in tongues, I didn't this lady shared a story on Sunday, she brought her my God, God is alive. That night, we went to Portland, that day, I haven't seen one time, when I pray for Things just started to grow in the youth group, started to see kids, actually, Lewis was and he was working in Chico's Tacos, two weeks People started getting saved. It was crazy. Every still, till this day serving and married my cousin, married my cousin or the way I said cousin, later, the youth group started to grow. Now, I am not because of what I did. I think collectively, there's about the relationship with the Holy Spirit. The of the Holy Spirit. But, the friendship with the that I want to share with you today about the friendship with the Holy Spirit is different than the Holy Spirit, you recognize He's a person. Do you remember, how Jesus says in John Jesus says, to his disciples, He says, you are My friends and you would think thing that you should never say to your friends, Ivan is my friend, imagine me coming to Ivan, say, what, okay, well that's an Jesus's definition of friendship is not Jesus's definition of friendship is this, Fellowship is when you have a communion with the until there is obedience. It's possible to have It's possible to have a communion read the Bible, evangelize, forgive, even and walk around and say, me and the it's kind of like having a marriage, if you're me these instructions, hey, take the garbage out. every two hours, hey can you, I'm gonna say, babe but did you take the garbage out, well no, but I can you take the garbage out, I learned it how Bible study that talks about, we map direction and we we discuss how we would feel taking the for the taking the garbage out, did you take your intimacy with the Holy Spirit is contingent but obeying what He asked. And sometimes, it Sometimes it could be simple things, throw away things to pull away more to prayer. What I found us to do in our hearts it's consistent with the with Him. Well, look Lord, you know, I don't want to I remember one time when the Holy Spirit was I said Lord, no, but I will double my prayer. I you to pray four hours a day. I asked you to I'll fast. Every other day I'll fast, until other day, empty your account. It's like Saul, you He's like, no God, I'll bring you a lot of sheep, a want the Sheep, I want the Amalekites' head. And sacrifice, where we lack in obedience. Intimacy with obedience. That's why when you see people would think, oh yeah, they probably talk it's about obedience, they are obedient. Oh, they close to the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit uses pray and how much you read the Bible. Yes, all of have to read the scriptures, but ultimately, we have There are people here today, when the Lord begins cut away those friends, or maybe, walk away from For me, I remember, there was a time, where like no, I'm not writing about deliverance. I'm a high think I'm a Russian spy. I am writing no books. you see, you see that I'm not called to write didn't even pick up my call. I was like uh-huh, to publish it, I asked you to write it. I said, figure it out yourself. I credit you as And today when I published it, you know, and have publishing companies, some of them are but now would message, like, hey, we want to where were you five years ago, when I really Fellowship is when I hear Him, when when I talk me and I listen to Him. I remember, when we came my car, we had two cars, two Toyota Camrys, Richmond, I worked at the church while I worked we drop off, I give my car to my cousin And, we come back, we just gave that big sacrifice, and I said, Lord, just speak to me, God, I just I don't pray those prayers anymore, but when I was ask me, I'll die for you, I'll go anywhere, you And I remember, at two in the morning, decided to go to the local bank And, as I'm driving, so happens, I'm driving my car is parked in the driveway, and I get this like, two o'clock in the morning, hearing voices, that's my car. What about my wife? Who's gonna, back I was like I'm not driving back that road, drop off my car, I don't want to see my car in We drew my tithing, I'm going out the other way and way, God anything. I say, God anything except o'clock till six I couldn't sleep. I couldn't that's not God, what if so what is this is not gonna stop, God's gonna come for the second one, God sees that My wife woke up and I said to my wife has to agree with it instantly. And she will have to know So, we're eating breakfast and you know and I don't want to do it, and I'm hoping my wife So, I tell her, I said listen, I know we just gave do you think if my cousin, you know car, let her just just just just, I'm using a my sentence, she's like, oh, let's do it,. Let's, you almost felt like God, you got to her, this is not just wakes up and she hears the record and she's And she is like yeah, let's just do it. Well, because it was my car Then a lot of transit, and a lot of borrowing a year later, I was in the meeting and a good or reading books, and when I started to do these this so I can be obedient. I understand some of you when you have these guardrails in your life, where like to hear, you might not hear those things. Holy become more like you. And so, a year later, after about we end up without both cars, so like we end up with This is not everybody's journey. This was our At first, I only said it, didn't mean it, with time so that I can know this person, the Holy I lived my life, Christian life for 15 years. I call religion. It wasn't a dove. It I didn't sense that that, and I said in my heart, for 12 months, and just leave my life with Him? If I don't do it, gonna do that. I remember, a year later, we're at he comes up to me, and he grabs me by the Holy Spirit considers you as his friend. Oh man, I was like, I felt like a.... To me, that that, I held on to those words from this man of God, to be friends with this president, that president, with the most famous person in the world, the Holy with being more familiar which is exactly what bit more. Then you start with fellowship, but I do there is a cost, and it might not be cars and money is because my heart was so attached be prayer, it could be honestly, serving. For you prioritizing your family. Whatever that is, but it's in line with your flesh, I can guarantee you that you will die, more of him will live, and then the the areas you will get the most breakthrough. So, this was my introduction. Let me just give Genesis chapter 24. Genesis 24 well advanced in age, and the Lord had And Abraham said to the oldest servant of his your hand under my thigh, and I will make you swear earth, that you will not take a wife for my son I dwell. I want to share with you just five things cultivating friendship. Number one, the Holy Spirit this story Abraham had a son, but Abraham had an and some people say it was Eliezar, but we don't know didn't have a name, because it's kind of like Holy Holy Spirit always blasting himself, promoting to see here, Jesus also says that the Holy Spirit He will declare it to you. The Holy Spirit manages servant who managed all of Abraham's wealth. The all of the power. In fact, God didn't even create miracles and signs are His activity on this Earth. all of the wealth. So, instead of seeking power, Instead of chasing after miracles, why don't that has all the miracles? Instead of just saying one person who does that, the Holy Spirit. Jesus God comes upon you. So, it wasn't the power that coming upon. Jesus says that behold the Spirit heal the sick, to cast out demons. God's power is develop intimacy with the Holy Spirit. He is the The second thing I want you to notice is, He is sent to bring Jesus a bride. Katherine Kuhlman said job is to promote and He's the greatest promoter, The Holy Spirit is sent to glorify Jesus. In fact, will not be given. He says, but when I am exalted, to be very careful is when many of us think tongue speaking, you know, people who love the you must understand that Holy Spirit's job isn't He God? Yes. Can we worship the Holy Spirit? Yes. In Christ. He is part of the Trinity, but on the earth, right now is point everything to Jesus. So we don't we Focus On Christ. [Music] Some people's like, well the Holy Spirit, you know, I'm going to ignore the but iHs assignment is to glorify Jesus. Amen. That's because it brings people close to Jesus. When loves that because we glorify Jesus. He is God, He's all that attention to the Lamb that was slain. And Holy Spirit otherwise I'm going to knock you out. speaks of God that He said to the Israelites, He So, both the Father and the Son, they fight for the Himself, He doesn't defend Himself. If you grieve He always comes in loudly, leaves quietly. Samson when He exits, He doesn't announce it. He is very like we know some people, but sensitive in a sense one of the greatest joys of the Holy Spirit is you worship Jesus, when you honor Jesus, when you many of us, we know about Jesus from reading the Holy Spirit, He makes Jesus precious, He makes more fascinated I am with Jesus, more in love Can somebody say Amen? Number three. So, not only Holy Spirit is sent to point people to Jesus, but this unnamed servant arrives at the well, camels, Rebecca, comes in there, and the servant ran to meet from your pitcher, please, let me drink I'm so glad, Rebecca was not part of the Someone, got my nails done, the lashes over you get your own water sir. I ain't gonna Could he get a water for himself? Of course. The have asked any of the servants, hey, could you give to a woman, he doesn't need her help, but he starts Do you remember Jesus did the same thing with didn't even need to get water, He was water. He water and she's like and you know it's Samaritan woman, she watched a lot of stuff. She was like, well you know you shouldn't be talking to me, brings all this kind of nonsense stuff, and Jesus is like, What's your problem? I can give you the Living puts her in her place, she repents and it has Rebecca represents all of us, and the Holy Spirit I believe the Holy Spirit comes to us and He I want you to notice the words, please, it's a petition, not a command. Let me, in the case I A little bit of drink, meaning I'm not asking you symbolizes out of your schedule, out of your time, you for a little bit of water. Is there, if somebody I don't think I'll be drinking water from from that. I'm just gonna use this for just a second. Now, let's just pour some water right here, into this Every single day that you wake up you have a cup. It's filled with 24 hours, you spend six or eight going to work, going to school, and every day water in your cup, the Holy Spirit is asking you He's asking you, will You give me a little bit of attention? Would you give Me a little bit of your You're overwhelmed, your husband or wife is to let them have it, what if you would pause for help, please, 911, Holy Spirit, help. And just wait, Maybe you're facing exam, tests, financial problems, invite me? Would you help? Would you give me that circumstances, involve me in your situation. I'm God. me a little bit of attention. It doesn't have to your day, as you're gardening, as you're putting you can be playing a song in your mind, or and have a fellowship with the Holy Spirit. Now, took this verse and stretched it a little bit says, the love of God, the grace of Jesus, and the Have you notice, it doesn't say the love of God, Holy Spirit, meaning it's not just something you Now, when it comes to the love of God, many of us do deserving of God's love. We know it's love you don't say, no I messed up too much, I don't deserve when it comes to the fellowship, when it comes to developing this intimacy, many of us are afraid. I and the conviction of the Holy I was like, if Holy Ghost is going to be with me I'm gonna need a therapist because I'm gonna live good enough. Imagine having a pastor chained everything you think, its just like monitoring You wouldn't have peace. You wouldn't have peace way. We're like, man, I don't want to be too too close, like, it's just, ah... the last thing I need Holy Spirit does convict us 100 percent. But, His Condemnation is, you're wrong. Conviction is, your Condemnation brings hopelessness. condemnation is from the devil. conviction is from this way. But, in here it doesn't say the and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you, I know I'm holy, you're human. I'm extending to walk/ I will fill you and I will lead you, and I craziest moments, and I still chose to in your conscious mind catches Me by surprise, Spirit doesn't have those moments, He's God, He He knows I'm capable of my weaknesses, and He still of ever being holy is not me, it's the Holy Spirit. So, I lean on that help. I need that help and I need to stop being afraid that I'm too dirty, because the Bible says that the communion of the But I'm just a stay-home mom. All means you. But a college student. You too. But I'm just a busy means you too, but I don't have a YouTube channel. a regular.. yeah yeah.. that's it.. for you too. I work from nine to five. Did we ever say love not doing anything worldwide. No no, grace and love one of us. It's not for the elite. It's not for the and the men and the women of God, its for every [Applause] Man, that all, that changed me. Insecure, introvert, one eye Not being comfortable around people, somebody like me, and and man, I know my weaknesses. I should have. I know what I fall short. I know me. and I was like if Holy Spirit has access He probably don't like me either, but he wants somebody like you. He knows you inconsistent, emotionally, you say, yes Lord, I'll give it all, of that. And you know what the interesting to be different. He's the only one that will help He doesn't even make me better than do that but He didn't do that, you know He makes me better than me. I become different. harder, that's why it's called the fruit of the it's not called the fruit of fasting, the fruit of Holy Spirit help me. I know I am a b c d e f g. When I'm impatient and I'm very impatient slow traffic, my wife taking extra, she says five minutes, but it becomes 25, at five in the morning, and I'm nott ready touches me, pretty much says, hey, I need Now, wake up be nice to your animal because the his animal. Okay dog. I'm gonna develop fruit of the Spirit, be kind to my dog. I'm not gonna hit him on the way down. I'm and I say get on your knees repent, waking Amen. Fellowship with the Holy Spirit. He's want you to notice the fourth thing. she gives him a pitcher. So, she gives because look at this. She finishes giving him water him a drink, she said, I will draw water for your That's one thing to give water from your pitcher. Camels? She didn't have a hose, that she brought to let me turn on the hose water, and you Camels drink 8 to 12 gallons of water 30 gallons of water in one sitting. So, Those buckets have five gallons. 30 gallons of to go to the well, draw the water from the well, buckets from Lowe's or Home Depot, brings it down, volunteers, he doesn't ask, and say, hey, I thank he's not doing that. The servants are standing not fair, you know, she's being abused, no, she's not. camels. What she did not know is the camel she's She didn't know that at first. I just wanted to take a moment and to the Holy Spirit, learn to water camels. What Volunteer. Don't wait until you She wasn't asked to water camels. She wasn't, hey, we really need help with ministry, every church needs help with kids An amazing part about the church camels is they been in church, you've been hurt serving in church, Why? Because you volunteer for one thing, they see teams, and then you need to be there a Saturday of water, these camels are thirsty. 30 gallons, she in that. We're not talking about being a burned out, build a culture where we don't look constantly for looking for a place where we can serve. So, many so I can heal the sick. What about using the power You can help the kids ministry today You can help in security by learning how to use team by simply learning how to use your hands. up like, man can you pray for me, I want to receive first portion that you have? What are you serving gifts. I say, the ones that got activated the You can't expect God to give you the jewelry, the watering the camels. I know, you won't get the gonna get a brand deal, but listen you will water It develops the heart of humility in you. It you begin to water the camels. I just want to take who has been faithfully watering the camels, booth, my man right there with lights, people have been doing the worship team, people have been and make sure that we get ourselves seated, people are helping with food, everyone that is serving in watering our camels? Taking care of our children, opening the church at 5am so that the people can do that we get to do that. Some of us pay to do Spirit loves the church because it's the bride I know we live in a culture today where you pick an invoice. But, I think God wants us to have always have people that are on the paid staff. It's of his wages nothing is wrong with that. But, if we we don't water the camels unless we send somebody and have access to those gifts, because gifts are there to make us effective, and to make us useful. gifts, but you're serving with your finances, you're your connections, because you can write one check lot of stuff that happens in the church, and I want when you have a heart. It doesn't just say Holy oh, Holy Spirit just want to spend time with you, She didn't just water him, meaning It's just me and Jesus, it's me and the Holy Spirit. appreciate you, they don't recognize you, plus they of this stuff. They will just use you all the time, I'm just gonna stay away in peace. It's just me gonna stay away. I used to do that. I graduated done. You know, like I really got healed from that. I get it. I understand with respect. I want to speak on the paid staff, I've seen the good, the bad, and you, all of that. The reason why I am serving at Jesus died for the church. He's building it . people, did some stuff to me, there were times, I was and our church will never be perfect. We'll hurt people, lost sinners who found our will never have it perfect. But, if we have our heart to water the camels, God's gonna do a miracle, the gifts of one, but because of the sacrifices of with the Holy Spirit by what, watering the serve in your area. Yes, it takes time, watering not getting rewarded. Yes, you're not getting, you Well, if your eyes are on the man then, yeah, you find joy. He is being pleased. My life is Hallelujah. The last thing. And they go into the gifts are like jewelry not in a sense that they the church, but they're more like tools, and then I need to take Rebecca, we need to go, and Laban see her future husband. Now, please understand, put see the guy. There is no Myspace, Facebook, Tinder, christianmingle.com, nothing, literally. The oldest servant probably just describing, and yeah, he's all right, that is pretty seen him. There's no Google Maps. Where, she can, you see kind of like, where, how he looks. It's totally And now this servant says, I want you to leave and I want you to come into the unknown. And I love want to go? She says, of course. I believe the next Most of us know what it's like to leave bad things, that hurt us. Maybe a bad relationship that is so like to give up alcohol, it's destroying your Most of us know what it's like to give weed, it's like to give up gambling. We know what it's it's like to give up the sinful things, and and they say, man, such a big sacrifice, I give up That's good for you. You'll live longer. Oh such a sacrifice because if God wanted you to smoke, So, He doesn't want you to smoke. You'll die faster if not a sacrifice. Real sacrifice is not when you when you give up what comforts you, and giving it Laban is convenience, Laban is routine, Laban is, my rhythm here, I got my friends here, and I'm to Tri-cities physically, into the unknown, know anybody here, but there was something Some of you came to Hungrygen and you came knew everything and you came into this unknown these guys walking around yelling and screaming music is loud, but something in your spirit says, gonna grow, that's where your family is gonna grow. follow the Spirit, not only out of the things that and leaving them brings a little bit of hurt. do and you say, yeah, I am comfortable feasting and aside and I'm gonna leave Laban, and walk into the mediocrity, walk out of the predictable, and the what wait for me there, but I will follow the Holy we gave that first car, oh man. it was scary, what's stepped into the unknown, and I can tell you back, to see that in the unknown is where the miracles outside of the borders of what you're familiar routines become a religion, our religion becomes there, and the Holy Spirit says, come, come what's comfortable into the what is unknown, But, I don't want to go to small group. I don't Life Class. I'm afraid to commit. I don't I don't want you because I'm scared. Jesus is Jesus is worthy. Your future deserves everything nothing but just fears. Once you encounter the encounter the new grace, once you step into the new left the elementary school, I'm so glad I left the glad that I finished the university, I stepped into then I stepped into the next. Some of you could and your ex is what you're comfortable with, Christian life, and you're sick and tired of it. You only have one life. Some of us die at 40 and breathe in air, but we don't live. There's no more is bigger than the future, and the Holy Spirit I want you to dream, I want you to believe, I want into the unknown step in. Is it scary? Of course, One of the reasons, me and my wife is because staying at the place where I was, I wanted to see the Lord move. And I'm so I want to invite you, a man, young man, listen to and not be friends with the Holy Spirit, The goal isn't to gather a crowd. to live in revival. Are you sick God wants you to have revival. I know revival running around with the flag. [Music] Nothing Revival is you loving Jesus today, and so Revival is this, alive inside, fire in your people's lives change because you are involved your marriage, your family, your school, your [Music] Have you spiritually, feel like you lost? like man, I'm in that complacency, mediocrity. I am to change. I want you to get out of your seat and sermon. If this was a blessing to you, would you let you from this message? What are you taking home these messages, would you help us and hit thumbs up can get new videos, every single week, delivered to you'll actually be able quotes of this sermon, and the rest of all of