Film Courage: How do you define story? How do you teach it to clients and students? Glenn Gers, Screenwriter: I think the basic be following a character or characters. It's entirely possible to tell the story You don't only have to tell one person's It's nice, you can do it, but it is also It takes a lot of work. You have to follow each main character and narrative but in fact I believe any story accomplish something runs into other people It's sort of like Isaac Newton's theory motion they will role in that same direction force like a character is also doing that. They are trying to get somewhere and they they hit something or something comes in and but they are still trying to get to that one The physics kind of falls apart there because but the idea that things are moving until moving is sort of how characters work. Every character thinks they're the main If you have your hero walk into a hotel and think they're the center of the movie because person coming up to them is with getting in it is that they're doing, they are trying basic building blocks of story. That's what you cal dramatic action trying interacting with other people. Sometimes the action can be I have to take But if will still be I have a thing I am trying I have a thing I am trying to accomplish. I am a character and I need to get this thing there is something in the way. If I am a character and I am trying to put on the train and nothing happens it's a If they are carrying the suitcase and another it's more of an interesting story and it's got something important in the suitcase. If it's just a suitcase and they say Oh? Something stole it, I'll go get another Every story is about a character trying to and what they do and the action they take The obstacles don't have to be external. The obstacles can be I am really afraid of I need to get this suitcase to my uncle and train so I've got to get the suitcase onto that's a story. The only obstacle is in there but it's real. So every character is facing obstacles, the don't have to be another character. They just have to be something that is getting important to them. Film Courage: Can you explain how questions Glenn: Writing is a process of questions. There are a couple of things that I wish I if they knew - think in scenes and writing It's not a thing you need to fill out, it's Writing is a question of having something...it I want to talk about how love hurts or I want Whatever it is you start with then you start How am I going to tell this story? Am I going to tell it through a character Every thing is going to be a choice. Every question that you ask if you write down story? Who is the main character? Everything is a question and those questions What do they want? Why can't they get it? What do they do about that? And how does it end? I guess I skipped one...oh...why doesn't Who is it about? What do they want? Why can't they get it? What do they do about that? Why doesn't that work? How does it end? I did a whole video on this called the 6 Essential For Screens]. I explained it better there but those 6 questions They will help you write a movie, they will you write a series because that's the essential whatever feeling or idea I have into a story? Is a person who is trying to do something the way and then eventually something will it or I do get it and whatever they do that because if they tried before it would have So who is it about? What do they want? What do they do? Why doesn't that work? What do they finally do? What is the end? That is storytelling and it can work for three It always works. It's my go to set of questions. And then keep asking questions. Who is it about? It's about a plumber? Where is he from? Just ask - who, what, why, where? Keep asking why. Why is he afraid of heights? Why does he love this particular person? Every time that you ask a question you get to writing a scene. Film Courage: What is the easiest way for process for themselves? Glenn: The first important thing about this There is not a right or wrong way. Some people write at night, some people write some people write in long extended bursts. There is no particular better or worse process. An important thing about a process is that easily for whatever reason it works for you attention to yourself, trying different things, work and being really honest. I personally (I keep doing that, sorry) I I thought I should do more because when writing If I can keep doing this for eight hours I'd But I can't and I would sit there and grind not only would that be unproductive and disheartening because when you start to grind in a bad way, and say Well I must be feeling bad because the case. It could be that your process is bad. And so what I would do is I would write something until I was unhappy and then I would say Oh over it and destroy my good work and it took that I do really well in short bursts and it and take a break, take a walk, do exercises short burst. Getting myself to sit down again is rough in paying attention to what worked. I've gotten much more productive since I've It's not for everyone. Everyone will have a process that is dependent own reality. Some people only have free time on weekends. Some people only get a little free time in to work at the time that they are allowed You have to pay attention to reality and pay best to find out is to do it and see how it It's always better to try and do some work You will never get to the place where you you start writing. There is always the question of let me try That's the best test of a process. Film Courage: And working these temp jobs the study of people helped you realize that Glenn: Forced me because I was stubborn and and over again until circumstances forced like Wow, that actually is better! Trying to be open to your process, trying work good and feels good. Feeling good is underrated. You have to learn to write when you don't For me having a process where I can say I an outline, a place where I write notes, and going to be doing a video on this soon - Writing personal set up. Everyone has their own but what you need to not thinking about anything but the contents You know Ah, this is the outline. The outline is going to be broken into scenes this and I don't have to think about that, That is the best way to find a process is Some people will do it on their phone. I would advise doing it in some way that is on notecards. It doesn't matter, what matters is you get some way that you can set it aside and come it because with almost anything you are going Film Courage: When did you have that aha moment anxiety was that wasn't my style to sit and with the perfect music and the iced tea, Glenn: It was unfortunately not an aha moment, And I think that is sort of a misleading thing that there is a decisive moment and after In story that is a very important. You need decisive moments when people are and I have a couple seasons where I get a my own ways and then I have some rewards and It's a process in which you try to do two way around because you're trying to head You do a little forward, you fall back, a main way it always is the doing of it. Just throw something on the paper even if where I say this is the scene where he comes of the outline and wrote it into the script with this process. I now say I created a scene, the scene is and is miserable. Okay, how do we see that he is miserable? Good question. He seems miserable because he takes his dinner wall. Each thing that you get when you ask a question and a process of writing down the answer. Now I have a scene where he comes in, opens wall. Okay, we know he's miserable. Now I can add a couple of lines and move onto Everything you can do to put a little something creativity to hang onto that is (for me) the Film Courage: So if this were a movie, it Charlie...have a good weekend!" And then the music plays and you have a half Glenn: I actually think what we would do is scene where we'd play it out and so we'd seeing the creative magic of this character...sorry Film Courage: Now I love it. So Glenn as the writer. Glenn: I'm sitting there writing the movie another thing. Most of the time a) don't write 'CUT TO.' thing in his scripts, obviously they are going How else are they going to get there. You are wasting page space, don't say CUT And most of the time don't say DISSOLVE unless it's really important that you dissolve, out how to get there. Anyway, get to Glenn writing and then show to the phone booth in the rain and it's as my creativity as a character that they Question For The Viewers: What are your best