The crisis sometimes writes the craziest car stories. In this case, it was Porsche's crisis in the early 1990s that led to Porsche developing and partially building a Mercedes - a super Mercedes, the 500E. Actually a super sports car in the reserved body of the normal E-Class. Its history, its technology, the driving experience - that's what we want to deal with today! Comes with! For the layman, this is a completely normal W124, like the one that was in every authorized representative's parking lot back then. Of course, the insider sees that a very special car is quickly approaching in the rearview mirror. You can tell by the fact that the front end is slightly wider: it's only 56 mm. The body is slightly deeper: 23 mm. You can tell because these are not fog lights, but driving lights. You can tell by the 16 inchers. That was still an announcement back then. The time for 18, 19, 20 inch models had not yet come. How you can't tell: there are no spoilers. There is no sensational appearance. Nothing reminds us of the tuning cars of that time. At that time, absolute discretion was at the top of the specifications. When Mercedes introduced the 500E in the fall of 1990, it was already a relatively old car, meaning the W124 had already been around for 6 years. Today one would speak of a discontinued model and in fact the W124 was not prepared for an eight-cylinder engine. It was like that during the development period in the early 80s: the four-cylinder was planned, the six-cylinder was also planned and for a long time the 300E, initially with 180 hp and later 225 hp, was fast enough for most customers. But then there was a cut! In 1988, BMW introduced the new M5 - at that time with 300 hp - and that was of course a declaration of war against Mercedes. Mercedes then had to follow suit with a sports model - in this case the 500E - with the help of Porsche. That was a deal back then that was also brokered with political help. The then Prime Minister of Baden-Wurttemberg intervened and asked Mercedes to give Porsche a little support. Mercedes had no development capacity at the time anyway because the new S-Class W140 was in preparation and so it was very, very good that Mercedes was able to award the development contract for the 500E to Porsche in Weissach. They then completely redesigned this car - especially the front end - to accommodate the 500SL's large V8 engine. And in the end, Porsche also built this car because it turned out that the front end, the slightly widespread front end, had become too wide for the production lines in Sindelfingen and so the Porsche development order also became a Porsche production order. And certainly one of the most remarkable stories in German car history, because trucks were constantly traveling between Sindelfingen and Zuffenhausen, driving bodyshells back and forth in order to be able to produce this car. That means it took 18 days to produce a 500E. The bodyshell was built at Porsche, then painted in Sindelfingen, then an engine was installed again at Porsche and the final inspection was in Sindelfingen - so it was really an epic effort. Now of course we have to immerse ourselves in the sight of this incredible engine compartment and I have a guest here to explain the technology. This is the Felix who has been taking care of the maintenance of this car for many years. Felix, open it! Let's see what awaits us there. And of course on the W124 we have the excellent maintenance position of the bonnet, which really allows a clear view of this engine compartment. It's also typical of Mercedes, isn't it? That's always very nice. Perfect! So here we see it in..., not in all its beauty, because of course it already has a plastic cover on it. Yes, it was like that in the early 90s. Of course we see the condition of the car for the year. Felix, how come it's so untouched? Yes, we have a car here with a whopping 52,000 km. It's just a collector's item in our family and we make sure that it stays that way. It is now almost a German cultural asset and is respected accordingly on it. So maintenance and care has to be done and you can keep it that way. Does that mean it is completely unrestored? Nothing has been replaced yet, does that mean he has only seen maintenance so far? Exactly exactly! I'm not a big mechanic, but when I look into this engine compartment, I get scared and ask myself, for heaven's sake, what would it be like if something was really broken or a major inspection was due? Can you take away my fear? Yes, now the whole thing is relatively simple in terms of maintenance. The large plastic cover that you mentioned here, for example, is also the air filter box and can be removed pretty quickly. Accordingly, you can get to the maintenance items relatively easily. Things get trickier when it comes to spark plugs or when you have to get to the manifolds or something on the air conditioning lines. That's where things get a little trickier. But with modern V8 engines, the space on the sides becomes very tight. It must have been an epic effort to redesign the front end so that the 5.0 liter engine of the 500 SL fits in. What do you think, does this all correspond to the precision standards of the Porsche and Mercedes brands or did they also improvise a bit? No, it was clearly the highest standards of Mercedes and Porsche and, as colloquially speaking, you won't find any botch on this car. The entire front end was widened by 56 mm. So this was all completed in very, very, very beautiful work. And I think the engine sits lower too. Exactly, the engine had to be lowered, i.e. lower than in the SL, for example. This is the engine from the SL and therefore the engine simply had to be lower so that it could even fit in here. Other special features from your point of view? Yes, the special feature is definitely the intake. We have the intake on both sides directly behind the headlights, which I have actually never seen on any other model. And then they still installed the old four-speed automatic transmission. Exactly on the 500E or E500 they have a different gear ratio for the four-speed automatic, which is simply because this car is supposed to drive at 250 km/h. And it does! Yes, but purely mathematically, I once read somewhere that the 400E would have been mathematically faster if it hadn't been slowed down, is that true? Exactly, that is also correct. Through the translation, right? Exactly, exactly, the 400E was actually the double, with the narrow body and the smaller eight-cylinder engine, which actually cost EUR50,000 less than the 500E at the time. But people still bought the 500E, which of course speaks to the car's fascination. Exactly. And the joke behind it, of course it's the same engine in the 400E - so it's the same M119. Here we have an M119 E50 and with the 400 it is just a 4.0 liter engine - 4.0 liter V8 in this case. And now I would say: go immediately, right? Drive immediately! Drive immediately! Yeah, cool, then we'll close it and then I'm excited. 326 hp and 480 Nm of torque, which are practically always available. That was of course a power in the early 90s and now we want to know what it feels like in today's traffic. That's why we're starting a short driving test. This video is powered by Classic Data. These are the specialists for the valuation of classic cars and youngtimers, that is, anyone who wants to know what a 500E or a 400E or any other W124 can cost today or anyone who would like to have their car checked by experts, one of 400 Classic Data valuation partners is always nearby! Then let's see! Look at that! Look at it like it's being pulled on a rubber band! Now I have to brake again because otherwise I'll probably be sitting in the MPU waiting room at some point when I... when I take advantage of the opportunities. Of course I don't want that. Guys, we need Big Sky Country Highway here now. We just have to go in now drive through one, sometimes at least to Lake Constance. Then there's something else that can win you over for this car today. It's really the smoothness of the engine. I don't have any artificially generated sound here, no flap exhaust, no roar composed somewhere in the studio. I just have an engine that I can't hear and when I give it a little gas it starts to make a lot of noise. That's really, really great. Namely like this. Then he answers with a growl. The way he builds power, really like pulling on a rubber band. This is still very, very fascinating today. Of course, you could theoretically still drive a 500E in everyday life if you can somehow cope with the average consumption, which will be somewhere between 14 and 20 l, but in terms of driving comfort, the refinement, the torque that can be called up at any time, it's always very, very fascinating car, the possibilities of which we can actually only access to a small extent here on Lower Saxony's country roads. Auto Motor und Sport wrote at the time that the Mercedes 500E still feels faster than it actually is. At the time it referred to the testers' disappointment that it did not meet the factory target of 0 to 100 in 6.1 seconds. Back then in Stuttgart they always needed 6.7 - 6.8 seconds. In fact, today, when you 're driving a 500E like this, it's still very, very impressive and you always have to be a little careful so that you don't leave the semi-legal area on a German country road without noticing. Wow! Now I'll let it go. By the way, everything happens with a relatively antiquated automatic system. This is a four-speed automatic that can be switched between economy and sport. In reality, of course, it is completely unimportant in which position you drive. Of course, even in economy position it is always powerful and fast enough. Especially in intercity operations. In fact, the powerful 480 Nm torque also made this four-speed automatic seem sufficient back then. BMW has already offered the M5 a five-speed automatic transmission as an option, but Mercedes was actually very conservative until recently with the 500E. There was always only this four-stage box. It's wonderful when you see today, even when the road gets a little worse, how confidently this car really handles cracks and patches in the asphalt and joints. Really an example of how even a very fast and very sporty car can be exemplary comfortable. Something that hardly exists today. We don't have any really fast corners here, but you notice when you take the car into a corner that it seems very, very vital and neutral. Auto Motor und Sport wrote at the time: "Good-natured like a fairytale uncle." What was actually admired was that the author was Werner Schruf, who I knew as a fellow tester. In other words, someone who relentlessly hit out at grievances. So that was certainly an award back then - the good nature of a fairytale uncle - in a sports sedan. So I don't think you could achieve much more in a test result in the early 1990s. Yes, what a great car, but objectively, of course, the inside is a Mercedes like all the others in the early 90s. Here we have the relatively large airbag steering wheel. We have sports seats that were developed specifically for the 500E back then, but to be honest they don't have a lot of lateral support. Here we have the classic dashboard of all W124s - still with the oil pressure gauge and speedometer up to 260. This of course gives an indication of what kind of car this is. The burr walnut paneling on the center console. Becker Mexico Radio was typical back then. So there isn't much that distinguishes the 500E from a 230E four-cylinder, but one thing: namely individual seats in the rear. This was due to the fact that the 500E's differential was larger than the normal four- and six-cylinder models and there was no room for a full-length bench seat. That's why there are two individual seats in the back, which of course seems sporty - but in reality it was actually due to a practical requirement. Yes, if this virgin Mercedes 500E were for sale, which it isn't, then it would be the ideal candidate for the Young Classics at the Bremen Classic Motorshow. These are cars in original condition with less than 100,000 km that are for sale. The young classics - next time from February 2nd to 4th, 2024 at the Bremen Classic Motorshow. The further back you go, the less spectacular the 500E becomes. Of course that was purely intentional. There should be no spoilers like on the 190 models. That was very clear. The car should look inconspicuous. Many customers have therefore also canceled the 500E lettering. It acknowledges its power, but Mercedes traditionally had the code M260, which made it possible to simply omit the model number on the boot lid and most 500E drivers made use of this. And in fact most people also ordered black or silver or gray and an inconspicuous color. It's hardly believable today, but there was also a 500E in sequin red metallic or in smoke silver or in bornit metallic, classic fashion colors of the early 90s. Only the 500E driver hardly ordered them. And at the end there is still a spectacular detail, but you actually have to dive into the trunk to see it, because the 500E also got a completely new trunk floor, because back then they didn't put a tire fit in the trunk for upper-class customers , but of course not a spare wheel , but a real spare wheel was offered and it was 16 inches and therefore the entire trunk floor had to be redesigned to accommodate the large spare wheel. Of course, it also shows the conscientiousness with which such vehicles were constructed back then. The controller probably already bit the edge of the table back then, but the technicians prevailed. That too is a thing of the past. It's crazy how quickly 30 years go by. I can still remember well how, as a young editor, I picked up the brochure for the 500E from the Mercedes dealer Neubeck in Speyer in the Palatinate with the title line &quot;Fire and Silk&quot; - for me to this day, the three words that define the car best characterize. Back then I drove a 300D - W123 with 88 hp. I dreamed about the 500E. Today I was allowed to drive it and it's completely clear to me when someone asks me: Mercedes or Porsche? Then I would answer him: Both! Namely this Super Mercedes from the 90s. This is still a real dream car for me today. Yes, on our Bremen Classic Motorshow channel we show you many other videos - including of large Mercedes classics, the 450 SL 6.9 for example, the Super Mercedes of the 70s and we were also on the road with two W123T models on the driveway of the Mercedes factory in Bremen-Sebaldsbruck. Take a look!