Vanessa: Let's have a real English conversation, let's Today I have something super special to share I'm going to share a real English conversation. A little over two years ago my husband, Dan, And today you are going to meet our realtor, A realtor, or sometimes we call them a real you to find and buy a house. In the US if you want to buy a house, you If this job isn't common in your country, Brandi is really passionate about her job family's life. I'm sure that you also have things that you're to listen carefully and imitate the way that During our conversation you will see some phrasal verbs, and pronunciation. After you watch the conversation, there will and I explain in detail some of the important studying unimportant words. Ingrain these in your memory. It's great to hear them in the conversation, in the vocabulary lesson, it will be even After the vocabulary lesson, you will have some of the most important phrasal verbs from can use them in your daily conversation. And finally, after the phrasal verb lesson, you can speak more like an American and speak You can always click CC on this lesson to any words. And of course, to help you remember everything free PDF worksheet where you will remember sample sentences, and you'll be able to answer of the free PDF worksheet. You can click on the link in the description And if you enjoy this lesson, I invite you you can finally learn real American English Our course member Ildiko said, &quot;This course I like the most that you teach us real English.&quot; Thank you Ildiko. surprised her. She said, &quot;What surprised me even more was to meet and interact with so many friends and to speak confident English. My course uses the Conversation Breakdown This method helps you to catch the real meaning with the same type of expressions and terms Today's YouTube video is just a short sample There are five modules in the full course, the modules. So let's test the Conversation Breakdown Method Brandi. Hi everyone. Brandi: Vanessa: Brandi is a real estate agent, realtor, but So let's start by talking about the definition. What is a real estate agent or a realtor? Brandi: So a realtor and real estate agent are almost Vanessa: Brandi: on our listing service, which means the access is this organization that has a set of ethics. Vanessa: Brandi: to make sure that we don't mislead clients a house. And when it comes to our activities we essentially consult. So I help consult people in buying and selling Vanessa: So it is essential if someone wants to buy or a real estate agent, a realtor, to help Brandi: their own. Vanessa: Brandi: Though I do think that working with a realtor, somebody who has seen hundreds of experiences how the market works. What a good deal is, what isn't a good deal, repairs are. Vanessa: Brandi: sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't, their expertise. And then for buyers, at least in our state, realtor commission for the buyers. So for buyers, the buyers don't actually have The seller pays the commission so it's beneficial Vanessa: I remember when we bought this house, it didn't It was so weird. You were helping us so much and then there So if we had decided, &quot;Hey, we're not going out then? You would've helped us all that time for nothing? Brandi: Vanessa: Okay. But in the end, the expectation is that that of whatever the price of the house is- Yes. Vanessa: Okay. Because it seems like every country has a but in the US it's pretty common to use a That's your job, to know all those ins and Especially for us as a first time buyer having to have someone who was just guiding you. Especially when we've got other stuff going You don't have time to know every detail about or what's the next step? It was really nice to have help. So thank you. Brandi: And I feel like my role too is also to help parties. So as much as possible if a repair is needed I'll meet the repair person at the house because things they have to do. And so if a buyer can't make an inspection to the inspection for them. Of course there's a report, though I want them what's important, what's not important, So I feel like another job for a realtor is as possible. Vanessa: do. Brandi: Not all do that. Vanessa: Brandi: Vanessa: I'm curious about you personally. How did you get into this? Or why did you get into being a real estate Brandi: So I was bartending, so I was serving drinks resort in our area. And I met this woman named Samantha and she talking and they were ordering a lot of drinks. Vanessa: Brandi: ended up talking a little bit and getting And I asked, &quot;Well, why are you here?&quot; It's normally a question that I ask just to And she said, &quot;Oh, we're celebrating a huge And I was like, &quot;Oh, what was that business I want to know.&quot; And she's like, &quot;Oh. Well, I was the top agent in all of Western And I was like, &quot;Like top real estate agent?&quot; And she's like, &quot;Yeah, yeah.&quot; And I was like, &quot;How many houses did you sell And she's like, &quot;54.&quot; And I was like- That's a house a week almost. Brandi: So I was like, &quot;Wow.&quot; And then I was like, &quot;I think people make That's a lot of money.&quot; Vanessa: if you do it well. Brandi: I was like, &quot;Wow, that's amazing.&quot; And then I just tapped back in to my past, their houses. Vanessa: Brandi: huge as it was, I would look through ... there And I would look through the flyers and highlight and help my parents find them. I found my parents almost every house. Vanessa: Brandi: Vanessa: So it is inside of you. Destiny. Brandi: And then I was like, &quot;If she can do it, she's something that I don't have.&quot; So I guess it was just an opportunity for Vanessa: Brandi: months pregnant when I decided I wanted to Vanessa: Brandi: So I was like, &quot;It's now or never.&quot; While he's inside of me, it's going to be So I signed up immediately for a real estate So I worked full time five days a week, Monday hours away to go to real estate school Saturday And so I did that for eight weeks and then before I gave birth. Vanessa: That just makes me a little stressed thinking Brandi: first try. Vanessa: I got to do it now.&quot; Brandi: I can't do this with a one week old baby.&quot; Vanessa: Brandi: super hard and try not to panic in the test Vanessa: Brandi: Vanessa: Wow. So at that time, I guess talking with Samantha is a new career. This is a new option for me that I didn't as a path. Brandi: I owned my own business for a while. I was a yoga studio owner and I loved that. And so I kind of just like, &quot;Well, I'm just And bartending was just my in between because And then when I met her, I was like, &quot;That my family really abundantly.&quot; And yeah, I ended up joining her team because Vanessa: Brandi: and followed up as a good realtor does. Vanessa: Brandi: about buying a house?&quot; And I was like, &quot;Actually, I'm in real estate She's like, &quot;Oh.&quot; Vanessa: I am here now. Brandi: I was on lunch break when she happened to Vanessa: agent, they will follow you throughout your My parents used to live in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, I was two years old, when we moved to South would get Christmas cards from him. And it's like, &quot;We don't even live in the This kind of networking connection to those Samantha, good at networking and keeping up way. Brandi: Vanessa: But really just connecting. Brandi: Vanessa: Brandi: people that goes over their head. They're like, &quot;So who do you know looking That's a script. Vanessa: Well, I feel like something I really appreciated also contacted Samantha when we were looking We stumbled upon her contact information and looking for a place on and off for a year, And I think we'd driven by maybe two places, But then when we talked to you, you were like, want. How about next week you try to find three and just get a real grasp for what you want And just that wording to me felt like, &quot;Oh, Even though I know, not with a thought like, like, &quot;We're going to analyze these places And that felt to me less definite like, &quot;I the only place I can look in.&quot; It's like, &quot;Oh, let's look at these places them.&quot; Instead of just, I felt really serious. &quot;I need to find the perfect place before I So I appreciated that not pushy, but let's And I think that helped us to get the ball Brandi: Vanessa: Brandi: network here, should be how we look at houses. But I think House Hunters ... I loved that Vanessa: Brandi: I would watch all these weird home things. So I guess it was in my blood. Vanessa: Brandi: Anyways. I'd stay up until midnight watching Curb Appeal. But anyways. So yeah, but on there what I learned too is houses, you're like, &quot;Oh. Well I like this and I don't like this and this house.&quot; And eventually after you see enough, you really I mean, you can also get to the point where Vanessa: Brandi: But if you just see a few, it starts to give Like you said, a concrete feeling of, &quot;Yes. This is what I like. This is what I don't like.&quot; I think we saw one house that was gorgeous. It was a little bit higher price point but about the feeling of it.&quot; Vanessa: you get. Brandi: And so when you found this one, you were like, It's nice. Though it's also concise.&quot; Vanessa: Brandi: Vanessa: But it was a good step up from where we were Brandi: Vanessa: Brandi: Vanessa: which to us felt huge. Brandi: Vanessa: about. Where are you now? What kind of lifestyle change will your new And do you want that? Brandi: Vanessa: So I'm curious, I have already been through But for students too, a lot of people live or don't live in the US and have bought houses compare from how the US does it. If I wanted to buy a house and I called you You were recommended to me. I'm looking to buy a house.&quot; What happens at that point? What's the process that you would go through Brandi: Well first I like to listen a lot in the very Right? It's about them and what they want. So the first thing that I do is ask them a So kind of just be ready to share with the So have a list of your needs and your wants there. So that's the first thing that I do, is a And then the next step, and I honestly think you talk to a realtor is a good idea because lender. Because often big banks and people that you They work on salary, not commission. So local lenders are typically more motivated Whereas big banks, they just work on a salary. They're not as motivated. Vanessa: Brandi: somebody that they were work with a lot. They work really well together. They know that they're going to hit the deadlines And then so getting that mortgage loan would And then once you're approved, because especially right now. It's just a really strong housing market in I don't know about globally, but definitely Right? Though I guess US and Hawaii and Alaska are I have some friends there. But anyways so basically once you have that could make an offer, that's when you start Drive bys are great. Though honestly in today's market, it really Vanessa: Brandi: Vanessa: Brandi: tomorrow. No, let's just go today and offer today. Vanessa: Brandi: ... like in California, people post in real people are receiving 50+ offers sometimes. Vanessa: Brandi: So you really want to get in there as soon And then even here, we're not that hot. But recently I've been involved in 11 offers. There's five offers. So it's still, it's a lot. It's a lot of competition so it's good, at quickly. Vanessa: that kind of has changed to make the market Is that what you mean by the changing market? People leaving cities, and that's kind of York City and move to the mountains to Asheville Or is it just in general the way the world Brandi: So when I say today, I literally mean today announcement that changes the market forever. Vanessa: Brandi: look like quite literally. We don't know if the mortgage rates are going at a historic low and it happened for a little So with rates being so low, it's a great time That's why so many people are buying. Vanessa: Brandi: Yeah. So the interest rate, basically the amount less than what you would've paid five years So for the same amount of money, you're paying Vanessa: so low over the 15 or 30 years. Brandi: I mean, you're talking sometimes really significant If you're talking 5% versus 3% over a 30 year Vanessa: Brandi: So yeah, so the market could shift. There's some whispers of inventory rising But people are also seeing the economy will doing well so the wealthy have enough to purchase. Vanessa: Brandi: That's why literally the market of today is Of course it's probably tomorrow's market. Is it next week's market? I don't really know. So it can change at any point. But as of right now, yes, post-COVID, a lot disagree with their policies to places where Vanessa: Brandi: Vanessa: Brandi: when people want or like a certain policy Vanessa: You want to live near people who get you and Brandi: now. Vanessa: Brandi: having a bunch of space after maybe they've been stuck in their apartment with whatever I'm really glad I don't. Vanessa: Brandi: With all the lockdowns and stuff, I think living situations and people have realized And I think most people, after a year being know?&quot; Vanessa: And we live in the mountains where- It wouldn't be terrible. Vanessa: They're selling big plots of land. Brandi: today about was, it's 150 acres. And so again, there's a lot of people wanting Vanessa: Brandi: want it because it's such a large tract of Vanessa: Brandi: and up, and then the views. It's all cleared and it's gorgeous. Vanessa: Brandi: Vanessa: I mean those kinds of things two years ago I mean that sounds like a pretty unique situation, Brandi: Because there's another property, it was 100 It was listed for $750, actually less than incredible and the house was 10 times better. It was this beautiful old Victorian house market for years. Vanessa: Brandi: now. But people didn't- It's like that's what people want now. Brandi: But a few years ago people are like, &quot;Why with 100 acres?&quot; Vanessa: Brandi: Yes.&quot; Vanessa: So yeah, it can just change. Brandi: Vanessa: Brandi: Again, years for that to sell. And then all of a sudden they were getting really good price in it. So yeah. Vanessa: That's so strange because I feel like if that I remember we felt like that even a year and Is it just a bubble right now? Is it really high price for the past or historically money? And then you never know what the future holds. Brandi: essentially. Vanessa: But those things can always ... you never Brandi: I mean, it's amazing. You don't, right? Because at that time ... there was this meme and it said, &quot;Buyers waiting for the market Vanessa: Brandi: it's a bubble. It's a bubble.&quot; It just keeps going to stronger and stronger And we're like, &quot;We don't know, that's why Vanessa: So if you want it and you find the best thing Brandi: so low. And even if it does pop if you're planning go back up. It's just how inflation works essentially. Vanessa: The market is always going to be changing Brandi: Vanessa: know the exact terminology, but the bank has You find a house that's that much. Great, you want to buy it. But there's three other people who also want Like our situation, five other people, whatever What happens at that point? Because it seems like right now that's really putting offers on the same house that you Do you fight it, duke it out? What happens? Brandi: is that all the offers are blind. And so we had this conversation, right? Vanessa: I don't know. How much do we want to offer?&quot; Brandi: And there are terms other than cash that can to waive those terms. And so an example would be an inspection period. You found some things in the inspection that Vanessa: Brandi: Even if it's a great condition house, as this that you want fixed or repaired or might help So some people ... in different states it's So we have an inspection period where you it is, and you can get as many inspections In other states, their rules are you have Vanessa: Before you find out the results of the inspections. Brandi: So in other states, people are like, &quot;I'll a part of their offer and their contract. Ours, luckily, is very different. I would be more stressed if it was that because- Yeah. Brandi: is risky on my end too. Because I can be held liable if I encourage Vanessa: Brandi: price is going to be the biggest factor that's Emotion is another thing. So the letter you wrote definitely helped, There's some legal iffiness about that because people could get in trouble for. Vanessa: Brandi: in trouble for. Vanessa: Like, you didn't like us because I have brown Brandi: about why they didn't choose them. So, there's a little bit of stuff with that, they want to write a letter or not, with keeping Vanessa: Was it a little fast, a little tricky? Did you understand everything? Well, now you are going to get a vocabulary in detail some of the most important phrases use them in your daily life. You're also going to be able to see a short so that you can see it in its original context. Let's get started with the vocabulary lesson. Welcome to the Fearless Fluency Club, Vocabulary Today, I'm here with my husband, Dan. Dan: Vanessa: English expressions that you heard in the We're going to be going over these in detail, original conversation, so that you can see how to use this yourself. Are you ready to get started? Dan: Vanessa: The first expression that we're going to talk own. This means that you're doing something independently, So, for example, in the conversation with estate agent to sell their house. But she said that some people try to sell That means they do the marketing, they schedule They do it on their own. Before we talk about any other examples for grammar in the middle of this phrase. We can change one word. They did it on their own. I did it on my own. He did it on his own. Notice how the subject, I, matches the word pronoun. I did it on my own. He did it on his own. That always needs to match, when you use this Let's talk about some other examples for this How would you use this? Dan: on your own. So, if you say this to somebody else, likely So, if you're teaching somebody how to do own, that means now it's time for you to do Vanessa: Dan: is a good thing. So, for example, sometimes we say, I'm on So, if you live with your parents and they you move out and you have your own place and on my own now. I'm responsible. I think sometimes though too, it could just I was on my own on the way to the park, walking But I would say maybe this is a little less Vanessa: I think it does have this sense of independence, As we said, for a teacher, a teacher could the employees, okay. I have given you these skills, now you're So, I can say this to you after you watch That means, I have given you the tools that it's your choice. You need to decide what to do with these expressions. Are you going to just forget about it, or sentences? Use them with someone else in the course, A lot of people speak together. They choose to find a Skype speaking partner This is a great way to use these expressions. So, after this lesson, you are on your own. You need to be able to use this material yourself. We've given you the tools. All right, let's go to the original clip from can see how it was originally used. Let's watch. Brandi: and sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't, Some people try and sell on their own. Some people try and sell on their own. Some people try and sell on their own. Dan: or out of pocket expenses. This means that you pay for something from in a setting like in an organization, or in So, what comes to my mind is if you work in A lot of times the company will pay for certain Maybe they'll pay for your travel, maybe they'll But if you have to pay for it yourself in for it out of pocket. Or maybe if you're on a business trip and drinks, but the company doesn't pay for that. You could say, yeah. I paid for those drinks out of pocket. It was from my own money. Vanessa: Or those were an out of pocket expense. You can imagine your own pocket or your own You're not paying from the business' pocket, of pocket. And like Dan said, we often use this in a This is really common in the US to use in So, your insurance will cover or will pay other things. So, for example, maybe your insurance doesn't You might say, we need to pay for birth control This is a very common situation, and you're you think they should cover this but they So, you need to pay for it from your own personal Dan: Or they may even list some things as out of So, stuff you just have to pay for yourself. You're on your own, buddy. Vanessa: You're on your own. So, I want to let you know that if you go do that again, and each of you pays for your drink out of pocket. Dan: Vanessa: There's not a business that's paying for most it you are paying for it. We usually use this in a business situation There might be some other situations where it, but a small percentage you need to pay You don't say out of my pocket, just out of All right. Let's watch the original clips that you can Brandi. Let's watch. Brandi: have to pay anything out of pocket. The seller pays the commission. So, the buyers don't actually have to pay The buyers don't actually have to pay anything Vanessa: about is to make a cut. Is this talking about scissors or cutting Not really. This is a little more figurative. Usually this means that you're receiving part So, for example, in the conversation with you don't need to give them money immediately. When you hire them, instead when you buy a of the total amount of the house. So, they'll get a bigger cut if you purchase They'll get more money. If you purchase an inexpensive house, they'll So, they receive a cut of the total price. So, this is a part of the amount, and this Maybe your business is like this. If you sell a lot of products, maybe you will You'll get some extra money because you sold Dan: I think this is a pretty casual expression. It sounds casual, but we do use it in certain For example, if you sell a product online sell something, then you get a cut. We do say that. But other times I associate this with maybe Vanessa: Dan: like a drug deal, you get a cut of the profits that. Maybe I've watched too many TV shows, but But this bleeds into all society as well. So, it's very common. Vanessa: And you notice that we use, to get a cut. You can also say, to make a cut. Both of those verbs are perfectly fine with Usually get in English is a little more informal, but you can also say, I made a cut on the bought an expensive house. One situation that I want to mention that watch YouTube videos. You often see people on YouTube saying, this Dan: Vanessa: You should buy this makeup. Well, this is an advertisement, and they are getting, a cut of the profit. So, if you purchase that makeup, they will 10%, 20%, 50%. I don't know. So, you have to, of course, trust the person. If that person is trustworthy and you think not just doing it to get a cut, then it's You can get it, but you need to make sure making a cut. There is money here that's being exchanged They're making a cut. All right. Let's watch the original clip from the conversation a cut. Okay. But in the end expectation is that that person the price of the house is. Expectation is that that person will buy, price of the house is. Expectation is that that person will buy, price of the house is. Dan: means that something, or some activity, produces Usually we think of this as a lot of money, make you rich. For example, real estate. Now, a lot of people try to do real estate and they don't make a lot of money, so it's But if you're really good at real estate, get a large cut from these million dollar could be very lucrative. Or there's people who buy houses and then It's called flipping houses. So, they fix it and make it better, and then So, that can also be very lucrative, but these Vanessa: It might not always be lucrative if you're So, the word lucrative, like Dan mentioned, because in English, at least in the US, it's money with my business, I am rich. This is very proud or uncomfortable in conversation So, when you say lucrative, it's a much more to make a lot of money with my job. So, you can see, when Brandi says this word, uses that word lucrative, instead of saying, I wanted a lot of money. Dan: Vanessa: I realized that real estate could be really So, it's a more polite way to talk about money. I think it's understandable. We don't want to work a job where we don't We would like to get a job where we make more So, I think that's a good word to be able All right. Let's watch the original clip. You can see how the word lucrative was used. Let's watch. Brandi: Vanessa: if you do it well. Brandi: Vanessa: if you do it well. It's a pretty lucrative business, especially The next expression is to not have an option, This is a little bit self explanatory, and Usually it's desperate. You've tried everything, and this is all that So, for example, in the conversation with to finish real estate school before she had old baby, you can't go to real estate school. So, she didn't have an option. She had to finish real estate school before She didn't have an option. Or we could say she was out of options. She was out of options, this was the only Finish real estate school now. Dan: Vanessa: Dan: This is a figurative expression usually. Like, sometimes you literally don't have any But a lot of times, say if you need a new you really want money right now. Or you just don't know what the future holds, to do, let's just say working at McDonald's, probably not on the top of people's lists. So, you would say, I was out of options, I Well, maybe you did have a little bit of savings, really don't have very much money. If you say I'm out of options, I have to do Vanessa: Dan: you need to get a job now. Vanessa: You're out of options. Or I don't have an option, I have to do this. It's a good way to explain yourself if someone You were working at Google last month. That was a great job. It was a lucrative job. Why are you working at McDonald's now? You might say, well, I got fired or I lost Dan: Vanessa: I have to get a job at McDonald's for the else. So, this kind of desperate plea. All right. Let's watch the original conversation so that I'm out of options was used with Brandi. Let's watch. You're like, this is it. I've got to do it now. Brandi: I can't do this with a one week old baby. I literally don't have an option. I literally don't have an option. I literally don't have an option. Dan: to turn the page. Turning pages, anything with pages in a book, it in the figurative way and depending on that there was a big change in your life, So, for example, Brandi was talking about she had talked to another real estate agent, So, that means that, oh, I'm doing this one completely and do something else. It was a page turning. But she could have also said, Brandi turned a bartender. Now, she's a real estate agent. Vanessa: We can use this in a very poetic, beautiful, talk about, to use when you're talking about Maybe getting married, having a baby, moving to learn English. Maybe you could say, when I found Vanessa's life. I decided that I was excited about English. I hope that's true for you. Or you might say, I decided to turn a page enjoy it. Instead of feeling that stress and anxiety a page in my life. There is one little bonus expression I would we say, to turn a new leaf. You can imagine a leaf on a tree. We don't exactly turn a leaf over, but sometimes This is an old fashioned word to talk about We don't really use that in daily conversation to talk about a page. So, you will hear people say, I'm ready to I'm going to leave my job and find a new career. This is a total change. Dan: I was going to add that that's another way If you say, I'm ready to turn the page, or want to make the change. So, it hasn't already happened yet. So, maybe you just had a breakup with your just ready to turn the page on this feeling I'm over it. I'm ready to move on. Vanessa: You can turn a new leaf and begin a new life. Well, I hope that your journey with English new leaf, to turn the page on your English You can do it. All right. Let's watch the original clip from the conversation was used in our conversation. Let's watch. Wow. So, at that time, I guess talking with Samantha this is a new career- Talking with Samantha Talking with Samantha must have been just The next expression is to go over one's head, We often use this expression with our hand. It went over my head. This means- And you make a whooshing sound. Vanessa: Whoosh. This means that you didn't understand something, was some kind of joke. This is often used with a joke that you don't Maybe someone's speaking English and it's If someone is speaking really fast and you about, because they're just going on so quickly, know- Maybe this is Vanessa. Vanessa: Vanessa said. It just went over my head. We can imagine the words flying over your This is a really common expression to talk Dan: Vanessa: Dan: with a joke. So, when you're in school, people use this So, sometimes they literally just say the They don't even finish the expression. So, if somebody doesn't understand, you say making fun of somebody and they're like, what You could say the joke just went right over I guess you usually say that to other people, So, it's often used for a joke, other times or math problem. So, for me, big math problems that I did in me with these math problems. I could just say, yeah. This is over my head. These math problems are over my head, I don't Beyond my understanding. Vanessa: Both of our dads are engineers and they understand us don't understand. Dan: I don't know why. Vanessa: But even for more simple math classes, my and so many times it just went over my head. He tried so hard to explain it, and I'm sure my brain just wasn't ready to accept that It went over my head. So, if you're in this kind of situation where or you're having a dinner and everyone's speaking don't get it. Well, if you have a friend in that group, That joke went over my head. Can you explain it? Or I didn't understand that joke. It just went over my head. You can use this expression to say, I didn't me? And if you would like to understand some jokes where I talk about some popular jokes in English, you can immerse yourself in some English humor. All right. Let's watch the original clip from the conversation I hope that her expression will not go over I hope you'll be able to understand it. Let's watch. Dan: Vanessa: Not be too pushy. Brandi: over their head. They're like, so who do you know looking to Because I think a lot of people, that goes Because I think a lot of people, that goes Dan: something, which we often shorten to, get This means to get a sense of something, get For example, I used to work in a coffee shop, you just feel really confused. You're like, how does this thing work? You have to get a feel for it. You have to practice on it, or explore it, do it. Getting these kinds of experiences with something In my example, the espresso machine at the Vanessa: So, in this situation, Dan is getting a feel Dan: Sometimes literally. Vanessa: Getting a feel for the espresso machine. But in the conversation with Brandi, I used So, when Dan and I were looking for a house There was just a lot of options, we felt really talked to Brandi, she said, all right. Let's just check out a few houses that you They don't need to be perfect. Let's get a feeling for what you like, and there. So, it wasn't so definite, you have to find No, let's just get a feeling for what you In this way, we're actually talking about Let's try to see, do I like this house, do What do I not like about it? So, we're talking about our feelings. So, in this more emotional sense, you can got a feel, you can use both in this emotional But in the physical sense that Dan talked we would really only use, feel. Not a feeling. Get a feeling for the espresso machine, that in love with the espresso machine? Do I have a feeling, an emotion? We're not talking about emotions. We're just talking about your experience. Dan: Vanessa: Dan: is, test. It's like a small test. You're testing how you feel when you see these Vanessa: Dan: feeling how it works. Vanessa: So, we would say, to get a feel, or to get All right. Let's watch the original clip from the conversation in this positive way, talking about our first time ago. All right. Let's watch the clip. I appreciated that. Not pushy, but let's just get a feeling for us to get the ball rolling. Let's just get a feeling for what you really Let's just get a feeling for what you really The next expression is, a bunch of something. We often pronounce this, a bunch of, a bunch It's a casual way to say a lot. Maybe it's a little bit less than a lot. So, in the conversation with Brandi, she says, a client, I ask them a bunch of questions. Maybe there's 30 questions, maybe there's Dan: Vanessa: Dan's official answer is- ...a bunch. Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: little bit, it's not a lot, but it's just Dan: That's the casual way. I believe technically a bunch means a group For example, a bunch of bananas. So, literally the bunch of bananas that you It's a bunch. Vanessa: Dan: thing, it's a bunch of bananas. But again, we use this much more casually, Dan: just to mean a lot more than four. Vanessa: If you're going to plant a garden, like what The plant nursery is a store that sells little You could go to the plant nursery and say, There are a bunch of plants here. I don't know which vegetable I should buy. There's so many tomatoes. There are a bunch of different tomatoes that We're talking about just a large quantity, a bunch of plants, like Dan said, a bunch This can be used in a lot of different ways, because we use it in conversational English Dan: say bunches. Vanessa: Can you explain that? When would you say that? Dan: Vanessa: Dan: if you have a lot of something you can just Vanessa: to say, but- Yeah, it's like what kids say a lot of times. &quot;I have bunches of toy cars.&quot; Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: did you buy the nursery?&quot; and I say, &quot;Bunches,&quot; Maybe that's just if you're going to use it it's not perfect grammar, but you are going bunches. You won't believe, it's just piles of plants. I got so many, bunches.&quot; It could be in a joking way too. Yeah, well, that's a fun way to add it. All right, let's watch the original conversation was used. Let's watch. Brandi: of things, so just be ready to share with looking for.&quot; The first thing that I do is ask them a bunch The first thing that I do is ask them a bunch Dan: as in the prefix to some word or expression. This means after something, usually some kind A very common way to say this is post-war. This means after the war, so post-World War This is usually the time after the war, not Post-World War II America saw a baby boom, came home. I wonder why? But sometimes it also means this thing is For example, sometimes casually you might This means that once you had children, after Vanessa: Dan: though you said post-kids, it just means after Vanessa: about whether the event is still continuing like Dan said, post-World War II, post-World that means definitely World War II is over. Everyone will understand that this means World But when you say, &quot;Post-kids, my life has are gone, my kids are finished. It just means my kids were born and now my A page turned when my kids were born and our We just could say in that situation, post-kids. Now, the opposite of this is pre, &quot;Pre-kids, What did I even do in my free time? I don't even know. Pre-kids or pre-World War II, pre some event, But in the conversation we used post, we talked Dan: Vanessa: when we had this conversation, COVID is not Dan: Vanessa: just a couple weeks so I'm not sure about But we're talking about an event, COVID, the in the middle of it. Post-COVID the world has changed a lot, post-COVID the US, this is during the period of COVID, It's a little bit unclear, but I think that an event or after an event has started. All right. Let's watch the original clip from the conversation post-COVID. Let's watch. Brandi: of people are moving from places that they they agree with policies. Post-COVID, a lot of people are moving. Post-COVID, a lot of people are moving. Vanessa: Like you can see from Dan's example here, This could be a physical fight or it could about something, you're duking it out, so This expression has a very strange and complex is very American. It's pretty much exclusively used in the US, As far as I remember- I did the research. Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: fight, to duke it out with your hands. It seemed a little bit complicated. Dan: Well, it originally came from Cockney slang. Is that what it's called? Cockney? Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: UK. They would say dukes of York for forks, but then somehow your duke and forks or dukes Vanessa: Dan: Anyways, somehow in the end dukes became your Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: to do any research about Cockney rhyming slang. This is a historical way of speaking in a They had a certain type of slang or rhymes Some interesting expressions came from that this. Dan: say is, &quot;Put up your dukes.&quot; Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: Dan: duke it out. Vanessa: we can use this and more figurative, verbal How- Yeah, the most literal way is a fist fight, That's literally duking it out. But we often use this for verbal debate, especially If you're arguing with just one person and we have presidential debates, you could even They are duking it out on TV, they're having They're adversaries, they're not friends. Vanessa: They're not maybe yelling, but they are arguing, we can also just say, &quot;Yeah, those two guys it out. They just fought.&quot; This is a very violent, physical thing. All right, let's watch the original clip from it out was used. That you're going to have other people putting you fight it, duke it out. ... that you want, like you fight it, duke ... that you want, like you fight it, duke Dan: upfront. This means at the beginning, or usually telling a process happens, or it means direct and They're actually similar. I'll start with the first one. Brandi was talking about during a real estate places you have to get the inspection chosen That means, at the very beginning, you need owners who that inspector is. Other places, you don't have to do that, you going to get to inspect the house. This is kind of a technical way she used it, upfront, you need to choose the inspector. But even that one kind of has the same meaning kind of has to do with honesty, both parties Vanessa: going to happen. Actually, in the conversation with Brandi, who's going to do the inspection, it was which Dan: Vanessa: at it, you don't know about the problems, inspected, I want a termite inspection, I know that there's an electrical problem and upfront. Well, that's a problem because when you buy an electrical problem, well, that's your fault upfront. This means at the very beginning, but like or honest communication. For example, when you purchased this course, I hope that it was very clear and I was direct speaking lessons, you will not be booking I tried to be very clear about this, that lessons, and you'll have the chance to speak you have a chance to speak with me, but it's one-on-one lessons. For your sake, and for mine, I need to be If you are working at a business, you might with your clients. You need to tell them exactly what they can You need to be direct and honest. It's that idea, at the beginning, you need but you need to be upfront. That's kind of the sentence construction here. Dan: not being upfront, that means that they're &quot;He's not being upfront with me. I think he has some dirty secret.&quot; Maybe let's say you're in a relationship with being upfront to me. I think they're chatting with somebody else Who is that?&quot; Vanessa: Or maybe if you have been on a couple dates dates, they pull out a cigarette and start Dan: Vanessa: me that about his smoking habit. That would've changed how I thought about He wasn't upfront with me.&quot; Or if you want to be upfront with someone, with you and let you know that occasionally Dan: of beer.&quot; Vanessa: Or you can just tell someone something that &quot;I want to be upfront with you that occasionally I have some anxiety and this helps me to relieve Okay, you're just telling them directly and or informative. Dan: Vanessa: in a relationship. I think that helps solid, healthy relationships. All right, let's watch the original conversation Brandi: to choose what inspections you want upfront. Vanessa: inspections. Brandi: you want upfront. Their rules are you have to choose what inspections Vanessa: Now it's time for grammar, phrasal verbs. You are going to be learning some of the most with Brandi so that you can use them yourself. In the full Fearless Fluency Club phrasal for each phrasal verb, where I explain some that use the phrasal verbs. This is a great way to see the phrasal verbs on YouTube, I can't add those clips because I'm sorry if the editing seems a little bit if you join the full course, you will be able All right, let's get started with the phrasal Dan: lesson. Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: verbs that you heard in the conversation with These phrasal verbs are commonly used in daily you to understand daily conversation, but speaking and daily life. First, Dan and I are going to be explaining to go to an extra material section. During that extra material section, I'm going clips, song clips, and also the clip from get a broader context for the phrasal verbs, intonation or just a slight different look You'll be able to see that in those TV and Let's get started with the definitions and to that extra material section. Are you ready? Dan: Vanessa: The first phrasal verb that we're going to You might think that this phrasal verb is just using your head, you're thinking, but that I want you to understand. Sometimes when we use phrasal verbs in conversation, You might have learned the word, reflect. &quot;Hmm, sometimes I reflect on my childhood,&quot; consider, reflect. These are great words, but they're often a so instead we often exchange words like this We can do that with the word, think about. We could say, &quot;Yesterday, I was thinking about and I can't believe my parents let me watch Here, we can exchange reflect, &quot;I was reflecting This isn't true, I did not see The Matrix of exchanging a phrasal verb, to think about, instead of reflect, this high level, maybe Dan: I thought about it. &quot;I went to the movies and I was going to watch about all the other scary movies I watched You're kind of thinking back, reflecting on Vanessa: We can start by thinking about this, thinking We use it so much. Dan: Vanessa: In the past, I was the thinking about something, take it to the present. If we give a statement, a fact, like when about your partner. Dan: Vanessa: You should consider your partner. This is exchanging think about with a different I should think about Dan's perspective. What is his experience in our relationship What is his experience like? I should think about Dan. It doesn't mean I need to sit on the couch I'm thinking, Dan is in my head, Dan.&quot; No, this means I'm considering, I'm being You should think about your partner. Dan: a suggestion. If you want somebody to think more, you could This really makes people stop and think, &quot;What Think about what you're doing, or think about at night. We always use dishes as an example. Vanessa: Dan: You're asking somebody to consider this problem Vanessa: I think that this is a common type of command or with your kids, sometimes authorities will Parents could say this to children, teachers your actions, think about what you did wrong.&quot; Dan: &quot;Think about the children.&quot; Vanessa: Wait, can you explain this, because this is Dan: a joke if you say, &quot;Think about the children.&quot; That's like saying this thing that's happening kind of music and the girls are dancing like say, &quot;Think about the children, there's children It's kind of this whole big picture, stop Vanessa: Dan: sense. Vanessa: We could say, &quot;Think about the environment. Think about the future,&quot; these type of big We talked about the past and the present, If I said to you, &quot;I'll think about it. I'll think about it. I will think about it.&quot; This is the future. I will think about it, not now, but later. I'll think about it. Dan: baked in. If you say, &quot;I'll think about it,&quot; sometimes you actually will, but a lot of times when that you are just telling them yes now, but This is very common to say if somebody asks do you want to come?&quot; If you probably don't want to go, or yeah, say, &quot;I'll think about it,&quot; but that person surprised. Vanessa: interest. Dan: No, it's not like that. I'll think about it. Vanessa: There is an underlying tone of I don't want I don't want to say no, so instead I'll be You could be serious and say, &quot;Okay, I'll &quot;No, I've already decided no, but I don't Dan: I think if you want to be more serious, a say something like, &quot;I'll have to think about Vanessa: Dan: when you say, &quot;I'll have to,&quot; just kind of Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: I think that if you said, &quot;Oh yeah, I'm having do you think you can come?&quot; I might say, &quot;I'll think about it,&quot; and that have to think about it,&quot; that kind of means Dan: I'm really busy, but I'll have to think about I would like to.&quot; You'd add a lot more if you were serious. Vanessa: You notice that a lot of times here, we said We sometimes just leave it as that. Instead of saying, &quot;I'll think about if I I'll think about whatever that situation might Instead of repeating it and saying it, we it.&quot; It's very clear and simple to say this. What we are going to do next is you're going going to see a bunch of different situations songs, also the conversation with Brandi. I hope that it will help you to dive deeper that you can use this yourself. Also, if someone says it to you, you invite it,&quot; you really know what they're saying. I hope this will help you gain a deeper understanding. All right, let's go to the extra material In this extra material section about the phrasal a look at six different clips. Actually, it's eight clips, but three of them The first one is from the conversation with shows, and the final one is from a famous Let's start with the conversation with Brandi. We were talking about how Brandi had never for her. In the conversation we said, &quot;This is a new or didn't think about as a path.&quot; This is something that she didn't consider talking about the present, this is just a This is something that she didn't consider. This is a new option for me that I didn't as a path. Brandi: Vanessa: Brandi: Vanessa: Brandi: Vanessa: This can also be used as an adjective or a of this section. First, we're going to talk about the more We're going to be focusing on the more figurative But if I said that a famous singer, who's popular album, this means a bunch of songs, followed that up with a less popular album. What would that mean to you? Dan: next thing, but usually if we say followed surprising, or maybe it's an event. &quot;We followed up the big party with another a partying night. This is kind of extra, if you're saying the than usual, then we could use follow up. Vanessa: of things to do, like, &quot;To make bread, you Then you need pour in the water,&quot; you can't Dan: Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: not something surprising or more, it doesn't When we use it in the more literal sense, follow up an event, it has to be surprising That's what we mean about the literal meaning, sense because this is the one that's used What if I said to you, &quot;Hey, can you give He never finishes his projects on time. Can you follow up with him?&quot; Dan: You might say on him in that situation, like Vanessa: Dan: You need to make sure that they're doing the you are going to talk to them later. A lot of times, if you say, &quot;Oh yeah, I'll well, then if you follow up on that, you're of times this is used with the phone. &quot;I need to follow up on John and see how the Beep. I'm following up right now.&quot; You wouldn't say that, but that is an act I can only think of phrasal verbs really, okay. Vanessa: I would say that this is contacting someone the base that's kind of what you're doing. You're seeing are they finished with the project, should be happening or is happening and you about it. What if I said, &quot;Can you follow up with him? Can you follow up on him? Can you follow up on the project,&quot; or, &quot;Let's There are a lot of prepositions that can be a couple different rules- ... single verb. And there's a couple different rules; they're rules for which preposition we use at which And I know that prepositions can be really For me, as I've been learning French, my second French. So maybe they are for people learning your So let's try to specify; when can you say Is it someone or something? What do you think? Dan: Vanessa: So, I'm going to follow up with the project Dan: It's a little more, I'd say gentle than follow So, if you're following up on somebody, you're a project, it means it's important and you But if you're following up with, I think that in a team project, or you maybe have an appointment It's just a little bit different. Vanessa: And what about following up about a project? Dan: Vanessa: Dan: something at that moment, like if you're introducing &quot;Hey John, I just wanted to follow up about That's kind of the situation you would say Vanessa: When you're introducing why are you calling? Well, I'm following up about something. And I was trying to think about why, think use to follow up about in a question, because the project. It sounds okay to say I'm following up about But if you say, can you follow up on the project? Great. Can you follow up about the project feels So, the conclusion that we came to is that in a question. It's more of a statement about why you're So, if I called Dan and said, &quot;Hey, Dan, I I just wanted to follow up about the project. It's a statement. It's not a question. But if I was asking Dan to do that, I could &quot;Hey, can you follow up with Sam about the So it's not really used in a question form, bit tricky if you haven't thought through I also want to talk about how we can use follow So if I said to you, I have a followup appointment What would that mean to you? Dan: and that you already scheduled another one. So that means you have a followup appointment. One that's already scheduled that's after Vanessa: This kind of goes back to that literal meaning another event. So, we can use it as an adjective, a followup a followup next week. This is as a noun. I have a followup. And what we understand or what is implied a meeting, something you've already talked You're already talking about going to the go? And you say, oh, well, I have a followup next So, I'll get more information about it. And we know it's the doctor's appointments. Dan: I would say maybe a little bit more rarely, or he doesn't have a lot of follow up. People also use the expression, follow through, But if you say, oh yeah, he doesn't like follow Vanessa: Dan: He doesn't finish things. It's kind of negative things if you say he Vanessa: So, we could use it in that literal sense appointment. But if you're talking about someone's character usually we use it in a negative way. He doesn't have a lot of follow up. It has that same sense that nothing happens Something should happen. There should be some kind of conclusion to happen, instead it's kind of cut short. So, he doesn't have a lot of follow up could someone's character or personality. And like Dan said we use this a little less So, I hope it will add to your toolbox of All right, let's go on to our extra material deeper and see some other situations where Let's watch. In this extra material section for the phrasal at five different clips. Ones from the conversation with Brandi, three And the final ones from a song. Let's start with Brandi. Brandi was explaining that she met a real And Sam told her about their job with real my life. I'm going to go to real estate school, but And then Samantha called her and said, &quot;Hey, You expressed an interest in real estate. I wanted to follow up with you.&quot; And Brandi explained to me that she, Sam, estate school. So, Brandi had already taken action and Sam So in our clip, we used the phrase just follow She followed up while I was at real estate We could have said she followed up with me up on our previous conversation while I was She could have used something else, but she up and she called her and wanted to get some You inspired me. I am here now. Brandi: Like I was on lunch break when she happened And I was like, oh, the universe. She literally followed up while I was at school. Like she literally followed up while I was Vanessa: Let's go on to the pronunciation lesson. We're going to be taking an in depth look and phrasal verbs and break down the pronunciation speaker and speak clearly and understandably. During this pronunciation lesson, try to repeat great to listen, but it's even more important So, try to do that during this pronunciation Hi, welcome to the pronunciation lesson in Today, we're going to be focusing on five with Brandi. Each of those sentences includes a vocabulary about in the vocabulary or grammar lesson. So, I hope that this will help you to remember it a lot, but more importantly, I hope that I'm saying, speaking with me, speaking out more comfortable pronouncing the sounds of When you hear your own voice speaking in English, with the sounds that you're making, to improve So, I challenge you to take action today instead I'll be asking you, please repeat with me, little pause, take some courage to do that, So, let's go on to our first sentence. You're going to be listening to a sentence we will break it down in detail so that you saying and also you can say it yourself. All right, let's listen to our first sentence. Brandi: And sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. And then they connect with a realtor. Some people try and sell on their own. Some people try and sell on their own. Some people try and sell on their own. Vanessa: own or to be on one's own, to do something And the original phrase that you heard was Some people try and sell on their own. Before we talk about this, I want to explain here. She says some people try and sell on their Now, we could also say some people try to here after try, I'm going to try and call I'm going to try and pass the test instead And this is in spoken English, a very common We don't really write like this, try and instead English and it's not wrong. So, if you want to include this as part of but I don't recommend writing in a formal exam. I don't recommend writing, try and plus a absolutely hear this in conversation just And you can use it yourself in conversation. So, let's break this down pronunciation wise, She said some people, people. Let's talk about this word people, what's just gone. We don't say people, we need to say P, say So, the final sound is P-U-L, pul, pul, people, Can you say those two words with me? Some people, some people, some people. Let's go to the next part. Here, we have our two verbs, try and sell, What's happening to the word and? It's just getting reduced to, nn, try and This happens all the time with the word and example, zebras are black and white, black I didn't say black and white very clearly quite common. So, do you think you can say it with me? Yes. Let's say it together. Try and sell, try and sell. It kind of sounds like the word in, in, I'm So, if you need that kind of a image in your help as well, try and sell, try and sell, This is the final part of our phrase. And let's focus on the final word own, own. What's happening to the W, own? It's not very clear. This word is not on, O-N, so we're not forgetting woo, a very clear W sound. Instead, it needs to be own, own. Can you say that with me? Let's put it together in that phrase, on their All right. Do you think we can put this whole sentence Let's try to emphasize the right words too. Some people try and sell on their own, we're Say it with me, some people try and sell on Some people try and sell on their own. Can you think you can say this a little bit it all by yourself. Ready? Some people try and sell on their own. Some people try and sell on their own. Okay, I'm going to pause. And I want you to say this sentence out loud, will listen to you. I will be able to hear you wherever you are. This is teacher magic. So, I want you to say the sentence out loud. Some people try and sell on their own. Go ahead. It's your turn. Great work. All right. Let's listen to the original sentence one so that you can really pick out all of the Listen for the pronunciation of people, listen And then our emphasized words, try, sell, Listen for that carefully when you watch this Brandi: And sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. And then they connect with a realtor. Some people try and sell on their own. Some people try and sell on their own. Some people try and sell on their own and. Vanessa: I hope so. All right, let's go to our second clip where I want you to listen for this, this expression, phrase and try to understand what's happening Let's watch. Brandi: to pay anything out of pocket. The seller pays the commission. The buyers don't actually have to pay anything The buyers don't actually have to pay anything The buyers don't actually have to pay anything Vanessa: have to pay anything out of pocket. There are so much pronunciation we can talk So, let's start at the beginning. The buyers don't, listen to that negative Do you hear don't that T is just gone. This happens a lot with negative contractions means that your tongue is in the position your mouth. Don't, don't, but you don't let the air pass stopped. So instead you need to say don't, don't. Do you think you can say that with me? Let's say those first couple words together, if we link it with the next word, but the So, let's talk about that before we link it. The next word is actually, actually. Let's break this down. There are a couple different ways that we We could say it a little bit clearly like or we can reduce it further, which is what's actually, actually. So, the first part is act, can you say that shly, shly, actually, actually, actually. Actually, I'm pretty tired today, so I'm not Actually, it's a beautiful day. I thought it was going to rain, but actually Actually. You think you can link this together with Let's do it. The buyers don't actually, the buyers don't don't actually, the buyers don't actually, Let's go to the next part. Have to pay, have to pay. This is an extremely common reduction have Can you say that with me? Havta, havta. I have to study English today. I have to go outside, it's a beautiful day, So, let's put that together, have to pay. Can you say it with me? Have to pay, have to pay. Let's put all of it together so far, the buyers It's a lot to remember. You got it. The buyers don't actually have to pay, have Let's see, pay anything, pay anything. Something a little funny is going on at the is not so strong. It's not that we cut it out completely, but fast way that it almost sounds like nything, You can almost think about it like in, pay pay instead of pay a, a, anything like a clear Instead, we're going to say pay anything, And then we have our key phrase out of pocket, I want you to listen to what is happening Listen to this, out of pocket, out of pocket. Is it out of pocket? No, instead this is another extremely common between two vowels is going to change to a This is called a flap T usually because the these two words together and say out, out Can you say it with me? Out of pocket, out of pocket, out, out of All right, let's take a deep breath. I'm going to try to put it all together in I want you to say it out loud with me. Repeat with my voice. This is called shadowing. I'm speaking. And you're speaking exactly with me trying Let's do it. The buyers don't actually have to pay anything One more time. The buyers don't actually have to pay anything You think we can speed this up a bit? Yes. You got it. Let's try to speed it up and try to say it Let's do it. The buyers don't actually have to pay anything This is also going to help us emphasize the The buyers don't actually have to pay anything Can you say that with me? The buyers don't actually have to pay anything So, we're going to emphasize buyers, pay anything, It's a lot to remember. You got it. Let's say it all together. The buyers don't actually have to pay anything I want to pause. And I want you to try to say all of this together. Are you ready? Go ahead. It's your turn. You did it. Great work. All right. Let's listen to this in the original conversation. And I want you to listen for all of the things or out of pocket. Listen for those linkings and reductions in Let's watch. Brandi: to pay anything out of pocket. The seller pays the commission. The buyers don't actually have to pay anything The buyers don't actually have to pay anything The buyers don't actually have to pay anything Vanessa: Are your pronunciation muscles warmed up? I hope so. In the Fearless Fluency Club along with vocabulary, get access to the MP3 versions, full subtitles, while you're cooking, driving, or even sleeping. Each module also includes a special story you've learned. The story is a fun one page combination of vocabulary, grammar, pronunciation, everything You can listen to it, repeat it, even memorize Gely from Mexico said, this is the best course That's awesome, Gely. You'll also have access to a community of have friends from around the world and practice A lot of members speak on Skype, Zoom, WhatsApp, daily basis. Plus I host weekly live lessons in our Facebook and I can give you feedback immediately. Do you rent where you live or did you buy Let me know in the comments. I can't wait to see what you have to save. Thank you so much for learning English with a new lesson here on my YouTube channel. Bye. The next step is to download the free PDF With this free PDF, you will master today's You can be a confident English speaker. Don't forget to subscribe to my YouTube channel Bye.