October 7, 2023, Hamas launches the worst attack over 1,200 Israeli citizens and injuring hundreds attack in history, with only 9/11 and the This wasn't a random attack by Hamas, it was a almost every detail planned down to the minute. breakdown of how the attack unfolded and the chaos the October 7th attack went down. An attack nearly Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh declared the start that he dubbed "Strong Pillar." The drills were unity" between Gaza's armed factions, with Hamas militant Palestinian groups to take part in a the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or PIJ, along Brigades. These groups ran the gamut, as the BBC secular," but there was a common throughline to use deadly force against Israel. The "Strong a full-scale attack, and Hamas went so far as were extensive enough to serve as mock Israeli overwhelming buildings and taking hostages. showing masked commanders huddled in a bunker the footage cuts to groups of armed fighters pulling the crew member out to detain him as a when Hamas launched its attack in 2023. Hamas plain sight. September 10, 2023. Less than a month confident it had drilled its fighters enough, it to unify its collection of extremist groups, That committee started publishing images to its surveilling several Israeli military installations it at the time, but those videos were yet more overrun those military installations. September last "Strong Pillar" military exercise. This time, Toyota pickup trucks, many of which would later be leading up to the October 7 attack. There was shooting targets inside. Plus, Hamas showed beach divers. Another tactic Hamas would use less than a amassed a small army of 30,000 fighters within the 10 other militia groups, from which it could draw was ready, and what follows is a minute-by-minute to ever take place on Israeli soil. October 7, in the early morning hours as Hamas unleashed a sirens were heard as far away from the Gaza border that it fired 5,000 rockets during this initial or IDF, says that the number was likely closer to began developing rockets in 2001. Initially mocked these rockets had evolved significantly by October range with an 11-pound warhead, while Qassam 2 and warheads of 22 and 44 pounds, respectively. Hamas which traveled up to 49 miles but only emitted capable of reaching Tel Aviv at 59 miles. The into Israeli territory, including Haifa. Within Gaza were shrouded in smoke. People sheltered in What nobody knew at the time was that the rockets, diversion for what would come next. 06:30 am IDF terrorists attempting to storm the base's fences. incoming horde, though those systems quickly ran Hamas was coordinating a full assault that locations. Other fighters were entering Israel enter by sea, using the training they'd displayed Pillar" exercise. 06:32 am Inbal Rabin-Lieberman to recognize what Hamas was attempting. As Rabin-Liberman ordered the opening of the local weapons they'd need to fight back against Hamas. initial minutes. Her decision was made when she a Hebrew word for a communal settlement, such as and prepared 12 members of a quick response the incoming threat. With the force prepared, warnings, she also prepared the occupants to Over the next three hours, Hamas militants the end of the attack, Nir Am had lost none of its Rabin-Lieberman and her brave defense forces, would later be evacuated to a hotel in Tel Aviv. even as others fell around them. 06:35 am A Hamas demonstrating just how well-developed Hamas' surrounded "Fireworks." This was the first rocket Ben-Artzi became the first casualty among what More and more kibbutzim located near the Gaza Hamas. Kissufim was one of the earliest targeted, of its security squad. Unfortunately, those off the invaders. Hamas killed 17 people in the and took a man named Shlomo Mansour hostage. still held captive in Gaza, awaiting rescue or wasteland. Hamas' rocket assault had already before the invaders launched their attack. The has yet to be reinhabited, likely due to its first of multiple waves of Hamas forces arrived sailed to the beach in a tiny vessel, successfully would soon follow. Other dinghies arrived on the who opened fire on IDF personnel stationed nearby. victories the IDF could claim during the Hamas Colonel Eitan Paz - who led the Ashdod Naval and some key maritime positions near the Gaza which sank three of the incoming Hamas boats. Zikim Beach security force, were later deployed to neutralize any survivors. Even so, the 300-to-500 As more Hamas fighters landed ashore, Israel's the limited ammunition they had available. Some evacuated from the Barzilai Hospital. Fighting and its nearby trio of military bases. Hamas with the battles going on to rage for five more clear the area of the invading terrorists. At in the Nirim kibbutz as more terrorists invaded. has far more success here than it had in several stormed Holit, successfully breaching fences to first home to be overrun. Many of the residents raid began, with Hamas militants moving from house rooms. There was a purpose to this shooting. If the safe rooms were occupied, the militants killing the occupants. More grenades were thrown on citizens attempting to flee. The terrorists the end of the raid, three foreign workers kibbutz's security team - were dead. One of those took seven hostages during the raid. Three were with a further two being released as two hostages are believed still in captivity. It Unit and Paran Brigade to clear the militants from done. 06:49 am Over the span of 20 minutes, Hamas known as "Operation Al-Aqsa Flood." Muhammed Deif the operation, with this militant wing of Hamas for the attack. "We announce the start of first strike," Deif said in an official statement. missiles and shells, with all being targeted and fortifications." The full statement also Israeli forces of escalating raids on Deif's young people and children had been beaten. He attacked and ransacked homes throughout Jerusalem. and in Gaza as justification for Hamas' actions. God's help so that the enemy can understand held to account," he proclaimed before officially and purposes, the statement was a declaration could do so to pick up a rifle and prepare to Sukkot Gathering in Re'im, prompting hundreds of the warning came too late. As the sirens sounded, surrounding hundreds of the festival goers. They grenades. Many who had escaped into bomb shelters and shot. It would become the single largest killed 364 people, most of whom were civilians, music festival. 07:40 am By this point, Hamas Israel. Security forces were caught unawares in so many to run for cover had ended, but their strike. The IDF confirmed that the rockets for the waves of Palestinian fighters crossing many methods Hamas had used to infiltrate Israel. carrying the group of five Hamas militants that showed a Hamas fighter flying into Israel using tactic by far was to simply attack security if not years, of planning had allowed Hamas militants using the cover of the rockets to break to break down sections of metal fencing. There was through a massive hole in a metal barrier. already killed hundreds and was fighting against Israel had been caught unawares, though Hamas a militaristic response. 09:45 am As fighting deeper into Israel, the IDF mobilized its air saying "Dozens of IDF fighter jets are currently terrorist organization in the Gaza Strip." As hundreds of citizens in Eastern Gaza were fleeing later emerged showing the results of these air with several of the city's buildings shown to shown attempting to evacuate on foot carrying bags as a potent reminder that many within Gaza were Just normal people attempting to survive 10:00 am Hamas continued to penetrate military a statement confirming the militants had gotten near the frontier with Gaza. The Zikim base infiltration efforts had achieved some measure Gaza division headquarters stationed in Reim and also issued another call to arms. Its Deputy Chief fighters in the West Bank. "We must all fight this fighters in the West Bank." The statement showed hundreds of Gaza and West Bank residents some success. More videos emerged, including one a watchtower in an Israeli military facility as already back in Gaza celebrating their success. paraded through the streets. Details also began to many that absorbed Hamas' early morning rocket municipalities, the rocket attacks were quickly militants entered the kibbutz and engaged in militants were successful. They overpowered the 30 people in the process. News also emerged the morning of October 7, a tour minibus began a it stopped off in Ofakim and Netivot to pick would never leave the municipality. The tour bus A warning siren sounded as the operators attempted were elderly, with some being Holocaust survivors, doors wouldn't open. In moments, a pair of the entrance to Sderot. They identified the tour from point-blank range, killing the entire group. after killing their targets to ensure they were to escape along with a woman. Lying behind a militants, who promptly shot them. The woman died, until help arrived. All told the massacre cost showed that Deif's grand statements of targeting Hamas was attacking military bases. But targeting regular citizens just as readily as it forces. Similar raids were also confirmed with the latter being 20 miles east of Gaza. More many Israeli citizens living in the south of the hope they could serve as makeshift panic rooms and via radio, telling these citizens that "We will Hamas fighters wouldn't find them. 13:30 am By Shabtai had confirmed that security forces and in 21 different locations. The surprise element with the military confirming at 13:30 that it was had overrun. News of death tolls also started to people, including security officers and civilians, were wounded, with untold numbers having been Hamas circulating photographs and videos on social sides of the fighting. It was also at this point was going from house to house shooting civilians, military targets. As the hours ticked by, more The initial 100 dead rose into the hundreds, at the beginning of the video. 17:00 am By early the Gaza Strip, penetrating up to 20 miles into traveled much further. PBS reports that the death being wounded. The IDF's aerial barrages in the 200 people, not all of them militants, lay dead in to the Palestinian Health Ministry. Israeli Prime announce a declaration of war against Hamas. In was at war. "Not an 'operation,' not a 'round,' enemy" would "pay an unprecedented price" for identify Hamas directly with this statement. Palestine rather than the militant sects that that Israel would "return fire of a magnitude Netanyahu was intent on following through on that IDF was now mobilized and entering many of the Fighting was ongoing, with the IDF claiming that infiltrators spread across Israel's southern those militants back, killing many while forcing same time, Israel continued its aerial attacks in Israel. A war had started. The IDF began to but the process was surprisingly slow, with the border with Gaza. In some places, the IDF reaching that border before finally clearing them though these weren't smokescreens for more in Israel on October 8, supposedly showing having ideological differences. Hamas had achieved with thousands more injured, and several hundred to respond? It could be due to the nature multiple plans in place for a mobilization IDF generals would have selected one of those orders and traveling to the border within hours. its plans had been compromised. The IDF feared spies had obtained its battle plans. Those plans forcing the IDF to develop a new strategy before remember that many of Israel's forward-operating or overrun. Hamas had planned its strikes military and civilian, were surprised and killed, the IDF was fully mobilized and ready to cross the this video, war has continued to rage between extending to several other countries. In that in more than five countries since declaring its though Israeli strikes have also targeted and Yemen. As of the beginning of August 2024, strikes in Palestine, with another 590 in Lebanon, off lightly. The strikes in those countries have count of 7 - mostly militant leaders and members signs of ending any time soon, despite increasing that was Hamas' goal all along. It knew that it a pinpoint terrorist attack followed by the IDF's Middle East? That could give Hamas a chance even 7 terrorist attack may well go down in history Israel and Palestine. But what do you think? Is Will a ceasefire ever happen? How long do you to stand victorious? Share your thoughts in the