- If I look different it's as a fourth grade basketball coach. Breaking news! - [Announcer] This is CNN breaking news. - I don't think Michael Avenatti is going to be president. Laugh if you will and you probably will, but there were times of a President Avenatti or at least a democratic nominee Avenatti Now the rise and apparent fall of Avenatti is yes, a somewhat salacious story of a lawyer for a porn of cable TV to try to remake himself into a credible candidate. That all happened. But it's also the story and how disastrously you can fall in the modern political and media world. And it's a uniquely 2018 in politics and culture It's amazing to consider, but most people had never before this year and that's Avenatti is someone who has and valued that notoriety. Now according to his Christina Aguilera as well two founding members of He's also handled litigation surrounding the movie K19 The Widowmaker. Whatever that means. Sidebar, I didn't go to law school, which technically means I'm not a lawyer. And yes my mother is still Sorry mom! But for our purposes Avenatti became a thing when he took on the case Stormy Daniels, also known who alleged that she and Trump had an affair in the mid 2000s. Now Daniels claimed that by Trump's associate Michael Cohen in the days just before the 2016 election to keep quiet about those allegations. Avenatti quickly sued in hopes of getting her free Then suddenly, Daniels was everywhere. And so was Avenatti, always at her side. You couldn't turn on without seeing Avenatti on Cohen and Trump and brashly predicting something, but always on Trump and Cohen Now when the FBI conducted hotel, and office in April, of documents and they put and fixer at the center of the ongoing Russia interference investigation. It sure did seem like Avenatti And because he's Avenatti, he wasn't shy about tooting his own horn. Here's Avenatti soon after &quot;To those that scoffed &quot;and claimed it was all about dollar sign: &quot;As we predicted and &quot;Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump &quot;It has always been about the threats, &quot;coverup and the lies that have been &quot;told to the American people.&quot; End quote. Then as spring turned to summer, Avenatti's TV presence only increased. What he was talking about No longer was Avenatti simply to be free from her hush suddenly he was casting in the country willing and able At then, suddenly, it happened. In response to a maybe about when he was announcing his 2020 bid, Avenatti tweeted this, and I quote, &quot;If parenthesis big he seeks &quot;but only if I think there &quot;in the race that has a &quot;We can't relive 2016. &quot;I love this country, our &quot;too much to sit by &quot;Hashtag fight club.&quot; What? Of course with Donald Trump, reality star, gossip tabloid foddery and recent convert to the Republican Party, who could rule out the idea for representing a porn star, with the President of the United States running against that same President. In some ways it's a perfect storyline. Avenatti went to Iowa. Avenatti went to New Hampshire. Avenatti started a political organization to donate to Democratic of all, Avenatti talked tough, real tough. - So I say, when they (cheering) - This fall he said this, quote, &quot;We cannot afford to show up &quot;to the fight without a slingshot.&quot; End quote. Now even as Avenatti was lawyer to probably there were some warning might have glossed over a few problems from his past and present. In July, Avenatti paid the over $880,000 in unpaid he made to bring his law In October, a judge almost five million dollars to Now all of that paled in in the middle of November. Avenatti was arrested in West Los Angeles on suspicion of domestic violence. Now Avenatti vehemently denied the charges saying at the time, quote, &quot;abusive in my life nor was I last night. &quot;Any accusations to the &quot;and meant to do harm to my reputation. &quot;I look forward to End quote. The Los Angeles District Attorney's office declined to file felony against him, choosing to the city attorney's office for consideration of misdemeanor charges. And that case is still ongoing. But, politically speaking, A scheduled appearance for was canceled and Avenatti hasn't been seen on cable TV for weeks. For a time, even Daniels turned on him saying she would drop him as her lawyer if the domestic abuse and suggesting that Avenatti Now don't worry, you can sleep tonight because that fight has apparently ended as Daniels tweeted this about she and Avenatti on Sunday night. Quote, &quot;We are going to kick ass together &quot;on two coasts tomorrow.&quot; Well all may be well in the but his presidential prospects so quickly and they Politico ran a piece &quot;Avenatti Crashes and Burns.&quot; End quote. Now I tweeted the piece out, Avenatti himself wasn't and said this, quote, &quot;Chris &quot;And don't expect anything &quot;because he's still sleeping.&quot; Which, maybe. I mean a world in which nothing is impossible, but like another version of and I'm skeptical that their own version of Trump in 2020. And that is the point. We make new episodes Tune in on Tuesdays and in hot and fresh political content.