[mellow acoustic guitar plays] [Peter] Good morning, guys. There are 109 federally recognized and today we're going on Inland from the coast, here in Northern California A place called Hoopa Square. If you look on Google Maps Klamath River coming down live right next to the Hoopa. The instructions are... [trunk clicks] So if you saw last video and he told me to bring these out and also talk to a guy named Sam who might be interested showing us around in a place absolutely no understanding of. Let's do this. [music continues] [Peter] All right Sam, thanks, man. [both laughing] [Peter] This is how it works, and we're gonna deliver the apples. -You know Inker? Oh. All right, we're loaded up, Sam. -So you grew up out here? That's my grandma's house right there and that's my sister's -How was it growing up out here? I mean best childhood All our family is close together and sh*t. -Your father lives over here? [laughs] -Your dad's a character, huh? [Peter] All right so growing up out here than the rest of California? I would say so. True freedom I guess -True freedom? More in touch with nature, you have a spiritual sense of belonging. It's our ancestral homeland, They call this the center of the world. -Hoopas do? [Sam] My brother gave me this one Protect me, My brother gave me this bear paw. This X-15, that's my grandpa's race boat. My grandpa and my uncle. My uncle actually died in his boat -He raced boats? Oh yeah, yeah. No way. He was one of the best racers around. He got ran over the day of my senior prom. But my grandpa, and the fastest jet at So he named his boat after it. This is the dump right here. My brother's probably working right now but this is our dumpster -You work for the dump? -I do groundskeeping and maintenance. This is the mill right here. -So working on the tribe, Working for the tribe is kinda like [laughter] You got a job today -Really? -[Peter] I'll take a Happy Meal. This is my brother, Peter. [Peter] How you doing, Sam? [Peter] Okay, so Sam and Samuel. -Yes, not technically. -Brothers from another mother. So Samuel, how are things on the res Um, could be better. -Could be better? Okay. What do you mean by that? If you want to get down to it, -It's getting worse? That and... -Is it Fentanyl or what is it? Fentanyl now, yeah. Well Fentanyl then heroin too. It hinders progress I should say you never know 'cause they're always or else they get taken out too quick That's a big problem. You're losing bloodlines The whole dating scene and everybody, -What's that like on the res here? -It's hard on the res 'cause you're [laughter] [Peter] So you always want to find Not necessarily I should say, I mean but that doesn't mean or what if you're just friends I guess that's sometimes where -You want to adopt that from India? No, they've had arranged marriages -Really? -[both] Yeah. It's a cultural thing. -When did arranged marriages I don't know 1870, 1890 or whatever when White people -Okay, so arranged marriages, Your families connect. -It depends 'cause that's almost A lot of people are always far, far apart. Here a lot of times arranged marriages, to be getting married and you woulda grew up with the people 'cause a lot of times -Wow. You probably knew them -Does that exist at all anymore? I haven't really... I don't think it's... No. I think it's more our parent's generation. I haven't heard of -But not that long ago. Okay. [Peter] So the biggest challenges are Um, the area's gorgeous. People are awesome for how much People still have a good attitude. Culture's still good. We have that. We weren't a rich tribe but and I would just say And there's a lot of Our generation, kid's generation, And the weather's awesome, so... [laughter] -You guys have a good one. See you, brother. Love you. -Take care. -Oh, what a cool guy. He's a ballerina too. -No way. Yeah, he was actually in the -You guys have have ballerina here? -Okay. Yeah, he was in the Nutcracker for years. [Sam] We're basically We're doing all kinds of stuff we're doing remodeling and rentals, -What's the housing situation like? -No availability? They haven't built new housing in a while. There's a couple housings. -So when you say Tribal housing, The whole place is ran by the tribe, -Okay, so people rent here They rent. [Sam] I was number one and I got taken off for some reason. I don't know. -But it's super hard to get? I was on there for years. [Peter] So the rent is gonna go -Is that how it goes? -They're building on this side there. They're getting ready to do more stuff. -So what are people doing A lot of people work for the tribe -Okay. Then a lot of people other than that There isn't much work around here. Is there a town off the res -There's Willow Creek. -But that's 12 miles away. [Sam] Back in the day, weed market, -Right, so I was in Humboldt. We're still in Humboldt making a video with a guy, Brett. -Yeah. And he was telling me about the weed. -He was actually locked up for five years. -'Cause he didn't want to snitch. But he said the economy is really hurting Places like Garberville, which is Probably like a ghost town now. [Peter] Right so what happened exactly for those that don't know They legalized it and then were able to go Where they couldn't go in and take and just go march and shut 'em down. So the mom and pop small grows -Yeah, but it's legalized now Yeah, but there's restrictions and money Okay. Testing and these other overheads [Inker] My grandfather [chuckles] When I was growing up there was only four houses in the '50s and '60s this was all dirt road, It was like old small roads. Never had electricity Till we moved here. A lot of people have perceptions 'cause I run the campground &quot;Don't go there. and most people come here and It's a whole different thing the most beautiful places in the world What is riches? Riches to me is what I have here. -Right. -I can't be no more richer than this [laughter] [bird of prey caws] 'Cause I don't own this place. -I'm rich in culture. Rich in the gifts the creator gave me. Which is Sam too and all of us, We do a deerskin dance. It's a renewal dance And when we dance with deer we're blessing all the things and say thank you for blessing us for the next three years, and next years, because this is what we want to have because as you know Western culture Digging holes in the earth sucking and Mother Earth and she's fighting back, I'll give you tornadoes, I'll give you floods, if you don't pay attention to me I'm gonna take it away from all you again 'cause at one time there was a civilization We're getting back to where and Mother Earth is the true boss. [Peter] We're in a cycyle you're saying -And then there's a rebirth of some sorts? Usually clean by my specimins here, So this is me when I was... My daughter she was -She's 43 now. They say we came across the Bering Strait People didn't come across We came from a place called Takamilden for the Hoopa people it's called a cooking place but ta and we came up out of the earth here. Everything's about creation Another thing saying that Man, I didn't come from Africa. I don't have that gene, man. But if you know they can't find because it's one of They can't find out [Peter] How did you guys keep your land? -We were never a conquered tribe. One of the few tribes by the United States Government They came at one time to the Round Valley area 'cause there's a lot of Hoopas But there was a band of ghost warriors. They would disappear like ghosts, There was only 200 of them. They would take soldiers into and they'd disappear like ghosts. So they had to build everything around us 'cause they couldn't conquer our people. -And they just gave up? -Signed a peace treaty. So we are one of the few tribes [bird of prey caws] We won Bald Hill from the Crooks -Really? You would bet land Stick games, people'd bet All kind of betting was going down. -No way. What's a stick game exactly? It's a local sport we play We'd play sticks. You have as many guys but only three take the field at once. Anchor, his job is Hold him down. Scratch man, he's kind of a mix of both. Either take his guy down Tossers have mini nunchucks. You have your stick, and you hook Once you get the tosser You would play best of three, Wow. But it's like the last step before war? -All out war? We try to use it as a deterrance Yep. That's interesting. When do you think -This year. What was it over? -Oh no, we play every year pretty much. Keep it going. -Does it get pretty violent? Like what? I've seen people breaking arms, Getting hit in the head and stuff -You like playing? I haven't palyed in a while, but I still think about jumping [laughs] -So just a way to release your aggression? Plus we've always known. I wasn't given a question It was like this is what we do. [laughs] -You grew up doing it? That's cool. [Peter] Look at this forest. Are people living out here on these roads? -Yeah. -It's hard to show on camera It's like you're far from any cities. -Yeah, we're in the middle of [Peter] So that's all Hoopa [Sam] Yeah. [Peter] Is this a popular place [Sam] Yeah, this is one of the spots Where it's smoking, that's the dump. -Where we were talking to Samuel. -Is this where you took high school dates? [Peter] Are these res dogs These are probably Matt's dogs. -Okay. [Peter] So with the cross, is that Sometimes, it's been burned down [laughs] [Peter] But people's traditional beliefs -Is that a problem or not really? A lot of people just mix, you know? Kinda window shopping, you know? [laughs] [Sam] What are you guys doing? [Peter] Beautiful dogs. So how's that feel You know that's your people's land, -Yeah, yeah. Uplifting sense of pride and beauty and a sense of we're gonna How long have you guys been here? We've been carbon-dated back 10,000 years. -To this land? Fire pits have been dated back We have stories when the river and that's been proven. So I don't know how long ago that was. -You have stories from the elders or what? Yeah, from the river used to go but at the same time we won -Do you believe in We have stories of little people here -Little people? You're supposed to leave tobacco if you get lost they'll lead you -You believe? Stuff I can't really explain -What about Sasquatch out here? Inker has a story of Sasquatch. Digging his arm through the window -No way. He said the arm almost touched him Woulda had to been huge, you know? You can find footprints down in Mud Creek. The Patterson-Gimlin footage was Right past Weitchpec. [Peter] See you guys. See you guys. [Sam] It's a miniature acorn paddle. [Peter] Oh, for me? -Yeah. That's what they used There'd be a hot rock and throw it in -That's so cool. Thank you. -Who made this? The one that did my tattoos. He's pretty much a master carver. He makes elk horn purses, -That is so dope. Thank you. -[tires and suspension thumping] -Yeah. [Peter] So we're out of and then we're coming back up river. -We're heading back up, yeah. -So we're on Yurok territory? So there's not a big dividing line I mean there has been But you got your friends up here? Yeah, I got friends, family everywhere. -Right. Trying to build not tear each other down. If I come up I want my family If somebody comes up I watched I'm an empath too People come from they dump their whole life story on me. Complete strangers. -Why is that? I don't know, happens a lot though but I have to be careful 'Cause that's one problem is not listening to my Having doubt I try to. I guess more like believe Getting confident. It's a dangerous place here too though. -What do you mean by that. If you don't want to let 'em That's the only thing It's kind of a lawless place. We got police and sh*t but in they're not around. You only have yourself to count on -Is everyone packing out here? Okay, so crime is pretty high here No, it's pretty f*ckin' high I'd say. So if I came in here solo mission today that would be a problem? I don't know if you'd be a problem and hanging out -You know? You might end up missing and your car would be -Are there a lot of missing people? -Really? We're at Sam's father's home. [Sam and father greeting] [TV plays in background] -You served in the military? How was that? Uh, it was horrible, I signed up during Vietnam. That was a death penalty. -You signed up during Vietnam? -You weren't drafted? [Sam laughs] They sent me to Germany, I signed up -So what are you feelings about I'm still fighting a war. I live on I'm American-Indian. I'm not here 'cause I want to. Even though it's where all my but the government -What do you mean by that? We got a river here, because when Trump said everybody died except for Well we got a river down here, Salmon is one of the main things we eat. That's part of our traditional heritage they weren't Indian houses, because every time somebody and have their dances and prayers -So every tribe, How is this one run? or what are your thoughts? One of the biggest land-based reservations Yep. And our reservation is everyone doesn't go to prison Everybody's embezzled money doesn't go to prison and they still run for council, and they're still in businesses -Okay, so from your perspective-- -No, no, you can get -Okay, okay. Okay. I'm doing business, brother. I ran for council, I ran for chairman. I was youngest guy to ever run but I was labeled as a because American Indian movement, Not for me, for the people. -You know what I mean? They took over our salmon run. They sent the feds in here The feds they sent in here in case our capital is ever taken over. There was four or five hundred those were the people here -Okay, so the management here on the res, It's not pretty bad, pretty corrupt. We have nobody -You don't have a casino do you? -So you have revenue coming in? Because if money went but when it goes back to the business, if they get a $10 million business it'll go about ten different places before it goes to the place it's gonna be. So everybody takes out their share. Okay, so it's not -Nothing is coming down to the people. We might get $1,000 a year but we're running businesses -You know what I mean? I'm a marijuana grower. I'm do a dispensary for marijuana. I'm trying to get that going. It's not big business but you know what, I don't ask the tribe for nothing. -Okay, so before, now it's more weed? Not even weed. It's like this. People are cutting wood, people, I mean anything people can do, you don't get sh*t. Okay. You're at poverty level. If you don't have a license you can't work for the tribe. Gotcha. Everybody here doesn't have a license so they're stuck and the people running it are looking down on the and then it's our money but they don't respect us for people. because a lot of people -So what's the big thing What's needed out here? [Sam] Fit women. [laughs] [Peter laughing] Fit women? Let me tell you the main thing we need is we need to be treated like we never got a cent. There's a bank I went to Washington DC, I went to look into it. It exists the government says 'cause that's how much money's That's gold, silver, everything. If it wasn't for me I would be just stone cold broke. The VA is saving my life. -The VA's saving your life? My first check was and then I get $7,500 a month I do all my stuff at the VA 'Cause the VA gets things done, you could either die of I mean they're taking too long And the alcohol they want you to go there. They don't come to your house So you're glad you joined the military -Fair to say? -Saved your life? Taught me how to get up off the... Everything I talk is first order of duty. Because you know what, you get off the ground and come home and the military taught me how to You know what I mean because hey, that real life, you know what I mean? You did everything as a group. One fails, they all fail. So everybody's gotta make it We're just letting people fail. We're letting people die. -We're starving our own people out. It's like this. We should have big Tribal gardens to feed the people. We should have big things The meat, feed the people. Well we don't. -But you got But there's gotta be deer there. We got all the White people, -...hunting our reservation. Non-Indians are fishing our reservation. But the dam has been removed -Which is great for the fish. The reason the dam has been removed because they didn't put a fish trail But you were saying you want a dam? I want a dam in these creeks we put salmon in the dam, those are all the things So there's people on the tribe and people that want them? They want to stay traditional if we had electricity those dams, -You want the hydro power? How much money They're making trillions. I don't want a trillion dollars, off the water. -Okay. You don't 'cause it runs there. You make a trail, now you put the salmon. Hey, you buy eels they cost a lot of f*ckin' money now. You get a sturgeon, The Sacramento River's got the same thing but if we do the dams Sturgeon, eels, salmon, And plus it'll be a place But the thing is this, it'll be a place where every even the Jews will come buy a house boat, float around. But see at the same time, people can live off of electricity. [Peter] Okay, so this is the river -Yes. And so your dad had a take on that I didn't think I'd hear that to be honest. Yeah. [laughs] He's like pro-dam. [Sam laughs] Most people are against it, right? -What's the consensus? -What about you? 'Cause like Dad said, our culture If the river dies -So why's he want it? Just so he can... Have something to say. [grunts and growls] What is it, a motor boat? [laughs] -He's a bit of a rebel, huh? Dad's just born to dissent, [mellow acoustic guitar plays] [Sam] The building where -Okay. we had the dance [Peter] Okay, what are these houses? -This is what we used to My dad would say a bunch of that space was but they've been made for dancing [Peter] So does this happen often -Happens probably once a year. -What's going on here with this door here That's where they come in, the dancers. They come single file, come in, fill up, Fire pits there, usually medicine woman Guys will jump in the middle, jump out, try to scare the sickness -Wow. -Is it okay to film the cemetery? -Lot of American flags. -Military members or... One of our jobs, we took a We do all the burials, dig the graves, [Sam] This is a sweat house. Only the men can go in here. -So these are your old homes? -This right here is the big house. We crawl in, you can go feet first. -Can I show this? [Peter] Wow. -You'd have the fire down here -Traditionally all redwood Mostly cedar I think -Oh, yeah. A lot of times you come in these -Yeah, smells good. [Sam] These are -Calendar rocks? How does your calendar work? -I'm not really too sure but the main one -Okay. -We don't know what happened to it. I think we were one of the only ones besides the Mayans or something. What were you saying about -Men would have lines on their arm So they could pinch and hold it up so they'd know dentalium shells, they were They'd hold them in elk horn purses. -Okay, that was your money, shells? They'd trade them [Peter] I had the camera off but you were What do you mean? -You have to have your bloodline proven. -What's the reason? To be a Hoopa Tribal member used to be you had to be a quarter. You had to be a quarter Hoopa blood. -What's it now? Okay, you guys worry A little bit but I don't believe I think decendancy, You gonna tell me my F*ck that. You know? -Then you were saying it's like Yeah, it's a slow genocide. They've been trying to wipe us out They haven't been able to -They, you mean the government? Yeah, the government, powers that be, whoever's signing the checks, -You think there's a waiting game for to dilute enough? To take everything? Yeah. -You guys feel that way? -[dogs barking] -[Sam] I would say so. [barking continues] [Sam] Shut up! -[Peter] Who's place is this, Sam? -It's your dad's what? -[surprised] Your other dad? This is Otis that was selling candles -Okay. -I grew up here. [barking continues] [man coughs] -[Peter] Did Sam do this? Nice. -[Peter] Sam's pretty popular here? -He was popular before he did tattoos. -Popular before he did tattoos. [Peter] Okay, so this is Love him with all my heart. -And what were you saying? -Just that we turned into a big city. There's on the other end of the valley, all these people got drugs There's Fentanyl It's everywhere, man. All the tribe worries about Didn't do a damn thing about Nobody's ever died from pot. People are just smoking pot but this Fentanyl and all these drugs They're not doing nothing about it. They talk a good game, they have meetings [Peter] Okay, California, [Sam] It's not federally. -They just pick their own, We had a tribal election or whatever people want to do, let it go, but it's still a high priority for growing pot or having pot. You can smoke pot on Friday, and get a piss test, and you get fired. -Really? and they'll tell you go home, Our tribe is so mixed up [Peter] What are some of the positives It's our home. It's where we were born. This is where we come from, you know? It's just getting polluted You worry about all your kids. You worry about all your grandkids. -When did it really start getting bad? About six years ago, maybe little longer. They don't do nothing Looks like the effort's very little. -Okay. There's more things that they can do -Is the leadership doing pretty well Oh yeah, they voted themselves a salary. The general public, the tribe themselves didn't vote to have them Guy named Dwayne Sherman was the chairman, So you don't get in there to do your job, and elections are popularity contests I 'member when we was kids, old guys would show up One man was a truck driver, he'd show up and get out all dirty from work They were getting Other guys come up from logging jobs, they'd show up with their logging crew all their logging clothes and sh*t, Now it's just like a popularity contest. All these younger people get in there I don't know exactly how it is, but it's not right what they do. -Are you guys all pretty unified or there's like a huge divide -[Sam] Plenty of divides. [HAROLD] You get in there and your family members benefit You know? I ain't mention no names stealing from the tribe -What did you do for a career? -I was a carpenter. I built this house. And you love Harleys? -Yeah, I've been riding bikes We was one of the most at one time when we had We had mills We were running lumber mills, Cutting, milling lumber, Pulp products, chip trucks and stuff Then all the trees and all the companies moved away, This is like a boom town gone dead. -Okay, you had your boom with timber? Was that money going We'd get per capitas and stuff, yeah. They mostly gave it out in dividends [Sam] A lot of it was mismanaged. [Peter] When did the timber industry It was about the same time Humboldt -I don't know, maybe seventies, '74, '73. [Peter] Are you guys gaining in population -We gain because -We gained but the only reason was because like Native Americans and dogs are the only ones [Sam] Horses. -Horses. Race horses. I mean if you're a Black person, you got But we have to prove our lineage what it is, they're quarter, they're half. My mom's White, my dad's a full-blood. -So why do you have to prove all the time? -Ward to the state. They have to provide for the descendents and so you have to prove They don't want to pay for who that's not. -What are they paying for, healthcare? They do a lot more. Before we gained sovereignty they did F*ckin' that was all the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Bureau of Indian Affairs regional office, used to be up here in Hoopa. [Peter] Do you guys feel connected -Yes and no. We're a part of California We're away from One thing we have to deal with but the thing is one of these days they're gonna start and it's gonna be spoiled -But I hate being part of California. Like how they hate guns. I cannot Don't get me started on it. That's why I wish we'd and declare full autos just legal here. -These people The only reason you get out there and stand around do all this is because the government gave you... Not the government, If you don't have the constitution, Everybody cries around, but you don't see nobody move to another Again, this is coming from that got sh*t on by all the White men. We're still the underdogs of the world You know what I mean? -But you're a big believer Let's me say what I'm saying now. All these people that want to go out there the only reason you can do that All those rights are allowed. Go be gay in f*ckin' where they're gonna chop your God damn And all these gay people, LBGQ, the whole thing they don't get, They're gay, they're gay. I mean... you know? But they want you to call them this and them that, Ain't mine. Don't project it into mine. I don't come down there And you guys gotta remember, of the whole f*ckin' United States. Just stupid how these people do that. Just give in to all these whiners, I think stand up, and f*ckin' have The other day on TV this guy's crying He can't get this, he can't do that, This other Black guy come up and says, &quot;Why couldn't you do that?&quot; I did. I went out and went to school, What makes me different than you? I did it, you can do it.&quot; But they'll still, over there, You get out of high school, or you get a job, or you get married, instead of bitching and moaning about But all them guys ain't putting no energy They're just standing around whining, -They're like, &quot;Oh, they can't have and one guy's like, He goes, &quot;Sh*t, I lived with He's all f*cking... you know? We didn't have it easy. We worked for it. No, we couldn't buy our own house Nobody could. It's stupid. [Peter] How does that work? Can people actually buy land here It's usually just Tribal land The superintendent comes in here, when he leaves he gets like 50, What's his name? When they first gave out the land they had you had to pay taxes on it but if you passed away but the way they gave it out, -The first allotments were deeded. They lost a lot of those and so it wasn't [Peter] Okay, so you guys don't but the land here, you own it, -This right here? It's Tribal. -This is Tribal? Hundred year lease, okay. For five dollars. -No property taxes? You need a special kind of loan because the banks cannot take land here. [Peter] Oh, that's interesting. [Peter] So after a hundred years -Either that or one of my children. You can pass it on 'cause it's my kids. [crow caws] -[Peter] How long you been doing this? But been hitting it hard for three years. Gives me a good feeling of accomplishment and helps me make people more identify -So do you want people -Yeah, definitely. So what about people off-res? -Coming from wherever? Oh, that's cool. That's quite complicated. -That's my lion with a crown on it -You're cool with people -Yeah, I'm down. -European tourists, people from the coast? -Chinese tourists? I'm only good with my designs I do. -No, that's what they'd come here for. I wouldn't come here All right, so I'm gonna leave -Your Instagram link of your tats? And if they wanna get work done -Hit me up for sure. And then Sam, thanks for today, bro. -Hell yeah. -That' was awesome. Thanks for the good tour, It's a beautiful place you got out here. -So, respect. Thanks guys, for coming on that journey. Until the next one. [mellow acoustic guitar plays]