If you've ever played a Mario Kart Grand there will be some CPUs who will turn for the course of those four tracks. those same characters suddenly finish last in competitors. That is known as the Rival Mario Kart game since its inception. In order to of the entire cup instead of just individual improved AI over the rest for the duration of games do this completely random, others competitors are characters that have a certain as. And it's exactly that information that the relationships and affiliations in the We begin with Super Mario Kart, because this one is actually one of that select the small roster means this is not the most the basic setup of the concept. However, what from a different time in the Mario franchise, it's Donkey Kong Jr. This now long-forgotten though, he's more of a Mario in of itself, the titles actually feature Mario in a villainous Kong. And just to make this clear in case you're original Donkey Kong, from the early arcade titles known as Cranky Kong. His son, Donkey Kong Jr. Donkey Kong we are most familiar with today. And even though Junior will be one of your biggest at all. In fact, if you play as DK Jr., Toad will be one of the worst performing characters. Mario himself is Peach's main competitor, which is all Koopa Troopa and Yoshi have a triangle with the Yoshi's main rival is Koopa and Koopa's main rival mean anything, it appears to be more for balancing which is suitable and probably more a case of in the game. Mario's second rival is Peach for though is that Donkey Kong Jr.'s biggest rival meaning this is a pretty rare double-sided DK Jr. and Toads are basically non-existent, so it's hard to say whether this indicates a We move on to Super Circuit next, the entry on GBA an absence in Mario Kart 64. While the roster Wario and Donkey Kong are added to replace Koopa this game, I'm willing to bet they didn't start the starting point. That's not to say there are some strange decisions here that I can't imagine example, Mario's biggest rival is Donkey Kong, being the same Kong that Mario has history with much the main villain. Peach's biggest rival is only thing I can think of is possible balancing Peach, while Bowser is significantly heavier. Why almost definitely played a role when looking at Sure, these two probably dislike each other, is to give Bowser a competitor with a similar having Bowser as one of his main rivals, while Bowser. Wario is also Luigi's main rival though, be for a reason we will soon cover in much Because the next game to feature a rivalry system left Waluigi out of its roster and as such, did dynamic that Wario was forced to fill. While what is most likely balancing reasons, his spot stand-in for Waluigi. Similarly, Wario's biggest which again feels like a Waluigi-influenced pick. I think it's fair to say that this game serious than the earlier titles and really sees What remains tricky though is being able to tell genuine bad connection. For example, Mario's is clearly for different reasons. But speaking of for him here. Alongside the expected Mario Rosalina, which may suggest her role in bringing has forgotten about. Rosalina herself also has two bet should be taken as friendly rivalries. First originates from Mario Galaxy. Side note, but bizarre this pick for a playable character in niche characters for stuff like this but when be raised I'd say. Anyway, Rosalina also has a and undoubtedly a reference to the Toad Brigade the events of Mario Galaxy. When we start we can't overlook the mutual rivalry between as enemies in the same titles where Yoshi is a Mario World and New Super Mario Bros Wii, the Yoshi series. Flutters, their winged counterparts, but I think a reference to Super Mario 64 DS is like in the Nintendo 64 original, but since Yoshi I can understand why he would be singled out to be and Wario have better-suited rivals than Wiggler character from this perspective is Peach: her two luck explaining that. I guess you could say that a DK rivalry, but that has really never happened If you have any ideas, share them in the comments, And finally, we have the true star of this because the Switch retains the few rivalries the of those, meaning we'll really only be looking at train of thought as Mario Kart 7, which includes again, Mario's biggest rivals are Bowser and Peach that Daisy now has him added to her rivals, while Luigi. One thing about his rivalries is quite my video on the hidden lore of Mario Party you haven't. Anyway, to summarize, what stood some hidden friendship or connection going on and surprisingly enough, more breadcrumbs can be rivals, whereas playing as Waluigi will have her impossible to say whether this is the result that could have definitely added even more context Onto some more expected rivalries, like the chart rivals mirror Mario's: Baby Peach and Bowser Jr., Baby Bowser here. The same is the case for Baby rivalries with Mario and Daisy, just their baby because while adult Peach has rivalries with Toad her baby form has Baby Mario and Baby Daisy games include Pauline's only rival, Donkey Kong, game that started both series, as well as the is a reference to the Yoshi series, where Shy Boo are also mutual rivals, a reference to them to them becoming paired together in Mario Double pretty much rivals that you would expect based Peach are mutual rivals, as are Dry Bones and Dry Bowser Jr., and both Diddy and Funky Kong have other series are also paired together, with the forming pairs. That does mean Link remains without regard. Only the Miis don't have a single rival But while that does mean we have nearly the entire Course Pass included, there is one unique insight system gives us a rare look into the inner dynamic all, but instead pairs them off into what we may with the rest of their siblings. Their favorite Lemmy and Larry, the two nutjobs so to say, Roy who I guess you could categorize as the smart who instead doesn't have a rivalry with her fellow Daisy. I feel like we can definitely interpret we have seen with Birdo in the past, especially have any real problems with Wendy specifically, But yeah, with those final Koopalings facts, your theories for the more unexplainable I should tackle next? Let me know in the please consider giving it a like and subscribing Mario content coming up. For now, thanks