Wars of the Diadochi Episode IX: Introduction: Diadochi ended with the collapse of the Antigonid Successors. This event marked the traditional not all was settled after Antigonos' death. His the Eastern Mediterranean and had become King of off, Demetrios was resolved to battle his way the Antigonid Empire. Moreover, this was not all. heads, as the former wished to expand and maintain become King of the World, much like Alexander Wars of the Diadochi, we will investigate these over Macedon, his eventual fate, and the war of Macedon. These will be the catalysts for to our final episode on the Wars of the Diadochi, Demetrios in Macedon: After securing the throne of Macedon, Demetrios 294 BCE, when he heard that Lysimachos Getae tribe while campaigning in Getae before Demetrios reached the region, messengers so he turned back to deal with a revolt by the advantage of his leave to rise in rebellion these rebellions by laying siege to Thebes . This Pyrrhos to invade, but Demetrios managed to expel Demetrios founded a city called Demetria and then This marriage represented a further decline in After stabilizing his Greek territories, which was now eager to accept the resurgent democratic city to accept a king, they revived him as a son of Poseidon in connection to his securing Athens' obedience, Demetrios returned this time to Aetolia. This further escalated of Epirus, who saw Demetrios as encroaching with Aetolia and later with Epiros ended in did not mark the end of the conflict Demetrios fell ill and then faced another invasion in 288 BCE, Lysimachos and Pyrrhos, with help Macedonia with an overwhelming force, splitting The Final Gamble: his family to Greek territories that they hoped her beloved husband face defeat, his first wife a man who had already lost much of his family in dissolving beneath him, the fickle citizens and Demetrios responded by besieging the city. assist them, forcing Demetrios to flee once Demetrios was always seeking another fight, so son Antigonos II in Corinth and went to Asia Minor Our record here becomes very sparse, as Plutarch occurred during these campaigns. It seems against Lysimachos's son, Agathokles, and was while recovering from illness in the city of tried to get out of the region, but he was blocked Cyrrhestica, hoping to stir up a rebellion he moved to Afrin for a final battle and then but the commotion in the enemy camp caused fear in ensued the next day, but when Seleukos proclaimed safety if they went over to his side, many of Demetrios once more turned tail with what few Hiding in a forest, Demetrios unsheathed his him from doing so. Instead, he surrendered to Despite his request for a small realm to rule, hunted, and exercised in royal parks with his to live despite calls by Lysimachos to have him according to Plutarch, is Stratonike, now married begged, alongside many Antigonid city officials, for the freedom of the Besieger. However, it was son would continue his dynasty with great honour. dying in 282 BCE. Demetrios was ambitvious, if very brave on many occasions and truly lived up because of Demetrios, and their tactical skills Antigonos received his father's ashes in a gold Lysimachos versus Seleukos: web of alliances between the surviving Diadochi died in 282 BCE in Alexandria of natural causes. as most died in court intrigue or battle, as we succeeded his father Pharaonic throne. Ptolemy was a man who preferred to work in his sphere it. This drove a lot of his foreign policy, he could also be an expansionist. His Ptolemaic being steadfastly proud of their Hellenism and ruled over, but slowly incorporating Pharaonic After Ptolemies death, relations between world were tense, but it was court intrigue in the dry kindling. The polygamous king's new marrying Lysimachos, she had borne three heirs behind Agathokles, who was the son of Lysimachos who was in his 70s alongside most of the surviving that Agathokles was conspiring against him. We do to secure her sons' presence on the Greco-Thracian Consequently, Lysimachos murdered his son, This caused a mass exodus of the Agathokleian who was also of the Ptolemaic dynasty, and a Keraunos was a candidate for the Ptolemaic the favourite. This faction of the court Through their arrival, Seleukos saw an incredible it as great as that of Alexander. However, ambitions. As the instability in Lysimachos's his possessions in Asia Minor, like Pergamon, was because of this that Seleukos decided to left Antiochos I Soter to rule in his stead in Asia Minor. In Pergamon, Seleukos was received by considerably wealthy treasury. Seleukos accepted gained independence as the famous Kingdom The campaign was fast; Seleukos easily took some troops and move into the peninsula to drive of Korupedion, near Sardis, in the winter of this battle other than that it was a resounding in the battle. The final strike is recorded Malanos. After Lysimachos' demise, Seleukos wrestling match that was the Wars of the and went into Greece for the first time in and like Antigonos and Ptolemy, he had made Seleukos' goal was to move into Macedon and take form of Ptolemy Keraunos. Ptolemy organized an killing the last of the Diadochi or the Heirs of the Successors. Seleukos which had secured his rule over Babylon and then successes in the East show. His dynasty, the and hybridized Greek and Persian cultures After eliminating Seleukos, Ptolemy Keraunos himself king, but his luck would soon run foul. descend upon Hellas and beginning to chip and the Celts fought with various Hellenic states Antigonos II. Thus, they moved to Asia lasted until the coming of the Romans. The and ruled until the Romans conquered in our previous series. The new era had The Hellenistic Era: stock of the geopolitical landscape the Diadochi very much consolidated and had begun their grand proud Egyptian people. They slowly built Greek becoming a naval Silk Road hub. They used Hellenic slowly took up more Egyptian characteristics. They the Seleukids and tried to control Cyrene to their Meanwhile, the Lysimachian heir, Ptolemy Epigonos, ending up in Egypt. His kingdom was split between small statelets like the Thracian Kingdom of in Pergamon, became a wealthy cultural hub. The the Kingdom of Pontos, run by Graeco-Iranian who was famous for fighting the Roman general like the Kingdom of Commagene, which Over in the Greek Mainland, the Antigonids ruled control over the rest of Hellas in various wars. the Roman Republic slowly appeared in the region for the Seleukids, they built a mass empire local social networks with local elites to and in wars with Scythians and Parthians, Persia or other local rulers. In the Far East, one broke off and founded the Greco-Bactrian and Uzbekistan. The history of this is known for both wars with nomadic tribes but where Greek and Persian architecture merged Greco-Bactrians broke off in the 2nd Century BCE. which ruled over Taxila, where Porus once ruled, the Shunga. All of the easternmost Hellenic cultures and were eventually overrun by the Conclusion: the Hellenistic Era, which began with the conquest of Greece by Rome. Alexander's last forty years of fragmentation and titanic where Greeks ruled over many foreign peoples. where Greeks and foreign peoples mingled and made era lasted as long as the Wars had, with constant included the glories of the cities of Alexandria, which some of the most important developments in early Christianity to Stoicism and Epicureanism. and cultural production, which is best who, living in a similarly cosmopolitan As dust, O West Wind, let us rise to the Heavens, If mind desires to return here's a quarrel for love's deliberation. go for naught in this land; More videos on the history of Ancient Greece are please consider liking, commenting, and would not be possible without our kind whose ranks you can join via the links get early access to our videos, and much more. This is the Kings and Generals