[Music] I think I have the cutest combo. I mean, And I'm on the Streetle. Streetle's one of the it is so cute. It is a beetle but for the streets, matches. Oh, I couldn't get an item anywhere. don't think that this combo is like gonna win you Uh, I mean, obviously, I'm gonna try to win, but Be cuter than everyone else on the racetrack, and everyone lets me win because they're like, 'Oh, Also, look at where Shy Guy holds his item. He I messed that up. Um, also, I have traction stat tires, and it makes it so that I don't slip as tracks like Kalimari Desert. So, I definitely I'm gonna go right because I think they're going sight with that green shell. Okay, sorry, I holding the super horn. All right, whatever got for the other person, so that's perfect for me. by accident. Okay, here, let's snipe. Oh, I Come on, come on, traction stat, take me to--Uh, advantage on that track. I'm not gonna expect keep on winning, but it always feels even better looks. No, Koopa and King Boo, my cute brothers, and let me actually show you, here is the traction and acceleration and a mini turbo stat, which All right, Mute City starting in first. I actually it gave me the wrong way drift. Oh, that sucks. get coins there, and one of the problems of being so I have no advantage on this track. It's Um, everyone has a higher speed stat, and the main Polish my coins right here. Let's see if I but I'm just gonna play it normal here this easy right here, and I'm in first a red shell behind me? I think Luigi has-- Okay, Okay, so this section is really bad because my of time on me. Oh boomerang. I'm gonna mushroom, know if that was the right play because having it's kind of all I could do. I really didn't want Staying in first is such an advantage. Okay, so I'm risking getting blue-shelled by not getting red-shelled by having a mushroom, so I'm I just have a bigger lead now thanks to Okay, and I'm too far ahead to really slow down gonna take the blue shell and hopefully be on I want to put it right here. I think people get speed stat isn't good enough, and I may not aggressive. Oh, am I gonna win? Yes! Oh, I'm this track. Look at him wave his arms. How in the game? Unless you think this isn't the I invite you to tell me who you think-- Oops... who I will try it. I-- I will, uh, try any And so, just leave your comments, like the and, uh, I will try those out. See if I can win the cute combos are actually really good random something with Bowser versus something Luigi or something, then the babies typically lot easier to use and a mini turbo stat really is think of them as approximately equal, but when it is better. I'd rather have more mini turbo than Okay, no one's right behind me. That's great. I because this is Riverside Park. Uh, someone I've been that person, so I would not be not even be mad. It's my fault for trying to Okay, we're doing pretty good here. I just Oh, shock. Someone dodged I-- Oh, they're out of the star already though, I thought it was like a bad item. Oh, if I hit that mushroom, the Cat Peach probably the blooper. The one time the blooper actually combo in the game worse is to add Cat Peach and just do the same thing everyone else does. fine, I just know people like to hate on so I go along with it. I'm just like the Yoshi I feel terrible. I'm so sorry, Cat Peach last race and taking the mushroom because important that that Cat Peach dodged the Oh, I'm in first. Nice. I used that mushroom actually be in first afterwards. I need to get lead. Like, speed stat is not good, but on the even though your speed stat is bad, is my mini turbo stat is not actually that high, with having a good mini turbo stat is these trick you have going for you with the high mini turbo turbos. Like Excitebike Arena, it's also totally I think it's a high mini turbo stat that which is surprising until you know that the And honestly, I wish the mini turbo stat, like select screen what your mini turbo stat was. it didn't matter. Now it matters. It's the most don't even show you what it is. I mean, at least if you have high acceleration, you have almost not hard to know, and you can just look online annoying that the most important stat in the game I was just goofing off, talking about stuff You know what? I love Sky High Sundae. please tell me why, because it's just Excitebike I am green in the Streetle, and look, the brown of this is one of the best colors for, uh, Shy Guys' Um, I-I described it the last time I played Toad at the start of the race. I'm just trying to do this. I have a mushroom. I mean, okay. Let's Okay, well, wow, there's like Oh, get away! Oh, I couldn't get an item. Everyone's dropping. I have a star in third? Oh, don't know if it's worth it. Okay, I think Oh, all the way back here with no item. This a terrible turn of events. Blue shell, All right, yeah, this has been terrible. I need Okay, and then now I don't have hit everyone. Eighth place. Uh, that was shocked in the shortcut, and I got shocked so I had to go back for the other mushroom, I could have done. It was just terrible luck. but I've been thinking through the races, and this is my third race with Green Shy Guy. Yeah, means I already have a first place, which means matter what I get on this race. I have a decent Oh no, then a blue shell comes. I don't think let's do that. That was not good I messed up so bad. I just got hit by Oh, okay, at least I got the mushroom off. I the boomerang would come back to me, I was trying to squish the King Boo, but this is why I like this track. I feel like but then I just always end up back in I mean, I had that one crazy race with and then I dodged the track, and then I somehow of the shortcut again. That's what I like to do these mushrooms. This is really good. Ah, nooo! Fifth place. It's okay, this race doesn't my color. That sound is so funny. It's not because I have the traction stat. By the reason I picked it is so that I would and no one's gonna be able to see me coming I'm in first place. This is the-- whoa, wait a to drive with this vehicle. Like, the traction feels extremely slippery? Like, look, I got all Yeah, I'm getting all of the coins. Wow, this is that you can like max out traction stats just Couldn't get a mini turbo there. Unfortunately, at all, even though I'm using pretty, uh, pretty decent parts for mini turbo. Unfortunately, the best combos in the game, like, uh, banana? I could dodge a blue shell. So, Yoshi has the only missing one point of mini turbo. So, the fact to good mini turbo stats even if I'm trying my not that great. It's like around the same as the okay, red shell wasn't coming for me that's trick. I can't even see anything with this Okay, we're good. We're too far away for the know, everyone's so far behind I that little black circle around me on the mini but nobody was, so I just slowed down and No, I brake drifted so hard, and the toad had away from me! Okay, I need a No! No! I'm in the off-road. Okay, no one passed with that for how poorly it went on lap three. uh, fun fact, I have a speed boost on this track on this track as enemies. Anyone who believed that's not true. That makes no sense. I'm gonna second wall that's not good. So, if you bump that bump the wall, then the game doesn't actually which is the piranha plant thing. And, uh, so successfully. But someone else opened the shortcut We're in second place, I decided not to get an item just I'm gonna try the same thing again. I have the Could mess up my lines here. Oh, it definitely should have just taken the bottom route and can just break the cardboard with a shell, I think it's really cool that it's a shortcut and you can take it with like a boomerang, a I'm gonna burn this. I didn't get an item. These what? They spawned on me and they have bananas. happy I didn't get hit. Okay, I don't need to use Also, that's another really cool mechanic that to take the shortcut even though you didn't Also, this section is off-road, and so I can of my busted off-road stat. But yeah, I'm screwed Oh, it's so over. This is terrible. Oh, I dodged a shock. Come on, I passed nobody! happen on Shy Guy's track. Yes, I'm blue. I'm No one's gonna be able to see me. All right, a little further away from the edge. I do not to do any damage. Now save this mushroom, probably I mean, doesn't make too much of a difference. mushroom. Okay, okay, I messed up again. I never know what to do after I mess up that section perfectly, and if I don't do it Do a little snaking, oh, my mini turbo stat's the green shell. Toad has fire. Probably can't hit Okay, I'm just playing it safe in the Toad still had fire, I'm gonna wait. Oh, I had another mushroom! I didn't even look. silly mistake. Okay, I'm gonna chain the star golden mushroom, I don't want this. Get rid of it. Get rid of it before this item set, I'm predicting shock. [Music] Unfortunate. Let's get away from everyone. I that was perfect. I got my mushroom stolen chaos. I'm not taking the shortcut. [Music] everyone else at the end? I didn't even take This Cat Peach is really good, but I'm pink whatever power the Cat Peach's--Wait, wait, I was not prepared for this. Okay, let's grab Okay, sweet. Red shell isn't coming for have never played this track on 200 CC in my life Well, not even because the DLCs don't really, I do not trust myself to do anything here, Okay, just jump there. That turns way too small to wide and go this way. Oh yeah, I still messed Oh, perfect! Invincibility. Look! Oh, I actually good invincibility stat and it looks like I both the blue shell. I mean, dodge the blue Someone's in a bullet? What? Okay, that's kind of messed up. Try to Okay, now just don't hit--Yes! The green shells knew the assignment. Oh, this is really, really Come on. Watching out for items now. Get the advantage of using a lower speed combo because because my speed was lower than everybody else, I Yes, wow, we got the only orange track on the one's gonna see me. All right, it's okay. I've so I'm feeling fine from the back here. 150 CC feels so slow now. This is probably how 200 Okay, let's go this way. All right, you have you know, given that I'm such a 200 CC Okay, good, better items. That's why you because you'll probably just get Okay, I'm gonna go over here. Oh they tried so hard to hit me. That I'm using my star. Oh, yeah, yeah, something playing it safe there. [Music] Oh, I barely Hit. Yes! I tried to hit the Yoshi. Okay, let's do the strat right here. Okay, I don't what I was supposed to do, but it's fine. Oh, I Do not aim for me! [laughs] I saw them swerve People are brutal in this room. I'm Okay, what do we got here? What items am I that was a good banana. No it drift locked it, the blooper. Well, I'm passing Okay, am I getting last? [Music] All Holy! It's okay. The goal was never