Hey Guys, This is Toby Mathis with the Anderson Today we have Jonathan Evans, an attorney on the burning question of are LLCs dead? Or is there reason to believe that there's still hope So, Jonathan, welcome Yeah, thanks for having me, Toby. And I want to just start off How long you been practicing? What's your area? Are you trying to tell us how long? Like, you know, just give us Sure. Yeah. So so I come from a family I'm kind of forging that path, Most of my family so I'm a little bit of a black sheep But I grew up around lawyers. I had a bunch of friends whose moms were lawyers, the ones who seemed the happiest estate planning and business And so I decided to follow those paths. I went to law school focused on those types of topics So I took all of the tax law classes all of the estate planning classes And then after law school, I found that area called asset protection So I found Andersen, So when you're at the dinner table and all the medical professionals around you like you're not going to go like try any of our patients, are you, John? Like you're not going to do that area. So initially but then when they saw that I was more and that I was actually kind to keep them out of trouble. They've warmed up a lot more to the idea. And then all of a sudden they're like, here to tell us, you know, again, any of our patients against us. But can you tell me Yeah, exactly. Interesting. Interesting holidays All right. So today in this idea It seems like everybody in their mother And I wanted to get somebody who deals I'm interested in your opinion. So let's break it down. Take our LLC is dead. Sure. So my thought and why they aren't and then kind of So I'll start off Kind of the problem areas people will have kind of a perception that One of the first ones that pops up There are certain jurisdictions that LLC and a common one There's this tax It's technically fee for the opportunity It's called the franchise tax, for any entity formed in California. And for our California clients, about getting all of their real estate about all of the asset protection and then they'll learn about this And it's a bit of a bit of a panic because suddenly they're looking at each and they're just seeing that $800 fee What other states have big fees So Massachusetts is another one. It's not a franchise tax. It's actually their renewal It's about 500 per year. So Massachusetts can be a bit of a sticker So they just figured out like, hey, and people use them for asset protection and we're just going to add fees how long until they quit Yeah, it seems to be like Utah, and they don't seem to have any problem timely fashion. So there seems to be some ulterior for for monetizing these things You mean an agency That can't be. Now is California. You said that the minimum of 800 does Does it go anywhere? Like what? What's the most Sure. So most real estate investors But depending on the level of income that I believe it can double up to 1600. Yeah, no, it could go. There's a and side of LLC is I've seen it, Oh, wow. Yeah, it's yeah. Like, if you're a property flipper, if you're doing it all through an LLC You know those folks, accountant. So it might be debt in some jurisdictions. If you're dead to me, Maybe, maybe a little bit of that, right? What else? What other reasons are these? LLC is starting to lose a little disfavor some people might think Sure. So one issue that we'll often to the way that LLC is actually work. They're they're owned by members interest, And there are some special tax breaks Code, that can actually reward entities Things like the 1202 exclusion and if those are applicable to you, are attractive to you, even if you elect to be taxed the fact that there's so you won't be able All right. So 1202 is what? And 1244 is one. Sure. So 12 or two is the first one And it was basically designed to attract The idea is that you can put And if the corporation really takes off and now your stocks are worth a ton you actually get to exclude up as long as everything was structured So that can be huge. It's basically a $2 million tax break if you figure in that it will be taxed Mm hmm. So basically it say, hey, if I set up what is a squat, I think it's qualified Right, exactly. Then I meet their criteria. I don't have to pay tax when I sell. So if you're setting up a business maybe this is something you want to pay Right. Exactly. There are. Oh, go ahead. It doesn't work for LLC, though, right? Right. Exactly. The 1244 similarly is just for entities So it's not going to work for an LLC, It was passed a little bit later a lot of these startups are actually going rather than being those tech unicorns So to keep incentivizing people they came up with another one I guess you could say, rewards failure. So if you end up with stock in a C Corp, because it just never got off the ground. You can get a tax break for that, up of an ordinary loss And then you get to claim that So it could be wages, dividends, interest. 1099 Even so, you don't have to worry loss limitation that you'd otherwise Because in this particular case, being an ordinary loss instead, Okay. And so, again, this is not available to an LLC, Right? Right. Exactly. Wow. That could be painful for somebody who doesn't know any better. Right. And 1244 is fun typically by itself. It's not a big enough benefit to get you But if you're setting one up like trying to qualify for 1202, that you also qualify for 1244 All right. What other reasons are there way just do away with these LLC, Sure. So the next one actually comes to us that came out of Florida's And it really sent some shockwaves for those of us It's called the Olmstead case. It's Olmstead v the Federal Trade and basically what it held LLC in Florida does not get the charging order protection originally. People were setting up Florida LLC putting in their properties, because based on the statutes, based on everyone's understanding, Creditors shouldn't be able to just take They should be stopped What happened in Olmstead, Supreme Court basically flipped it on its head and said, they can't seize the membership And so it completely opened up There was even a time where people weren't to Multi-member LLC. But then there was this thing called basically assured people that multi-member But single member LLC is are still left And I think the reason in the Olmstead it wasn't an exclusive And what's a charging order Sure. So charging order, that you want your creditor You don't want a creditor to be able to just come in and take the LLC from you You want them to have this charging order, the authority to take distributions Now if they only get that authority the members are still sitting pretty have the ability The members still have that management so they can just sit tight and play It's like a lean against the asset I can't force anything. But if you if you distribute money, I can And so in the Olmstead case, it didn't say, hey, They just said this is a remedy, maybe even use the word sole, So the court said, ah ha ha ha, to not uphold this thing. And I think there was fraud involved. And at once they probably were trying and find the liability. But yeah, that it sent like a seismic shock because everybody is Lebanese LLC But now a corporation doesn't really provide you Right. Right. So that's why this one is it's but it's really only and some other states where you may have set of protections for single member LLC, Of course, you just use You can use something called a land trust. And land trusts do provide some inside Their beneficiaries, from any liability that the land Like if it holds a property the beneficiaries protected, as the beneficiary and you could set that up in a more asset You could say like Wyoming or Delaware. What's your favorite jurisdiction If I'm a real estate investor do you have a particular jurisdiction Yes, definitely. Wyoming, they're really affordable. It's a really easy They're the first ones that came out and they've been really hustling to stay So Delaware is great too, but Wyoming Generally speaking, it's And you don't even have the like. It's pretty blank You're not you're not saying who the members are, There's really not much disclose there, Right. Exactly. So the information filing is so little that if you do it anything about who owns it, All right. So what other reasons would lead someone should be left out back in a trash heap? What other what else is out there LLC is are dead sure. So one is the idea is a little bit harder Like if you think about the big publicly traded corporations out there, there's always somebody looking to buy You don't really have that with LLC. Generally speaking, is typically pretty restricted As far as when you can sell it, who you like if a member happens to pass away, So because of that, to park, If you're trying to raise some capital, more restricting in that sense. So someone in that position who's looking for venture capital they may shy away from an LLC in favor So if you're going public, now. All right. What else is there perhaps it's time What else is there out there that would lead us to believe So this next one It's for international investors, So LLC fees are a bit unique Germany has one that has a structure LLC isn't So if, for example, you're a Canadian investor and you decide and you decide to just mimic your U.S. neighbor and use a bunch of LLC You're going to find that Canada is the way They're actually going to treat those as corporations, So you may end up in a really kind where you're basically once as you take the funds out and then again as the basically says that you're taking dividends So that can be a little bit of a ouch. All of a sudden Then the Canadian this is how we're going to treat this. I don't care how you did it in the United States, then and taxed twice in Canada. You could get triple, triple treatment, You want your money to go away? If you want to make sure Right? Right. What about here's here's one. What about like self-employment Is there is there ever a situation because of the way practitioners use them or because of or perhaps misuse them? Yeah, definitely. So the disregarded LLC can be Basically what a disregarded and that it hasn't chosen to be taxed So whatever the LLC is bringing in, So there's no separate tax return a lot of people's eyebrows a bunch of LLC is they're worried about But if you use disregarded, The problem, though, is that you don't because at the end of the day, sole proprietorships So if you're operating an active business, where you're selling goods to the public and you're running that any of the expenses that you're claiming, those are going to be showing up and any time the IRS sees on your personal 1040, and that that additional 87,000 to be looking at sole proprietorships That's where the low hanging fruit is. People who operate as sole props tend not to have good records. And in their experience, a really big moneymaker for them, So in that situation you don't want to run that You are probably going to be looking at an S corp depending on the circumstances, But if it's a business where you're services, some kind of moonlighting, doing tandems work, or if you're just collecting something like that, and you're basically then you're going to want to make an election for that And the reason you want to do subject to the corporate tax So whatever you take out you don't have to pay That's the old age and then of course, So it's about a 15.3% tax and total There is a bit of a caveat. You do have to take a reasonable salary but as long as you've done that, 15.3% tax. That can be pretty significant like let's just say that your average the difference could be about 8000 bucks a year just and the tax savings but again because so many practitioners let's just ignore this thing. We don't have to do a tax return. We do it just as part of the 1040 But the return itself, suspiciously like the corporate return Otherwise, Right? And then the nice little cherry the tax savings and that efficiency that is corpse are not subject to audits anywhere So that audit risk is almost gone Yeah, I think it was .14 where and we were still looking over on the, on the sole proprietor. But the crazy thing if they lose their audits, The last time that the data was published, B of the Publication 55, and they would always break down, They don't do that anymore. But there was last year, last year If you're a sole prop, It's because it's easy to screw it up. It's easy to do that. So it was quite literally, it was 94%. If you were in a correspondence audit, If you were in a field audit, You just got nuked. Right. And that basically is conditioned as a really, Worse, because it's so easy. I don't know what business I made it so easy to co-mingle them. It's in. And if it's if they don't know The answer nobody knows. The answer is no. Hey, so we've beat the heck So now I'm just going to go cry Should I do that or is there Is that make them an attractive vehicle are we just Yes, there definitely is hope. A lot of these a lot of these downsides that And there's a lot of different fixes But rather than just going through that are just kind of absolutely positive, absolute reasons as a really viable option for asset So the first one that I want to LLC itself, limited liability Company. Those first two words are beautiful The idea that you're distinguishing yourself, legally so you and your business are not one And while this concept has been around as exciting as it once was, if you think and how we got up to this point, it's still pretty remarkable the idea that put a business in it, and that business are totally separate So if you get into some hot water, And if the business gets into hot water, So this is still huge real estate investors that has some assets they've amassed those out of lawyer's pockets So it gives you lots of limited liability I think you think you make a good case, if I have a cup of coffee, Right. I don't want it all over me. I don't want to be holding it in my hand But also I want to protect What if I throw things around? What if I get into an accident? What if I do something? I don't want them to come take my coffee, I don't want them And that's what that liability protection, It has inside and outside liability. They're fantastic tool. So I guess we're not going to What other reasons do and not just throwing them Sure. So if you compare them Ellis These are really flexible, The LLC can actually be run by its members with corporations You often have the directors or the board to day operations, and the shareholders They get to appoint the directors, and there. But as far as day to day operations your directors in a corporation. So that's a whole nother layer If you're just starting a new business fairly straightforward, though the member can do the day to day there's no need for that director On the flip side of director level of management. They're just notice managers. So the beautiful thing about the LLC is depending on your situation, whatever is going to give you and lets you operate the business You can pick and choose and that's something that I really like Yeah. So like a corporation, the easiest way that I've always remembered it is and the directors vote on these officers and an LLC, you just have members and you could actually be member managed, with that whole other level. So you have one level to make it or you could have two, You could say, Hey, then we'll create an executive class, and secretaries and treasurers But I don't have to, I get a reprieve. So they're actually really nice to you. If you don't want to be too complex, Is that fair? Yeah, that's a great way to put it. So you say flexible, I, I agree 100%. I think that they're also like a Swiss You can make them look whatever way they need Are there any other benefits? Are there any other reasons why there Yes. Yeah. So this is another version of flexibility, So if flexibility in day to day operations then flexibility in tax treatment So we already talked about and how that's a pretty unique situation That's default for an LLC They have another default, So it functions In that sense, They split it along as far as ownership, profits and losses But that's not Either can actually elect to be a C Corp People call this check the box where you can actually tell the IRS, Hey, normally this is a single member LLC, but we're going to go with S Corp And so the vast majority of the benefits or an escort for tax an LLC can actually swap that treatment So even if you pick one up front, of flexibility to swap down the road Yeah. So the LLC, the IRS kind of does this. What are you here? You tell me. You know, They don't know what an LLC is. They just they they're like, And so you can say like, Now I go, okay, the IRS, there's no place in the code. I don't think there's a single place LLC as a from a tax standpoint, I guess LLC is and I'll say the name that says LLC taxation. There's no tax form. That's an LLC tax form. It relies on you to say I am a and if you don't say anything, And you say single. They're going to say, We're just going to tax it to the owner. If you say, don't say anything then they're going to say, Well, All right? So that it's kind of funny how that works. I still remember And it was changed the whole world there was a requirement that you do certain things before And they came out with this form where you just check I'm going to be an escort court election and you're good. You're good as gold you can be an LLC taxed as a partnership, taxed as a corporation, You could be an LLC that flows into it could be an LLC. This taxed as a as a as a nonprofit, as a 523 if it's owned by a 523 if this crazy world of flexibility, like you said, they are so versatile. What other reasons do we like throw them out with the bath water? I think that's the phrase, yeah. Through the LLC, out with the bath water. So the next one is it's This one is being able to create a special So normally with most other business percentage is what determines So if you've got two people they each have 50% of the shares, and losses. That's just how it works with LLC is you actually can choose to modify You have to be careful. It does have to be an LLC but if you've got one member who you can actually grant that member without having to alter So it's still a 5050 LLC, initial contributor, 75% of the profits. Now, it does need to be fairly limited. It does have to have a substantial economic effect And that basically means purely for tax purposes, like you give that has the highest tax bracket If it's purely for playing around then the IRS will get in there But as long as you've got some legitimate reason, like somebody and you're trying to make them whole and you actually have that flexibility Fantastic. So yeah. So again, boy, it sounds, sounds like we're making a case That would be a good one. If, depending on your situation, more of the losses Maybe you're getting into the in your negotiating saying, hey, I know and I'm a real estate investor So I want to negotiate a non pro rata share of that certain activity to actually enter into a transaction Wow, that would be pretty cool. All right. Are there any other redeemable qualities Yeah. The last one I want to talk about is just the fact You know, Wyoming was kind of but by 1996, for the legal world, as the legal But astonishingly, all 50 states have LLC statutes. And then that very next year, like you because the IRS saw and realized that there is It was really catching on and they didn't want to come up So they just said, here, So the fact that it caught on and is very consistent across generally speaking to be using for your asset There are a few narrow cases in certain places and certain is in Florida, of LLC out there that you can leverage, as we've been talking about, And it's amazing that got the contract like that but like of all the places tool to come out of, I would just be like, So it makes us rethink of our friends. We have an office in Cheyenne, but it's still amazing because you always think of York maybe some some innovation, if there's one place where there's that's going to change the landscape I don't think I would have picked Wyoming, Yeah, for sure. So I guess the guillotine is raised up. We were about to stick. The LLC is neck on the line I don't think they're dead. I don't think we're ready to You certainly help, sir. Thank you so much for coming in This idea of our LLC is dead. I would say though, from listening to you, if you are a traditional business, if you're an active business, before you go down that path of of an LLC that you're just infinitely better being a traditional corporation, And if you are going to be an LLC, engineer, attorney, whatever it might be, Maybe it's an LLC taxed as an escort. Maybe that's the appropriate route to go. Maybe not just do these. Ignored LLC is the disregarded LLC is if you're an active business, Although I'm sure the IRS would absolutely if they were an active business, It sounds like they're eating everybody would appreciate it Any closing comments, thoughts Yeah, just like you said there, And, you know, your mileage may vary trying to do with this business entity, the premier business vehicle So it's certainly worth at getting structured for asset protection you just want to be careful and work on the right path so that you don't make Well, thinking of professionals How does somebody get a hold of you? Sure. So you guys can reach out to us Business advisors or excuse We've got a wealth of information A lot of different ways to get in touch we're talking about here today that also apply to different as people who invest in the stock tax savings, more tax planning We've tried to create a one stop shop working hand-in-hand to make sure from lawyers and snoops, getting taken advantage Yeah, we don't like that We want to keep him at bay. You just stay over there, uncle. So just like you all the while, the medical professionals You could just sit over there on the end We can do that to our uncle Right. Right. That's just me. And I'm sure that they let you sit It was If somebody wants to get a hold of you personally, I would just say it's Is that is that the right one? So so that'll go to Joel over in tax mine is Jonathan Evans at Andersen I got to spell it all out. Yep. Joe and Owen Evey and S at Andersen We might put that in the show notes because again they're listening to this they might say Jonathan talks and that is thoughtful And I would invite people to do that explaining this thing. No, LLC isn't dead. Now, we're not going to throw them out and We're going to continue As Jonathan but there's little nuances and sometimes they're stuff And I just want to say thanks again, enlightening us Yeah, It was fun. You got it. Thank you, sir.