(electronic bell dinging) - We have a lot of cool pretty constantly. I mean both good and bad, but I tend to like to and just move it along from the bad ones. But a lot of games, either you maybe played and put it down, missed it when it originally came out. Eh, there's a lot of good We were thinking, you know what? Let's put together a list of stuff you can go back to and enjoy. Hi folks, it's Falcon 20 legendary games worth Starting off with number I admit this is a tough one to go back to, 'cause it's a little terrifying, but there's no better time to because very recently on October 7th, Creative Assembly announced It's been 10 years since and it's never even been hinted at that we would get a sequel. It always seemed like it would remain this special one and done thing and honestly I don't think anybody wanted it not to have a sequel, but no one expected it to. But it is, and the original devs are making it. Everything about the looks quite good. And that makes now the perfect or try it again because you I'm not trying to insult anybody here, but a lot of people wussed out. Like tons of people bought But how many finished it? I don't know. It is a pretty challenging especially when you first start actually encountering the alien early on. (dramatic music) (metal scraping) But with perseverance, it's a It never stops being scary as hell though, which is one of the most Most horror games stay scary for a while, maybe even the whole first play through, but the second play all right, I know what's happening. Alien Isolation manages no matter how many times That alien is is just so unpredictable. It'll catch off guard sometimes. No matter how much you think it'll get you, oh it'll get you. (tense music) (creature roaring) (dramatic music building) And number 19 is &quot;Grand Theft Auto 4.&quot; GTA six is finally, hopefully, And while you could just to get your open world rockstar crime fix. For me personally, I think to go back to the game that which was the Xbox 360 GTA 4 is a landmark game in a lot of ways. They were really trying to It's a little slower paced, a It's less intentionally fun, maybe a little more serious. Liberty City in the game not the amusement park They really tried to to the design of the world, at least for a for rockstar game. (engine revving) - What do you think this is, bumper cars? (footsteps running) - It has elements of being a life sim and an open world game. You've got friends to hang There's internet cafes and There's a bunch of stuff that's just there to It's kind of a precursor to how immersive Red Dead The graphics have not really held up and the controls can feel awkward, but GTA 4 is one of the most in the series. And if you don't like it, there's always episodes mini campaigns, where you play as other characters whose story runs parallel. Just save the ballot of Gay Tony for last, 'cause it's the best and most fun part of the entire package. (engine whirring) (guns firing) (characters indistinct shouting) (gun firing) And number eighteen is we're now at the 15th anniversary of the first Dragon Age game and with the fourth game now's a great time to go back to the game that started at all. Even if you don't care maybe you're just jonesing after &quot;Baldur's Gate 3&quot;, and &quot;Dragon Age: Origins&quot; is You will experience Origins is not a great looking game. It wasn't a great looking in 2009, but it was a game that in a big way. It was BioWare going back to its roots. It's a hardcore party based RPG with tons of moral choices to make. On the surface, it looks a lot like later but it's a actually a lot more in line with their older games, like the first two Baldur's Gate games, which makes the first entry (air swooshing) (characters indistinct chattering) (person screaming) The story is not anything it's mostly just something that's there to give the players something to do. The characters and all the little stories you encounter along the way are what makes Origin so interesting, along with the brilliant prologues and whatever race and class you choose your main character to be, it actually completely It's criminal that no other It makes your character feel so frigging distinct from the start, in just a way Most RPGs The game is still easy to get on PC and looks a lot better but it does take some getting used to, 'cause it is an ugly game. It's an all time classic though, so I mean it's worth it. - He is proof that glory He has survived despite the odds. - At number 17 is &quot;Tomb Raider&quot; from 2013. Everybody's chomping at the bit to hear about whatever for the next Tomb Raider game. But with Netflix putting out a new cartoon based on the survivor trilogy, why not go back to the 2013 reboot? The show directly references So it's kind of billed as a sequel. Not that any of that really matters, nobody's playing one of but the game holds up. It is a lot of fun. Yes, it's kind of &quot;Tomb but one could argue that &quot;Uncharted&quot; was kind of These two series kind of have each other embedded in the respective But Crystal Dynamics knows They're pros. Even if it's a little derivative, like the game it's derivative of is derivative of it, as a Like both series are good. The mature rating, the violence, it all gives this game a unique vibe. (tense music) (impacts booming) It was also one of the to have a dodge move, which And it's interconnected island almost makes it feel like even though the actual The pacing is just about perfect. They're constantly introducing new tools, weapons, mixing up the scenario. Not a great story. Not bad. But it's perfect for a video game. You're always doing something new and when there's downtime, the For a game that's more than it holds up surprisingly well. - (indistinct) You killed my brother, (metal clanging) now you pay. Come out and play. - At number 16 is &quot;Metro 2033 Redux.&quot; This one's for everybody for Metro Awakening, got before the crushing reveal was that it's a VR only game. No shade to VR, it's just that, well, that's a much smaller VR gaming is good. Well it can be good, can also be bad just but it's just a smaller Still, if you want to get over that soul-searing disappointment, why not go back to the And I mean the Redux The update makes a lot of small and changes to the game that makes it a just Particularly if you're gonna Metro is &quot;Stalker&quot; if you which probably sounds like an insult, but I'm pretty serious in saying that it's a pretty big compliment actually. Metro has all the immersive and maybe even more so, while also having a much more compelling story-driven narrative. The first Metro game is really linear, but for good reason. You spend the majority of the game exploring the subways, - Disease. I've been through worse - Alex. - Yes, Nikolay? - The station can't survive much longer if these attacks don't stop. We must do something. - The stuff that's part of Moscow's vast transportation network, but you know after a nuclear war has turned the surface into a it's a bleak game. But the world building in and the gameplay is just really solid. If you're into FPS games with a story, there's a lot to like (ominous music) (metal squeaking) And number 15 is &quot;Vampire: Going back to this one, The sequel is apparently gonna So why not revisit the original classic? I mean even if Bloodlines 2 is coming out, if I've never seen a publisher it's almost like they want it to bomb. Like they could at least pretend to be enthusiastic about it. But don't let that doom because the original's still here. It's easy to get ahold of. And as long as you get the which actually come pre-installed with the GOG version of the game. So that's obviously the easiest way to go. It's a game that looks like we're talking 20 years old here. (gun firing) (person grunting) (blade cutting) (body falling) (explosions booming) But it holds up as one of the of the world of darkness It looks like an FPS but it plays more like an that can change wildly, depending on how you What makes this game great is how fleshed out and Along with a few real standout missions, it's not a perfect game, even with all the fan patches and it also does kind of fall but there's just nothing else like it. (upbeat tense music) (impacts hitting) And number 14 is &quot;Fallout: New Vegas.&quot; Anytime is a good time but with the actually which I will never get over, heading to New Vegas for season two, one more reason to put on your big iron and play some Johnny Guitar. I mean what really needs to be said about Obsidian's 2010 Fallout game, I say it all the time, Obsidian does Bethesda better They understand what makes people, like me at least, like Bethesda games. I've certainly had people but you know to each their own, I think Obsidian made the Like it's an all time classic, one of the best open with the most complex and Some of the best characters obviously the best role playing. There's so many choices that have meaningfully different outcomes and that can end in wildly different ways. It's crazy they made the - Had enough? (person groaning) - You like that? - Had enough? (metal clanging) - Well, not that surprising. It was a bug riddled mess when but official and unofficial patches have mostly gotten it Now it's an unambiguously that sometimes looks a bit like Any new graphical elements compared to stuff that was in Fallout 3. But it doesn't really matter, 'cause the writing is so strong and the quest design is just - I don't want no whining I left my one of a kind Can we go back for it? - At number 13 is &quot;Katamari Damacy,&quot; another 20-year-old classic, with this game, it could and nobody would know the difference. Before the big indie boom of the 2010s,. games like this were so and they really stick out So stop me if you heard this one before. He plays the prince, the son went on a cosmic bender, Now you gotta roll things up on earth and use them to make new stars. Come up with some new Yeah, so the bizarre presentation is what gets you in the door, but the gameplay is what makes it classic. Using twin stick controls, you grabbing little objects until you slowly get bigger and bigger. (upbeat jazz music) For the first levels, you're building up tiny By the end of the game you're It's so absurd. And little diorama levels The music has no rival too. I mean there's a romantic love song, that literally has the lyric &quot;I want to roll you up into my life.&quot; It's a romantic song about the Katamari. This, and the sequel, &quot;We Love Katamari,&quot; both got re-released, easily. So they're easy to get, And honestly they're if you're looking for some (horn honking) (upbeat music) And number 12, it's &quot;Yakuza: Dead Souls.&quot; And you thought the upcoming &quot;Like a Dragon: is the most ridiculous spinoff (laughing) No. How quickly we all forget It's not a legendary I mean it's Yakuza, so you're gonna have Well at least if you like that series. And I do. But it's legendarily weird actually. Especially back when it came out, when, depending on what you call it now, &quot;Yakuza: Like A Dragon,&quot; it wasn't nearly as goofy as it is now. Pirate Yakuza seems kind of till the nonsense that went But Dead Souls take of Kamurocho getting invaded by undead hordes is something very different. Here's the thing, actually because it's a PlayStation 3 exclusive. You can't get it on modern consoles and the PS3 store is offline, so it's not even available digitally. So, going back and playing Frankly it's also not a lot of fun to play compared to some of them. It's basically a shooter that's Frankenstein'd onto And it's not unplayable, it's actually kind of weirdly fun, but also it doesn't work like it should. Anyone used to real third person shooters are gonna have to spend What makes it so bizarre every bit of it completely straight. It is goofy as hell, but the tone is more &quot;Dead And somehow that makes it funnier. Listen, it's not a game I but if you're a hardcore Yakuza 'cause some of the, the stuff (metal clanging) (person grunting) (upbeat music) (air swooshing) (impacts crashing) And number 11 is with the highly anticipated &quot;Indiana Jones and the what better time to revisit So New Order and Indie is like the &quot;Rise of the Triad&quot; are where the entire retro Now it seems like an comes out every other week. But the New Order and the are both very different things. Everybody kind of was playing from time to time. No disrespect to those games, but variety is a spice of life. So getting a shooter like this one where you could just and sprint around the arena, blasting enemies like a madman, was an absolute breath of fresh air. (engine revving) (person indistinct shouting) (gun firing) (person indistinct shouting) There's health and armor I mean it's no big deal now, but it was really refreshing back in 2014. The presentation is dead on with amazing music from Mike Gordon too. And the story's actually well told and even emotional at times. It's not as smooth to like that refines a lot of what this kind of got but it's still a great game. (tense music) (gun firing) (tense rock music) (gun firing) And number 10 is &quot;Red Dead Redemption.&quot; Yeah, two Rockstar Games on this list, but there's a good reason for it, 'cause after 14 years of waiting, the original Red Dead Just being able to play the in high definition with is a game changer. Red Dead 2 is amazing, but it wouldn't exist without this game. And depending on who you ask, some people like the original better. It's certainly more focused, and the controls are more responsive. Now that's all by design. Rockstar very intentionally But some people prefer they took with the first game. It's kind of a toss up for me, 'cause they're kind of different beasts. There is something about the first that makes me want to go but I don't know that I wanna say it's because it's a better game, 'cause I'm not sure it is. (person groaning) (horse whinnying) (guns firing) (person groaning) (person indistinct talking) (gun firing) (people screaming) (tense music) - Look alive soldier. (person screaming) - Still, the game really holds up, and like I said, I always I haven't been able to play it on PC, but this game was absolutely and I think it's still one If anything, it's a good game to revisit because it's shorter than &quot;Red Dead 2,&quot; but you still get an epic story. It's just in a fraction of the time. Sure, the world looks a little and the crazy attention it's not there. But if you just want an the original RDR is it. (gun firing) (person grunting) (people indistinct shouting) (gun firing) (person grunting) (tense music) - Oh, damn. (gun firing) - Come on. (gun firing) (person grunting) (gun firing) - At number nine is &quot;Prince of Persia: The The most recent game in the series, &quot;Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown&quot; may not have set the but it was a great game, and served as a reminder that, oh yeah, all the Prince of Persia games are actually pretty good, especially the Sands of Time trilogy, which still holds up, and it's pretty easy to get on PC. They require a little but if you want to use a controller, you'll have to go in and But these games are still a Their central gimmick Slowing down time to get through a tricky or reversing time to undo damage (person grunting) (explosion booming) (air swooshing) (person screaming) (person grunting) (blade swooshing) It's a great, but really simple idea, that they executed really well. It's a wonder nothing 'cause it really does add All three games are good. The first is still the best, but the two sequels have their own merits. The tone of the second is needlessly edgy, but the gameplay It's still Prince of And the third game's handling I like how it's just expanding on the climbing and platform but now you can get the drop on enemies before getting into a fight. (dramatic music) (person groaning) (dramatic music continues) - How convenient, a burning building filled just begging for rescue. - What do you mean? - I mean, it sounds like a trap. - Ridiculous. Is it? - If I was an enraged sand and you'd already slain through well, I'd be inclined to One that exploits your - Trap or not, those people need me. - No good will come of this. - As far as game trilogies go, the quality here is remarkably consistent. Even if the tone isn't. It's a quality series, it's but it mostly still holds up. And number eight is &quot;Castlevania: Symphony of the Night.&quot; Almost every major Castlevania title is now playable on PC, but one is conspicuously Yeah, there's no official way to play Symphony The Night right now. The game that literally coined the phrase Metroidvania on PC. On PlayStation, there's a collection for the PS4 that's still playable on PS5. And on Xbox you have to which is still purchasable, But if you wanna play the game on PC, there is no official way to do it, which is a huge shame because after the Dominus collection, it's really tempting that altered the trajectory (tense music) (person grunting) For people who grew up with it, it's still the best game in the series. People who grew up with might have different opinions, but the original is still It's also a must play for where you explore a large area, and movement upgrades that allow you to reach previously inaccessible areas and beat up universal movie monsters. It's not that hard of a but that just makes it a game It's just a shame that out of all the re-releases this is the one they (person grunting) (weapons firing) (person screaming) (crash booming) And number seven is &quot;Tales Listen, I don't wanna be too negative here and piss anyone off, but that &quot;Borderlands&quot; movie has gotta be the safest of safe targets. So, I'm gonna come out I didn't necessarily pay wink wink, but it's bad. I have better things to do than that. I am glad that I did not But honestly, Telltale on the other hand, gave us one of their best games. A game that is possible to tell a good story in the Borderland... Like an actually good story It sounds like a terrible idea. I mean, Telltale, &quot;The Walking Dead&quot; guys, making a game based on &quot;Borderlands.&quot; Like do those games really even have a universe to draw from? Not a consistent one, surely. It sounds like a disaster in the making, but they made it work. Hell, they did better than make it work. They made a legitimately with endearing characters and an actually interesting that managed to bring back handsome Jack from &quot;Borderlands 2&quot; in a way that makes sense and that's both appropriate and satisfying. - What do you think? We installed enough (laughing) Do you have any idea God, you're an idiot. No getting onto this one. - Do you ever shut up? - Well, I'll tell you what kid, as I'm watching the life leave your body, I won't say a word. - Oh, I'll be so happy when you're gone. - Me, gone? I'll never be gone. I'm a freaking legend kiddo. In case you haven't been paying attention. I'm immortal. - There's one. How's that feel, huh? - No, no, no, no. That's not happening. Nope, sorry. (person screaming) Oh, it is not gonna be that easy, no way. We are in this together, Rhysy. - Compared to their other games like &quot;Walking Dead&quot; and &quot;Wolf Among Us,&quot; &quot;Tales From the Borderlands&quot; but the storytelling It's a great game, one of Telltales absolute best. And it still feels crazy to say that, because after all these years it's still a Borderlands adventure game spinoff. That doesn't make it not true though. (dramatic music) - Not cool. (dramatic music continues) - I can't see. I can't believe I'm saying this, Fiona, Help. - Fiona. (ominous music) (tense music) - Hey, hey, hey, hey, - What does this look like? (guns firing) - At number six is 2024 is the 15 year anniversary of the first, and maybe best They're all very good. But Asylum came outta I mean, who was Rocksteady They were nobodies but and completely rewrote how stealth is supposed to work in video games. - He's running around I know, crazy. Stop him before he gets someone hurt. Really it's for his own good. (person mumbling) (person laughing) - Before Arkham Asylum, you were the prey, but after this game you were the predator. They revolutionized vision mechanics. Combat system was top-notch. Really literally just one of the like three good variations on action. It's this, the &quot;Platinum Formula&quot; and &quot;Dark Souls,&quot; I mean all three very different things, but types of games I very (ominous music) (impacts thudding) (person grunting) (air swooshing) (impacts thudding) (person groaning) (person indistinct chattering) (person grunting) (impacts smacking) (air swooshing) - Like everything about Arkham Asylum was revolutionary to the games It's a game that was full for everybody to steal. And it's kind of crazy how especially the first game I's great to come back to and it's fairly short. Like now after all of the that has been adopted by other people, I'd probably feel ripped off for a full price particularly. But coming back to it, You get everything you could possibly want from a Batman game in like 10 hours, in and out before anything is boring. It's crazy how well this 15-year-old game still holds up too. Like the fundamentals are Getting a copy of the game is still easy and there's an updated that improves the visuals too. Either version of the the updates don't revolutionize the game. It's just a slightly nicer looking version of a already fantastic game. And number five is &quot;Ys VIII: Lacrimosa of DANA.&quot; Yes, that's what it's actually called. I know this probably means nothing to the vast majority of the audience, but for the few guys who care, &quot;Ys X&quot; is coming out soon. That's my excuse to recommend &quot;Ys VIII,&quot; a game that really deserves a revisit, because it's one of the best Sure it looks like a PS Vita game, 'cause that's basically what it is. The graphics are not but it's a great game and it's fun. You know, what they make these things for. Doesn't waste any time which is exploring a desert island while whacking a whole lot of monsters, with kick music playing in the background. (birds squawking) (upbeat rock music) (blade swooshing) (person grunting) - (indistinct) Come on. (impacts booming) (person indistinct chattering) - The game is like an RPG on fast forward, the ponderous start at most Which, oof, like that. The beginnings of RPGs from Japan have gotten a a little long I think the more limited like a Super Nintendo for instance, kind of helped with that. Like &quot;Chrono Trigger&quot; and handles that exactly perfectly. But that's getting off track. This gets right into the meat of it fast. Stays exciting, engaging The biggest problem is that or at least had. Like, they did give it a that actually makes sense. So there's not really anything other than the graphics, even for 2016, it's really unimpressive. But it's super fun and fast paced. It's really easy to overlook the sometimes rudimentary graphics. (upbeat tense music) - (indistinct) I will end you. (person grunting) (people grunting) (upbeat tense music building) (water trickling) - At number four is &quot;X-Men Origins: Wolverine.&quot; Need a little more Hugh Skip the original Deadpool AKA X-Men Origins Wolverine and play the game adaption, 2024 is actually the 15th anniversary of the game coming out, It's not an all time classic or anything. I mean it's not on the but as a game that lets you cut loose and do wolverine, it's very good. (person speaking in foreign language) (person grunting) (blades slicing) (person groaning) (person grunting) (person speaking in foreign language) (tense music) The M rating lets you go carte blanche with all the hapless mooks. It's one thing to see it in a movie, but it's another to actually where it actually works like this. It's entertaining as hell. It takes some wild turns too. Anything that has to do with kind of sucks. But when the developers are free to do whatever they want, It's still a 2009 Activision so it can only get so far, but is absolutely worth revisiting, just to remind yourself how (person heavy breathing) (person grunting) - Targets contained near lab two. All units converge. Open fire. (characters indistinct cross talking) - Both 3-1 and 3-2 are on the way. (person screaming) (guns firing) (blades slicing) (people grunting and groaning) (person screaming) - At number three is &quot;Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War II.&quot; There's a lot of Warhammer out there for people who picked and want more grim But for this entry, let's talk about the game turning 15 this year. It's still one of the best 40k games ever. Both Dawn of War games are great, but two is an entirely Rather than being a straight RTS, the sequels more of a tactical RPG. You can command a small and complete missions, change your load outs, blah Much more story based, fair, and each Space Marine is a character. (metal clunking) - Captain Davian Thule and a handful of Space Marines lead the raw recruits (ominous music) Now another Space Marine a newly promoted commander, ready to lead in our darkest hour. You are this Space Marine. - Take the base game, where you fight the Tyranids, just like in &quot;Space Marine 2&quot; and get the two expansions, you've got more game than you're The multiplayer was great. The single player stuff is excellent. And if you're into tactical games in 40 K, this is a perfect game (dramatic music) (metal clunking) - (indistinct) Ready, (indistinct). (metal clunking) (gun firing) (announcer indistinct chattering) (guns firing) - At number two is &quot;Silent Hill 3.&quot; Now that Silent Hill is thanks to the Silent Hill 2 remake, there's no better time to go back and play some of the other Silent Hill 1 is difficult to go back to, Silent Hill 2, there's to return directly after 'cause the script's pretty much identical. Not a big change as far in terms of story, but But maybe Silent Hill 3 is Just be sure you get the Silent Hill 3 is a very different beast from the second game, but It holds up better than the interesting but How you play it is essentially But the story is what It's a full-blown, scare delivery system. It's a creepy game is what I'm saying, and has some disturbing as hell segments. (person screaming) - Is this a dream? It's gotta be. (metal clanging) (creature snarling) (metal clanging) (mechanical parts whirring) - Even though the actual plot is a little more straightforward there's a lot of stuff It's a strange, creepy game, that's shockingly good looking (ominous music) (ominous music building) (person grunting) And finally at number one, I mentioned it a little while ago, and I bet you were thinking, and you're talking about going back to another kind of old game, but not super old, in the same genre, the Japanese RPG, maybe let's talk about Oh yes, you'd better believe to talk about Chrono Trigger. So let's honor the late, and the recent release of and say, what better to one of the greatest JRPGs of all time. So Chrono Trigger's old as hell. It's from 1995. Next year it'll be 30 years old. So we're going way back with this one. But it's a game that in a lot of ways. It's inspired countless Indy RPGs. So many games want to be but nobody's really gotten there. And not for lack of trying, it's just that the original is that good. I would offer this little hint to everybody who's trying to do this, don't make a game where you make a story that services the mechanics. Just make a good story and make That's all you gotta do. This is my problem with &quot;Sea it's really just like, They're just like, oh, here's a reason that you have to do Chrono And don't get me wrong, But what makes this game so special, it's not just the fantastic artwork, or the legendary soundtrack, it's the stakes and the pacing. So in a world where every RPG takes forever and a half to get going, Chrono Trigger wastes no time. That's exactly why I And it's such a good And it's not just the It's bouncing around at introducing new places, But it doesn't break like let's say, I don't know, any new Marvel or Star Wars. It is perfectly paced. It creates character So you want to keep going, not only for the world but Like each character has that obviously you don't but you can kind of complete them by, you know, doing their stuff. But it's not so pronounced like it is, like here's the arc for this character, they're kind of integrated which isn't a hundred hour monster RPG, you can finish this And that's a huge positive. It's not like the game It goes by faster than your average RPG. And it doesn't try to milk anything. It just gives you the It's beginner friendly, 'cause it's not super but it's really inventive in the way that the stock turn base battle during the two or three decades that it was a prominent RPG thing. (upbeat music) (explosions booming) (chimes jingling) (crash booming) (upbeat music continues) It just never gets boring. This game is not a boring game, period. It's also a game everybody whether you're into JRPGs or not. 'cause it's one of those perfect games that comes from a bunch of guys that are just at the top of their game. They're really firing on all cylinders and having a blast doing it. There's just something very If you plan on getting it off Steam, get the Pixel demake mod, it takes all the jarring HD assets out and replaces them with stuff Other than that, it's a And that's all for today. Leave us a comment, let If you like this video, click Like. If you're not subscribed now We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first is of course, is subscription, so click Subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon, you can follow me on Twitter at FalconTheHero. We'll see you next time