Inline 4 cylinder engine is probably the most It outnumbers all the other engine configurations. Because it offers an ideal balance, an ideal blend, of power potential, efficiency, And you can find it in thousands upon thousands You name it. Actually, just walk down the city and chances are very very slim that there isn't And if you took any of those countless Inside it you would find a crankshaft that looks like this. In fact, at the heart of every Inline There might be differences in materials used and the number of counterweights But in fact, all production Inline 4s Well yes, all of them except one. The Inline 4 inside the Yamaha R1 sports bike has a completely different crankshaft from all the other Inline 4s out there. Why? Well, that's what I'm going to try and explain as thoroughly as possible, with this detailed video. We're going to explain what and how it differs from the flatplane crankshaft. We're going to see how this And how it explains the different Then with all this in mind, we're going to take a And what benefits they bring We're going to end the video by seeing why other brands never adopted And why another fan favorite So, let's get started. As you can see, every single flatplane And key feature that's the same for all of them, is that two crankpins point up, and two crankpins point down. In other words, The result is of course, When two pistons go up, two must come down. This crankshaft is called a flatplane, because all the crankpins rest together in a single flat plane. But starting with the 2009 model here, the Yamaha R1 made a radical step away from this Instead of having the crankpins all the crankpins point each in its own direction. So if we set up the crank, so then crankpin 2 is going to crankpin 3 is going to be and crankpin 4 is going to In other words, Why is it called a crossplane crank? Well, if you look at it from the front, from the nose of the crankshaft you're going to see it creates a cross. We have two points crossing each Hence, Crossplane. So, why are 99.99% of inline Well they're flatplanes, because approach towards designing an inline 4 engine, offers more benefits and the less drawbacks, And to better understand why this is the case, differ from each other in terms of As you may know from my previous engine to the balance of the reciprocating So, in other words, an unbalanced would lead to a primary imbalance. For example, the inline three center because it has an odd number of pistons. The Inline 4 has a perfect primary balance, Each piston mass can be balanced out In a flat plane configuration, two pistons go up, two pistons go down. So it means that piston 1 and and pistons 3 and four can A crossplane also has an even number of pistons. The outer two pistons, pistons 1 and so they can balance each other out. The inner two pistons, pistons 2 and so they can also balance each other out. So it's the same thing as with the flatplane, just with different pistons. Which means we should also have a perfect Wrong. Yes, we do have an even number But the problem is their the engine's center of mass. Which means that the crossplane engine So what is a rocking couple? Well, in simplest terms it's a pair of forces. They're equal in magnitude, And they're displaced from each So here we have our two forces. The outer two pistons. These forces are equal in magnitude. Because the piston mass is the same. And the acceleration is the same. So the force is the same. But the forces are opposing in direction. When one piston goes up, We can also observe that the pistons And from the engine's center of mass. So our two pistons are in fact a rocking couple. And the effects of a rocking couple on any mass, If you apply equal but opposing the object will rotate. The flatplane inline 4 has no rocking couple, because the forces applied at its ends and at its middle are both equal in And thus the flatplane inline 4 is perfectly But in the crossplane, rocking couple actually creates a torque In other words, as the engine is running Obviously, the force of the piston isn't enough but it still creates a noticeable vibration You will also notice that cylinders 2 and 3 also create a rocking couple. They're just like cylinders 1 and 4. However, they are closer to the Which means that they have Which means that their movement as much as that of cylinders one and four. So, how do we get rid of the vibrations Well, the good news is that this And primary vibrations occur at the same And this means that we can add to counter the forces of the rocking couple. If you observe a typical crankshaft which essentially two banks you will see that the first and the last much more beef or mass added to them. They are larger and thicker And this is because mass is to counter the forces of the rocking couple. And thus eliminating the vibrations. Now, this kind of solution is But it's really not acceptable Because if you add mass onto a crankshaft because the heavier something is, the Which reduces the rev happiness of the engine. So this is obviously which is all about rev happiness. So instead the Yamaha R1 It uses a balancing shaft, as the speed of the crankshaft to Although a balancing shaft does add friction, It is still a more acceptable solution for a sports bike. Because it doesn't impact Now let's proceed on the secondary balance. Now, secondary balance of inline 4s beaten to death in my previous video. So if you need a more step by step easy to You can find a link to get a release time stamp in the description. Because in this video we're just giving a short Now, in essence, the piston covers more stroke during the first than during the bottom 180deg So, if our stroke is 100mm the piston isn't going to cover half the stroke, This occurs because of the connecting rod. The connecting rod has a complex path of motion. When the piston is at TDC and BDC, the connecting rod is fully upright. But when the piston is at around half the stroke, or when the crankshaft is at 90deg of rotation. The connecting rod sits at an angle. Obviously, an angled connecting rod is shorter than a fully upright connecting rod in So when the crankshaft rotates assumes this angled position Obviously, because the the first(the top) 180deg of crankshaft rotation So there's a difference in piston acceleration Which means that there's a difference in forces Because obviously, force = mass x acceleration. Our mass of piston which leads to a difference in forces. And obviously, this difference in forces top dead center And this is the moment have to absorb all the forces, And this difference in forces are the source of secondary engine imbalances. For example an inline 2 cylinder engine, is an example of an engine with poor secondary balance. It has poor secondary balance. Because when one piston is approaching TDC, the other one is approaching BDC. Which means that the difference in forces are made very obvious and apparent in this engine. But if a 180deg inline two is an example of poor secondary balance, then the flatplane Inline 4 is an Because we have four pistons stopping When two are approaching top dead center, the other two are approaching bottom dead center. Because the pistons move in pairs, we have double which means Which is also double the difference in force between the top and bottom half of the stroke. Which is double the secondary imbalance. But in a crossplane Inline 4, we don't have this problem. We do not have four pistons stopping and starting at the same time. We do not have them moving in pairs. And we do not have 2 up, 2 down. When the first piston is at top dead center, approaching TDC, the last piston is approaching BDC. But the middle two pistons will be mid-stroke. Which means that at any one time, only two pistons in the crossplane inline 4 Which in comparison, in relation to the entire Meaning that the crossplane Inline 4 doesn't really have the secondary But there's bad news for this Although secondary balances occur And primary imbalances only once Secondary imbalances are usually And this is because primary of the unbalanced mass in rotating assembly. But secondary imbalances in forces between the top and And this difference in forces But wait, there's more. The crossplane inline 4 gets another disadvantage And the disadvantage is an uneven firing interval. So as you probably know in the flatplane inline 4 we fire a cylinder, the engine rotates 280deg. We fire another cylinder, 180deg Another cylinder, and so on and so on. This gives us an even firing interval of 180, 180, 180 So every 180deg of the engine's But this is not how things Now, as you know Intake, compression, power, and exhaust. And here you can see Now, So let's start from this point of time right here. When we fire cylinder 2. As you see when we fire 2, 3 Which means that it's next to nine to be fired. And as you can see, Which means to be able to get 3 to TDC and fire that cylinder. So we rotate another 180deg and we fire cylinder 3 So which cylinder is next in line to be fired? Obviously number 1, But as you can see, So we don't have any choice. We rotate only 90deg We get 1 to TDC and we fire 1 Right as we fire cylinder 1 we can see that And it's at BDC. So we rotate again, another 180deg and then we fire cylinder 4 So as you can see, Which means that we have to start the cycle again from beginning, by firing cylinder 2. This is what we started with. But there's a problem. Due to the unique crankpin arrangement, we can observe, that at the moment when we fire cylinder 4, there's no other cylinder on the compression stroke. As we said, we should be firing number 2 next but number 2 isn't on the compression stroke. As you can see, or the first 90deg of the intake stroke. This means that we have to rotate 90deg, to get number two to finish the intake stroke. And then another 180deg so that we can fire it. So in the end the firing interval 180deg , 90deg , 180deg , 270deg This is obviously totally And this also explains the different The extended pauses between cylinder And our ears and our brain perceive the Don't believe me? excellent job of explaining why Have a listen So an uneven interval gets Well it's all well and good, but It's bad for engine balance, is one of the key prerequisites An uneven firing interval and then you have to combat this by And ultimately increased vibrations can So we have to ask ourselves Why in heaven's name would It seems that it sacrifices so much to get so little. It sacrifices perfect primary In order to get better secondary balance, which really isn't Because the piston masses are low, so the difference between top and bottom And it also gets a distinct soundtrack. But I mean come on, who would sacrifice all this for a There must be something else to it. Well, there is. And the deal is that sometimes getting If you get one key advantage. And sometimes, something that might not be a real In fact, it might actually be an advantage. So the year is 1992 and a motorcycle The Honda NSR500. And in this year it was unveiled that will later get the name &quot;Big Bang&quot;. So the engine in the NSR500 which means that when it has a cylinder fires every 90deg of crankshaft rotation. But for this year, it was unveiled with The pistons were made to Two would fire at 68deg of rotation. And the other two at 292deg of crankshafts rotation. So instead of four, equally spaced, small bangs, we get two Big Bangs in pretty quick succession. Hence the name Big Bang. This is contrasted to the term screamer. Which describes the soundtrack And just like with our modern R1, the uneven increased vibrations and reduced power output. But somehow magically led to reduced lap times. It might seem counterintuitive, that a reduced power can But we must remember something important. MotoGP machines have more power This is true today. And it was true back in the 90s, with the rudely Which were difficult to handle for This excessive power is usually Where in many corners, a motor GP machine Because applying all the power, would actually and actually a slower corner exit. Instead, the rider must carefully to exit the corner as fast as possible, to reduce sliding, and to keep the bike This means that for a MotoGP machine, power usability can be more important In some cases, power usability can even mean the Or ending in a high side like this one. As you can see, this is bad. And the rider ends over flying over which obviously nobody wants. Now, people who watched MotoGP back will tell you that high sides happened a Mostly due to the analog and But there was a time when actually high And this happened when the bikes transitioned Now, a radial tire is ultimately better. It has more grip. And it allowed motorcycles to become a lot faster. But a bias by tire has an advantage for more gradually from full grip to full sliding. This gradual transition allows traction approaching and react appropriately. In contrast to this, a Only to suddenly let go. And then it's going to grip again. But by the time it grips again, And it almost always ends in a high side. The problem is that with a radial tire, can happen so quickly, that human By the time the rider senses the limit So, the newly introduced radial tires, together resulted in a very high number of high sides. Although it feels that way, the power isn't really a single constant thing. It's a series of short quick power pulses. So the power from the engine is in the form of many little pulses. And Honda decided to manipulate this. To enable the bike to be easier to So an evenly firing engine These are the individual power But the Big Bang engine looks like this. As you can see, between the large individual pulses, we have a lot of space, where the tire is essentially freewheeling. They are there are no additional power pulses sent to the tire. Now, these silent gaps, And they're absolutely critical for the tire. Because they give the tire time And this is absolutely key for the rider too. Although obviously, a human cannot detect a single They do stack up. And they do create space for the rider at better feel the limit of traction. In contrast to this, the isn't really giving the tire any It subjects the tire to a constant Obviously, this barrage of power when the tire starts to slide even a bit. So it starts to slide a bit. Power pulses continue. And they simply push the tire further Now, many people also call the But it isn't a Big Bang engine in the An example of that is the Kawasaki ZXRR. Raced from 2002-2008 in the MotoGP. It's also an inline 4. But it's constructed to fire two cylinders almost simultaneously. And then rotate a lot, and then And as you can see its firing than the firing interval of the Yamaha R1. And it's miles away from the even So the R1 isn't your real Big Bang engine. But it has the same goal. It has the goal of allowing the rider to better feel the limit of traction. It simply aims to strike a And the massive So, if it's so great for better why did other manufacturers not adopt the crossplane design in their production sports bikes? Well, the reason is that it does And it does increase the weight, and And also because the benefits of the very limit of the motorcycle, how many regular buyers are actually capable of An additional factor is that Yamaha with the crossplane design, starting in 2002. So of course they had less R&amp;D, and less cost involved into putting And the limit of traction aside, very distinct soundtrack of the bike, Which definitely helps sales. So why did R6 never go crossplane? Well this very question is what journalist soon after the release of the crossplane R1 Would the R6 get the same technology? Well, mister Nishida responded by saying, that the R6 really doesn't have the and racers in the R6 class usually This means that the benefits of the crossplane Because most of the benefits of the The leader bike simply can't floor it out of The R6 doesn't really have that much And on top of that, the added bouncing shafts, engine weight, and stiffness would Hence it never got the crossplane. Because it really didn't need it. And there you have it. The Inline 4 crossplane engine. At first glance, it's just But then when you remember it's very you get to realize that one of these disadvantages So yeah, that's pretty much it for today. As always, thanks a lot for watching. And I'll be seeing you soon On the D4A channel.