Welcome to my channel! This video is my entire process of building a river shelter First I need to collect some construction materials Bamboo and palm leaves are the main materials to make the shelter I need to make some ropes using Bamboo Used to bundle bamboo trees together to make buoys This amount of bamboo is not enough to make a shelter, it needs more. It's time to collect some palm leaves Palm leaves are a popular roofing material in my area and they get very good quality over time. I think this amount of material is enough for me to complete a shelter. It's time to get some. earthworm used as fishing bait This is my first fish today I will grill all of these fish for dinner tonight. A bee is taking water to its nest Ah... its nest is up ahead! In order to get the honey inside, I need to use smoke to repel the worker bees. There's honey inside! Honey is very good for the body especially in this cold winter. Honey is so sweet! It helps protect my respiratory tract in this cold weather. Lucky only likes grilled fish. To him, honey is not a delicious dish at all. Today I started building a big raft. That's the foundation for me to build a bamboo house on. I plan to make a bamboo raft about 4 meters wide enough for a small house and a corridor around it. The bamboo bundles are connected together to form a large float. Then a little bamboo is added on top to create a floor. Finally, the big raft is completed. Tomorrow I continue to build a small house up here . These are the roots of the tiger tree. Phu Linh (Smilax glabra Roxb) I can use it to make drinking water. It is very beneficial for bones and joints, helps detoxify the body. I need to catch some fish for dinner tonight. Rub...! This fish is so big...! lol These few fish I think are enough for me. As for Lucky, he still has yesterday's grilled fish. This is a species of wild sour leaves. Very suitable for cooking sour fish soup . This water has a light aroma and sweet taste. My dinner is ready! I invite you to have dinner with us! Now I need to start building a bamboo house. I estimate its size to be about 2m x 4m. I use these large bamboo trees as pillars for the house. In addition, I also have to punch quite a few holes in the bamboo stems . The work This takes me a lot of time when I only have one tool and that is this knife. Bamboo house frame completed! My job today is to complete this roof. It's time to start using palm leaves for roofing. Tomorrow I will continue my work There are a lot of fish down there! Today I continue to finish the roof tip which is the most important part of the entire roof. There's a wild boar over there! Lucky could only helplessly look at it. These two sides of the roof also need to be covered to prevent the wind from blowing rain onto the floor. My roof is completed! Here, I used a few short pieces of bamboo to create a flat surface for the floor. It's time to create the walls for the house. First, I need to create a sturdy frame to fix the wall. I have completed the frame for one wall and will now continue with the rest. Finally got some work done for today It's time for me to create a place to cook I used a few short pieces of bamboo to create the frame Then will add soil to insulate the floor Lucky and I I still have some grilled fish for dinner, it's fragrant and chewy, very delicious to me now. A rain is starting! I only start work when the rain stops. The sky has become clearer. I must continue to complete the walls of the shelter. I finally finished the entire bamboo wall. I'm catching some fish for today's meal. I think this amount of fish is enough for me and Lucky today. Part of this fish will be grilled for Lucky. Now it is necessary to complete the door for the shelter. I used some of these small bamboo trees to make door frames. I punched a few small holes to make latches to secure the door frame. A door has been completed! Tomorrow I will continue to make the remaining doors. Today I need to go find some other food in the forest. This is a medicinal plant that can be used to boil drinking water. It has the effect of purifying the body, cooling the liver, and nourishing the body. kidney. I should harvest some banana flowers. Sometimes I use it to cook fish soup. I think I should change direction a bit. This is actually a turmeric plant. It is a suitable seasoning for fish dishes. It has a lot of roots! I should replant some bulbs . Maybe it will be useful later. I can use this red banana flower to decorate the shelter. There are some Amomum xanthioides fruits in this place. I can use it to improve digestion. Luckily, I had just returned to the shelter. That's when it started to rain. It was time for me to finish the remaining windows . Finally, my shelter was almost complete. What do you think about a shelter like this? Now I can move this shelter to another place Start living life floating on the river Thank you for watching the video! Please register, share and comment to support me! Once again, sincerely thank you!