- Murder, forced conversion, expulsion. Being Jewish in Christian Europe in the Middle Ages was terrifying. In the face of this brutality, fled Europe in the 14th and 15th centuries and found a new home that The Ottoman Empire. But over the next few spread across the world the Jewish safe haven began to collapse with deadly consequences. In the 7th Century, Islamic across the Middle East, North As the Caliphate spread, on what to do with non-Muslims to conversion living They eventually settled which declared Jews, Christians, or &quot;People of the Pact.&quot; This status allowed Jews but demanded a special and established rules that second-class citizens. In times of economic prosperity, these rules were often relaxed or ignored, but they ensured Jews throughout the Muslim world. Despite the challenges of dhimmi status, such restrictions were and forced conversions Ashkenazi Jews found after mass expulsions in the 14th century, followed from Spain and Portugal fleeing the Inquisition Jewish European immigrants intermingled with the Romaniote Jews of and Mizrahi Jews of the who were already living The Sultan scoffed at the Spanish for expelling the &quot;has impoverished his own They brought useful skills, often acting as translators and diplomats. Ottoman Jews built vast some even growing rich as they capitalized on trade through the Silk Road. Jews also brought skills becoming bankers, doctors, One Italian Jew even became of the Sultan Mehmed the Conqueror. While many Jews worked others formed After the Ottomans by defeating the Egyptian brilliant Kabbalist mystics and Rabbi Chaim Vital made their home in the sacred city of Safed, the visionary author Meanwhile, an influx of to the city of Salonika transformed it into the with a Jewish majority at that time. In fact, by the mid-16th Century, nearly half of all Jews Jews and Muslims in the Ottoman Empire thrived together during the but the relatively good Starting in 1699, Austrian chipped away at Ottoman control of Western Europe opened new and East Asia that threatened These changes plunged many erasing much of the wealth they had built in more prosperous years. Meanwhile, as Ottoman and livelihood under siege, Wealth and medical advancements enabled the Jewish population of Europe to nearly triple from 1800 to 1880 while the Ottoman Jewish As their empire began to crumble, the Muslim masses turned and local leaders stoked from their own failings. In 1840, in Damascus, a Christian monk and his Muslim servant went missing. Although still technically Damascus was temporarily The corrupt, anti-Semitic blamed the Jews, spreading of blood libel. He arrested an innocent Jewish barber and handed him over to the The governor also arrested in the city and tortured them The complete absence of in the United States and Egyptian leadership eventually caved and released the surviving prisoners just before the Ottomans The Sultan tried to calm that blood libel was pure slander. He went even further in 1856 when he abolished the dhimmi equal subjects under the law. Despite this progress, however, continued to suffer poverty and violence. The anger displayed spilled into other cities, Jerusalem and Rhodes. One Jew in Beirut said, &quot;we &quot;Everybody, great and &quot;and forces their way into our houses.&quot; The Ottomans also struggled of their empire, which that encouraged violence. Meanwhile, French influence encouraged European anti-Semitic conspiracies. A dozen massacres in Ottoman, killed hundreds of Jews. While smaller than the pogroms this violence made it of the Ottoman Empire The situation deteriorated in reaction to a new fleeing to what was known the Land of Israel, the Ottomans banning Jewish migration to Ottoman lands. This ban failed to stem but the message was clear. The land that saved so many Within a couple of decades, the Ottoman Empire collapsed completely. Over the first half of the 20th century, its Jewish population fled to looking to find safety and prosperity.