Just about a year ago, I set a goal to run the 2024 Goal for 2024 is You signed up Okay. I'm not signed up I have verbally committed to the marathon many times. And yesterday I did it. Let's fu**ing go! the New York City marathon is super but I had the opportunity So even though I've never I decided to go for it which taught me One training for a marathon is super hard. Who knew? And two, this is the largest So there is a ton of work and organizations involved So I figured if I'm going to and learn this much I might as well turn it This video is sponsored by HOKA, I did six miles today at a 13 minute pace, so some good and bad, I can get faster. I have plenty of time It's still August. I'll get my mileage up, I'll get my time down and I'll be fine. First I had to talk actually The nonprofit New York My name is Ted Metellus I am the senior vice at New York Road Runners director of the TCS New York City Ted's job is dealing logistics and operations which starts We're planning working all of the borough planning, that we work closely messaging and communications All of those things tie that New York for Runners All right, pause. Runners is also responsible for all the costs But Ted wouldn't tell me I think we keep that. Yeah. So I did some digging New York Roadrunners had $98 million in expenses. But from what? Well, that we have to get. So when you think about porta-lets of those out there So those are all upfront that we have to factor and some of the gear some of the venue components New York Roadrunners also has costs from city services like NYPD shutting down and getting permits So while I was sitting and since he's I wanted to see of actually the 2024 New York City Do you think I have a chance of winning You have a suddenly, It's like Ted wasn't at all, but whatever. Moving on for now, in 2023, New York Road runners had $103 million in revenue. It's a combination of entry fees, sponsorship component and donations. Marathon entry fees are $315 and $255 if you are a member of New York just from those fees, road runners And of course, sponsorships bring us a major money For the past decade, naming sponsor has been Tata Consulting Services. They renewed their contract and reportedly plan million a year sponsoring Now, that's They're also the naming Marathon and smaller races But it's definitely amount of money Roadrunners. one of the fattest checks There's also plenty New Balance is the official Tiffany is a sponsor contributes to the prizes. And even Shake Shack the official burger So why does a consulting for a multi-million dollar All right, we are in it now. We are in the double digits I just did ten miles. I'm feeling really good. It was crazy hot today. So really looking forward weather Hopefully on race day, it's, you know, Why do you guys care to sponsor a marathon Value of advancing well beyond just driving brand impact or even reaching customers. And we do truly view it as an investment specifically around TCS also made which is a chance to potential customers with more advanced runner tracking than other races. Have you gotten the effect sponsoring the marathon? absolutely. We jumped from $3 billion in brand value to $19 billion in brand value since our start of our title sponsorship in New York. We think that running is the new golf So for TCS, the sponsorship is about giving back It's based in increasing and getting in front of decision makers, While I'm on these long, thinking about nothing I keep having like what if a pothole And what if a family bikes gets onto the course But then I remember because Mark promised me Mark Levine, Manhattan Mark told me all the ways the city helps and how they prevent things and groups of runaway The Department starts work on this 12 weeks out because they have to look mile marathon route the pavement is smooth, that there's no defects. You cannot have a pothole along the route on race day if a crack emerges the night before, they'll have an emergency so that by the morning it's a pristine 26 miles. The dot also removes bike docs and street signs Over the years, the city have worked together to make the event On race day, there's a couple thousand police new York City helping with the route So you're never more The MTA actually is one of First thing is down the Verrazano Bridge. If you've been you know that because of all the road The Verrazano Narrows is one of that has to close down. It averages 200,000 drivers runners for the personnel costs And earlier the idea of charging Roadrunner $750,000 for the toll revenue But the idea was dropped And then once then you've got the cleanup. And last year, there were 200,000 pounds of refuse of Sanitation So the city But as a recent I wanted to make sure Well, some of the workers, whether they're sanitation or EMS or DOT, are working that was already A lot of them are above and they're probably getting I don't know the exact cost. It's in the millions I feel that's I use the word invest because we're Like I said before, Marathon is the world's 50,000 runners and 2 million spectators. So it is great for the days before You cannot get a hotel room You can barely get in New York City. People are coming here. They're spending money. They're probably also going going to see a show, The total impact about $500 million. But even beyond the money, this is good It's good It looks our own spirit. So I think this is every single hour of overtime Selfishly, as someone running this the marathon is worth But I think I'd still agree I've watched the marathon and it really is the most with everyone out All right. We've talked about that support but we're still missing the runners. I am feeling I just ran 14 miles feeling really bad because I hadn't run at all I was falling And then now I just busted this out after work. It is Monday night. I'm back on track. New York Road Runners gives out 14,000 spots for the marathon It's about a quarter And those charity socks $50 million a year. I'm running the marathon Big Sisters of New York City. Big Brothers. Big Sisters that serves 2500 kids a year I've been a big sister mentoring program and it's really fun the organization has up Me and my little Tamara do a ton of random fun activities together and in theory, I'd share something useful, anyway. I sat down with Big Brothers to find out how the marathon How much do you all raise So we raise about $45,000 a year, about two dozen pigs They get about ten slots to their volunteers thank you for their work. Not everyone to become a mentor and I think that that they can contribute So partnering a long way for charities, not only as a way but also as a way to engage with their volunteers. Just real quick, can you just and tell them that and I'm a good person? Macy is an awesome volunteer with Big Brother and a good person Big Sisters She is on our Young Professional Committees She's also a big You heard it here first. I'm a nice person and no one So while I'm running this to be a good person there are some people So with race day time to suss out some of whom are elite like Olympic marathon runner I got to chat with her play in her career I think marathons are like It's a very consistent way Dakotah has been sponsored by Puma since 2021, and her contract her based on her performance If you run under 2:29, dollars, or if you're top ten at a world marathon, it's x more dollars for the year. The marathon is like what we schedule absolutely At least I do. So during this year's a lot of professional need second jobs. Do you have jobs outside of being a professional runner up until making the Olympic I was working full time as a paralegal in part time as a coach. Since making the Olympic it just it got too chaotic. So I do still coach on the side, But for professional runners marathons are their main way for prize pools and bonuses Plus, the exposure profile races gives them more opportunities for side like brand partnerships And the big marathons pay pro runners to come, which is a huge deciding since they make most but can only run two The bigger races are able fees, flights, hotels. They really take care of you completely Have you run all the world I have not. I've done all three on U.S. soil, but I've never made it Do you have any plans That's where like money Those European races don't typically pay for appearances You start to think about is it worth it and lose an appearance fee for to maybe run faster? Now that you gave me I wanted to get in her head Do you think you're Let's both On the count of three. One, two, three, 5:30, 5:29 Okay You got me. All right, well, I'll Do you want to? We could run in, like, and chat Okay, that sounds good. As long as I can beat you right at the end, Like you need it for work. So Dakotah is on board as long as I let her win, So now I just need Ted to let me run in the pro You're the race director. Can I get in Because I don't have and I would really like a Tiffany watch. I think we're friends. We are actually. But the short answer is no. Could I start at, like, mile 20 while the pro runners start at mile one? Unfortunately not. You have to start line and stuff. And after all that. So looks like this thing fair and square. F**k Okay. I just finished I was 18 miles. My knee was kind of from from like mile nine. So it was a brutal But feeling like that that was not the right time I mean, I'm tapering now six out of ten now, the good news is I don't have time to be worried about the running about the video turning out. All right. We're here in Staten Island And I'm I feel like of appreciation now that I know and how many people it took For all the runners not running with the professional I'm running in the correct which is the very last one, but that's okay. The professionals are almost finished by now. They started 2 hours ago to run last call. All right. I'm about a third I'm feeling good. I've had some tough moments, of jokes just about to be Still feeling good just to give it to I'm still feeling good. So we've got the bridge coming up. Okay. I'm about to be I'm not tired, I feel like I can feel But I just realized within the next hour ish, I'll make my goal of under 5 hours. It's going to take me I have to keep up the ten minute mile time I'm going to lock in Just passed mile 18 Which means every step I take right now is the furthest I have ever run. And that feels electric. And even though I've spent several weeks what level of planning goes all of it still seemed like a feat of logistics. So now the only thing left was to become the 2024 New York City All right. I did it! I did it I won the 2024 New York City Marathon. Hey, have you been thinking Wow, Macy's outfits Where did you get those She looks so fast in them. Well, then, do It's all Hoka. I've been running in the new which have been perfect They're light and they have this Pebax which helps with support I'm not a shoe scientist, so I don't know but I do know that And again, that they just look great. Takes a lot to be the best on running pads in New York, I feel like a So if you also want to look this cool go try the Hoka Mach X2's hey, what's up? You guys doing anything good today? I'm so bored.