Tell the person next to you, &quot;I would tell you my &quot;And it's kind of R rated if I told you the real But we're here today to give God glory. One of year... This time of year, you're not coming This time of year, you're coming to church you're in the top 1 percent. As a matter of fact, you come to church the week before Thanksgiving, off of your meal. Isn't that good to Tell the person next to you, &quot;Get a good going to be a little heavier next time you bit.&quot; It's bulking season. Let's clap our We're also preparing this time of year... I on December 10. We're excited to be able to I have my offering ready already, and I'm excited &quot;Thank you&quot; to God for who he has been to confidence that the Lord is our helper, and say that with our lips, so the greatest The Bible says, &quot;Lean not on your own and he will direct your paths.&quot; I don't taxes. I don't like paying even the gas but giving to God to build his church and his So, I thank you in advance, all of you who offering, because we trust in God. It's our official offering Sunday. You can go right and we will believe God with I decided to preach at the end of the year, around our faith. I know that sounds is about faith, but I wanted to zero back This same Scripture from last contains a pretty cool revelation for our &quot;By faith Abraham, when called to go to a place obeyed and went, even though he did not know in the promised land like a stranger in as did Isaac and Jacob, who were heirs with forward to the city with foundations, By faith Abraham, even though he was [too was [not able to conceive]--was enabled to faithful who had made the promise. And so came descendants as numerous as the stars in the All these people were still living by faith promised; they only saw them and welcomed them were aliens and strangers on earth. People who country of their own. If they had been thinking had opportunity to return. Instead, they were Therefore God is not ashamed to be called them.&quot; The title for this message message God Knows You Don't. You know leading up to something? The other day, and before they said the thing they wanted And when they got done saying the rest of it, I shocked you're not a doctor. We've been friends of a little throwaway thing you say just to say, and don't fact check me on it, but I'm like, &quot;I know you're not a doctor.&quot; Isn't it trying to hope, and maybe hold out some aspiration year 1978, a phrase was coined in psychology describe people who had great achievements but had It was almost as if they thought they got those Because of their ability to depersonalize their integrating their successes into their identity. they felt very weak. Although they were in And the term imposter syndrome was coined. a different shade of the same color. something like anxiety or depression. It's &quot;I don't know what I'm doing, and That feeling you get when you're raising your of this you are making up as you go, because and they might run the house, because you thing about even saying stuff like that in branded for certainty. &quot;For we know that our We know that all things work together for the things that always frustrated me about lead me to preach messages that were less about of knowing God has put something inside of me, that very fact. A moment ago, we were singing One time, Jesus asked an interesting question boat to walk on water and all of a sudden the waves. Jesus said, &quot;Why did you doubt?&quot; singing. &quot;That's why I trust him: because because when my money was low, he made That's why I trust him: because I sensed his I trust him: because he gave me the strength to confession comes the question of Jesus. why did you doubt him? Specifically, When, like Abraham, you find yourself in a 8) was called to go to a place he would later even though he didn't know where he was summary of Abraham's journey and resound that sometimes God will call you to go even It is much more difficult to live as if this to obey something today that he will explain much my life is that, many times, God has called me The space between obeying today and God explaining That thing you are unsure of and uncertain on God now. In fact, your uncertainty is God's nothing left to do. If you had it all figured I know we want to pretend like we love God just but the truth is if we thought we knew what we God will leave these uncertainties lean on him. I've been preaching along really, for the last 17 years of Now write these things down, because about God's promises. A lot of times, what we mean is the positive outcomes we promise. God always keeps his promises,&quot; but in God will always give us the outcome we consider God's promise will often be... I'm going to give you often be different than you pictured, slower I thought I'd mention these three things today. slower than you wanted, and Abraham gets to the Promised Land. God speaks You're going to be a blessing. I'm taking Abraham gets there, and did you notice tents in the place of promise. That's picture of a man who is living smack in the place God would give his descendants, I was trying to get you to see that sometimes be blessed but feel stressed. You say, You'll be blessed and stressed. You live truth God spoke and the things you as a promise from God does not mean I will One time a lady said to me, &quot;I don't want it's okay to have depression. My Bible says, is to have the joy of the Lord, to claim the Lord and still feel depressed from time We live in tents. And the tent you live great big calling on your life, contradict will challenge your faith. In these moments, I imagine Abraham rolling up on the Promised give me this,&quot; but none of the Canaanites who of the Jebusites knew about that. None (and since it's Thanksgiving, cellulites) got Do you know what blew my mind? As long as he lived speaking, there was never a transfer of the deed not be until the time when, many generations that the promise God made Abraham would evolve So, don't judge your life by the frame; judge about some things that are different you an example. I've shared it before. to have 100,000 people in the church. buildings. I'd like to welcome our eFam all See, maybe in my mind I saw that looking of fact, do you know the first time we there were five people in the building for So, God told me something he was and it was different than I it's going to be different than you pictured. wants to be an influencer. Influence does does not always look like sponsorship. Sometimes influence looks like something to bring to pass later, but you I'm framing this situation by faith, knowing me to see. Even this Ballantyne building... and slower than you wanted. We were on a A two-year delay from when we thought we in the delay was a mussel that the Environmental The Carolina Heelsplitter mussel, if I for six months to see if there was a mussel on The mussel wasn't even here, but we had to I never thought a mussel would cost me six just paying on something I can't even participate because of something I never saw coming. You know, you can get one text that will back up your But watch this. We got in the building wanted. It was different than people online from nations all over the God says, &quot;I've got a blessing for you, and going to be different than you pictured. It going to go farther than you thought. This is a one is going to reach farther than just your Doesn't being a grown-up feel different keeping it real. Isn't it different &quot;Nobody is going to tell me what to depending on your marital arrangements, The verse touched me because when called to go to a place he would later even though he did not know where he was Let the one who set the destination control the wanting it to happen sooner, thinking it for all of your friends sooner. God compare ourselves to others we have no idea the One of my buddies has this saying. He says, &quot;A lot You don't know. You don't know what the people how they're judged. Remember that young man We couldn't believe it because but deep down in his heart he seeks the envy him for where he is and not know that I just want to talk about this today. I that it's out there somewhere and that when Maybe I should say it like this: Promised Land. Abraham journeys hundreds people. He's responsible for a lot. He's the nations that will come forth from him He must feel a little bit like an imposter. but I said it shouting so I don't think anybody but I'm not going to shout it; I'm just going but he looks like a nomad. You can look like You can look like a nobody but God knows what's in you; you you don't. God knows what needs to happen next; but you don't. And neither does ChatGPT. I asked ChatGPT, &quot;Who is coming to church ChatGPT said, &quot;As an AI, I don't have access including details about who might be attending sitting. This kind of information is typically to those present at the service or those with want to echo what ChatGPT said. Nobody around Even if you told them, it still because sometimes you don't even know. How a man? And the Spirit of God has direct you struggle with but why you struggle it but how you can be set free from it. I'm preaching to somebody...fourth row, third seat. for a reason, for a revelation, for a release a ripple that might be slower than you want, because if he spoke it... God knows something you That's why you didn't die, because he knows came to church even though you didn't fall and flicked those eye buggers off the corners &quot;Devil, God knows what I need. I've got &quot;In my Father's house there are many mansions. he's going to prepare a place for me.&quot; ChatGPT who rejected you don't know that. Sometimes we In Matthew 6:31, Jesus said, &quot;So do not worry, we drink?' or 'What shall we wear?'&quot; God times coming out here to preach today. so now I get up here and don't even know what &quot;For the pagans run after all these things...&quot; Oh, God, I don't want to be a pagan. &quot;...and your it looks different. &quot;...your heavenly Father knows He not only knows the things you need; God knows I don't. He knows which opportunities are really he knows... Imagine Abraham now, going into the in a tent, getting there but not feeling there, text, because it's saying that by faith I God knows this relationship looks good you don't. Many of the things you interpreted in that was less about you... It wasn't that God is leading you now, he knows what you Now, I'm going to show you where my mind went strange things I saw. I was looking at by faith. In verse 8, it says, &quot;By faith Abraham...&quot; Then again in a verse I did not read you, but it my mind was magnetized to look for the words are changed by faith. We are sustained by faith. there's anything you need today that you If you need more provision, more faith will already provided. Out of what God has already if you need more of anything, you need more you need more peace, you need more faith, exits my life without God dismissing them,&quot; Even when people say stupid stuff that offends love in your home, or something like that, just pray silently under your breath, &quot;God, Holy Spirit show them. See how I just helped you drama. You're going to have less to repent for The beautiful thing about it is as much as to everything we need, there's another one. but I just want to show you, because it also It says a very peculiar two words that I Holy Spirit, help me deliver this to your people. Verse 8: &quot;By faith Abraham, when called to go to obeyed and went, even though...&quot; Verse 11: &quot;By faith Abraham, when God tested him, embraced the promise was about to sacrifice his Are you living in an &quot;even though&quot; moment? That's &quot;He went even though he didn't know.&quot; Are you now? &quot;I've got to take this next step after that is.&quot; &quot;I have got to leave here &quot;I have got to show up for this again, and I'm not quitting what he gave so I'm going to do it even though.&quot; I just now. Some of you think you are going to know but Abraham went and obeyed when he was called You don't have to have coordinates. You don't even though you don't know. I promise you can. The first building we ever raised money for million dollars in our first financial campaign When that first group of about 120 leaders knelt down in the parking lot of the Sofa I told them, &quot;We thought we but we're not going to get this building, that they don't want a church to meet and we prayed that God would show us a building, They gave so lives could be changed, and they gave so this gospel could go out all over if you are in an &quot;even though&quot; moment, and take the next one, you are confused. our faith is in the guide who will So, I wrote a statement that you can have for even have to give me credit. I will go as if I'm feel like you're guessing sometimes? Don't you I finally got to interview my favorite &quot;What is the most important thing I need to &quot;We're all guessing.&quot; None of us have takes faith to parent. It takes faith to It takes faith to stay in therapy. I was in working,&quot; until I realized some of the things that using in my children's lives. About the time I and started giving me the advice my therapist gave God knows why you're in it; you don't. God you don't. God knows who he you don't. God knows what he's building. architect. He is the builder. He has the He has the purpose. He drew the picture. Oh, know that you can go not knowing, that you can keep preaching while people that you can just live, that you can that you can just boldly grab hold of &quot;By faith, even though.&quot; If God has got where your truth says one thing but your tent says even though you have no proof. &quot;I'm staying I feel like this is a fighting word but I'll fight with you. You need been coming up in your mind. I don't know what I don't know what has been trying to eliminate your peace, and erode your confidence yourself. Not today! I've been lifting. I've though I walk through the valley of the shadow of I've got a rod. I've got a staff. I've got in the house of the Lord forever! He lived the promise. He was in the place of the Different than what you pictured, slower was Isaac. Not yet. He hadn't even been because when God puts a seed of something in You've been praying for your kids? You've been praying for something to happen that seed was there before they could see it. Even I walk through the valley of the shadow...&quot; Shadow But even though he did not know... See, it's that &quot;Even though he was too old.&quot; because everybody has something that the I don't let the Devil tell me I'm too old He tells me I'm too stupid. He tells me I'm weird. He tells me I'm too raggedy. look at what the Bible said God did for &quot;By faith Abraham, even though he was to conceive--was enabled to become father...&quot; says about him. He became a father of many this one man...&quot; Look at what the Bible says That's about how people will see you. That's not living up here in this promised land, thinking time somebody tries to limit you... I've had I've had people tell me I was not cut out wouldn't be able to come up with a I wish I would have known this sermon to tell don't know. I don't even know. God knows where him step by step. God knows what he has given you That's what Timothy said. &quot;I'm too young.&quot; you because of your youth. Set an example for godliness, and purity.&quot; Don't let anybody know. You've been divorced too many times. Think people who have been through divorce. You've paid God knows; you don't. Even the passage we that Abraham took his son Isaac and laid him down kill his only son, even after waiting 25 years. and him seeing it. We quit too quickly. We have So, it might be slower than you wanted, but inhabit this very land Abraham was living in. you to see him build the altar. I want you who he waited for a quarter century of his life, He waited this long, yet at the moment that what God promised him, there was a ram in the God knew the moment the ram would need to be Whatever has been withheld from your life, whatever seems like the Enemy can you trust the timing of God in this knows what I need, when I need it, and if But somebody who knows it's time by faith for beyond it, stand up and give God praise faith even though! My favorite Bible verse &quot;I know my brother will And Jesus said, &quot;Last day? I am the resurrection even though he die.&quot; We're living in the &quot;even even though. I don't know your &quot;even though&quot;; going through. I just want to encourage you today pastoring a church I never saw, but And I want to tell you about all the stuff you because you don't have the experience. the resources. God knows you don't. That God knows you don't. That you don't feel That you don't have the strength. God knows money. God knows you don't. That you don't you. God knows you don't. That you don't see don't. But just because you can't see For everybody who is stepping through it put your hand on your heart like you don't. That's why it's so important that you don't. God knows what he hopes to accomplish you don't. Admitting that you don't know So, as I minister this message, I don't the imposter. &quot;God, who would I be to am drowning in despair?&quot; I've felt that. anything about the second coming of &quot;I don't speak Greek or Hebrew or &quot;I'll speak the language they need if you and your children. It's going to be slower than you wanted. There might be some some Canaanites, some Hittites, some Jebusites, that you may be complete, lacking nothing, As God told Abraham, &quot;Count the sands on the seashore if you can count declare so shall the ripple effect be generations not yet to be born that will be God, we stand in the &quot;even thoughs.&quot; Oh, the room. Your Word says, &quot;All things work have chosen. I thank you by faith. I this moment, this stage of The greatest miracle of faith of all is that Can you believe it? Even though your sins were Even though we did not deserve his grace... but he gave it anyway. He gave it on the cross, want to give an invitation for those who are in it's 3 or 3,000, I want to stop this whole He has already done the work. It's finished. The final word has been spoken. The only work says that if you confess with your mouth that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. if you're ready to make that decision I'm going to lead you in a prayer right now. We're going to pray it out loud for to God for the first time or coming back to with me for the benefit of those whose moment Heavenly Father, I am a and I believe that Jesus Christ is the and today I make Jesus the Lord of my life. and rose again to give me life. I receive If you prayed that, put your hand up on the count on every location, online... God bless you. Online, you can put it in the chat. &quot;I online. If you just gave your life to out or click on the link if you're online. We hands together and thank God for his Word all God knows; you don't. I pray God would surprise I pray God will give you stuff this Christmas God will give you stuff you gave up on. I pray enable you to see with fresh eyes again, God will God will give you fresh eyes to I pray that he who is able to do immeasurably more your behalf. Can we join hands all over this our daughters, our cousins, our sisters, our the way out. Put some money in it, big One of my friends told me recently the only feel good is when he gets in here. Can you of y'all gave your life to Christ in here. this is a connection to God for you. selfish. We're blessed to be a blessing. Father, we thank you for our connection as you are with us. I thank you for every testimony by your grace of a &quot;God did&quot; in the it done. We thank you for who you are, and we politics. Supernatural carb cancellation hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content what spoke to you today where you're watching you'd like to support the ministry financially continue reaching people around the world for