every time I score a goal I can spend and honestly, Tom needs all the help he can get his striker is 88 rated Havertz! luckily to unlock the first $100, of course our first opponent is a Chelsea fan Trossard is through, let's make this quick Van Dijk... on my back cut across and there's goal number one! give him a little celly the first $100 is unlocked the money has been loaded into the this pack is worth $20 let's see what we can get come on give me someone good, Dutch... ce - Van Dijk?! never mind, it is not St. Juste? it's a double walk out who's behind there? Kondogbia 95 isn't bad, it's better well the rest of the pack is horrible let's see what the $30 pack will give us that is half our money gone in only two packs French... centre-back... who is this? Upamecano! 94 rated? and then we have... Alex Garcia how is the card behind lower rated? whoa... what in the world is this pack definitely some options here let's finish off this last 50 bucks this pack cost $20 and we get a gold card? are you serious?! Bruno Fernandes for $20 - it's not even Bruno Fernandes it's Toone not one usable player in that pack this pack was was recommended apparently they better give us something it's special US striker? who is this? Morgan and? Thuram not bad, but still we need some higher rated cards I want to see like a 90 - wait is this an icon? centre-mid, Italian it's going to be (unintelligible) OH Pirlo?! this is probably our best card yet and he's tradable he's 20,000 coins, how did and the final pack for the end who is this? it's Osimhen! but it's his 92 rated card - I thought it was going to be like 88 rated he's 16,000 coins what has for $100 this team is not looking and the goal is to have a 95 rated to make Tom proud I think we can all agree that the first goal was I have to score a goal which and because Arsenal was let's start with that one a header - that's actually pretty wait Pirlo's hair is actually majestic oh this is it finally, finally Kaka you're so bad head it the ball... cross the back, and head her into the net no! head the ball yes oh that's beautiful Kaka! take a bow that's that's not a bow, looking at the team we have now there's the left back 88 rated Joao Cancelo we need to get rid of him Schmeichel at 89 and then Bukayo Saka, 90 rated winger we need some 95 rated players from this next $100 first $25 let's see what we get icon again... Mexico, CDM wait why did I think it was icon? wait maybe it is icon Alvarez and? give us high rated please... Abily 94 rated, I actually have welcome to the club! she's 18,000 coins for an icon? this pack promises a lot, it's another icon, it's Brazil it's centre-back, it's Lucio and who is behind, Bergkamp? 93 rated that's okay his card doesn't do him justice, and we got Zanetti, what a pack Lucio definitely is worth at least Zanetti isn't discard money is burning, but we do Spanish, left back who is this? Olga? see I wish it was right back cuz then it would 89 rated this is definitely the worst pack yet this is a cheaper kind of pack, maybe Portuguese, right back Leao - oh it's Tiago? who's this Tiago Santos, 92 rated he's I don't know who would actually 4500 FC points what does it even give? 3 over 88 rated guaranteed futties cards this better be good - 4500 FC points Austria, centre-back who is this? Danso's 95 rated okay now we're talking Van Nistelrooy 96 rated! 98 pace, this guy it was worth it kind of how is a 96 rated card 30,000 coins, this is crazy the team jumps up to a 93 rating but the goalkeeper, and the we need to score another goal we need another 100 bucks, I hope the next goal isn't too difficult in two matches maximum because if not I have to discard and go back to the original one alright this time we'll go with number 10... a free kick I have gotten better, but this is probably I'm actually kind of kind of worried Tom is going to kill me if I lose this team now the first step is definitely that is sometimes the hardest part foul me please, ref? foul foul foul ref please call something, oh we actually have oh my days imagine first attempt please go in, please go in he saved it, he saved it it was so close we got to go to the other side, foul me again, foul me again, ref? yes we got another free kick! oh my days this is the one, this is the one, get in the net oh it went off the crossbar oh - oh we have another one this is the quickest I've gotten three free kicks EVER I can't mess this one up why does he have a guy on the line? please go in, please go in off the post again, where am I aiming? this is it, this is finally it, Pirlo! yes it went in! we got our next $100 oh what a goal another 100 bucks is now on the account that took one attempt! wait this pack gives us a player Xavi, Sanch - WOOOOOOO to be honest pretty bad though pretty bad, I thought I got but I guess we take Lineker? kind of a waste which is why I'm getting it again who will we get this time? 90, 89, 93 Vialli! there we go or Blanc no Vialli we need the rating we need this team to be the highest we need to impress Tom all right let's try this one 2,000 FC points basically $20 and we're getting gold not even a walk out? for $20? that sucks please be good. please be good, please be good Keane and? Diego Carlos 95 rated - there and we still have FC points to spare this could be good, it guarantees what will we get... French? left mid? who's this? Saint-Maximin! oh my days, it's just his team of the season oh my days Bompastor! basically Pazjor BomPAZJOR let's go, we have another player definitely one of our more two packs remain what are we going imagine that was Ronaldo and I skipped it? it wasn't it was Bruno Fernandes and the final pack of this centre-back.. is this Skriniar it's Skriniar but we need someone oh 94?! and White I'll never understand why and we got Zalewski people say I look like him, I don't see it the team looks better better already, and Schmeichel in net how many dollars is it going which goal will unlock our next $100? dribble the entire pitch and score where are the easy goals? and it doesn't help that his team is stacked 99 rated Rodrigo De Paul in there I guess we got to go to the all right he's diving into tackles that might help go St. Max no I've lost it already wait last time I did it I went all the way wide... and then I just kept going... and going... and going and - he's so slow oh, oh what a move finish! no he saved it! I kept trying and trying but my time ran out attempt two! please I can't discard $300 of players yeah that was a good, that was cool, that was cool that was very good oh my he still has it I still have it! I still have it! OH MY DAYS, what a goal! Zanetti, thank you and he skipped my replay say it with me... NEVER SKIP MY REPLAYS! never skip my replays! now before we spend the next $100, we already got Van Nistelrooy we got Bompastor and Diego Carlos I want that Lewandowski - I or that Pele card - but I I don't think did you? what's the best card you packed this year? all right this pack has 100 players in it it we might as well start, what do we have to lose I guess 30 bucks - but whatever let's see oh we got an icon ,we got what is this? we got Oblak? oh what a card, we finally have a keeper but we got to discard Van Nistelrooy what is happening to his card there? all we got Jairzinho! he's almost 100K that's like a million now I feel like we should try that can we top that - can we get a 97 rated player it's a special card, it's oh man it's Weston McKennie but it's also Kondogbia and the cards are let's try these player picks again, I don't let me down... 90, 90, there's one remaining we might as well open it come on, something better than 93 are these capped at 92 what's going on? at least we have Ashley Cole you know what this pack is talking to me - let's hope it's... not lying I think it was lying Hummels? I just spent $20 on Sule? do not try this at home Halftime Premium Pack 55 rare gold players? count me in! it's a futties I think Polish, striker! it's me, I packed myself and Skriniar it's not even a at least we can add myself to the squad you know what because there are so many I'm going to complete futties Dybala for him and hopefully he can help us score some goals wait why is he praying to himself? this is now the $400 Squad and we finally replaced Saka and our goalkeeper now we got Oblak and Jairzinho in there but which goal do we score? a volley - yes finally an easy one and we get to do it against a real Madrid fan oh this is going to be sweet oh here we go volley! that's the volley, there we go what are we going to get this time... striker... it's Klose isn't it it's Klose but there's someone behind Philip Lahm! not bad 92 rated, only? Brazil, centreback Diego Carlos and? Vitinha 96 rated, okay and to mark $500 spent, the $725,000 it better be good, I swear who's this we got Pele! not Pele, but the other Pele! and? Diego Carlos again we do have a 97 rated Pele you're welcome Tom he's got to be worth something still under $ 100,000 points $500 spent the team rating is up to 95 this is looking good but what goal number six a power shot - but it has to be crossbar down that might be an issue oh this is it, crossbar! it's got to be harder Vitinha... what about you it's blocked, come on crossbar oh that was close but it's not a crossbar that's it! that might be the crossbar we need VAR oh it went off the post, no way come on Dybala - off the crossbar that wasn't even at the net one final chance crossbar he missed the entire net Vitinha what are you doing? 90 minutes are up and we haven't scored a power or this entire team is getting discarded crossbar, crossbar oh no it's not crossbar okay I'm kind of worried that they're especially getting such an early goal one last chance in the first half... 45 minutes and this team is from here - crossbar please yes! and that's so beautiful! I thought we were going to I was ready to discard the team but Van Nistelrooy with the crossbar and down, and out for this next $100 I'm not reacting starting with this 2500 FC pack come on, start it off well, no reactions another 2500 FC pack this one's a little different and... we're upping at a little 3,000FC Italian, centre-mid, icon once again another Pirlo but behind? 98 Danny Olmo - our highest rated card yet! I knew it was coming, what a card he's almost 200,000 coins and the final pack to mark it better be something special it's an icon it's Pele once again - the other Pele and? Lineker well that wasn't worth $20 to get this to a 97 rating is but look how beautiful it I still want to fix the right side but for chemistry reasons I have them in there board, what is our next goal a bicycle kick you know what out of all these goals I this is it, imagine first attempt bicycle bicycle from here that's not even close! yes - what in the world was that? come on this is it, this is it bicycle oh it's a bicycle we're going to have to VAR check it, oh no it was a scissor kick... no way we keep going, this always happens Dybala, bicycle! that's not a bicycle please, someone, be ready bicycle, that's it it's not in the net though one final chance - 90th minute bicycle, yes! bic - oh my goodness the final whistle confirms it, attempt or this $600 team is getting flush down the toilet time was ticking and I was going to do oh please - yes, oh what a save! I can't believe he got that please, please yes it's a bicycle kick! I didn't think it was going to work but it did 50th minute Danny Olmo take a bow we have our next $100 to make this all worth it we what is this... Italian, centreback is this Califiori? it is he's mewing, but who's behind Virgil Van Dijk - Team of the Year that is amazing how much is this card worth? our most expensive card so what an addition to the team I don't know I have a weird feeling we're we got Lucio and? who is it, who is that? Sanchez we already have him in the squad what about the player pick, maybe our luck hasn't been too great 90 - oh it's horrible and we Canada, right-back who is this - oh it's it's Alistair Johnson 96, and? Mercan and you know what, because we had some one of the greatest centre backs to Harry Maguire! you know what $700 spent and our lowest rated player is but what goal will we have to score? let's try number seven - a oh this is going to be so easy we might even score more than one there's only one player I want to score this with his name rhymes with Shalo Dykala oh off the crossbar that would have been perfect! you know what let's make it off the crossbar, oh it goes off the crossbar again! this is it come on Dybala this is it crossbar! no wait did I hit let's try with Jairzinho, crossbar oh it's a great save - please crossbar down NOOOO! went crossbar down but not in! oh they're going to disconnect I feel it - and they disconnected... I we have one chance left, please crossbar down no that wasn't even in the air oh if this person rage quits as crossbar? oh please, please, false alarm VAR does not please still not in no no no no! we just lost $700 no but this is my fault it was there's only one way to make this right discard a player from my own squad I can't let Tom suffer for what I did it's time to say goodbye to and no... I'm not going to go quick and because we technically failed the challenge we can't open another $100 of and it's going to be number I'm confident I can do this one try - I really need to stop okay look at this what was that never mind, not one okay Dani Olmo no don't foul me, ohhhh now we got to miss it yes, run, no, yes, yes, yes, YES! what a goal - the dribble of a master I'd be happy with that Lewandowski as French striker, PSG it's Mbappe Team of the Season! it's Kolo Muani 97 rated though and Jude Bellingham what a pack! Jude - more than 100,000 coins, awesome Kolo Muani, he's got to be expensive oh we hit the jackpot on this one this one guarantees a futtie's player English, centreback who is this, King? we got a King in the house and then we have... Pavlovic ah wait this is a fate and don't know what that means but we it's an icon French CDM oh no it's a hero Petit - oh, what? it's an icon, why'd I think that was a hero all right we got Petit but who's behind? Schwiensteiger! he's 91 rated never mind halfway through the money and we Szczesny how are we getting gold cards out of a 2,000FC get off my screen this pack marks $800 spent come on it's got to be crazy, it's got it's Pele again isn't it how many times are we going to get this Pele card? and Lineker again it's just duplicate after duplicate two goals remain on the wheel which to make this team as crazy as and call Tom and show him this team but which goal will it be? number five - a chip shot the easiest goals at the end! the only thing is it has to be it's not going to be that easy chip, chip, get in! chip! oh my Kolo Muani what are you doing? chip, get in! yes no it hit the crossbar! chip, get in, yes no what - how are none of these going in? man Dybala definitely shouldn't be taking them chip, now it's in what?! Ter Stegen you got it, you got to relax chip - yes! no off the post now it's in... still not in chip yes! OH IT WENT IN! I could I can't believe it, I can't my goodness I thought we were going Tom would have killed me what are we going to get, French centre-mid? who's this? Thuram and? Diego Carlos just duplicates now what's this going to be... Brazil cen - no not Diego Carlos again show me someone crazy behind, show never mind Mac Allister running out of FC points here, who's this... who is this... no not Bruno Fernandes and, thunderstuck icon? never mind it's Emre Can who is this, who is this Diogo Jota is this a crazy card - it is not never mind never mind to mark $900 spent, make it worth it nevermind what in the world? not even one player to upgrade our team after which is... a panenka bring me my money all right let's do this, now they alright there it is there's the foul I feel like this is probably a bad idea but maybe it goes in? it went in! we have our final $100 let's get this Pele card so far we're at $900 spent for this squad and this is our last chance I've let's see what we get who's this going to be... the centre-mid, Serbian [hello there] 3,000 FC points for this pack please... Pele or Lewandowski who's this going to be it's Osimhen but...there's something please don't let this be a waste it's Alvarez 93 rated - none of these it says it guarantees something crazy who is this... no, no wait 95 okay, okay but who is behind? no not Mac Allister again! the final pack to mark $1,000 spent and we're not going to get Pele - we're - no one good, no one good oh yeah we got Pele - the wrong one! OHHHHHHHHHHH OH MY DAYS we got George Best, how much is this card? not even George Best is a million coins save your money but now it's time PAZ: so when you gave me PAZ: I did some things on it, check it out TOM: okay let's see - what? TOM: oh man, Van Dijk? I don't think I've I hope you guys enjoyed this cuz your team might be the PEACE:)