This is the type of place would have sat in the back some mortadella, This is old school. Come to Mama, guys. The only thing different in here now than there was back then. We have people that come to experience the taste of the mozzare.la. The texture is perfect, right now. I'm ready to form my I'm going to stretch it one last time. -Is that the smoke mozz? You're the best. We're a small store in the back But we're very fortunate that our reputation, our quality, our product draws people in to this location. My dad means the world to me. He taught me everything I know. -It's a family, you come in a few times, -Mike Gay, $2.75. It works. Hi, my name is John Amato. This is my wife, Jane Amato. I work at Fiore's House of Quality. I am now the owner of the store, We're located in Hoboken, New Jersey. The store was founded in 1913, so that's 111 years, right now. And I've been working there Hello, Fiore's. Sure, a whole corned beef Would you like a little mustard on it? Our number one product Then we have a lot of other mortadella, prosciutto, We have all the staples The mozzarella is... it's delicious. It's soft. He really, really knows They go by feel. And people just keep coming back, because you really This place is synonymous especially since Hoboken They jumped off the boat and Famous actors would just want a sandwich, I remember one time, my uncle had me take a package That had to be flown out to while he was playing over in the Sands. And I brought mozzarella from here, It was incredible. Sinatra needed his fix. [ Sings in Italian ] Which means, But, we used to sing that all the time. Entering Fiore's is like We're doing it the same way. Small batches bringing out the best That's our philosophy. Do the same thing over -Next! Welcome to the store. Over here, we have our antipasti. We have olives, octopus, hot peppers. Roasted peppers is This is our main slicing machine. This is where we start On this counter here, we have This is our mozzarella salad. This is oil, basil and tomatoes. This is our homemade smoked mozzarella. This is our dry scamorza. Dry mozzarella, This is our homemade sausage. It's all pork, salt, pepper, fennel. Very simple. In this room is where Mozzarella is the family legacy. What I'm doing here is This way, it cooks each piece. Making mozzarella is It's just hot water, raw cheese, and then get it to the I've learned through the years They told me what to do, And I just kept going with it. All right, so what we're doing is and we're going to We don't want to shock it. We don't want to make it too hot. It's kind of like a jacuzzi. You want to go into a and then you want the My grandfather used this paddle He used to be the mozzarella Everything in this place my uncles, my grandfather. So a lot of history is right here. What I'm doing is I'm it's right where I want it to be. So I'm bringing all the little pieces So this way I can form it into a twist. We make twists. I got it to the temperature wanted. Now, I'm going to remove the hot water to stop the cooking process. The texture is perfect, right now. I'm ready to form my I'm going to stretch it one last time, Make everything nice and smooth. The final stage we do We dip it in a salt water brine. So that'll add a little more Whole milk taste. It's just a very juicy piece of cheese. We're doing something right. You know, when we see customers and when we give them And it's that wow factor, you've seen "Wow, this is great." So it's a nice feeling to see that. That gets us going. I'm going to give you a piece -$15. Here, we're going to be salting We're going to be using them, We're going to add oil and garlic. Well, my grandfather He actually jumped ship, He came here illegally, So all he had was just a letter to his cousin's place in Hoboken. The sacrifices that they made back Hoboken has been My father worked hard his whole life. He worked for Mr Fiore, like I said One of his well known clients was Dolly Sinatra, In 1965 he purchased the business From that point on, carry on the business He worked seven days a week. He was doing 14 hours a day. He was a cornerstone of Hoboken. -He was well known. -Well loved. And the store's been very good to us. And the hard work, We always do it for the kids, -$9.75, please. -Yeah, sure. This town, Hoboken is a town Hey, how ya doin'? Everybody has nicknames, I ordered the Italian special. I get the prosciuttini, the soppressata -That's my game sandwich. You sound like a salesman, but it's good. It's not really what the doctor ordered, And I'm going to die You know what I mean? I don't overdo it. But I still come here because, I've been coming here from like 1980-something. So I moved to Hoboken and I think as soon as we were here, like one day before "Oh, have you been to Fiore's yet?" We were all little kids coming down here, Come down and get a sandwich. But it's always about the mozz. Today's special is the corned beef. Do you like corned beef? All sandwiches come Every day we do Today's special is the corned beef. Our corned beef is like butter. We slow boil it You could do the fork test, she's ready. All right, we're gonna corned beef and mozzarella, First, we're gonna start It's a brick oven bread. You can't beat a brick oven bread, We're gonna add our That's like the foundation We're gonna layer it on there nicely. Now, I'll slice the corned beef All right, we're gonna put Just a smear of mustard. German mustard to go and the Irish corned beef. The German mustard Simple sandwich. That's what we do. That's it. Hey, how you doing? Working with It doesn't actually feel like work. Like I said my father, My two uncles we lost in 2020. That's when I started to work, it was just hanging out with my family. We have friends that come in we have like a little clubhouse [ Laughs ] And the days just pass. -You know, the Amato family's beautiful. In the beginning, of course, And I was a little bit nervous But really, they accepted They were nice, loving They're very family-oriented, the Filipinos are very family-oriented. It's a great family to be part of. One thing about like our family you always feel their presence My grandfather, my two uncles, and I know they're proud of me, because they told me Even like when my father was 88, "You can do it. And you've been doing it for us." And it's a warm feeling to have, sitting in the same chair We have an old wooden chair. I remember my grandfather you know, we're doing it for the family. And one common goal, to bring out the best, Thank you. That's what our mission was, so it was all good.