Hey there guys, Paul here from In this video, we're the differences between Coming up, how to recognize the basics of how each unit works, the differences between each Before we jump into the I just want to take a over at Danfoss for sponsoring this video. Since we're discussing it's worth mentioning that that can help you increase efficiency and bring your system in-line with refrigerant regulations Danfoss have a deep understanding of chillers, air handling and have a broad portfolio of parts to help you enhance performance Find out more about their at AirConditioning.Danfoss.com. So first of all, let's Chillers are used to generate which is pumped around the building to provide air conditioning There are two main types of chillers which are air cooled or water cooled. The term water or air cooled just tells the engineer how the chiller's condenser is rejecting heat from the building. But don't worry, we're going to cover how both of these work in just a moment. Water cooled chillers in the basement or the This type of chiller needs a cooling tower to reject the heat from the building. The chiller produces chilled water and pushes this around the building to air handling units and fan cool units. These units circulate the air around the local space, as well as the building. The air is then forced across the heat exchangers which extracts the unwanted heat before the air is distributed The unwanted heat that is in the chilled water to the chiller where it will transfer over to the chiller's condenser The condenser absorbs this heat and then dumps this into and this runs between and the cooling tower up on the roof. The cooling tower will force ambient air across the condenser water to extract the unwanted heat and reject this heat out of the building and So in this instance, the been cooled by water so it is Water cooled chillers are typically used on large commercial properties You can tell if a building because it will need a cooling tower, which is typically located on the roof. There will usually be and cooling tower and it's not uncommon to have at least two or three, even more just for redundancy as well as And we've covered this system in great detail previously There's some links on the to learn more you can see Air cooled chillers, air located on the roof of the building or outside say in the car park. The air cooled chillers which is pumped around the building to air handling units as well in order to cool the building The air is forced to and local space and will within the air handlers This unwanted heat is again transferred over to the condenser of the It is transferred via a refrigerant, which loops between the and is forced by the compressor. The difference with this type of chiller is that the fan blows which removes the unwanted heat. So in this instance, the been cooled by air, therefore Air cooled chillers are because they need access in order to reject the heat. This type of chiller can usually be found on medium to large commercial property, and there's an example look in the real-world Again, we've covered this in great detail in previous videos. There's a link on-screen now for that, or see the video description AHUs and RTUs, air handling Now these two systems both and they can even look fairly alike. Both of these are used the building and will They will both take in fresh ambient air and clean this through or cooling the air to suit the The main difference between is heated or cooled and to learn the basics of how Air handling units are also AHUs are typically located although you can find these and it's becoming more common to find these more robust weathertight on the roof to free up Their purpose is to distribute air around defined areas within the building. Sometimes one AHU will But it's common in newer buildings to have multiple smaller to provide a better indoor environment, as well as resulting in energy savings. AHUs typically do not have their own cooling system built-in. Instead they will be connected to a central plant, water Occasionally, they will use and you can also find these connected to district cooling networks. AHUs are connected to a defined route for the air In a simple form, an AHU will use a fan to suck in fresh ambient outside air, which will then pass through some filters to remove any dust and dirt. It will then pass through the cooling and heating coil heat are typically fed from Once their air has it will be pushed out around the building. Another set of duct the warm used air from these rooms and will bring this back This fan will then eject the air from the AHU and the many different setups for this, and again, we've covered this in There's a link on-screen or see the video description below. RTUs, rooftop units, these on the roof, as the name suggests. They are very common in shops and small commercial properties and are popular because self-contained, all-in-one HVAC units. Their purpose is to around defined areas within a building. RTUs are also connected to a defined route for the RTUs typically have their own to provide cooling only, a heat source such as a gas fired heater or an all-electric heat pump. RTUs house all the components This contains a number of dampers and can allow air recirculation The unit will also contain as well as heating and cooling coils and at least one central fan. The refrigeration system is also connected to the back or the side of unit, and this is used to The fresh ambient air is sucked in via the fan and passes across the dampers. It then passes through any dust and dirt before its temperature is adjusted in the heat exchanger. The fan then pushes this out into the building to condition the space. Another duct will collect the and will distribute this where it will be ejected or recirculated if that option is available Okay guys, that's it for this video. But before I close this another special thanks to our Don't forget to check of air conditioning parts and solutions by heading over to Don't forget to hit the like, if you've enjoyed this You can also follow us on and don't forget to check out our website, TheEngineeringMindset.com. Once again, thanks for watching.