Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, the most dangerous personality type. What does it mean to have empathy for another feelings of others. This compelling emotion humans do. It's the reason we bother to remember Empathy is the reason you cry during sad other people find love or achieve their dreams. you can see things from their point of view. happy, and everything in between. If you're a those strong emotions right alongside them. our ability to understand and feel empathy for one impulsive, and aggressive. They no longer the empathy of others for personal gain. like narcissists and psychopaths -- people empathy -- but recently psychologists identified combination of traits. Like psychopaths, they have impulsive, and manipulative, but they also The key word here is "cognitive" empathy. emotional responses without necessarily Most people with high levels of cognitive like somatic or affective empathy, but this unique other dark personality traits, an abundance perceptive sociopath who can accurately understand Individuals with this unique combination of traits challenging to identify. They look and act like situations, yet they take pleasure in subtly bullying, intimidation, and exclusion. If you're pay attention to these ten warning signs. can and will take advantage of you. Psychopathic personalities tend to be typically enjoy social situations unless there's approach social situations much differently. significantly more likely to be extroverted and groups of friends, possess good social skills, In other words, they enjoy interacting with people which makes them all the more dangerous. Do you know someone who thinks a little too highly common traits among most dark personalities. susceptible to distorted visions of themselves. traumas to pull on the heartstrings of the their charm and charisma or perceive themselves Instead of channeling their narcissism into hierarchies and self-serving bonds -- anything 3. Paying Your Debts can be especially tricky to separate from narcissism and manipulative extroversion, dark circumstances of other people. In fact, many thoughtful favors for their friends and partners. personalities. A psychopath or narcissist would more significant in return. But dark empaths While they appear to be kind and considerate gain control over you. For example, a dark doing this favor to create a feeling of debt how sacrifices affect peoples' emotions, so 4. The Dark Side of Humor by dark empaths to disguise their manipulative funny, and effortlessly charming people, but destroy threats in their social sphere. another strong personality in their friend group. receives, so they use underhanded jokes to trash claim they're just joking, but their malicious 5. Perverse Satisfaction stirring up conflict? Many dark empaths gain situations. Let's say you turn to a dark empath encourage you, but their advice will drive In other words, dark empaths take pleasure give bad advice, stir up conflict, and play and subtly intimidate their enemies. Ultimately, conflict-driven situations. They have an uncanny and that makes dark empaths the 6. A Different Kind of Narcissist dark empaths from traditional narcissists is their poor judges of their strengths and weaknesses. exaggerate their accomplishments because they On the other hand, dark empaths present they are intensely critical of grandiosity is consistently undermined often to the point of cruelty and abuse. wildly between public and private dark empaths exaggerate their personas and However, in private, their confidence If your friend or partner alternates self-criticism, you may be close to someone 7. Cognitive Separation measures of empathy, they don't necessarily empath identifies how others feel and A dark empath, on the other hand, keeps their and your closest confidante, but a dark empath They are emotionally disconnected from everyone and self-defense. The more disconnected this to manipulate other people's emotions. and emotional intelligence. It may feel soon as they see an opportunity... a dark empath 8. The Dark Saboteur a dark empath goes to great lengths to put is especially true when you introduce these Let's say you are dating someone with this dating for several months, so you decide of friends. A dark empath will work tirelessly their lives. They may change their personalities If you have a dark empath in your life, they in some cases... push you out of it. If they won't hesitate to damage your reputation and 9. Casual Deception form of dishonesty. Dark empaths will bend the to influence your emotions and behavior. attractive, but you're unsure if this person likes be a dark empath. You express your feelings agenda. They don't want you to give attention slip lies into the conversation. They might or "I don't think they will make you happy." comments have on your confidence and motivation. mind. You may cling to your friend because 10. Starving for Affection influence of physical and emotional intimacy. your self-esteem and confidence, so they flood positivity. They're constantly supportive and and meaning in your relationship. But their For several weeks or months, this person they start acting like strangers. Out of and praise you learned to love. Why? Because It's a cruel tactic and a malicious means or relationship. But it's one common way relationships they constantly crave. be sure to subscribe because more