[mellow acoustic guitar] [Peter] This is beautiful. What's the name of the lake? [Marc] Lake Geneva -Lake Leman? But the English-speaking world -Yeah. -Exactly. [Peter] And then today we're gonna go some of the country villages, right? And then hopefully -That would be great. -I got a lot to ask you today that has it together pretty well as far as countries in the world and of course everywhere has its issues where I'm like, hmm, looks like they're doing it right -That's true. That's true. I grew up roughly right there. -Okay. [Peter] I don't think of Switzerland but is this mostly domestic -It is getting bigger like in this caton, Vaud, in Valais, -When you say Canton it's like state? -26, right? -Okay. And you got the Monte Carlo edition. [Marc chuckles] Yeah, [mellow acoustic guitar] Up there you have some fortifications It's pretty interesting to see So that's concrete blocks to prevent -Okay. [Marc] And the built that really quickly, the Nazis were going through France from the lake to the mountains basically. In this area you have two lines. They're seperated by a few villages. I think it's to discourage -Fascinating. The side of the farmers field, and this is going from the lake to the mountains? -More than ten miles I think. -Okay. -They say in Switzerland we have space I don't know if the but it's either you have or you gotta pay something to make sure -I guess we could go on -Yeah. [Marc] And the trail goes uphill really and you see the small house there? -Blueish-green behind the trees there? It's one of these fake house actually. -It's not a real one. It's kind of a bunker [Peter] Okay, that home right there, but it's a bunker with guns? -Yeah, sometimes you can visit. We try to prevent everything here. Okay, tension's a bit everywhere. What have we done in the last centuries We prevent. -You stay neutral, you prevent? Staying neutral When you have a small country You have to be defensive but you also Right, because by numbers against the big powers around you. -Right? Okay, and so here we go. We have the faux windows just painted. At distance they look totally real. -Here's what we have inside, huh? -Yeah. Obviously they're not working -And this is the line you -Yeah, from the lake, up to where the tanks will not go, -So Switzerland was a poor country, The thing is we don't have So we don't have oil, don't have gas. You have stability. Yeah, we went to stability because The army's still a strong army. We just recently bought So how does it work with military here? Does everyone have to serve Yeah, so for the men it's mandatory. So young men, when they're 18 they get and then there are several ways -Okay, so men put their time in they all get a gun. Is that correct? Yeah, most of them, -Either a rifle or normal gun. But the military ammo When you go for training... Uh-huh. You go back to the arsenal, or civil ammo. So you have a gun at home Exactly. [Peter] So I'm guessing they don't want anyone using and then they give the citizens ammo. Is that how that works? Yes, I'm not an expert on that but yes. But that's the military ammo You can have some civil one. You can get some if you have the license because we have as a sport they are shooting, right? -Okay, so you get a license for that -You have many people -Yeah. -Probably he is gonna come back -Don't film the police here? I don't know but you saw -He probably thought In the 13th century especially the Habsburg They started to think and defend ourselves So we can still do our own things and like everyone is happy, right This is how it started. They learned how to deal with Different religions as well. Yeah. And language as well. Like four languages now in Switzerland. -All nationally recognized, correct? -French, German, Italian, Romansh. -Which not many people speak. It's a Latin language though, Romansh? I think so, yeah. It's really... Like the vast majority of people, they -Okay. So there's just an area -Yeah. -Then on the other side It's the place one of our His farm. -Your ex-president lives there? But yeah, he's still in federal council. -You didn't want to get too close -No high wall. Just a farmer's field and a Popeye's. [laughs] Can't believe There's a Popeye's across the road. Yeah, but you have like... Our politicians, at a restaurant or casual shopping. Usually no security. As for many celebrities here, it is safe, and I think it's good also For example, if you have lower class, or the higher class, -In town here, in Rolle? The mood between the classes -Okay, so you're saying wealthy, Now I'm not seeing poor at all. -I mean this is not maybe the poor You would see there are some smaller but no, it's not like the super poor. -Okay, do you have homelessness in places like this -I don't think so or very, very low rates. Like there's always a way -But the law isn't gonna allow They're gonna say, 'cause I don't see anyone here. -They're gonna take care of. You're never gonna get -Maybe in Geneva? Sometimes you see We have many initiatives. -The reason I'm asking these questions because for example, in Skid Row, and things are always changing, most of the people there have access but to stay in the housing you need to play by the rules There is rehab available &quot;I don't want to play by the rules, It's a little more wild and free. And therefore they can live on the street, but I'm guessing in Switzerland The law isn't gonna work in the favor When you're having hard times here from the government you're looking for a job, you should stay healthy I guess or at least if you're on drugs Like someone's gonna find that Not in all cases, So you're being kind of not monitored -You have to follow the rules, right? -[Peter] Your clarity here is exceptional. I mean what is that? [Marc] Yeah, you see the bottom. -I don't know if the camera's getting that -It's like Caribbean. -Oh, really? But yeah, it's really clear. [Peter] So in Switzerland you're not gonna know the exact number -Yeah, even probably more. It's not the building, it's the surface. -Right, the land is worth a fortune. That's what I've noticed There's not much land. There are a lot of mountains -Yeah. But it just seems like there's -...acreage, hectares, whatever you want? Nobody really has 50 hectares of land -No. We have the mountains in the North, -Yeah. [Peter] And this is mid-level wealth -[Peter chuckles] Okay, this guy with the old Maserati? That's a cool old Maserati. -Yeah, you see some pretty nice cars. -Straight out of... I don't know my [Peter] People living in apartments lower income in Switzerland or is that I would say it's more middle. These are pretty nice, close to the lake. -And then we go right into vineyards -Usually when you have lake view Usually these type of houses It's been a long time they're here, right? You could not build something -If it's zoned as agriculture and so I'm sure I'm sure -Yeah. [Peter] This is a nice nice neighborhood. Yeah, it's really nice. In the village, you want to buy a house, the walls are thick, -It's gonna get really expensive. Does it pass down through the generations -Especially for winemakers, yes. [Marc] So we're climbing a little bit now. There's a super nice village on the hill. Like a Beverly Hills mood, right? -Have you been to Beverly Hills? -You've traveled the US a fair amount? Okay, what are your thoughts Personally I really like it 'cause, You rent a car, Culture is kind of similar -How so? How is it similar? The people are pretty welcoming. You guys say, You engage with the people. So as a tourist You feel like you're A few cultural difference of course -Is there anything that sort of shocks you -Yes, if you encounter this phenomenon in or I was in San Francisco lately -Oh, yeah. You're even wondering if the people It's only tents and people everywhere. That's something But's also shocking for you I guess would take care of the problem -Is there a lot of trust Overall, yes. -Overall, yes? And you have what? Is it six political parties I think there's not a restricted amount but the main ones, yeah. We have a bunch of them -Okay, so there's a real balance? -Yeah. -You can't go really extreme -Well I would say the politics are not So they are representing So most of them had a job prior to -Okay. -And they're being elected Because they are -Right. So this is the Beverly Hills -Kind of, yeah. One big factor Obviously the view We gonna see some of it and also you can access the highway 20 minutes you're in Lausanne. The airport in Geneva, You're home very quickly. -So you can live a real peaceful existence -Yeah. -That's what you want. Yeah. Have you ever seen a grave Let me get out for a second. -Is that all right? Oh, this is so beautiful you guys. Check it out. That is cool. So calm. So peaceful. I think in my younger years but make me want to get out, I appreciate the calm Do you guys in Switzerland from the rest of Europe? And the reason I say that is, You have your own currency. We always have that feeling of sometimes, being careful when the others might think what decision the we want to stay neutral basically. That's part of the identity and the reason the reason we did not join Europe. As you could see also and it's kind of normal So you are pretty much not afraid And so I'm not gonna dive into it there's a dark side to everything the banking system here -Yep. I think its secrecy It's like not everyone can just non-descriptly, right? -It changed. I mean we have way less [laughing] because of the Americans. The Americans went hard on that I believe. -To the paint on that one. That's where as a small country You don't have the power to say, &quot;No America, we're not Yeah, depends on who but when it was the America that was rude for Switzerland. -But yeah we have-- -Depends, depends. I mean the banking secrecy and stuff, it's something you don't You were saying doing a video like this, really want to keep things Not really open up Is that the case do you think? I think there's a deep respect -Okay. Everyone has an opinion that matters so I think also truly that -Publicly all the time. Because it could influence the people and it's like when you vote here Like every year, four times. You vote four times a year? Four times there's a voting, Where we vote several laws And you're a direct democracy the people vote on, -Yeah. -And in the US we have our congress, And I'm always very, very clear to you, this is one perspective. We're cruising around and I'm showing you what I see and Marc's opinions, and for me this is how I learn. This is why I love doing what I'm doing through the locals. And I understand that everyone has I think the audience Like just the route today, I was like, near some nice stuff, and I sort of... You know, we could spend all day In the worst part of Geneva, the best part, and that's a story. -Yeah. [Peter] This week's video WiFi and a functioning phone You don't need to stand in line at to get an overpriced prepaid SIM. Instead use Saily. Saily is an eSIM that you can set up before you go on your trip. They offer plans in over 180 countries. Here's how it works, pick the country you're traveling to, choose your data plan, and in minutes you're good to go. For this trip to Switzerland I was upon arrival in the Geneva airport I was online, checking things out. It was as if my phone from home I was good to go in Europe. Saily has exceptional 24/7 and if the app doesn't work on I'm a huge fan of Saily. It makes I strongly recommend downloading To get 15% off use my code Thank you, Saily, for sponsoring who follow me and travel internationally this is exceptional, Again, use my code for a 15% discount. Now back to the story. Do you feel like Switzerland You've spoke about a lot of regulations. I mean part of what makes it strong But also the fact that There's a balance here. Sometimes you see some laws, Like we banned mushroom hunting in this state. The people sometimes get mad -...that sound like they're useless. But on the other hand and probably also For example at night after 10 PM you should not make noise Yeah, so Switzerland is the way it is because you have certain amount But also the fact that we have kind of We can also do referendums -Okay, this is the town of Gimel. -Gimel? Almost like Gmail. -But it was there before Gmail. Okay, these water fountains, I love those and you just put a bottle up to those, Yeah, yeah, most of them you can drink. If it's written, you cannot obviously usually the water is super fresh. As good if not better -And we're gonna meet -Yeah, maybe we stop and I call him. -Yeah, give him a call. -I don't know if I'm gonna call him This is typical Swiss, you don't disturb Usually in Switzerland there is not Right? We like to plan. We like... -Yeah, and I gotta say making a video I have never had plans like yours. I mean the locations of where to go. -It's a matter of, You come here, I mean I give you a plan so you see It makes sense. Yeah, it makes sense to you &quot;Yeah, where is he gonna bring me?&quot; So every country or culture is somewhere in between It's a sliding scale. Switzerland would be one of the most That's probably the case. That's why people and that's why they wanna and that's why they wanna is because there's more predictability. Even if it's false, who knows but it feels like because of the safety and security. It's stable because That goes back to the preventative and I'm in the honeymoon period and I understand there are but when you're preventative a lot of the potential problems versus being reactive to everything. Like I find US healthcare It's like wait until Yep. Versus get ahead of the thing, Yeah. Well I hope we can keep that. To me, this is the way politics Prevent before it happens. I like your war as a last resort So we have diplomacy. That's why Geneva But you guys have gotten of not taking a side. Especially in World War II. Yeah, yeah, because you cannot completely -You have to protect yourself. And at all costs, Switzerland wants to So in a way we had to Such as we are taking decisions right now. And yeah, But I think that almost aligns In US politics. For example, if you're a centrist, I don't want to really pick That's almost looked at as a weak position I think that's what Switzerland It says, &quot;Hey guys, I wanna stay out of this, and I'm gonna go where my interests lie. Yeah, or they would say just put them together around Yeah, and you guys are Like when the US and Iran have to speak Yeah, that's true. Yeah. [speaking Swiss French] -Peter. Little bit English but... [Swiss French] [Peter] Okay, so this is [Marc] You like eggs? -Oh, great. -He also does that with school. He takes the kids, they can see and, you know? I make this cheese. It's the same with the raclette. Gruyere, make this here. -You can, looking in the cave of cheese. [Peter] Kevin, family business? Yes, it's a family. We are my wife and me, but... [Swiss French] -It's the first generation. -I don't have family... -Really? [Peter] That is cool. -The young generation can do something-- -So he can back to basics. [Swiss French] He doesn't come from that world -Because in a lot of places -Yeah. And you don't see many people without a history in it through family. So that's cool. I didn't know that happened here. -Yeah, really. So they are doing the cheese -So they now they stopped doing it. -We can visit the lab. Everything looks new. [Swiss French] It's a small place. -Kevin, you're well set up, look at this. I mean I don't know cheese making -[Marc] It's a press. [Kevin] One night in the press, and after tomorrow, 4:00, we do the bat of salt. It's here. And here is... [machine whirring] One day and one night is 24 hour is the salts with water. [machine whirring] -[Marc] The butter machine. -Yes. [Peter] Yeah, that's beautiful. [Marc] That's the cream. [Kevin] The cream for tomorrow. [Peter] So this is where -[Marc] Yes, the smell is amazing here. Very pungent. -[Kevin] Do you like eating a little bit? [Swiss French] [Peter] Cool, right from the source. [Marc] So how many months here? -[Kevin] Ten months, yes. [Peter] That's nice, yeah. So to have the Gruyere name there's certain regulations -Yes. And they're being controlled -Right? [Peter] Kevin, you can make a good life -Like you can have a good life? [Swiss French] [Kevin] Going tonight? [Peter] No, Zurich. [Swiss French] For the car, you know? [Swiss French] -[Marc] Merci, Kevin. Merci beaucoup. [Swiss French] [Peter] Okay, the name is... -[Swiss French] -[Peter] Do you have a website? Okay, so all tourists and locals need to see Kevin. He's got the good cheese. -What a cool guy. -Merci, merci. What a cool guy. -Amazing, right? As I was saying in there, it's like Actually a little bit I've seen -It's super hard with the economics of it. And so to see this work here, -...is very, very cool 'Cause this is deep in your culture. -It's very important, right? If the cheese makers it feels bad, right? -Okay. This is the identity of Switzerland, the right way with the milk C'mon, that's the identity here. Good work. -Good honest work? Yeah, that's what is there's a big emphasis on quality. Yeah, it's always been like we don't have natural resources Yep. So we do qualitative stuff. We put a lot of emphasis on the good work. Yep. Because it pays. [Marc] I think we should really emphasize -Right. -A job is not only labor It's just also something that can a lot of accomplishment. You feel that when you talk with Kevin. He wakes up at, what, 4:00 in the morning. -I don't even know but he loves it. [Marc] And that's great. So all the cantons, are like US states. They all have different policies and so they even have and different regulations That's true. It's a bit of a battle So it attracts people, right? Attracts money, attracts businesses? At the state level the taxes can be used Yeah. We have an example where municipalities also and cantons, to bring people back. They want to bring family back -In a way that regulates, so. I was researching that last night. I'm sure you know it. -Tax rates. Hopefully this comes out in the camera. I'll just put a screen of it up here. So you have Zug So I'm looking at the far right here. If someone's making a million dollars they're getting taxed 27.5%. And then you can look at a canton like, 43.9%. Or Geneva, 45.4%. So 45.4 versus 27.5 is huge. -Yeah. Yeah. So if you're making $100,000 in Zug you're paying 15.3% and then the Swiss average for 100,000 That's pretty close to the US depending on Where I live, Florida, So the only income tax Yeah. But then you can be in California. I believe the top rate there, -Tax, like state level? That's on top of the federal tax. So yeah, that's massive. -It's massive. And so you better get a lot Yeah, that's true. Because Switzerland, it seems like Again, it depends on where you are. Depends where you are, yeah. If the cantons are more or less poor, they're very high tax rates and then I know is going to other cantons that are poorer and they try to attract wealthy people I don't know exactly how that works with the cantons. -They help each other. It's not as independent as it looks like. They help each other. But does that create tension they're getting taxed highly and that It could but I don't think so. For now, if it's being used wisely. You know the rules, right? This cohesiveness between the cantons. We know they contribute But at least it's staying in your country. America sends I forget how many billion To Egypt? Oh, I mean it's so many countries. And that's what It needs to control policy Is through money and so you're That's how that works. -Yeah. But still as an American tax payer, not to your community, A lot of it is going [Peter] So your taxes for Europe are I mean there are a few outliers or maybe Cyprus I think I forget what exactly Especially compared to your neighboring Yeah. What's healthcare like? You were just saying off-camera. You said it was a bit different I mean the healthcare, -Okay. But we pay for that, right? It's one of the biggest expense What's an example? How much is it? As an example, it could be from 500, to 700, 800 a month. So there's no socialized medicine? There's no government-funded medicine? Unless I guess your low-income, Yeah, so you can get some. Well health insurance is mandatory. -Everyone should pay. But then low incomes at the state level. I mean many people [Peter] What about education? [Marc] It's extremely cheap It will usually be -1,000 Swiss francs. A semester, and you can range from What about your retirement? So you contribute to that and most of the jobs, later on when you're retired. Do you guys have confidence in that? It's really a burning topic right now. We have several votations on that makes it that a lot of people but we don't have enough young people So when you project that you are like yeah, I mean I'm never gonna get what I-- You don't think you will? I truly hope Yeah, I don't think I will personally. The Social Security in the US... But Switzerland's debt to GDP, but I believe it's around 34% debt to GDP. America right now I believe Your debt levels are very low -I mean that's what we-- Yeah, we have some experience -[laughs] Yeah, I think so. [Peter] Okay, so there's an artist here Yeah. So he builds that -So this guy's a legend around here? It's pretty recent I heard -Oh, wow. That looks cool. -That's crazy, right? [Peter] This is cool. [man] It's been two years. I really like people who's civilization and I also really like ants. -The little insect ants. So it's melting between my passion and in fact I think it's the main interest about all life grow up Like society. This small civilization I built about liberty, about a lot of symbol. We can see light here and here. [Peter] Oh, that's cool. -Maybe this afternoon or tomorrow for the top of the tower. -Yeah. Like everywhere will be... -[Marc speaks Swiss French] [Peter] There's so much detail. You have all those skulls down here. -Yeah, there is a lot of skull here. [Peter] What's your name? Francois Monthoux. [Peter] Are you here every day? -Practically every day, yes. But not in winter, it's too cold. [Peter] What if it snows on this? Yeah, it resists the snow. The last winter, like absolutely nothing. I'm not sure for the future. I hope it will resist [Peter] If I may ask, what are Do you absolutely love your county? Do you think it's a great place -I have mix feeling because Maybe a bit of propaganda and now I grow up, now I realize Switzerland is very straight. Everything has to be absolutely right. No place for hesitation. No place for something American has, the expression. No place for be expressive. -Okay, but you're able to show your Fair to say? -I think it's not There is a lot of liberty. Switzerland is very safe. but the mentality, It's good part for hospital, for many part of the human being life it's very good to have For me, it's sometimes a bit of problem. -Okay. [Peter] Look at that, guys. The amount of detail in here. There's behind the scenes. Got the lights here Didn't expect to see this at all here. [Marc laughs] [Peter] Who's shooting? A military training place just nearby. [Marc] The Swiss Army's neutral, you know? And it's heavy machine gun. It's not just like-- -[Peter] So down here they're shooting? -Army base? Did you do time in the military? [chuckling] No, I've been -You got kicked out? Did you misbehave or what happened? I'm not sure. I have the impression Maybe they don't want me, I'm not sure. -They're like, Yeah, it's probably that [Peter] There's always something -Absolutely. I think Switzerland is that's the best off in the world but to get something you have to and if you want all of this stability and you want everything to work, like the artist was saying, &quot;Maybe personal expression You have to-- It's like in a relationship, right? Yeah. If it works you have to concession. Does that mean anything? Like, you know... -Yeah, compromise. Yeah, that's the word, compromise. And this is how you build community. Yeah. Compromise, understand each other, or different? I think you can design If you want to be super creative If you want to work in finance -You can be what you want to be. If that's your driver. As far as politically, I would say these days. But that tension, a lot of it When I'm on the ground with people nobody ever asks or really cares, and like, &quot;Oh, I'm not gonna talk to you.&quot; I mean you could get in those situations it's not like what you see I think traditionally European media's in a negative light for the most part. -Mm-hmm Whether that be British media, Yes, yes, also here. Like they're gonna show the most unhinged Yeah, it's always in the extremes. It's always in the extremes. America is such a massive place. If someone hasn't been it's, it's hard to wrap your head around it, This is 8 million people. That's basally part of LA, yeah. We have 340 million right now, And so the scale and scope of it The more I discover, the more I realize -Not even close. It's like knowledge. The more you know, And people can agree and disagree why people do what they do, and why it is the way it is. [Marc] Hundred percent true. [mellow acoustic guitar] [Peter] Perhaps the nicest parking garage -Really? [Marc] Sometimes they have like in the public restroom for example. I don't know if these are the same purpose so you don't see your veins -You don't see your veins Yeah, potentially. I don't know, They put these lights so you see but it -Okay. [Marc] A few years ago it was really... The drug scene was pretty bad here. -Really? But they opened an injection site. Like they are changing many things -You saw the Kensington video I made? Was there any situation like that? No. But you'd have people You could encounter such people sometimes syringe on the floor. It seems like since they introduced it I mean you see more people here. It feels a bit more safe. -So there's probably They offer the injection sites but you're not allowed -Right? In Kensington they offer the sites -You're not supposed to There is more police presence 'cause people were complaining a lot Okay. -The area has always been really cool. The buildings are beautiful. Flat iron, no? -Yeah, there you go. [Peter] Totally different feel and that's not that far away. Yeah, the density. Even though Lausanne might look like this is the city for the people here and Kevin is definitely -Do you notice a big divide between the rural Like in the US I would say urban areas more liberal politically. -Could be, yeah. -The dynamic. You would see that, yeah. That's pretty much universal worldwide. Yeah, that would be would be so happy to buy -Oh, yeah. -And they completely rely on one another I always find that interesting. The rural people need the infrastructure, and then the urban people always need Like without those rural areas You're not eating. [Marc] I think more than ever, organic food, local food is something In the city you're gonna find marketing on that, right? -Yeah, for sure. -[Marc] Oh, there's a wedding. A wedding? Yeah. Bride and groom. [crowd cheering] I'm the wedding videographer. That's something the tourists -Oh, it's a clock? -[clock chimes] [Marc] Something also happening -Do you come out here every week, Absolutely, yeah. Every day. [Peter] Oh, there we go. -[Marc] The flag is just massive, huh? [Marc] People are proud to be Swiss. [chattering and giggling] [Peter] What's the immigration process From my understanding Do you know how it works exactly or... -I know that it's hard. I mean you must fill up several criterias. You must have been in the country But otherwise if you have a job it might but usually if you have a job like makes sense you are there And you take in a certain amount Yeah, also. Yeah. With what happens in Ukraine, we have -Okay. So is there tension in the country Is that a big conversation I mean I know there are some discussions okay, maybe what's the limit? Because as we were discussing, mountains in the north. We're just living on So we don't have that much area Right. But I also heard that but you don't have that many people Okay. Like the expert would say I mean that's what I read Right, but like all Western countries, your reproduction rate is not keeping up. No. With population replacement. Exactly. It's not 2.1%? No. -So you have to immigrate pretty much? Is that a worry? You lose some of if you do too much of that? -I'm putting you on the hot spot. Truly I don't know. I mean I also think that at some point -Also because of the reproduction rate. So is there a Swissness that Like they really integrate well Depends, but most of the time, yes. Like the ones that integrate... Because for example, I would say called Dearborn, Michigan. It's mostly Muslim. The people living there, the ones More pro-American And most of them told me, and I'm not talking about Switzerland, Because it feels like Like maybe because the US is new. -Mm-hmm. And it's all mixed up, but I don't know what 'cause I think there is more friction Yeah, potentially, yes. I mean also I think there are less We have way less Muslim population Okay, so there's no real tension I mean it could have been Okay. It's still a very like... The percentage I don't know exactly but it's really lower than so even though there And no, usually I think like you The Swiss vibe that there is here. Usually the people from other countries, I think-- 'Cause it's clean, and they respect that a lot. And when they make the citizenship hard when you get it it's a big accomplishment. -I think you have more skin in the game. -Hot topic, like you said. Yeah, but here it's fine. We are doing really well I would say. Look also at People are happy. Like Kevin was saying, It's still a good place to stay I guess. [mellow acoustic guitar] [Peter] So this is the gateway [Marc] Yeah. -And when you look on a map cutting through the alps. Yeah, which... exactly. And you have the river -You have a lot of hydroelectricity, huh? -Yeah, actually they are Potentially even reinvest So potentially we gonna vote You vote for that? Somehow we vote for everything here. -But you were saying the risk to that is that owns a majority of the media, they can really sway the vote Yeah. Push the population That would be really bad out there in Switzerland. 8 million people, the voting population Yeah, wow. 4 million and then the ones that So if you can change the mind That's why it's so important to me we have this proximity Yeah. Also we are not It's kind of... So you don't want to persuade You want to respect them as far as they're going for I just could look at the United States. If we're talking about getting or you only need a little over 2 million, I mean the amount of marketing I mean it already is insane or it would be so competitive. That garbage would be in your face I mean I'm really happy It's still doing pretty well we're gonna keep the dialogue open Nowadays with the media, with internet, I still think that direct democracy It's just super good. Like we choose, right? -But you need an educated population and you need an engaged population. Somebody can be formally educated well but have a lack of That's tough, right? -Yeah, that's tough. Yeah, sometimes when you see you can also ask yourself, &quot;Is it really something But I think it's good to have either get some information or just not vote, right? But this is very controversial, right? -What would you say are in Switzerland right now? Something that comes up in conversation. -The cost of living I would say. I feel like somehow the middle class than it would back in the day. So this is also something Everything is We have great salaries if you compare that but also the cost of living -So what are the salaries here? Let's just say for a teacher, 65,000, 75,000, up to 80, 85, 90 depending on the experience also. -Okay, let's speak in dollars. -So roughly that's in dollars, right? Okay, what's considered I know that this topic is burning, right? Because statistics could tell you -Yeah. But it's absolutely not descriptive The lower incomes should be around 4.5K. But you have people that earn less, right? We don't have a minimum one -You don't have a minimum wage here? -Okay. You should still be paying -Can you live okay on 4.5K a month here Depends on where you live. The rents can double We were by the lake, now we're going You see also -1.68 a liter. -Yeah, usually it's more 1.80, 1.85. Like in the area we were before. [Peter] Look at that, those towns -Yeah. [Marc] Usually when you see a small town, where it gets worse. The buildings are getting older, Then usually you see them, they gonna -They gonna try to-- The canton or the country? Usually the canton for that I would say. It's very rare to see -Okay, yeah, it's not like These towns that had that's fallen off and now they're -You're not seeing that here. Because we have that also, -Here, like-- Actually here, main thing in the area There's probably from the mines in Switzerland -So Marc, you're saying this is one of -I don't know if I can say rougher this would be one of the kind of place There's a bit more crimes Yeah, it's still really nice, right? [Peter] What a letdown. [Marc] I'm really trying to... you know? I asked Marc, I said let's get off 'cause everything looks perfect and show me the worst I'm sure someone's and say you shoulda shown him Yeah, there are worse places obviously. You just type in Google, &quot;Where is the worst part and they're going to say here. -They're gonna say here? One of the worst. Okay, this is not a paid for by [Peter] These gardens look terrible. There are weeds near the train tracks. -That's the ghetto, right? [both chuckle] The Bex train station. I guess you can't always see crime, but from surface level When's the last time you were hunting Is this a first, Marc? You know what, and in Geneva -Okay, so that's a bigger city. 'Cause of the density, right? Also in Lausanne we were too quick Which is pretty wealthy. The west part of Lausanne is a bit worse. Okay, so you have So potentially we were a bit too much Look at that. Grand Theft Auto vibe, GTA. -I've never played it. -It's the same, Let me check where is the worst, right? I'm gonna ask Chat GPT. [Peter laughs] -I threw you a hard challenge, Marc. 'Cause it seems like your map today -Yeah. -You seem like you really knew. You really knew your Switzerland but... -Which are the worst areas in terms of security, crimes, and poverty in the western part of Switzerland? [Chat GPT] In the which includes regions like Geneva, Neuchatel, and parts of Fribourg, it's generally considered safe However, like any area with higher rates of crime, Geneva, certain neighborhoods in Geneva have higher crime rates. This area located near the train station is known for issues related and petty crimes like pickpocketing. While Lausanne is a beautiful the Floh district has been noted and Renens, a nearby suburb has had some concerns about higher crime Especially with youth-related violence. Renens and here. What about Bex, B-E-X? Remote location. Poverty and unemployment, yes. -That's more like the isolation here. &quot;Similar to other towns Bex faces challenges for its diverse population.&quot; &quot;Economic difficulties but these remain There's probably one last Right there. -Let's go to Monthey, okay. [giggling] [Peter] This is looking [Marc] A bit more, yes. I think most of the people here would say because of the rents. Also geographically it's not Weather also. But you can see it's really not bad, -No. [chuckles] I mean it's clean and orderly. -Yeah, yeah, it is. It is. -Nothing says danger -There's never gonna be a place That is awesome, man. I think I'm being serious here. It's a joke in a way like, This is not bad You know, I'm all over the US, -It's also the mentality. Like even in most of the neighborhoods the buildings will -Yeah, you don't see -No, because if there is an issue we should repair So they're gonna... -The actual town's gonna step in and fix? That's pretty cool. [Peter] It's sort of something if this is one of your more blighted towns -Yeah. [Marc] There is a lot of joke and with the French. When you go to Zurich you're gonna Even though it's not as bad Okay, so what were you saying -Usually you see -Yeah. -Potentially they try to compensate but they're gonna say It's cool. Also the accent, we are joking with that. There's a nice ambiance and mood We all have the... For the people in Valais, people They are all left lane campers, you know? -What part of Switzerland Who's the punching bag? Depends on why. The very rural, Giroffle for example, We all joke about the fact that there... we can say that if it's your cousin Because, you know, small town stuff. That's the joke we would do It's never meant to be mean we are different, right? The same with in the US [Peter laughs] Yeah. [Peter] You gotta love -You know why the dogs? These are the St. Bernard dogs. The dogs that go to save you with -Whiskey in the small jar, -Yeah, it's more of a legend but... They are amazing dogs actually uphill in the mountains there. -So this is a highway grocery store stop. -Yeah. Bonjour. -Swiss style? But it's built for tourists, right? -This is one of the nicer ones I'm sure. [Peter] Look at this. All this food out here. Right off the highway, and then you can eat out here Someone's wind surfing. And get the views. That is cool. [men speaking Swiss French] [Peter] Those are avalanche fences [Marc] Exactly. -So when the big snows come in the winter from going down into the valley -That's the story? Also it gets the sun -And so this is the beginning of Valais -Yeah. -And is that beautiful valley with the peaks towering and we can't even -Exactly. -What a place. It's just like most of my videos, We saw as much as we could and I admire Switzerland for many things and that was the point of this video. To show some of the things You can't compare apples to apples, or whatever it is right now but you can learn from people So I appreciate you for bringing us in because me on my own, -Really? It really was a pleasure. Good stuff, Marc. All right guys, Oh, I got another Swiss video it will be the following week on YouTube but on the other side of the country -That's gonna be cool. Thanks for coming along. Until the next one. [mellow acoustic guitar]