Today, I would like to share my language learning success. I'm not suggesting that I'm the Some of the people who kindly like Luca Lampariello, LanguageSimp, better at language learning than I am. But still I have achieved To me, there are sort of six key elements. So let me go into each in a little more detail. The first one to nail down details in the language. Focus rather on patterns, allowing your how you're going to learn the language. I discovered early on that the attempt conjugation tables in French, that that that we are better off resisting. When I left the classroom environment immersed myself in things of interest Very interesting studies, and I'm going box show that with children, their necessarily on intelligence or any on their ability to recognize patterns. This was the major factor determining who Now. The question then arises, how do people To some extent, I think It's a matter of exposure. And in fact, again, they found that greater variety of situations, contexts. So it's not sort of honing in on verb endings or the noun endings, the brain to start to see patterns. And I have found this myself. Uh, I find it very difficult Russian or Slavic languages. Uh, but sort of new patterns, even if of Japanese or Chinese or, Uh, or, or and to eventually to understand naturally of endings of words or nouns or verbs. And this basically conforms to Spitzer pointed out our brains They are not designed to So I think that's a key element, work illusion of learning specific details. You're going to find it Incidentally, uh, this is one of the Chomsky's theory of universal grammar. He claims that there is a, what sufficient input for children to. Now the next aspect of my language of the language, but this tends to grammar that we have within ourselves, from child to child, to recognize has always been in language learning. Now, the next aspect of my Is a commitment to intensity, intensity If I can give myself enough input, enough I'm going to start picking up but it requires intensity. I have often said, or I've said before student in, uh, Hong Kong, you know, I learned it better than the other Kong who took two years because I I think there is a certain white heat of And I see that the different languages Um, where I've been able to spend more to comprehensible input, as was the case short period of time, Romanian and Greek Arabic and Persian, where I have kind of, Arabic, little bit of Persian, little bit Without that intensity, I So intensity of input and focus if we are to establish these. Patterns in our brains. So one of the reasons, for example, that not because there's no chance to speak there is not a lot of meaningful content. There is not that intensity a precondition for learning. At least that has been my approach. The third element of my language of belief in my ability to learn. It's not something that I've started with. The first language is the toughest. I didn't know whether I could achieve And once I had that, I was confident Japanese or any other language that I So until you have done it, It's a bit like this sort of prior somewhere for the first time, or you're we drove, my wife and I, across the and of course, going there, there's, like a long way, but coming back, because seems like a much faster hour and a half. So once you've done something, you in yourself, That you can do it, And I think that's an important attitude don't feel you're making any progress. There are times when you're But if you have that confidence that get there, that will get you there. And again, you'll see when you leave in the description box. A lack of confidence is going to To some extent, you have to give yourself You have to believe that And even when you don't feel you're have to continue to feel confident. It's easier said than done that confidence that I can learn. And I'm not particularly upset I don't set myself a speed goal that As long as I'm doing it, I'm will learn it as quickly as I can. Fourth, an element in my is important is flexibility. When children are very young during The brains are very flexible. The children, you know, we are There's a very high degree And apparently that plasticity declines. And apparently there's a bit of neurons and the stability neurons. And so the stability And so we're reluctant We feel challenged by change. And I think it's very So again, easier said than I'm open to get things wrong. Uh, I'm open to try to imitate new sounds, And I think this flexibility is important. I've quoted before, I've made reference late sixties, Canadian diplomat, who, they say, are you going is ni qu bu qu, If you consider that any of the language are strange or even worse, part of you, then that's a problem. You have to be open to it. You have to throw yourself into the That kind of openness and all successful language learners. Even when it comes to pronunciation, father would continue to pronounce originally from Czechoslovakia. I think we have to be willing to notice We have to try to associate words words are pronounced and not insist How these words are pronounced So flexibility, uh, willingness of language learning success. And the fifth element is Don't be too worried about There's far more to language learning You know, there's far too much emphasis Suggestions, uh, suggesting that if you That the only goal of learning a language That has not been my case. I have learned to varying I can't possibly find people wherever Vancouver with whom I can communicate You don't have to speak in order to learn. You don't have to be an extrovert in If you have a strong interest in the the language, culture surrounding the about how the language functions. You will eventually speak when you becomes important to you to speak. So there need not be any hurry in terms of I'm not interested in proving that in language X, it's not difficult to you can have, as I've said before, I'm going to be undertaking Hindi in And my goal is to find out what's there And of course I will hopefully have in the case of Vancouver, more than a supermarket, I'll be able to say That's fun, but it's not the main goal. The main goal is to learn Everywhere you constantly have you've got to communicate. Listening and reading is a form on the opportunity you have. Obviously, if you're learning to be able to speak it well. And that's a whole other discussion. But if you're learning more than in a situation where you can speak have an opportunity to use them. So I think that as sort of a condition able to speak and speak accurately and And that's what has enabled me to enjoy know, acquire passive vocabulary in being able to speak them all that well. Although I have made videos in a number skill level, and I don't mind showing don't really speak them that well. So the final element, and this kind of into this idea of, uh, having confidence getting a sense of the patterns through commitment to input, and Curiosity, about the language, the culture. And I think this curiosity about the as human beings living on this planet, to learn about other places and how those people seem less foreign to me. And all of these things that relate than performing in the language So, uh, I think curiosity then would maybe the sort of underlying most to be successful in language learning. In any case, those have been my guiding I'm sure there are many others internet with different approaches. And I'll leave you with a couple of these themes in the past. Thank you for listening. Bye.