Split oak wood and mix mortar according to a very special recipe. When Lutz Kuhl from Annweiler builds a crib, he works with a wide variety of materials. As a master crib builder, he is a bit of everything: carpenter and roofer, bricklayer and painter. Lutz Kuhl can do everything you need to build a house - a house in miniature: a nativity scene. It will take a while for Maria and Josef to find shelter here . Dozens of steps are necessary before the elaborately designed crib can find its place under the Christmas tree. We still have to cut it. Lutz Kuhl builds a second level on the base plate of 70 by 50 centimetres. So let's break it down a bit. Plywood is used for the base of the crib. The nativity set builder marks a curved line because that later looks nicer than a straight one. He then cuts the plywood panel with the jigsaw. So that's the second level. Then comes the third level. Well, on the first level, the base plate , the landscape is built on top of it. The second level is about as elevated. Yes? The third level is a bit higher, where the house is on it. Now we build the second level with the blocks. They are glued and screwed. The nativity scene has to be stable, that is what the master nativity set builder demands. It should last 100 years. We have finished the bottom plate, the second level, the third level is ready. Now we come to the body of the crib. Now before we cut the materials, we have to draw the door and the windows on the wall of the house . I need a character for that. We build our crib according to a figure size of twelve centimetres. We use a crib meter. For example, if a door is two meters tall in the original, then it is 14.1 centimeters in a figure that is twelve centimeters. And so it continues with the chair, the table or the window sill, including the door width. Now let's draw... the door and the windows. On the insulating board that will later become a house wall. The dimensions correspond to the size ratio that the crib meter specifies for a figure of twelve centimeters. (whirring of the saw) Insulation boards are easy to work with. From this, the master crib builder cuts the walls for the body: house walls as well as the rear and side walls for the stable. So now we cut out the windows and the doors. We'll do that on the scroll saw. The scroll saw works like a kind of electric jigsaw. Cutting out the windows and doors for the nativity scene is very quick. So now let's take out the part that we cut. And now finish the inner lining of the door. So the door frame. It is made from oak strips that Lutz Kuhl cut to size beforehand. This is normal wood glue - white glue, waterproof. In order for the parts to connect firmly, they must be carefully assembled. So, for this we need two small screw clamps. So now we need a windowsill. We use old wood again. For example, it doesn't look bad at all. Then we cut this away. We can do that very roughly, we do it on the scroll saw. rum dibums. Now we glue this together like we did with the door before, so we do it here too. Now we're going to use hot glue. Lutz Kuhl can try inserting the half-finished window into the wall right away. That would be the framework. What you see here is what you will find on the morning of January 1st, in the squares where celebrations take place. Then there are hundreds of these rocket rods. I then collect them and don't have to edit them. I have them just as I need them, ready to go. Practical: The crib maker makes the window cross from the rocket rods. He only has to cut them to length with the Japanese saw. Now comes the window cross. It's not meant to be 100% accurate. That's not the case in the great outdoors either, if you look at the old houses, there's always a window installed crookedly or the beams have warped over the years so that it's no longer quite straight. The miniature window for the crib is ready. Looks pretty old as requested. Now we next cut the door leaf. For this we use an old clapboard. (Machine noise) Yes, that's a very special piece of wood, you don't have to work on it anymore. No stain nothing, just as it occurs in nature. It doesn't get much nicer than that. The parts of the frame are now firmly connected. Now let's go to the door leaf. That's where hinges come in. Well, I make the hinges myself, I made them myself. I'm cutting a narrow strip out of a tin can. Then I'll take a pair of pliers. I put the nail here and roll the sheet metal around the nail. And this is how the hinge is made. And then I use this nail... in the frame. To do this, I cut off the head. I'll bend the nail here... once. And so I have my hinge. We'll glue that on now, for this I need the heads of the nails and once the superglue. The materials that Lutz Kuhl uses are almost all recycled. What is rubbish for others is a gift for the crib maker. He collects and sorts and reuses almost everything at some point. So, our door. Hm. Now we have it. It is now fully functional. On to. Now we glue the doors and the windows. Even as a child I had model railways and later I made toys for my children. That's how it started with the crib. So I had to build a manger for my children. Then friends and acquaintances saw it and also wished for a crib. At some point my wife said: &quot;Well, you can go to the market there.&quot; &quot;Can you present yourself there.&quot; And that's how I got into crib making. And in 2012 I went to Klusserath on the Moselle. There is a nativity scene association. and I made my master crib builder there. As a rule, only glue and nails and screws are used in crib construction . And you only use hot glue if you need it to be particularly quick, because it is fixed immediately. When it comes to the body, Lutz Kuhl plays it safe: he glues and screws together the parts for the house. Two is better than one. After all, his cribs should last for generations. The window is still missing a little something. But she has it all. So now we're going to put panes in there, a real pane of glass. A film is wrapped around it. Then we make a laminated glass pane out of it, just like on a car. If the disc cracks, then the disc is still whole. And now comes the famous moment. We give the disc a crack. rums! This is what it looks like and that's exactly what we glue on it. Refined: The newly built crib should finally look as if it was already a few decades old. So now we're going to do the panels on the windows and doors. We need old wood again. If I take new wood, I have to work it, I have to stain it and I have to make it look old. And if I use old wood, I don't have to do anything anymore, that's now... It looks old, I don't have to go with stain again. Yes? Now let's put the whole thing together. The body of the crib is taking shape. The cut insulation board forms the back wall of the house and barn. The ceiling is still missing, which is also a special piece. This is a back panel from an old closet. If there is bulky waste and I see something like that, I stop and take it with me. It costs nothing and is always easy to work with. I have to buy the light for the interior. It's going to be pushed in here ready to go. cable is on. A pear comes in later. That's right. The manger builder cast the wall for the back wall of the stable out of plaster . I also made these myself. My son-in-law is a dental technician and made me a silicone mold. where I can pour it all. Good connections are worth their weight in gold for the master. Now the insulating board for the rear wall of the stable has to take its toll. Lutz Kuhl removes part of it with a chisel so that he can lower the plasterboard for the sake of the look. (He blows.) So, we've cut out some of the insulation board here and fitted the wall in so there's a nice transition. Now you can start to see what's going on. So far we have processed material: insulating board, plaster, furniture back panel, plywood, old wood. The only thing that has had to be bought up until now is the socket for the light. Everything else can be found in bulky waste or at home in the attic, you just have to look. Next, the crib builder needs lots of sticks and sticks. And he's already trimmed it. If our materials list is correct, everything should be there. We'll see. Now comes the attic. The struts will later carry the attic. So every 3-4 cm distance. Well, you can fix that too. The rafters are on it, like a real house. A crib builder is a bricklayer, a plasterer, a carpenter, a roofer, everything you need to build a house. Let's see what we have there. Now the attic is being built. shorter. The boards are adjusted with miter shears, exactly at the angle. The next. We'll do that at the front, it looks a bit more weathered, a bit older. The parts of the crib that are visible later should appear as if they are a bit old. The next step is a detail, but important: this is a scrap wire. With the needle-nosed pliers we make a small hook here at the front. This is what it looks like here. Then he comes in there. The lantern is hung here. The hook comes in the middle and we have to pass the cable through. We'll leave that up here. This is glued so that it cannot move away. Now color comes into play - acrylic paint. Next we make the floor in the house. For this I use impact sound insulation, which is placed under laminate. Beforehand, he scratched stones into the thin material with a pencil. Impact sound insulation is easy to work with. OK. The slab with imitation stones becomes the floor for the nativity scene. Now the house is glued on. We're going to fix that here now. Lutz Kuhl glues the house to the third level and then bolts it firmly to the panel. The next step. Now we have cut the rafters. That fits. Yes wonderful. Excellent! This is a pitched roof. Typical for the Alps. The shell of the building is later to become an Alpine crib. Lutz Kuhl also fastens the glued rafters with nails. If someone really grabs the manger by the roof, then they don't have the roof in their hands right away. The crib builder built the chimney out of hard foam. A few stones stick out, as if the plaster had crumbled off. I built myself a little guillotine here. Just two flat irons, a butcher knife. It's a bit slower at first. With his guillotine he splits the shingles for the crib roof, made of oak. If you need 200 shingles, it's exhausting. Of course, oak is far more difficult than using spruce or pine. But oak also has the nicer grain. This is of course important to the crib builder. The roof will be covered later. Before that, the carpentry work is on. Lutz Kuhl builds the substructure for the shingle roof from the cut roof battens. The battens are glued to the rafters, and the shingles will later be laid on top of them. The crib builder needs a whole day to build the entire roof . Simply attaching the roof battens is already time-consuming. It's about ten, eleven on the long side, and maybe eight on the short side. So 18, 19. Each individual wooden shingle must now be laid on the roof battens. Always a bit uneven, sometimes longer, sometimes shorter. If you see that in nature, the front ones are more or less worn out by the rain. And he tries to imitate that, the easiest way is with old wood. I have a friend who is a roofer who tells me if he has any scrap material. The split shingles are all reworked again. Here every shingle is broken with pliers. So that there isn't such a smooth cut. You need a lot of time for that alone. The shingles are offset and laid overlapping, a real test of patience. This is hard work. It's convict work, they say. Later, the shingle roof will age artificially and get a patina. Now we come to our famous crib mortar. The crib is now being plastered. For this we use sawdust, chalk is mixed one to one. Add glue water until we have a nice mash, mix one in five. If it's too weak it will take forever to dry. If it's too strong, it can dry too quickly and crack. This is now specifically a mortar for cribs. It can be edited well. That may well be a bit irregular. Then it looks nicer afterwards when it is colored. The mortared crib now has to dry thoroughly, which takes about a day and a half. After drying, the master crib builder primes the work piece with white dispersion paint. The color covers well and sticks to almost any surface. This is just a primer, the final coat comes at the very end. In any case, the nativity scene will not remain so snow-white, so much can be revealed. That's our pinata, I always say. Lutz Kuhl now needs wood again for landscaping. Now let's start modeling rocks. And this one is supposed to be on the wall. We've already trimmed that. The crib builder wants to imitate rocks with pieces of bark from a white poplar . Later it should look like the crib is standing in front of a rock face. You have to be creative there. The landscaping is time-consuming. It should look as natural as possible. And this is best achieved with natural materials. When you use material that you find in the forest or in the great outdoors. But plastic is also used. So, for landscaping or for designing the landscape , I use packaging material, Styrofoam, it doesn't cost anything, it's in every larger package that you get or package. This is now glued with white glue so that I still have the opportunity to move it. That's important to him, because Lutz Kuhl is a perfectionist. If I do this for myself, I have a lot more time. Then I put it down, put it away again, put something new down, try something different. Then it takes hours until I find the right one. With the help of the styrofoam, smooth transitions are to be created in the terrain. Here I prepared the bricks. Stones can be imitated using various techniques. Here on the floor we scratched it with a pencil. Also scratched with a pencil up here on the chimney. And then traced with the soldering iron. Here in the barn we poured the wall and then glued it in place. Here in front we will now put the Styrodur bricks on top of each other and glue them like a real wall. The edges of the stones are broken before they are glued on . I use a scalpel that a very dear nurse gave me. I was over the moon because you can't buy something like that. Then we put it together like this. So, then comes a flat stone. Lutz Kuhl cut the small bricks out of hard foam, which is also a lot of hard work. As we will see later, this becomes a wall with a granite look. The stones glued together are first pre-treated. You can use this device, which used to be a wallpaper roller. The stones are granite stones that are glued on with Pattex. With this roller you can give the wall a structure. The crib builder uses some self-made equipment that is tailored to his needs. Now it's getting exciting: Josef has his first mission. Let's see what Josef means. From time to time I stand up to Josef to see if the proportions are right. Because Joseph is the measure of all things in the crib scale. Joseph is always standing. And he gives the exact dimensions, right? That fits perfectly. When he stands in the doorway or looks out the window. That fits very nicely. But that has to be enough for now. Now we come to our famous crib mortar. Lutz Kuhl begins to mortar the site. The landscape is modeled with the help of the mortar. I need about two or three hours to mortar the site. The nativity scene mortar has to dry very well again this time. Only then can the site be processed further, so we'll wait and see. In the meantime, Lutz Kuhl has already done a bit of preparatory work, the crib has to be finished after all. After the mortaring, I primed the crib with white emulsion paint. The walls primed with acrylic paint. And I started closing the barn up here. And now let's do the same here. It's more convenient that way. I used scrap wood for this. Everywhere I go, I try to get hold of such materials. You see, this is all pure nature. We don't need to change anything here, no color, nothing at all, just like with the other parts. He often finds old wood suitable for the crib construction during his holidays in the mountains. Glue on, done. Lutz Kuhl is actually always on the lookout, on the lookout for material. You are a nativity set builder all year round. It doesn't matter whether it's summer or winter. You are always collecting and keeping an eye out for where to find what. That looks great. This brings us to the staining of the wood. The shingles are made old. I use a wax stain for this. I made my own mix for this. It says: mix alpine. We'll start with that. It has to be applied very wet, so that the stain runs everywhere. Always apply a bit irregularly, we know that by now. So that the shingles appear as if they were naturally aged. Yes, the color of the wood in the Alps is a bit ... a bit different. It's more weathered, we've painted everything. In the Alpine region it is not painted, the wood remains natural. And this creates a special color through weathering. And that's what I'm trying to do here with the stain. However, until the desired effect is achieved, two more shades of color must be applied to the shingles. Only then is the master satisfied. The nativity scene and grounds are now getting the final coat of paint. This is my terrain color. I use powder paints. They are also called pigment or earth colors. These are colors made from natural substances, not chemically produced. As a result, the luminosity is not as strong, which gives the whole thing a softer, more beautiful tone. We're going to do the whole crib with that now. I use beer as a binder. You can also use wine, you can use lime water. If I use glue water, then I can no longer correct the color, then the color is finally fixed. If I use beer or wine , I can always wipe off the color and correct it again. The binder encloses the pigments of the paint and fixes them on the substrate. (Wiping noises) Lutz Kuhl is painting the manger stable, the house and the grounds with his special brown paint mixture. The crib is &quot;taken&quot;, says the crib builder. This means that the house and grounds are designed with colors. Now comes the trick. So now we have to wipe it off. We have fresh water for that. Squeeze out wet. (Soft wiping noises) Apply the paint thickly so that it goes into the indentation. And then you wipe it very lightly. Anything that is now... above will be washed away, and what is below will remain. You can see that now. With this wiping technique, he achieves beautiful depth effects and interesting shades. Now let's start to really color the crib. We make green on the edges. So. A little green and a little... brown... It's time for the finishing touches. Lutz Kuhl keeps trying until he has mixed exactly the right shade. It should look like moss has formed on the wall. It's supposed to come close to nature or reality. Wherever it is wet, there is always some green. This is now acrylic paint, white. That's what we use for the wall - for the shading. The granite wall is now complete. However, the crib is still missing a number of equipment details. So. Here I've already turned the door on. It has the same principle as this door. Made a hinge with the sheet metal strips and put two nails in here. Glued on, hung. One little thing is missing. Exactly. A hayloft without hay, that doesn't even come into the bag. Our crib builder is much too detailed for that. (rustling) Then we come to the crib botany. That's what it's called in professional circles. This is moss that you can find on the fir trees from 1,000 meters. tree moss. It comes from the Black Forest, from the Feldberg. I'm not really looking for anything, just hoping to find something. So I'll cover up the break. (quiet rustling) (quiet:) Ah, we're getting there. (rustling) The crib stable is also lovingly equipped. Mary and Joseph will be happy. This is real hay, it smells great. Of course it wasn't that small. I had to grind it so small first, and I use... grandma's old coffee grinder for that. It must be 40 or 50 years old. Still came from my grandma. Works perfectly. Now we come to the tree. Yes fits. Just a moment... It's glued and screwed. Mainly because it's a pleasure to get in there. Lutz Kuhl thinks of everything, but what kind of tree is that? Yes, a bonsai. A dead bonsai. I have a bonsai dealer. I call him and he sends me a box full. There's nothing like good contacts. So, now comes the rain gutter. It will be pickled in a moment. Actually, says Lutz Kuhl, you're never really done. There are still ways to further customize the crib. The same on the other side. But now the last brush stroke is done. However, one detail is still missing from the construction of the crib. So, let's put another fence up here. I've only put it down now, it still has to be glued on. It's made from... scraps... of reeds that I cut to size. Then this wire, so this is... looks like a rope that 's used in gardening to tie flowers. This is then braided around here, always ... one behind the other. Is a work of patience. And he has patience, the manger builder. We have experienced that. And - he stays highly concentrated until the very last step. The fence holds. Lutz Kuhl can finally relax. Alright. We're almost done now. The bank is still missing. And the grandfather, in this case it's me, who is now carefully judging the crib here. And? What does he say? Great. Great. It's after every crib, when I'm done I make myself a nice spritzer and sit in front of it and look at my work. And I can't part with something like that either. When I've built a crib like this, on this scale and with this amount of time, I'm not going to give it away anytime soon. It's only when the shelves are so full that nothing fits anymore that I have to part with one from time to time. That is true passion for crib construction. There it is now, the alpine nativity scene - just like out of a picture book. Handmade in more than 60 working hours. You can get it for 500 euros. Lovingly furnished and well thought out down to the last detail. SWR 2018