In the 1st century AD, the Greek orator and "Luxury makes pains seem even harder, and For the person who is always luxuriating and any pain at all, and also not able to feel Dio Chrysostom, Discourses comforts, and entertainments which kings of But with all this luxury, many people are or struggling with physical debilitations. In this video, we explore the intimate connection too many comforts and pleasures are contributing In his book The Comfort Crisis, Michael Easter "We lack physical struggles...We have too cigarettes, alcohol, pills, smartphones, and like working for our food, moving hard and exposed to the elements. But we do have to deal with the side effects health problems." Michael Easter, The Comfort Crisis our lives are, we can contrast modern life faced for much of human history. On a near daily basis, our ancestors walked They expended enormous amounts of energy bringing in persistence hunting which involved tracking in exhaustion. Once they made a kill, they would cut the massive pieces of raw meat. Or as Michael Easter wrote: "Before we figured out animal husbandry professional athletes whose livelihood required Our ancestors didn't "work out," because doing things that today we would classify for these hunters to run and walk more than our forefathers in just three-quarters of now do in a week or two. And they basically stayed at this activity Michael Easter, The Comfort Crisis ancestors endured mental stress without the processed foods, alcohol, and entertaining They endured the elements of nature without heating, and they dealt with sickness and As their lives were difficult, often uncomfortable, evolved an instinctual drive to take full This drive was critical for their survival. Whenever possible they would rest and relax and bodies would recover and find respite When rich food sources such as fatty meat, would indulge to build up energy reserves, meal would be. "...our original comforts were negligible In an uncomfortable world, consistently seeking Michael Easter, The Comfort Crisis for pleasure and comfort, this drive evolved in comfortable environments of abundance. "The modern comforts and conveniences that computers, television, climate control, smartphones, used by our species for about 100 years or That's around 0.03 percent of the time we've new thing for us humans." Michael Easter, The Comfort Crisis conditions of our ancestors, the modern world stem from the fact that our drive for pleasure is practically insatiable. Living in environments of scarcity, our ancestors to a detrimental degree. But in our brave new world of abundance, overindulgence "We are cacti in the rain forest." Dr. Tom Finucane between our insatiable drive for comfort and Easter calls comfort creep. Or as he explains: "When a new comfort is introduced, we adapt Today's comfort is tomorrow's discomfort. This leads to a new level of what's considered have moved the goalpost further away from Each advancement shrinks our comfort zones. The critical point...is that this all occurs We are terrible at noticing that comfort creep us." Comfort creep is most readily on display when As one example, due to the comforts of cars to obtain any product or service we want or of people are living a life of near total Or as Michael Easter notes: "27 percent at all. Literally nothing--life as a sort of prolonged bed." This physical comfort creep is a major cause physical ailments that arise from living an require high levels of activity to be healthy. "The human, simply put, was not designed at the Mayo Clinic. Or as Easter writes: "In our pursuit of better living we've and strengths. Without conscious discomfort and purposeful creep--we'll only continue to become weaker Dr. Tom Finucane pleasures are wreaking havoc on our mind and In Dopamine Nation, the American psychiatrist remarkable neuroscientific findings in the processed in overlapping brain regions and Another way to say this is that pleasure and Our brain is wired to maintain this pleasure-pain neither the experience of pleasure nor pain Whenever there is a prolonged or excessive of pain, self-regulating mechanisms in our tipping the scales in the opposite direction. When we overindulge in pleasure, for example, with pain - be it physical pain or mental Lembke explains that: "I tend to imagine this self-regulating side of the balance to counteract the weight The gremlins represent the work of homeostasis: physiologic equilibrium." Anne Lembke, Dopamine Nation observed in an aphorism titled "The Goal "What? The ultimate goal of science is to create least possible pain? But what if pleasure and pain should be so possible amount of the one must also have that he who wants to experience the "heavenly be "sorrowful unto death"?" Nietzsche, The Gay Science we develop tolerance, and through a process overly sensitized to pain. Not only do we require more of a substance but the pain we experience following pleasure If we are too intemperate, eventually we reach food, pornography, video games, alcohol, drugs, the side of pleasure for so long, and to such balance settles on the side of pain. When this happens, our drug of choice no longer to consume it to obtain temporary relief from For example, in a process called opioid-induced who use opioids daily for over a month are condition than the one they were originally "Why? Because exposure to opioids [causes] their the side of pain." Anne Lembke, Dopamine Nation of any pleasurable activity or substance we "The paradox is that hedonism, the pursuit which is the inability to enjoy pleasure of (and avoidance of pain) leads to pain...When crave our drug just to feel normal (a level Anne Lembke, Dopamine Nation pain that arises from overindulgence through Lembke notes that in her clinical experience is sufficient, and that following such abstinence pleasures of life which do not tip the scales aftershock of pain. "Recovery begins with abstinence. Abstinence resets the brain's reward pathway pleasures." Anne Lembke, Dopamine Nation can utilize what Lembke calls techniques of and willingly [creating] barriers between to mitigate compulsive overconsumption." (Anne Lembke, Dopamine Nation) Homer's Odyssey In the realization that no man could resist men to death, Odysseus ordered his crew to to the mast of his ship. Odysseus understood that when a compulsion capacity for voluntary choice. And so, if we are struggling with consuming not to keep any around and, if possible, create them. With respect to digital drugs, we can restrict allowing ourselves to indulge for a certain the week. This latter method of self-binding was recommended ways to stop compulsively overconsuming a In his aphorism titled "Self-mastery and "...one can avoid opportunities for gratification and ever longer periods of non-gratification Then, one can impose upon oneself strict regularity upon the drive itself and enclosing its ebb has then gained intervals during which one Nietzsche, The Dawn of Day in pleasure, to further improve our life we For just as the pursuit of too much pleasure that involve temporary pain tips our pleasure-pain of pleasure. Or as Lembke explains: "Pain leads to pleasure by triggering the With intermittent exposure to pain, our natural of pleasure, such that we become less vulnerable time. " Anne Lembke, Dopamine Nation exposes us to pain is physical exercise. Studies have shown that the positive mood exercise even reduces cravings for unhealthy Lembke notes that "high levels of physical early adulthood predict lower levels of drug Exercise has also been shown to help those Lembke references studies which show that of neurotransmitters which improve our mood Setting lofty goals and struggling each day that involve mental, emotional, or physical towards pain in a way that makes us happier, "...the self-controlled lover of pain...lives opposite...one's pleasures are both greater pain." Dio Chrysostom, Discourses Cynic was such a firm believer that intentionally he spent his days looking for ways to make He rolled over hot sand in the heat of the in the snow and embraced statues covered in He slept in a clay storage jar, which was out emotional and psychological pain by intentionally He lived frugally, consuming the simplest periods of time without eating - a practice Diogenes is recorded to have said that "Despising and he claimed that by voluntarily seeking far more than the Persian ruler Xerxes enjoyed Many throughout history have labeled Diogenes intimate connection between pleasure and pain, "It is not that I am mad, it is only that Diogenes the Cynic, Sayings and Anecdotes pursuit of pleasure and comfort is crippling numbers of people highly susceptible to pain, Diogenes and intentionally make our lives a little more painful, so that paradoxically, As Nietzsche put it, what we need is "a Or as the philosopher William Desmond wrote: True pleasure, the Cynics often contend, can its opposite, pain. There will always be pain, and so rather than the neck (Stob. 3.1.98), put out the fire and fearlessly stare down the barking dog pains as inevitable, love them...preparing that will come. Ponos, as both "pain" and "labour", his pleasure. More paradoxically, pain is the cause of pleasure, hedonists, or hedonistic ascetics. Or, rather, theirs is the hedonism of nature William Desmond, Cynics