This was one of the most read stories on There's no surprise about that. we didn't, you know, just engage our Let's get specifics. and industries. Well, thanks, Ed. I think, right now. Excitement, perhaps hype about A.I., but You know, we are very far from. AI performing any of the tasks that with the physical world construction, manufacturing, work, carpentry. feasible. becomes so much more advanced, so much with so much better robots, for But it's not something that's going to Now there's a lot of other. perform some social topics. right now either. air psychiatrist anytime soon. you're not going to be left with much Professor, may I jump in and push back I said you were coming on, which is that way that the invention of electricity breakthroughs. in two years or five years from now, redo your calculations? there's a huge amount of uncertainty in I didn't do that. I was very excited. There's a huge amount of uncertainty and what's going to happen with AI in the I don't think that the most optimistic people refer to as scaling laws, When you look at it within the next five just double the amount of data that will And now you're going to get double the We to do that, we would actually need So if you want I do the job of a different kettle of fish when it comes that might be feasible with a different But right now all of the money is going architecture which has its limitations, of high level reasoning. course generative AI and other types of see a qualitative jump within the next 5 What is exactly it based on what data, back on to drive and push forward on Yeah, I think this is why there is so There's nothing that's identical to part of the reason why people can hold But what I'm basing that on is, first of that promised a lot of automation, improvements, sometimes a lot of changes offices and things like that. have been very gradual. two and a half years where, you know, advances haven't really been sort of They haven't really exceeded the sort of 3.4. think any of those advances will very various tasks in the economy. five years time when we look at the occupations that will have completely But many would say that they would be The idea is perhaps the optimist view is labor force, but that productivity will Well, I think that's a yes no. and important point. pessimist. has a lot of potential. exactly what you said, Caroline, which becomes a tool for workers to boost And again, we're seeing some of that You know, Microsoft has a lot of and they give some productivity There are a few areas where we're seeing for example, if you want to write simple programming languages, you know, GPT was pretty good. sort of help to decision makers as But again, when you look at the whole electricians, plumbers, blue collar workers, people who are doing teaching, are things that could be achieved But the reliability and the reasoning of Do you see specific job creation in I. the AI is leading a big boost, which is people who are AI programmers, A.I. activities. a previous way, will be AI. other job category get a boost in terms And there are some other jobs that I So if you're in IT security and you're security, there will be declines in job these A.I. well. is worth $157 billion, when you see that What do you make of that in terms of how the growth here? between Nvidia and Openai, and Vidya is belief that those chips are going to AI and other types of AI are going to But they are generating revenues. hasn't found a revenue model that could seeing at the moment. suddenly their API is going to be so start building on it. kinds of applications that can have deep on automation, of firms that are going ten years. But on the other hand, Openai is also current ecosystem in the digital world Firms that take over the market and they know, interact with the consumers or the Those have become very valuable because pocketed funders.