Hi, my name is Audrey. I'm 26 years old I was diagnosed with papillary with tall cell variant features Outside of cancer diagnosis, pathologist and I love spending time A huge travel fan. I'm involved with my church So my journey to cancer My cancer diagnosis is actually and to about an eight month So I'll kind of start back I moved to Nashville, Tennessee, After And pretty shortly into that first fall, I got sick just with, pneumonia, like bronchitis, really all respiratory, sickness lasted about the whole month, you know, was kind of getting better But I never feel like I've never felt like And so kind of into the new year, things that felt like they didn't with other things. I experienced And just severe fatigue. And then when we got into about March, my So in March, left lung area is super short of breath. And it was kind of then that I was like, So I hadn't even gotten established since I had only been in Tennessee and finding a doctor, you know, Took a while. Found a first doctor, went to him and, told him my symptoms and was dismissed. He did a little bit of blood work, not really sure what else this could be. And I was like, and I'm having all Can we do any more investigation? And after a couple appointments with hand, I want to find somebody else. So went and found a different primary So I came to her. This is at the end of April. Told her my symptoms, and she was like, About that time as well, starting in May, I started to have low grade fevers So that was very alarming. And, you know, proceed with caution, So I told her about that. She was very concerned Because of the shortness of breath, So I had that chest CT. May 25th of 2023, and I was at an outpatient and was kind of waiting a while And then the doctor came in and I knew And he said that they saw immediately. So I, you know, called my parents who are hours and hours My mom hops on a plane in Nashville. So I packed a bag because I didn't know I got to the E.R.. And really, the result of that E.R. situation was they put me on a pretty high for that blood clot, and then had me So I followed up with a hematologist the hematologist and really, several and no one could say with 100% certainty So I was like, wait a second. I've sent to the E.R. for a blood clot. I'm on these blood thinners, and now we're not sure if I did I had a lab. It's called your D-dimer. It was positive, or indicative And I saw pulmonology, hematology, ended up And everyone kind of said the same thing. We can't rule it out completely. Some doctors think I have one. Summed it up to be determined still. So I ended up after that first er, visit back in the ER about a week later. Feeling pretty bad on those blood And about. Yeah, about five days later had this really scary episode The color had kind of drained I was really fortunate that my mom was still with me in Nashville, and, I had an heart enzyme level that was elevated And so they kind of retested that a few And it did. And then kind of went went on my way. And that started a summer of specialist So, I first saw pulmonology, for the blood clot, and they kind of said They were concerned, especially with the fevers and the night So they did some testing for that. And then, that was pretty frequent In 2023. And I saw a cardiologist for that. And then they diagnosed me So inflammation of the lining around your heart So my tricuspid valve flap was not closing all the way So I'm like, Let's put on a medication for that. And thankfully, that medication did clear up the pericarditis You know, since that last fall, which is great, you know, diagnosis And I will say to, diagnosis was about a several, in between. And when I received that blood clot diagnosis, I was like, Like, this is what my symptoms have been leading up to, like, But I just felt such an unsteady, And knew that that wasn't it, And then I got the pericarditis diagnosis and I was like, But I still have that that feeling, to listen to, your gut feeling or your God And I just, I, I knew something still wasn't right, but at that point, You're like, Because it seems like so much. It just seems like that I'm young and I haven't had any During that summer as well, I started to develop these lymph So I had one kind of on this side And a few on the sides of my neck as well. So the swollen neck and, brought that to my primary care provider, in August of 2023. So this is post blood clot, post And I have an appointment with her. And at this point I'm like, So I really pushed It was difficult to get that ordered. And I wasn't, you know, My primary care was great, a family medicine primary care office. Thankfully, But it did take some significant pushing and working with the insurance company But it was approved about a month later. Which was a hard month to wait for, you know, I don't know what I was quite With all of the diagnoses and the symptoms, I definitely had cancer, you know, on the forefront of my mind, I just had that inkling. And I had the Pet scan done in September, and a big tumor lit up on my thyroid. So that was a little bit of a shock. You know, on the thyroid side of things, prior to all of these health issues, I had never even had a surgery. I've never had an IV before. So really pretty healthy. Now, I did have Hashimoto's disease, I was diagnosed with that back And so I knew that I had nodules on by my endocrinologist, and there was nothing ever My mom had thyroid cancer actually, as well, about ten years ago. So, you know, And I'm on my mom's side of the family. Cancer is, is pretty prominent. So my mom had thyroid cancer. Her dad had adenocarcinoma. That started, So while just because that's not I was worried about cancer, But at this point, I just knew So I had a biopsy done of that in October, papillary thyroid carcinoma At this point, as to my long list of symptoms Which ones related to the thyroid cancer Was there something else And so at that point, they recommended It was really quite a blessing It was a pretty easy, and fast process. Which was really great. So I was able to go there So I went to the Mayo Clinic and I think I saw seven different specialists. And testing I had, I think I remember in one sitting My poor arms took quite a beating. But it was a really I was very, at such a prestigious institution and really have some of the best What came out of that, was that they, you know, blood clot Of course. Pericarditis wise, they did see that, but, you know, confirm And then I had, a head And that showed what looked like involvement And so I was able to take that information in Nashville and wonderful surgeon. Because initially the tumor, it was on the larger side, And so we had initially discussed about but combined with the family history you know about, it's looking like lymph And she was like, we've got gotta So I had that surgery the week of Thanksgiving 2023 And it turned out to be a little bit It took a little bit longer. My surgeon said that my thyroid that it was almost adhered to my trachea. So that Hashimoto's that I had had, and of course that, you know, Since I was in high school, regulated for that That, that it was so it was very disease. In addition to that, she saw some She ended up taking or doing a right So she took almost my whole cervical nodes out in the surgery as well. And then I had a couple that were supplying the blood So she had to move one of them. So she auto transplanted that parathyroid gland into my left neck muscle. Medicine is crazy. It was really, I was very fortunate And she did a wonderful job. My scar, you know, looks really good. So then we're post surgery. And recovery. The biggest thing I had to navigate was regulating my calcium levels. After surgery, it took a full month And that month was one of the hardest. Just waiting to hear, to So get that report back. And it said, which is a miracle, the lymph nodes if they usually look like that there is no spreading. And so an absolute I did decide I thought, you know what? Why not get a second opinion? Second, opinions have kind of throughout this whole process, with So I had Mayo review the pathology report and they came back So, their interpretation said that there was lymphoma, So then I took those results back to my, you know, my surgeon And they took my case up to the Vanderbilt Mayo and Vanderbilt consulted when I talk about it is just crazy that, two of the best. You know, when it comes to health care So the result of that was that invasion, but not vascular invasion, It's a good thing So after seeing a few doctors, I kind of, you know, heard of whether or not to do the radiation, Iodine is typically a common treatment As of right now, my doctor's and I have kind of decided and to hold off on the I right now, my tumor markers so I am getting regular check ins I'm on a But yeah. So it's it's just kind of a waiting really looking in good shape. So it's it's been really nice You know, hearing the words remission and feeling like I could breathe. I still was having some lingering You know, like I said, it's cancer related and what was related to My Mayo doctors, the best that they could cancer that I had had some virus When I look at the list of symptoms I had, you know, these crazy rashes on my legs or on my chest. The fevers persisted. I probably had those every single day. It's just all of these symptoms. And so I did, you know, as happy as I was to hear about the remission I, I still was having some symptoms. And so I was like, I don't know, it's just kind of a tricky mind game. Now, thankfully, so I'm I'm really feeling pretty good right now, which is great. So I'm very, very thankful for that. Something really interesting stated that this not Which I'm not so sure Because I've kind of heard otherwise, the family. But it is really interesting to the, And that kind of alarming rates and cancer in young people in general, Some things that have helped me. So first and foremost. Support system has been critical for me. Of course, I moved to Nashville when I moved there, but quickly found, I had amazing coworkers in Nashville. Really found a good friend group as well. And, you know, why did I have to move to Nashville? And then, you know, I'm excited to start But on the other hand, I moved anywhere else, I could have, without the people that I met Like I said, work was incredibly flexible. So kind. I actually had a coworker that was going through a different cancer you know, really found friendship with her and just having someone to talk to that, you know, we also shared So really that community was was a great Cancer does not discriminate. Cancer can affect anybody. And I think that you never think probably at any age, but especially, you know, not having any prior I feel like to my, some of my doctors it felt like a far reach with these my folder that had all my papers summary, you know, of everything I think that it was hard to So it wasn't like a very concrete, you know, short list. And so that even was kind of difficult because it was like, Because I've got like a little bit All of the different symptoms. But I think it's also, and this is the case I was told by, you know, different people and a health care professional, And that is not something You know, every cancer. No, cancer is a good cancer. So that I think that's something to always be cognizant of, to. Is that everyone, whether it be a melanoma, thyroid cancer, can be can have life altering, you know, can change your life forever. And even on the side, like me being young haven't gone through my age, haven't gone And we had a lot of honest conversations Like one of my best friends quite how to respond to this but I don't know how to be there for you. Like, what do you need? And I think just the honesty because I thought, you know, if I was in I don't know, you know, Something that was the most helpful for me just sitting and being there if I need to So, I think having that honest and open and leaning on your support systems, I'm a very independent person. I was like, yeah, like I'm Excited to start this adventure. I've always been And so moving to Nashville you know, recognizing I had a great community there, their resources, and I got better with it But initially, you know, And I had some amazing, and people who offered to take me and things like that, But I think just advocating for yourself, because if you think about if you know that something is wrong your gut is telling you that, towards you, push and everything But at least you have that peace of mind. And doctors are humans too. So I think, you know, when you're not getting the answers because they are humans and And just taking it day by day. I think my greatest takeaway, would be that this is temporary. It's going to pass, in the sense of you always going to need you're not going to Hope so. For me, my faith is really central and that has given me the most hope. I had a friend ask me when I was kind of If I was angry at God for, And was I angry at the situation? Sure. I was absolutely angry at the situation, I was never angry at God. I felt him so close the whole time. In fact, closer, And I think that's really a testament You know, God meets you where you're at. And it's with you. And I think throughout this journey it's, just having that hope to hold on to leaning Listen to that inner gut feeling. And don't think, oh, Or that's, you know, Do your research. Don't overdo it. Right. Don't let it consume your every thought. But just just live in that hope that it's. You're going to get through it. This too shall pass. And, there's a lot of joy I think that's something to throughout in Nashville, it was one of the absolute But it also was one of the most I wouldn't have made, you know, There were so many miracles you know, how could you not have hope?