Hey, everybody. Clay Archer, CEO, Deepsea Technology. And today tools that I used to run my business. Actually, when you started and we started out with ten items, really outpace the rest. So these are those three items. So the first one I'm going to show you Now, I've been publicly speaking And about five years ago, when I went to go back and edit I realized how much I say, Oh. So in the last couple of years, and the number of filler words that I use, but I've never had a real tool And this is where poise comes in. I'm going to jump into the program and I'll show you kind of my process. The way a program works is there's and every time you go into teams or zoom, But it is giving you cues as to your pace, It does that in real time. And so you can see over here energy in my amount of talk time. And actually, once you're done with the meeting, here, it's just going to rank you something And you can see and it can show you And what you rated for each what you're good at, And you can go into each individual So I'm really not surprised I'm pretty passionate about the stuff and I'm pretty confident about it. But you'll see over here my confidence My empathy is probably Nor is my clarity. But what you're able to do with this is go into each one of these things So I'm going to go look along the top here and it's saying my filler words are okay, but you can see him here I'm training poorly in that I say are, saying with and saying was and that's probably because We're talking So I see a lot of acronyms. And that probably is being me on that, a couple of things that I've noticed in really gets you when you have a meeting So a lot of my meetings, I am kind of Obviously, I'm a CEO here, at least a relevant role in it. But there are some meetings where I am or writing something in the background I don't need to be in the meeting, when that happens, it notices and it rates So some of the meetings you see Hey man, what, It's because I I feel like this is an amazing tool for me and to have a coach looking all the time I can see when I'm going too fast, maybe I should ask more questions. The pop up is really great. I really love this. This is $13 a month I think it's a pretty amazing feature. So that brings us to my second choice, by I'm not an amazing Excel user, and I use some really large Excel as pretty much probably everybody does There are times when I'm like, I would love to know but it's just kind of Probably the best way is just to kind of jump right in and show you Guilbert uses a month, which for the average user I probably don't create more than five, You know what? It's 299 a month. But let's just jump right in and show you, or you can use Google Sheets. And then you can do one of two ways. You can either generate one from English, or you can take an Excel formula in and it will tell you what it's doing. It's going to take a couple of seconds. It's going to think about pretty simple formula. Now, what I typically have to do from here and put it into Excel, so I really want column E, two, two, E, 300 and G to you to G 300. I will go and just change that up when I Now also, if I get this formula I can take some ifs and I'll really learn a lot So that's really awesome. Now I can take the same formula and do I can go explain from this formula Amazing. Awesome. Exactly what I wanted to understand, And that brings us to my last one. I saved the best for last. This is Jasper. I've been using Jasper for a while. Jasper is writing tool. It's And the way I think about it is, 20 years, I've been doing We do blog posts, we do newsletters, And Kristi and I meet every Wednesday And so basically in that we write stuff, time takes us a ton of time. And what Jasper does is it really is kind of a writing assistant It's a matter of fact, I have a log in for Jasper. So instead of collaborating together, We both collaborate with Jasper much quicker. And I think the quality of our content So this is the dashboard for Jasper. It's got a bunch of templates They've got some frameworks that are cool You know, but the real genius of Jasper for me I'm going to go into create I may go a new document This is another way but I think the workflows They've got some templates and let's go and just create a blogpost is it's going to step me through, step So I'm totally making this up on the fly. But let's talk about the blog post title. Let's do it. Sounds like a good one. Let's go. Audience is going to be business Let's go casual. We could do formal here, but tend to write in casual That was all It is going to automatically create Our intro paragraph sounds great. So next thing it wants to do I'm going to go back to casual again here. I'm going to go generate here a little bullet list of items That sounds good. I could regenerate it if I didn't like it. I'm not crazy about that. But for the for brevity here, We're going to go with those. And so now from that list, 3.1 or 2.3 are going to be these items. So why you see this powerful marketing So I'm going to go reach low cost and then That's good. I'm You can leave them in Jasper. It's going to do fine without them. But I find that if you want them good to put them in there. I'm not going to read but you can see it's use those keywords and it's really generated something So I'm going to go ahead and click I'm going to go to the next one. Creative need to channel I'm not going to put anything in there. I'm just going to let it generate I could click regenerate the here again and you'll see One other thing is if you go back into the content, So if I ask a question here, So the cool thing about Jasper is that he just wrote and use it to help him He'll also just go out there and search So I'm going to click Control and enter. And if you are on a mac command to enter the line purple and Jasper Now I have it set to generate 50 words That's awesome. And then the last thing it's going to do, when I click on Generate I'll put that in there. And honestly, Now I'm at 960 words. I like my blog posts so I might go back in I might edit this sometimes I send this back to Christy and add a little bit But for the most part, now that took maybe 510 minutes tops. I would slow down a little bit because but I can create a really nice article I challenge anybody to know that I If I was doing a more technical blog, this on a Sony camera, let's just say Jasper will go out and pull Sometimes I fact check that I haven't found that But if I am putting out something and make sure that what I'm putting out Boom, boom. I copy and paste this into And that is a blog post. Done. Hey, it's me again. I forgot to mention and that gives us pretty much It does work on a credit basis and there are some different packages, If you're creating a ton of content, $59 that co-writes Everything with you, If you found this video value, add and also check out If you're a small business owner and are looking for a managed service deepsea technology dot We'd love to have a conversation otherwise