Of all the ingredients of the ancient than olives, and that's what an ancient Mediterranean olive relish. And we'll discuss the many uses of this tree and its fruit in the olive rich civilization of ancient Olives, this time on Tasting History. So today's recipe is called epityrum or olive relish and it was extremely popular in the ancient world. In Plautus's Miles Gloriosis, &quot;If anyone ever saw a bigger liar and more colossal braggart than this fellow he can have me for his own but there's one thing I can say his olive relish makes for insane eating. Now there are several ancient recipes for epityrum but this one comes from the Roman author Cato the Elder. But it's very similar to the way that the ancient Greeks would have eaten it. In fact it was very popular in Sicily which had a lot of Greek influence. Epityrum: select some green black and mottled olives and remove the pits. Chop them up well. Add a dressing of oil, Cover with oil in an earthenware dish and serve. Simple but a lot of ingredients and it's the amount of those ingredients that's going to make So while I will don't feel like you have to follow them. It's But for my version what you'll need You can use black or Kalamata or green or In the ancient world they actually called green If anyone knows please enlighten me because I Varro says, &quot;If you attempt to eat and before they are cured, your palate will And the same is true of the black olive, unless So yeah, brined. A quarter cup or 60 milliliters of olive oil. 2 tablespoons or 30 milliliters of red wine vinegar. 1 tablespoon chopped coriander leaf and if you don't like the taste of cilantro, if it tastes like soap to you then you can use the seeds or you can just leave it out. A half teaspoon of ground cumin You can also use the root or the bulb for but the leaf so rarely gets used and it's nice and Two teaspoons chopped rue, dried or fresh, and one tablespoon chopped mint. So first make sure your olives are pitted. I bought some pitted and I bought some not because clearly I can't read labels, and getting rid of the pits was- well it was Then chop the olives up fine it's really up to you how fine they get. In another recipe by Columella &quot;De re Rustica&quot;, he actually talks about grinding them more like a like a modern-day Then add the rue, the coriander, the mint, the fennel, and the all over them and mix well. Then pour that mixture I mean it's super easy. A nice quick recipe today but the different herbs and everything I'm actually I'm going to let it marinate for a little while while they marinate you can hit the Like button &quot;And the dove came into him in the evening and so no one knew that the waters were abated from off And that was the sign that the Biblical flood was over, an olive leaf. Though sometimes it's translated as olive branch but it's definitely a dove and I don't see how a dove could carry an It could be carried by an African swallow. I mean yeah it could be an African swallow Now back to olives. Olives. Olives have been found all over the ancient Mediterranean in the tombs of Egyptian pharaohs including an and a fragment from the new kingdom shows King Akhenaten offering Now he could carry an olive branch. And it's during olives coming from what is now Greece. The pharaoh from the king of Mycenae and just like the cultures around the Greek islands used olives to Minoan civilization of Crete was due in part In fact there is a tree in the village of Ano two and four thousand years old. They can't get it is that latter that 4,000 years old that olive even if it's only the 2,000 years that's still it still produces olives. But perhaps the most impressive Greek olive tree has to be the one that came from a god. According to the Athenian Attica centered on the acropolis rock. Now and two gods stepped up for the job: Poseidon god of the sea and earthquakes, and Athena goddess of fertility, wisdom, and war. I've always thought that was a very odd pairing, fertility, wisdom and war. Like- well it's not a So it was decided that whichever would become the patron god, and the answer is neither god went that way. Would have made for Instead Poseidon took his trident and smashed it into the acropolis rock and out it was salt water. Wow. Thanks. Now I don't suppose of something more useful than a salt water spring but she was the goddess of wisdom and came up with and out of the hole sprung an olive tree. Guess who won the contest? Hint: the place is now called Athens and not Poseidonopolis. In the 4th century BC Theophrastus father of botany claimed that Athena's tree was alive and well and still giving And half a millennia later in 170 AD the Greek geographer Pausanias claimed that it was tree was planted by a god so you know probably and Herodotus tells a story about when King Xerxes from Persia brought the Persian army into Athens. Supposedly he had the temple to Athena burned and the next and wanted to make amends and so he had &quot;It happened that the olive tree was burnt by but when the Athenians who were ordered to offer they saw that a new growth 18 inches long had sprung Like bamboo this tree grew and it needed to because it's said to be the mother and there were actually inspectors who every month and make sure that they were still there, and if one was found uprooted then the person who got the blame was banished and they came across one of the oddest and kind of coolest writings. It's a speech from ancient Athens by Lysias who 'Defense in the Matter of the Olive Stump.' Essentially he or whoever is reading this is on trial in front of the Boule, or the 500 people who kind of There were 50 from each of the 10 Athenian tribes jury for some things including if you were accused Now this was written around 400 BC but it kind of reads like a spec script from Law and Order Special Olive Unit. &quot;Members of the Boule... I was first charged on the They could find no proof against me, So, members of the Boule, I think it is my there was not an olive tree nor stump upon it. Then he brings in witnesses and uses like logic and historic precedence to to like fight his case and finishes with a closing argument worthy of Matlock. &quot;I do not know, members of the Boule, I have shown you that there was not an olive on You must judge the case, bearing in mind that possible to catch me in the act, he brings and why, although bringing no witnesses, he wants you to I rest my case. But even Athenian olive tree were prized and kept safe to keep them away from their mortal enemy. The goats. &quot;...for by their nibbling they ruin young But because the goat is the greatest offender in So it is that goats found among the vines are that they should pay the penalty of while on the other hand, no goat is ever sacrificed to Minerva, because they are said to make the olive sterile even by licking it, for their very spittle is poison to the fruit. For this reason, goats are never driven into the Acropolis of Athens, except once a year for a certain necessary sacrifice, lest the olive tree, which is said to have its Touched by a Goat with Della Reese. Does anyone remember Touched by an Angel? Just me? I actually never even watched it but I like Della Reese. Anyway, the Greeks. they took their olives really seriously. And that makes sense because olives are very, very the fruit though they did eat the fruit, but they They used it in their ship building because according to them shipworms didn't eat olive wood, and both the cyclops Polyphemus and Heracles used olive for their clubs. But while good for scaring off sheep thieves or the occasional bludgeoning, Heracles found that against the Nemean Lion. &quot;I held in one hand my darts and the cloak from with the other I slung my seasoned club about my ears and smashed it down on his head, but split the wild-olive, rugged as it was asunder on the invincible brute's maned skull.&quot; But the most famous use of olive wood was to make the wreaths for the Olympic game winners. According to the second century poet Flegan of Tralis the first five olympiads had no crown at what a good reward for the victors might be. &quot;Iphitos, do not make the fruit of an apple the prize of this contest, but on the victor's head set now wrapped with fine webs of a spider.&quot; Again cash probably would have been a better prize but when you're in a pinch go for some cobweb laden olive tree. That- that works too. The winners of the game actually also got several was basically like winning cash. In fact Aristotle actually tells us a story of the mathematician and philosopher Thales of Miletus who got rich off of olive oil. &quot;He was reproached for his poverty, which was supposed to show that philosophy was of no use. But he knew by his skill in the stars while it was yet winter, that there would be so, having a little money, he made deposits for the which he hired at a low price because no one bid When the harvest-time came, and many wanted them all at once, he let them out at any rate which he pleased, and made a great deal of money. Thus he showed the world that but that their ambition is of another sort.&quot; So the Greeks invented democracy and capitalism. Olive oil was such a prized commodity because it had so It could be used for cooking of course, but it could also light oil used it to make soap and whether it was Odysseus much anyone on every other page of the Bible, Which had a religious significance. Actually in the Bible getting anointed with oil was so important that it could be used as a punishment going the &quot;Thou shalt have olive trees through all thy lands, but thou shalt not anoint thyself Well that's embarrassing. It really Hippocrates actually calls it the great healer and uses it in Honestly olive oil is so important and has such a long history just in and we will leave it there for today ending with I don't- I don't know when but we will, but for So like I said the olive relish but in ancient Greece and ancient Rome it would like a feta or something that's not too too strong Also add some bread in there because you know and here we are epityrum, ancient olive relish. So like I said I have the bread and everything but I want to try just the It's super salty, like I mean it's brined any different from today but it's shoot out. I was really worried that the cumin it's there. Everything is there but nothing is pretty spot on I think, but let's taste it with Just falls apart. How embarrassing. That's the way to do it. You get a little I mean bread is great but that creaminess from tartness from from the olives and the saltiness and maybe it's because I got some bigger pieces Maybe because it's getting rid of the saltiness you can By the way it's lovely. It's barbecue, or you know whatever like a Appeteezer as we say here in the States, well we shouldn't say that. So make sure to follow me on Instagram @ tastinghistorywithmaxmiller and