This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch thousands of high-quality documentaries by using the link in the description. In the 1950s, the French set aside conventional unlike anything recognizable today. With a cylindrical wing, plans for ramjet land vertically on its tail, this plane would French air space. With planes that could take off from anywhere, angry bees. Conventional airplanes need runways to get Accelerating until their wings generate enough One way to reduce the length of runway needed get up to speed faster and lift off earlier. But in the 1950s, aircraft designers realized runways at all. Instead of powering down a runway, they could And use engine power alone to lift off and The advent of more powerful engines gave rise called tail sitters. A configuration that could potentially revolutionize In any conflict, runways were going to be And their destruction could render entire But tail sitting planes wouldn't need runways... defend vulnerable targets. If engineers could get the configuration to change how and where aircraft could be used. In 1954, a French aerospace firm renowned test rigs to prove the feasibility of the Getting a tail sitting plane to work would Entirely new control systems were needed to It was a daunting engineering challenge for But the French weren't the only ones perusing The Americans had also developed tail sitting And with each plane, they experimented with configuration and flight control. But the French had something more radical The C.450 Coleoptere would barely even resemble engine would be surrounded by a ten-and-a-half The highly unconventional wing promised greater which occur on conventional wings And its needed for takeoff and landings. But the French also theorized that the radical as a Ramjet, compressing incoming air, mixing plane to supersonic speeds beyond Mach 2.0. The wing would be a radical combination of all in one To control the aircraft during take off and vanes in the engine's exhaust. During conventional forward flight, triangular And to help transition back to horizontal on the fuselage nose. But landing the Coleoptere would be challenging. With the pilot's back to the ground, they'd So designers innovated a cockpit with a seat regardless of the aircraft's orientation. The Coleoptere would look straight out of But as an aircraft being designed in the 1950s, pilots would have to play just as much of The Coleoptere began flight testing in April First undergoing tethered evaluation before By May, the plane had proven its ability to up to an altitude of 800 metres. The radical machine made waves throughout The Americans who had keenly followed the reached out to Aerospace firms to study cylindrical But as with most novel designs, flaws soon Without the benefit of a conventional wing slowly spun on its axis during hover. Making control extremely difficult. And perched high on top of a vertically oriented far the aircraft was from the ground And in an emergency, conventional planes could Unlike the Coleoptere, which would always But the French pressed on, confident that By July of 1959, engineers were ready to tackle from vertical to conventional forward flight. It would be a pivotal moment for the program. On July 25th the Coleoptere lifted off vertically. but during its transition, it suddenly became The plane started tumbling back to earth, only barely managing to eject in time. In an instant, the prototype was destroyed, To continue, the program would need to secure But the funding would never materialize. Because the Coleoptere would be the last plane. By 1960, the Amercians had abandoned development The configuration was a dead end. Simply too much of a compromise when it came And far too dangerous to pilot. And as it turns out, directing engine exhaust entire aircraft.. was a more practical and The Coleoptere's cylindrical wing also With less induced drag, it was in theory more But in practice, parasitic drag from the wing's introduced a host of other aerodynamic challenges. Setting aside conventional aircraft building But every so often, it leads to a breakthrough. In a few weeks, I'll be releasing my second This time about a plane that for years was A plane so revolutionary, it fundamentally I'll be releasing it on Nebula, because too risky. Too often educational content is needlessly But with Nebula, I'm free to make the content operated by creators like me. And it's where you can watch exclusive Mustard The best part about Nebula is that it's A streaming service with thousands of big to technology to history and nature. For a limited time, Nebula and CuriosityStream That's less than a dollar a month. Watch high-quality documentaries, and help by going to curiositystream.com/mustard and sign up.