(cast applauds) - Thank you so much, everyone, for coming. No, thank you the ocean. We don't know what's in there (cast laughs) The ocean, we all learned about it, so let's say what we actually It's big, right? - Covers about 71% of the Earth's surface. 96.5% of the Earth's which is basically a monopoly, we should be concerned about that. (Patrick laughs) It's wet, 100% of the ocean Dangerous? The ocean per period of time. - That's true. - Oh my god, he's right. - That's true, I looked that up. - He's right. All the ocean that we have but there's so much ocean that it's actually Undefeated in combat. Every single thing that we have done, or tried to do, to the ocean has failed. Whether we try to take its salt with our desalinization plants, by throwing big icebergs into it, whether we try to vaporize the ocean gets bigger and bigger In fact, there's only one party that has been partially and that is the moon, which is, of course, our ally It's unclear exactly what has been able to do to the ocean, so again, we're not quite sure. Let's say what we don't which is basically what the hell is down there. - Yeah. Now everything that is in into three categories, we and we have horrible mystery. - Oh. - And this graph is because there is way more than there is fish and trash. Let's talk about fish. We got lots of fish in there. Some we eat, some would like to eat us. Some look like snakes. Some are mammals pretending Now the deeper that you get in the ocean, the more fucked up the fish get. - Yes. - At the top, we got normal fish. They're honestly kind of weird, but like as far as fish go, fine. Start to get deep, fish get kinda fucked. You get really deep, the They start to become what I - I hate. - Look at this fucker right here. - What is that? of his bones and his organs. This one looks like Batman nightmare. Every single one of these Every once in a while, It's always something that and we don't know what it is, and it's always a straight up horror show. These I like to call deep monsters. These are somehow worse Now there is one exception, - Reefs. (cast applauds and cheers) - Your applause could (Jess gasps) - Now, reefs. I'm trying to support you. - No, I won't apologize. - Now clearly, the ocean Because reefs are bright and beautiful. Unfortunately, some of the most fucked up fish inhabit reefs. Reefs got little fish that Reefs got little fish that are snakes. Reefs got fish that, when turn into two fish. All of these creatures That one in the middle is a fake fish that lives in a rock and swims around, so. Let's talk about some of the creatures. - I'm sorry. - It's a fake fish that lives - Fake fish, lives in a rock. - That's your description of turtles? - It's an old man who lives in a shell and can breathe underwater. - It can't breathe underwater. The shell is a rock, and it's - Okay, against me now. - I'm being a little bit combative because I'm passionate about this. I just want you to be. - I want you to be open to the idea that this reef situation is beautiful to throw you off guard. - Yeah. - I'll try. I wanna get into a few of them, of the specific creatures Here's the big one, we're all This is, of course, sharks, right? - [Rekha] Sharks. - Sharks are cursed creatures, obviously. They have too many teeth. They can detect tiny They eat anything. And if What I would like you is why the ocean would make sharks. If you think about it, &quot;Come here and die.&quot; That is what the ocean is There's some other weird Whales are impossible creatures. They are much too big. - They sing songs, apparently. - I like it. I think we have 10 minutes of it. - I'm gonna be singing (cast laughs) - And they survive by eating what essentially is underwater dust. Something is fundamentally wrong here, and if you think about that will become apparent. With a whale, the ocean is telling us, &quot;I am beyond your comprehension.&quot; (cast member snickers) Now whales are part of a that I like to call the enthralled. These are aquatic-dwelling creatures that actively cannot survive in the ocean without periodically But they also can't survive on land. Their very existence is a trap. They scream, &quot;I can't live where I live.&quot; (Rekha groans) - Now all of these messages and all of these very good available at my website, (cast member laughs) - Hold on a minute. - Could you go back one slide? - I find it highly after saying, &quot;I can't live where I live,&quot; would put on cool sunglasses. - It's not even over his eyes. That would be cool. - If your sunglasses only went to here. - Yeah, those are Lennon. - They're aesthetic. - What's the problem here? - Those are sunglasses for - Okay, so our main complaint is these are the wrong sunglasses - Your t-shirts will not sell, Zach. I don't know how to tell you that. - You should have showed - Move on. They'll get back to thing we all agree on, buying merch at nothing. (cast laughs and applauds) - Something that unites us. - Can't wait to throw that in the ocean. - Let's talk about trash, the other thing in the ocean, right? There's a ton of trash in the ocean. I'm not gonna get too deep It's out there. It's our fault. It's the size of three Frances. Yes, that is the size of France compared to the United States. There's also a fair amount When a car breaks down, that like squish it into When boats break down, we don't do that. Other kinds of trash, we've Every single plant in the ocean, without fail, is disgusting. - When they touch you, it makes Some of them grow in forests so you can't see what's in Other kinds of trash, bones. Everything that has ever died in the ocean has left its bones there. So why is it that we almost (cast laughs) Something is eating the bones. - I would posit that it is to subsist alone on dust (Rekha gasps) But where's the waste from this? It would have to go somewhere. Well, I would posit that it has been right under our noses this whole time. Ground down, enhance, enhance. - [Rekha] Wait, what are you enhancing? - No way! - Sand is not bone shit. - Sand is bones, bones are sand. (cast laughs) The whales eat the bones into sand. - No way. - Sand is bones, bones is sand. The whales eat the bones. - Let's talk about another kind of trash, fallen civilizations. We love to build by the coast, that's humans and property But aside from Atlantis, we don't really talk about all the cities that the ocean just straight up takes. These are just a couple examples. - What's the one on the left - That's an underwater city and that's another underwater city. (cast laughs) - And what's all around it? - That'd be the ocean all around it. - What's the white stuff - That's the font with the text. - And who are you? - I'm Zach Reino, I've, - How did I get here? - You drove me. We carpooled. - Did you really? - Are serious. - You live together? - No, slow down. Yes, serious. No, we don't live together. - How close do you live to the ocean? - 40 minutes to an hour. - And the sand is the bones? - Sand is bones, bones is sand. The whales eat the bones into sand. - Okay, got it. (cast member squeaking) - Let's talk about the last So to date, we've charted It's sort of hard to sort no pun intended, so let's - Pun taken. - Yeah, don't say that, pun taken. - Oh, okay. It's hard to fathom... (cast giggles) the fact, thank you. Thank you for taking it. - Take it, Paul. (cast laughs) - So taken, so given. So let's talk about this in terms that I think will be easier Let's talk Pokemon Ocean. Let's say that our ocean red, blue, yellow, We found them all, But now I need you all to our ocean that we have discovered, doesn't have 151 creatures And if that is 5% of the that there are 2 million that we have not found yet. - Now how worried should we be about this? Depends on what our and I would posit that it is bad. (cast laughs) - So what can we do? First one's pretty obvious, we need to stop drilling for oil. - Yes. but I think should be said anyway. Let's just stop doing that right now. We need to stop snorkeling Now I know that we, as humans, and fly into the sun or whatever, but it's hubris in the highest form. It's a bad idea, we need We need to stop laying fiber We are doing this a lot. Something like 98% of goes through these things. We've laid like 1.5 million Best case scenario, the Worst case scenario, the at which point it's just game over. And of course, stop leaving our bones where the whales can (cast laughs) Thank you very much. - Wow, thank you, Zach. (no audio)