I was convinced that light doesn't actually slow proved it too, but then I did the experiment So, I really am wrong. Since then, I've spent actually slows down in water. And the thing is, like this is something I've heard about, at various different phases of like, now it if this was true, then does that mean that would have been in this, like, strange packet? there's these waves. Hopefully at this point why light should in fact slow down in water. Feynman lectures, and the thing is, I'd actually and I'd completely believed it as well. wouldn't actually slow down in that experiment. the phase velocity of light decreases when not what most of us mean when we talk about Bob want to send a message to each other, and is by sending some light between each other. to Bob that has some pre arranged meaning. When what we clearly mean is the distance. to get from one end to the other. We'll call quickly a message could get from Alice to Bob. captures what we mean by the speed of light. The was very similar in setup to this. My phone fast that took to travel through the water. information speed slows down significantly. But in Feynman's book, he considers a completely pulse of light, Alice sends a plane wave, which is they're not real. They extend infinitely in They just keep moving along like this. Which before Alice and Bob even existed. People color of light, like a laser. But actually these to be turned on at a certain point of time and Whereas this is like you had a laser that's always what makes them actually completely useless to sees this light, he's not going to think this is oh well, it's the same as it always is. the usual speed of light or the information there's no time difference between when the It's always been there. But, for this type of Look at one of the peaks, and then This is what we call the phase velocity. the phase velocity, not because it's real or a easy to measure. So, for example, in quantum phase differences, um, because it's really easy to because you can compare it to a wave that like, constructive and destructive interference The other reason that physicists love to talk prove things about plane waves and phase velocity Feynman's proof is about plane waves and it proves proofs about plane waves generalise to regular something called the Fourier transform. claims that any pulse of light can be made together. Here I'm going to add a few plane basically become a pulse. Here's 1, 2, 3, 4 Mathematically that is true, but from a physics that this little pulse of light that I just happen basically an infinite number of plane waves that have been on since the start of the universe? that's just not true, is it? Let's go over the why it's enough to show that the phase velocity that that proof showed that the information speed Let's say I have this container full of water light into the container. If we just look at we'll see that each of them is getting hit by which means that all of this You can see that first there's a peak here, and want to figure out what happens to an electron the other electrons weren't in the way, then it in front of it. But it's these other electrons And that's because each one of them is going to that's hitting them. Remember that happens they oscillate. And when a charged particle the opposite direction of the light that hit it. opposite direction of the original light that hit quite right, because the electrons actually oppose case there's actually two forces they experience. but they also experience force from the atoms And so, depending on which of those two electron's light may be in the same direction as It doesn't really matter for the rest of the so I wanted to point it out. So the light that to be a combination of these two bits of light. isn't just going in the forward direction That's because when the electrons oscillate although most strongly in the forward direction. pointing this way and going to hit our electron. you'll see why this is such a big deal. sync with each other. Even though they're still they get to here. The reason that matters so much sending out messages, but because all of the that means that some messages are behind if they're coming from further away. night sky, and the further away an object is, the same way, some of these electrons are behind. We can see that when the light is at a peak, while this one is at a trough. out at this point. From the perspective behind. This electron is seeing that light as all these electrons are bouncing in unison, from look like actually they're not in unison and the The overall effect is that the light is it should be because some of the light from the the next layer. It makes sense that if a plane every time it goes through a layer of electrons, But what about the actual speed of light? Does didn't think so, because remember firstly that all about when they get to the next electron because let's just cut these waves short, which means Now we can talk about how long it takes for them coming from further away, doesn't arrive and so it will look like it's going slower than it went on a less direct route, and it takes However, the strongest bit of the light, which electron in front, does go on the most direct travelling at the speed c. And so if this electron long it takes until it gets hit by light, it Yes, it will experience other light coming all that matters is the speed of the it can confirm that it received a message from way to see the same argument. I'm going to It's like I turn this lamp on and off very of not believing it, that light like this could of this really simple argument I had, which you went. When this light hits these electrons... When you sum all of that up, you're going to so let's not worry exactly what it looks And this is going to happen for every layer. So it's going to jiggle all of those electrons, producing some complicated function of light. this original light moves into a layer, It electrons. So we know the original light is at the speed c and we know that it's producing talking about the speed of light in water, what Or even the electron light, but the light gets to a particular layer, it will and that will add to some resulting light. that's in this layer. So the resulting light is did because they keep in time with each other. who is timing how long it takes for some light to get to the other side. They stop timing as that light was just keeping in time with the that new light to get across the water is exactly This argument seems watertight, but we know that because the experiment showed Morning. So, I spent a lot of time last night But the thing is that, as a theoretical physicist, you know, relying on just pen and paper and experiments in my undergrad, I would always And, so, I kind of, like, you know, and that's what this series is about. I wanted now that I've done this experiment, I don't usual methods, and that didn't work. Um, so, I think what I'm gonna do is I'm going to of the stuff that I've been calculating. but I thought it would just be a way to, like, that I must have some sort of mistake in my... Um, computer to like actually explore what's going on. code. That's right. It's time for a learning as this video makes it look, but it was really What I did was I simulated Feynman's whole and I managed to show that plane waves really So the next important thing I needed to down in my simulation. Now, I was pretty this simulation is just based on two things. which only basically assumes some stuff about And then to upgrade that analysis from plane to write the pulse as a sum of a bunch of plane for each of those plane waves and then is a mathematical fact and so stuff based I know I went on and on about how it's cheating in this case it was and it wasn't. Like, I don't it to confirm, at least mathematically, that this Like even pulses of light would slow down. I'd figure out why that happens without using the except my simulation just wouldn't work. If this wasn't working, then it means that there's I had nowhere else to turn. Like I'd read all [00:16:00] was the only one that made any sense at all of my physics friends and I even started Yeah, nothing worked. And I had. No way to fix my months on it at this point Um, I started feeling it that I decided I just needed to give up on Grant convinced me that I should just make a video And so I revisited my old code and it was that code was so bad to read. In fact, it was thing and rewrite it in a few days. It's this. Those waves travel pretty fast till they well, they're all over the place, but. that's slightly more convincing than what you some water. And what happens is, it continues is the new light that is resulting from the And you can see that that is going a lot slower. the red one, is something going at the speed c, dot actually represents the phase velocity of dot represents the actual information speed because there's a difference between basically It's a little bit technical, but it's actually I've just changed the parameters a [00:18:00] And it actually is possible for the refractive but you might have thought, well, that suddenly greater than C in those mediums. is greater than C, but the information speed, or so you can see the original light coming in, light. But here's something interesting. See the If you follow one of the peaks of the purple this phase velocity, whereas the overall shape of or the information speed of light. Here you can is going to keep in time with that first peak. light. And what this shows is that even the information speed of light is always less than in my code, because now it was working and the lead to the conclusion that the information until I remembered that I kind of already right, like from the experiment. was hopefully some insight into why. And this was giving me none of that. For example, it light going through water, eventually the the original light that's travelling at This could happen is if the electron light exactly like, the electrons have to make this crazy is travelling at the speed c, but somehow the Basically, some of the electron's light has to light entirely, and then some of the electron This is the only way to get around Because basically I was assuming that where the electron light cancels out that felt impossible. It felt like way too much of And so I just didn't believe that that could argument, tells us that this must be what happens, because it doesn't really let you directly see wanted to understand this exact situation. these real pulses of light. But the thing is, because you have to imagine the effect of every simplified down really nicely when you're working at all when you're working with actual light. to do was write a simulation that directly than using plane waves in the background. be a lot harder to write. All right, I figured which is very exciting, so let me show it to you. painfully slow it is. I tried to vectorize and so, in the end, everything is just a red thing is the light that's entering a medium. There's actually 175 of them in this simulation. crazy. In fact, it's It's kind of crazy with for the rest of them. Anyway, what's happening is electrons and they jiggle about, and hopefully Anyway, the more important thing is the purple so it's the sum of the red light, which is the coming from the electrons. We need that purple original light, but let's see if that pans out. least what should be the simpler case. So here we and what we expect to see is that the purple wavelength and also should be going slower. Right like their light is all over the place. because in, um, Feynman's thing, he assumes that it takes a little while for the electrons to And now we can kind of see the behaviour that now looks like it's kind of lagging behind It sort of does look like the light is slowing that to you again so you can see whether blue light because I think it's a little bit So for the plane waves this just about works. At it does settle down and kind of gives you what to be traveling a bit slower. It's a little is and it seems to have a smaller wavelength. get it to actually slow down and I don't know why to have more electrons in the simulation this simulation is very, very computationally like, much higher parameters than this. something more fundamentally wrong. Um, so it's simulation at all. Like, it kind of looks like... worn down by the electrons as they go through. That like, as the light travels through just shave a little bit off the front. More and basically gets cancelled. I think that must kind of suggests that. But it's really not There's still so many bits that I don't I thought that if I wrote this simulation just give me all of the answers. Um, instead half works and I don't know what to think. 2022 for me, and it's almost Christmas again. And don't know why light slows down in water. I feel I'd feel even worse if I made a video where I But I'm kind of hopeful that maybe by telling you some of you might want to take it up. And then I would really love to hear about