When the Gaulish peoples are mentioned, we and a defeated warlord, knelt before the Roman final doomed struggle against Rome, the ancient capable of savagery and bravery in equal measure. peoples, we will tell the sweeping story of which once dominated nearly all of continental difficult to make, so consider liking, commenting existence, so we are reliant almost solely evidence to piece together their culture, of Christ, a scattering of Greek and Romans into their society. Neither offers a complete us with a workable set of information that, but to rely on. can be found in the town of Hallstatt, which peaks of the Alps. It was here, between the operator known as Johann Georg Ramsauer excavated community. The material culture discovered the town, it was discovered in, and is widely society. up into four chronological phases, based on Hallstatt-A and B emerged in the late Bronze It was initially a minor deviation of the culture prominent across much of central Europe. copper, and tin, and trading them to outlying salt was used to preserve meat in winters, the most precious metal of the era. The peoples from this trade, which remained a core part Around 800 BC, ironworking was introduced and Greeks. This started the Hallstatt-C era, as a culture distinct from the Urnfield complex. populating them with artisans and warriors, It was at this point in the early iron age and social inequality, becoming more hierarchical. B eras were uniformly simple and egalitarian C onwards show a great disparity in wealth were great barrow mounds, the resting place buried alongside their treasures such as collars, bronze, iron and gold. These valuables oft motifs. The presence of ivory and amber in trade networks that extended as far out as Equestrianism was likely a symbol of power the presence of a distinct style of slender suited for cavalry warfare. Additionally, ceremonial bridles, tackles, and ornate horse-drawn aristocratic society was likely due to contact they adapted the horse and wagon as symbols mobility of the horse, and their economic peoples expanded out of their traditional across much of central Europe. around 600 BC, and was marked by the culture Seine rivers, gravitating towards the Greek Phocean Greeks of Massalia were the early world. Through them, they imported all sorts glass, and the most precious luxury of all, with other Mediterranean peoples, including civilization we've covered in a previous The first historical mention of the Celts of Miletus, who referred to the people living borrowed from a tribal endonym, or was Greek enduring stereotype that the average Celt counterpart. Either way, it is a term that Late Hallstatt chieftains consolidated a great they controlled. The many small hill forts by fewer but larger population centers, such at Hueneberg in southern Germany. Meanwhile, than ever before, inlaid with luxury imports the Hallstatt culture had reached its peak But how can we be sure that the Hallstatt of a distinct Celtic culture? First of all closely resemble the weaponry that Greco-Roman centuries. Secondly, the importance of the an early form of later Celtic funeral rites, war chariots. the late Hallstatt era is accepted to be an most importantly, the name Hallstatt itself "Salt Place". This is reinforced by the Cornish, and Breton, the words for "Salt" cognates of the same ancient root as the ancient of Hallstatt is derived. The evidence all was where the Celts emerged as a visible people language, tribal hierarchy, and artistic expression. by the late Hallstatt period, artifacts belonging to Croatia, it did not mean that all the peoples not all Celtic speakers in the early Iron The early Celtic language that became associated of an older Indo-European tongue around 1500BC, and western Europe. People on the periphery tongue due to the cultural and economic influence adopt the material culture. For example, Ireland by the 5th century BC, but the Celtic migrants of those regions to form the Celtiberian and continuity with the Hallstatt complex. Basically, culture who were not Celtic speaking, and Hallstatt culture. came to a sudden end around 450 BC, when the decided to abandon their old trade connections the Etruscans shifted their trade routes away Celtic power shifted to the north, evolving La Tene. to 50 BC, and is the most iconic era of ancient tribal centers, principally along the Moselle much of Europe. By 300 BC, the La Tene culture Luxembourg, Belgium and Switzerland, and later Ireland. La Tene artwork was what the conventional cauldrons, drinking vessels, weapons, shields, spiral patterns. primarily on archaeological finds, and into and Roman authors, who while often biased of information in piecing together the Celtic religion. word "Gaul", a term often used to refer comes from the old Germanic "walhaz", would have been in the eyes of the ancient Roman Republic, encountered the La Tene Celts to them as "Galli", which might have been to the entire ethnocultural group. We will "Celtic" interchangeably, but generally to themselves. was ever a linguistically or culturally uniform the Celtic languages had diverged drastically P-Celtic languages, spoken across North-Central Q-Celtic, the more lexically conservative probably the Celtiberians of Spain. This split Welsh and Irish languages, which are mutually Q subgroups respectively. It is unlikely that would see any common ground between themselves. the continent and Britons of the isle to their people. The main form of social organization a hereditary Chief and his warrior aristocracy. into administrative districts called pagi, in a system similar to Feudalism. Mainly through that existed in the late iron age include Some names live on even today, such as the or the Parisii, for whom the city of Paris Still, the Gaulish peoples likely acknowledged beyond tribal lines. One constant was the was the Chieftain, who like his Hallstatt which were constructed with timber-lace and Under the chief was an elite aristocracy of consisting of skilled metallurgists who lived the warriors with arms and armour. 90% of a portion of their production to their Chief, which in turn protected the farmers from external Wheat, barley, beans, oats, and peas made cattle were commonly raised for wool, meat, cultivated grapes and olives. Rather than perception implies, the Gauls were actually and coulters able to efficiently till even Most Gauls lived in small rural communities and clay, well insulated for cold winters. homes were mainly circular and built on unmortared the social classes, though the feasting hall a peasant's sheep farm. given us a romanticized image of the average sporting a manly mustache, while painted head the average Gaulish man would not have been While fashion differed from region to region, Men generally wore long-sleeved tunics and tended to wear long dresses, while both sexes colourful plaid patterns rendered from natural urine. the Celts. For example, both sexes were said body hairs. Additionally, there is some truth depicted often in both Celtic and Greco-Roman a sign of manhood &amp; virility. Gallic warriors a mixture of slaked lime and water which stiffened were not practiced by continental Gauls, and who according to Roman accounts, rendered called woad, which when applied to their flesh Often of cultural or spiritual significance, The brooch, a fastener for a cloak, was a fashion for centuries. Bracelets and arm rings style characteristic of La Tene art. The Torc, status and rank, said to bestow the protection On that note, we should take a moment to explore two major misconceptions of Ancient Celtic groups, who often portray the ancient Celtic nature worship, and one perpetuated by the Celts as backwards barbarians. pantheon, and religion across the Celtic world Gallic deities, most being the holy patron with a certain area, like Sequana, who was Seine. However, there were a handful of Gods These would include the thunder-wielding Taranis, God, Cernunnos the Horned One, Epona the Horse protector. One of their most popular Gods dismantling the misconception that Celtic religious rites were rigidly structured, and to sacrifice and divination. It was facilitated Today, the Druids conjure up a popular image robes. However, they actually wielded massive and diplomats on behalf of their chieftains, and heading education in their tribe. Training 20-year regimen, in which a dedicant had to lore, medicinal knowledge, astronomy, religious magic potions that bestow superhuman strength Druidic historiography. The Druids likely tribal lines. They hosted a pan-Gaulish meeting sacred ground where major political or religious them a key vehicle in maintaining a common One of the key duties of a Druid was to officiate often described as a core part of the Celtic different Gods called for different forms drowned in a vat of water, while Taranis' in giant effigies of straw. According to the also sacrificed for the purposes of divination. their knowledge a secret restricted to members accounts of their religious rites, while the had a vested interest in making their Celtic deny the existence of human sacrifice, but that modern scholars have been offered on Between the 4th and 2nd centuries BC, La Tene a staggering amount of Europe. This is exemplified and Ukraine, which both have provinces named played a huge role in this continental spread, such effective fighters? The stereotypical Greco-Roman writers is that of a savage, ferocious strategy. However, the full story is much For one thing, Gaulish arms and armour were were master ironworkers who were able to arm with specialized tips for either thrusting in melee and ranged combat. For protection, with a hard iron boss for blunt-force bashing. featuring a brimmed iron dome, and a pair that the Gauls were the inventors of chainmail, type of metal cuirass, made of tightly linked of such technology. The Romans were so impressed helmet, his Lorica Hamata armour, and even from Celtic or Celtiberian designs. So, Roman iconic form in huge part to the innovations However, among the Celts themselves, body high-ranking nobles, while most warriors went or in some cases, nothing at all. The naked of Celtic history. Historical evidence suggests either for religious purposes or to inspire of bare skinned Celtic combatants in both while the majority of Gauls did not fight The use of the iconic the war-chariot also versatile mobile missile units, and also as warriors from one theatre of battle to another. advantage of the Gallic army was their ability Greek records report on the petrifying nature they would roar and brag, performing ritualistic out of their boar-headed war trumpets. Put fresh off an ancient olive farm or slums of terror that a mob of screaming, dancing, horn-blaring In terms of battle tactics, the Celts kept would soften up enemy formation, while chariot and harass. For the most part, a Gallic victory charge, the impact of which was usually enough to slaughter them piecemeal. discipline of a Legion or Phalanx, but it war was a way of life, and their dynamic formula among themselves was what saw their armies continental Europe, but also take them right From about 450BC, Gallic Northern and Central Celtic war leaders led their retinues southwards land of olives, figs, and wine. According as early as 600BC, when a multi-tribal band the Bituriges crossed the Alps, and made war culturally sophisticated, but politically was in modern day Tuscany. Upon driving the founded the settlement of Mediolanum, the followed, and by 400BC, various Gallic tribes of a chunk of Northern Italy that stretched Ligures to the west and Veneti to the east their Celtic neighbours. The Gauls were on power in Italy. city-state of some 25,000 living in humble to the eternal city of marble it later became. established hegemony over all the cities of emerged as a dynamic Republic. In 396BC, the conquered the Etruscan city of Veii, establishing putting Rome on the collision course with Modern historians are split on how the first a Gallic tribe invaded Rome on behalf of Dionysus who wanted to knock the Romans down a peg claim that the warlike Celts needed no incentive and plunder. According to Dionysius of Halicarnassus of the Etruscan Clusium, Lucumo, engaged in husband, an influential merchant named Aruns, seeking to use them as his instrument of revenge Aruns' call was answered by King Brennus on Clusium, coveting its riches and fertile by the Gallic horde, and called to the Romans a trio of ambassadors to serve as neutral why he made war on Clusium, he tersely replied Tensions soon flared, and an armed quarrel Clusians and Senones. In the heat of the moment, warrior. Brennus was infuriated by the breach Rome, calling for the extradition of all three Thus the Gauls declared a blood feud upon the score. an army and marched out to meet their foe. away from fielding the professional legion: style of the Greek Hoplite, but the majority and little protection. They made their stand our understanding of the Battle of the Allia historians, Livy and Diodorus Siculus. Neither since both authors have their inherent biases after the events in question, meaning that the battle but rather chronicled a story which for countless generations. Nevertheless, our itself mainly on Livy's testimony in the And a scathing testimony it is, for Livy has ancestors. After choosing the place in which consular tribunes in charge of the Roman army to set up a proper camp, build defensive ramparts, their Gods to ensure that divine fortune was the Roman battle formation, which consisted enough to have armed themselves with a full phalanx formation. The tribunes stretched on reserve on a nearby hill. This was done to the weakening of the center, which was defensive lockstep. Perhaps the most egregious army perpendicularly across the Allia river, the mighty Tiber. In so doing, the Romans and backed themselves against a wall. over the horizon, likely outnumbering the had faced thus far, be they Etruscans, Sabines aura of the pale, long-haired giants who now like a pox through the Roman line, with Livy and discordant clamour filled everything with survey of his enemy's battle formation, flank was the greatest threat, for if he attacked the hill could circle down and attack him Brennus addressed this hazard directly, ordering dislodge the Roman right from its position. charge, howling, screaming and blaring their they unleashed a withering hail of Javelins enough that when they charged up the bluff almost immediately broke. morale on the Roman left and center plummeted. seemingly before the Gauls had even engaged and fled, only to find themselves up against attempted the river crossing, with many drowning, cut down by the pursuing Gauls as they clogged retreat. However, after the pandemonium and army had escaped to the other side of the Veii, a city Rome had conquered not one decade to how effective Gaulish fear tactics could them. For centuries thereafter, a fear of psyche, as the reckless ferocity of the Gallic savage bogeymen: the wolves prowling at civilization's After his decisive victory, King Brennus led torch. It was the first time the eternal city years for any other foreign army to ever do a surviving core of senators and able-bodied on the Capitoline hill to mount a defense, city was thoroughly pillaged. The Senones with a frontal assault which was repulsed, which was famously foiled by the honking of After many months of impasse, both sides had The Romans resolve broke first, and they agreed Gold to make them leave. Here, Roman historian scales to cheat the Romans out of more tribute protested, Brennus threw his own sword onto to the vanquished. According to Diodorus of Furius Camillus arrived with a relief army. and declared: "non auro, sed ferro, recuperanda but with iron. He then attacked the Gauls, These traditional recantings of the Senones' Livy and Diodorus authored their accounts probably trying to salvage some honour out In particular, Camillus' last-minute heroics put, the true summary of the events is probably their city, blockaded the Capitoline hill, is plausible, because the Gauls were a simple other than to obtain plunder and return to It would take a generation for Rome to recover Senones, while conversely, Gallic influence 4th and early 3rd centuries BC, Celtic war-parties while Gaulish mercenary groups became a staple as the Greek Tyrants of Sicily, and a certain Rome would not be the only classical civilization our focus eastwards, to the land of Philosophers of the Ancient Greek world. Gallic war parties in the early 4th century BC, where they would with the Illyrians, Thracians, Paeonians, to the Greek historian Strabo, in 335 BC, was encamped along the Danube river, fresh the Illyrian tribes. There, he received an Gauls, who had come to seek the Macedonian prowess as a leader of warriors. As the story feared most, expecting that they held him Instead, the Gauls haughtily replied that their heads. Nevertheless, the Celts were and showed great admiration for the Macedonian ruled. Alexander would go on to conquer most in Babylon, and as his former territories generals, the rich lands of Hellas entered for easy plunder. a war party that pillaged its way through its tracks by the army of the Diadochi King during this expedition the Gallic Serdi established of Serdica on the site of the modern day Sofia. when a horde of 85,000 men, mostly of the and simultaneously invaded Paeonia, the rest a war chief known as Bolgios faced down the Macedon, and son of the founder of the Ptolemaic the Macedonian King himself was thrown from warriors. for further incursions into Greece, and a calling for another southwards expedition. assembly of Gallic Chieftains, and presented were weak in body. He juxtaposed them with this as proof that the Greeks were a weak easily overrun. By 279BC, Brennos had successfully sources claim his army amounted to a mind-boggling us a more realistic figure of 50,000. Brennos' unimpeded. Some stories claim that, when questioned temples, Brennos' pithily remarked: 'The men'. Gallic invasion of Greece survives almost authors. In this case, in the works of Pausanias, during the 2nd century AD. As it was with Pausanias lived nearly 400 years after the anachronisms and biases, especially in describing invaders. Nevertheless, to maintain a straightforward campaign will anchor itself to Pausanias' Brennus' horde seems to have met little throughout the region of Thessaly, where no Indeed, it is likely that some Thessalians coercion or of their own free will, hoping they might themselves become rich through Greeks. Indeed, the Greeks were an endemically of Macedonia and the Near East and the city-states Brennus was most likely fully aware of this would prevent any united defence force large would prove to be erroneous. As a massive and Thessalian countryside ablaze, the Greek feel the heat. Thus, in an act of uncharacteristic a political miracle likely achieved by the According to Pausanias, this alliance consisted hoplites and 500 cavalry from Boeotia, 3000 Phocis, 700 footmen from Locris, 400 hoplites footmen from Aetolia. Athen's contribution and 500 cavalry, was relatively small, but warships to the war effort. As the Gauls finished began moving south, the Greek allies moved advance at none other than the narrow pass this one before. where King Leonidas had made his last stand There, the Greeks learned that Brennus' so they dispatched their cavalry and 1,000 across the Spercheios river in an attempt be effective, for Brennus was, as Pausanias nor inexperienced, for a barbarian, in devising war chief picked out the best swimmers among the Spercheios which took the form of wide hand-picked Gauls forded the river, amusingly floaties, paddle-boarding across the water. would have had trouble making this aquatic no difficulties doing so. made it onto their side of the river, the rather than engage. Thereafter, Brennos had up and forced them to rebuild the bridges could cross. The Malians took to this task to get him and his destructive barbarians elsewhere. After crossing the Spercheios, the city of Heracleia-in-Trachis, which they long, for Brennus had now directed his full him. Thermopylae pass, the Greeks saw a horde of over the horizon. The Hellenes formed up: phalanx as they blocked the pass and waited was joined. Pausanias' account of the initial of Celtic warfare, a deafening, blood-curling of Gauls barreled toward the Greek line, hurling into their foe in a tidal wave of bare-chested the disorganized rabble of an infantile Roman Against the onslaught, the Greek phalanx held The melee was brutal, with the Gauls struggling "pierced by arrow or javelin, they did not Some drew out from their wounds the spears, at the Greeks or used them in close fighting." away at it, the phalanx would not break, and down their lightly armoured counterparts. use them, for the bottleneck made flanking light infantry hurled javelins, slung rocks the front lines, further thinning out their their ships as close to shore as possible the Gauls with arrows and every other kind Just as it had been for the Persians three of Thermopylae had become a killing field. but to concede that the Greek alliance would the retreat. This withdrawal was not orderly, crushed beneath the feet of their friends, under the mud." Ultimately, the Battle of Greeks, with thousands of Gauls lying dead However, this victory had not ended the Gallic a significant chunk of his fighting force, was not ready to pack up and go home. his foe while they remained united and entrenched break up the Greek alliance. He dispatched under the command of two chieftains, Orestorius to Aetolia and put it to fire and sword. This whereupon they cut through Thessaly and descended it to a brutal sack, a scene Pausanias describes the hands of Combutis and Orestorius is the a parallel in the crimes of men. Every male old men equally with children at their mothers' the Gauls killed, drinking their blood and This brutality's intended purpose worked, Thermopylae to break camp and rush to defend nest, which would descend upon the Gauls in of Callium, the rest of Aetolia's cities women taking up arms alongside their men, Realising that the Gallic sword was dangerous to skirmishing tactics. At a place called raining javelins, slings and arrows upon the of armour, "protected by nothing but their and Combutis' raiding party was slaughtered, at Thermopylae. the Greek blockade, having intimidated some Oeta which would allow him to sneak around from the rear. In fact, this was the same to the Persians when he betrayed King Leonidas of his army, Brennus proceeded over the mountain in command of a man named Acichorius, who movement was complete. Having learned from this time, the Greeks had left this secret Although the Phocians fought bravely to deny overwhelmed and forced to retreat, but not Greek army about what was happening. Knowing withdrew, boarding upon the Athenian warships be surrounded and slaughtered by the Gauls. rearing his army eastwards for the sacred riches of Apollos' temple would salvage reconstituted itself and made a final stand. men in the battle and the ensuing retreat. delivered by Apollo himself, who saw fit to of the surviving Celts retreated back to Thrace, suicide. but it had one significant consequence. Before horde, composed mainly of warriors from the had peeled off from the main invasion force Unlike Brennos' main force, which had come had come to settle. They built forts on the permanence for themselves in the region by wars being fought in the region between various these Gauls inhabited became known as Galatia, Remarkably, even though they were surrounded rest of the Gallic world, there is evidence Celtic language and culture as late as the In 279BC, the Celtic world was at its greatest that overlapped the borders of modern nations Bulgaria, Turkey, Italy, France, Britain, of the Celts, but like all golden ages, it had proven something important: a well-trained, a single disciplined body, was fully capable horde. This was a stark reality that the Gauls certain Latin Republic was on the mend, and who had once laid her so low. Roman Republic had expanded its territory In 298BC, the third Samnite war began, with Senones tribe all trying to curb the growing of the Republic since they sacked Rome two a Roman army outside the Etruscan city of of legionaries were mounted on the Gallic Yet, the tides turned later that year, when with the Romans outside Sentinum, where they Taking advantage of their victory in the third the lands of the Senones by 283BC, where they Gallica. The sack of Rome had finally been Gallo-Roman story, for the Gallic illusion But what had changed since the sack of Rome be able to go toe to toe against the most After being humbled by their Italic cousins war in 315BC, the Romans realized that the and Greeks was not a versatile fighting formation, particularly malleable foe. With the goal they created the innovative manipular system. were organized into three rows, each one comprised maniples, a basic unit of soldiers containing of single, conjoined rows of men, the dynamic effectively by virtue of being separate units. three standard rows. The frontlines were made were the principes, who were battle-hardened of triarii, the most veteran elites, and the Originally manufactured to battle the mounted effective against the Celts. As you will recall, tactics to plummet enemy morale before utilizing lines. This had worked in 390 BC, but the the Gallic onslaught. Their three-line reserve a Roman legion, as even if the front line principes and triarii to replace them. Moreover, Legions allowed them to counter the effectiveness It should, however, be noted that these innovations warfare. As the protracted, centuries-long tribes would adopt styles of battle better war machine, scoring many victories that delayed In the decades after their conquest of Senones' several other wars, first locking horns with with Carthage for the first time. By the end master of peninsular Italy, and the way into open. war came in 232, when tribune Gaius Flaminius at Lake Trasimene - proposed a bill that would Picenium between the Roman colonists. This segments of the population, but many others reaction. They were right to be anxious. Many repopulation of lands which had so recently that Rome was now waging war against them but for the purpose of their complete annihilation Not willing to go gently into that good night, Insubres and the Boii - concluded a strong Gaul. They eventually reached the territories Rhone valley known as the Gaesatae - fearsome their violent services to the highest bidder the Italo-Celtic ambassadors received an audience Aneroestus - speaking of Italy's vast wealth be hauled back if they crushed the Romans by the merits of this mercenary argument, and well-equipped army, drawn from their own Europe. Empire took another step towards the Second a process made considerably easier by the two kings' rapidly growing invasion army. renewed its previous treaty with the Barcids resources on the impending Celtic invasion. 50,000 strong Gaesatae-led horde crossed the responded militarily by sending Consul Lucius Ariminum, where he awaited the Celtic onslaught. from Rome in all directions. One went to Sardinia 225 - Gaius Atilius Regulus - who had been hurried emissaries reached the courts of the of the Veneti and Cenomani who, upon receiving Gallic brethren and threatened to invade their to split its forces, leaving part of it in Veneti invasion. Even in these early days, sharpest weapons. tribes assaulted Etruria as one, overwhelming its hard-gained wealth. Meeting little opposition, have invoked the darkest nightmares of every However, upon reaching Clusium - a scant three - the Celts received reports that another and Etruscans was tailing them. Turning to close proximity of their enemy at dusk before 'uncivilised' barbarians used a wily trick. cavalry was ordered to remain in camp until foot warriors withdrew to a nearby town called a field of traps along the path where they When morning came, the unknown Praetor observed of mounted enemy troops. Anticipating an easy who rode away towards Faesulae at his advance. struck by surprise upon passing the booby-trapped with 6,000 dead. on a nearby fortified hill, but were surrounded exhausted by the nighttime exertion and desiring detachment to keep watch over the hill before Romans did not surrender by daybreak, they however, Lucius Aemilius' consular army of the invasion of Etruria while he was stationed After constructing his own camp in visible Roman army remnant, the consul quickly received the situation. Therefore, Aemilius had his battle formation at daybreak, while he personally At once realising that the two enemy forces own strength, King Aneroestus advised retreat loot. began withdrawing north along the western the survivors of the Faesulae disaster to declining any pitched battle in favour of catching isolated foraging parties when the As the leisurely Gaesatae retreat north continued, in Italy from Sardinia by sea and reached the path of the marauding invaders, but didn't of Rome, Regulus and his 40,000 encountered near Cape Telamon and took a few prisoners. revealed details of everything that had occurred Celtic army was nearby and approaching fast initial surprise at the foe's close proximity, With himself blocking the road of retreat south, there was a very real opportunity for After concluding the interrogation - probably up the infantry of his citizen legions into up front, hastati new bloods in the first grizzled triarii veterans in reserve. As the road in a typically disciplined Roman style, to occupy a strategically placed hill just his eagerness to secure the position before In the fog of war, the approaching Celts were and, upon seeing the cavalry seizing the hill actually units of Aemilius who had managed the hill from this apparently isolated force, and some light infantry to lock the landmark than they initially expected. Nevertheless, After a short time, a Roman soldier was captured the presence of Regulus' second consular dire truth of affairs - that they were about on each side - the Celtic leadership deployed One line, consisting of fearsome, fully naked faced south, while the other, made up of Taurisci were on either wing. Regulus Aemilius instantly realised that his set out to assist him. To do that, he drew while what cavalry he had left rode to assist the struggle there. As the Romans slowly began in the struggle for the hill, Consul Regulus with bravery and courage. Although his head a symbolic prize, it was not enough - soon cavalry into a rout, secured the hill, and As soon as this happened, the legionary vice in 'checkerboard' formation advanced on from both sides. As they came closer, a cacophony horn-blowers made vast amounts of noise in but still they advanced. When the velites they unleashed a terrible storm of light javelins front rank composed of Taurisci, wearing light to resist the steel storm, the naked south-facing Because the Celtic shield failed to cover missiles got through the gaps, striking exposed terrible wounds when they did. The larger was, the more chance a javelin had of striking Unable to effectively countercharge due to from the sky, some of the naked warriors suicidally floored by ranged weapons after only a short troops before falling. Having been scythed engaged, the battered Gaesatae withdrew behind comrades. advanced, each throwing their lethal pilum sword. The battle was initially an event contest in combat going up against the notoriously legions. Unable to break the Insubres, Boii, for their homes as well as profit, the hastati principes to advance. This impact gradually they still did not break. As Polybius relates: held their ground, equal to their foes in individually, in their arms.' However valiant crowned when Aemilius' victorious cavalry into the exhausted Celtic line. There was foot chose to die where they stood rather compunction. what was probably one of the greatest battles A further 10,000 defeated barbarians entered who was left alive in preparation for a triumph. marched north and invaded Boii lands in the to pillage, loot, and burn. With that done, a gilded triumph, in which Concolitanus was The defeat at Telamon shows us another disadvantage leaders systematically prioritized the needs tribes worked together, it was always a temporary paid off Boii's tribal rivals, the Cenomani the Boii to keep a significant portion of rather than bear the full brunt of their army a major role in the disparity in the quality warriors. As we covered in the last chapter, but their fragmented tribal society prevented to arm everyone equally. Rome, on the other infrastructure and central administration, with standardized gear. pushed deep into the Celtic alps, occupying be able to savour the sweetness of victory would erupt between the Republic and Carthage, In one of the most iconic military maneuvers Romans by marching through the treacherous the Boii and Insubres, who joined the Carthaginian Cenomani declared their loyalty to Rome and Nevertheless, at the battle of Cannae, where Carthaginian army was composed of Gallic mercenaries, later. let's fast forward a little bit. As Rome emerged they shifted their attention back northwards, Roman expansion. Even the Cenomani, who had Rome, turned against their former allies. by 191BC, and finally conquered all the Gauls Now, let us move westward, and explore a lesser-known the Celtic boar-head. Since the dawn of recorded highly cosmopolitan land. By the 3rd century non-Celtic peoples like the Lusitanians, Turdetani, cultures probably pre-dated the arrival of who lived in northwestern Spain were a divergent between Celtic migrants and the native Iberians. different from the Gaulish languages of the be noted that Iberia was also home to various culture was more in line with the mainstream Europe. Iberia is tied to the eternal struggle between had had colonies along the peninsulas' south between the first and second Punic wars, Hamilcar deep inland. Celtiberian tribes like the Carpetani Iberia would consequently become one of the war. in their epochal struggle against Hannibal overlord of southern and eastern Iberia, which 'nearer Spain,' and Hispania Ulterior: the proud native peoples of the peninsula eagle. It bares mentioning that, as with every story of the Republic's conquest of Iberia in this case mainly the aforementioned Livy the following tale comes with the usual disclaimers biased writers living several generations together ancient history. to rebel against Rome were the Turdetani, modern Andalusia region. The Turdetani hired adjacent to their lands to boost their numbers. which the Celtiberians had made themselves huge revolts had spread like wildfire across the Iberians of the east coast rising up as Roman garrisons in the region, and the governor slain in battle. When word of the severity responded by appointing the iron-fisted Consul, natives to heel. legions, 15,000 Latin allies, 800 cavalry Gulf of Roses in 195 BC. The Consul quickly Iberians. Establishing a base of operations mix of diplomacy and psychological warfare Iberian tribes, like the Ilergetes, while Indigetes. Within months, Cato had re-established and then proceeded south to subdue the Turdetani. mercenaries among the Turdetani a huge bribe fully isolated, the lands of the Turdetani For the Celtiberians, the short-sighted decision put down the rebellions of the Iberians and his army northwards, he successfully besieged the center of power of the Celtiberian Arevaci heartland of Celtiberian territory, forcing the walls of their hillforts and submit to Hispania, Marcus Porcius Cato claimed to have days in Hispania,' having put over 300 native of the first wave of anti-Roman rebellions the young Republic's presence in the region a long shot, put a permanent end to the endemic In 194 BC, Cato was called back to Rome and Scipio, who took the position of Praetor of Cato left off, locking horns with the quasi-Celtic Ulterior and defeating them in battle near Marcus Fulvius Nobilior, the praetor of Hispania Celtiberian lands, ingressing into the territory up a valiant resistance against the Barcids the local tribes rallied around a leader, the title of 'Rex.' Forging together an Vattones, Vaccaei and 'Celtiberi' tribes, his warriors were defeated by Nobilior outside was captured alive. After this, most Celtiberian revolts and opportunistic raiding never fully Full-scale conflict would erupt again in 181 of Italian settlers into Hispania caused a provoking a massive uprising which historians the first of three such conflicts. Although that rose up to oppose the Republic, neglecting or even the names of their leaders, he does as 35,000 men, the largest force the Celtiberians At the time, the acting praetor of Hispania had only around 10,000 troops at his disposal, Latin allies, and 500 cavalry. Levying troops received an additional 6,000 native auxiliaries. of the Celtiberian alliance which opposed the initiative, marching his army into the the town of Aebura with little difficulty, outside its limits. A few days later, the setting up a fortified camp on a hill two Flaccus ordered his cavalry to scout out the but to retreat if engaged by the enemy's and for a few days, nothing happened. Then, advanced out from their camp and formed a Flaccus ordered his men not to remain in their sallied out of their camp repeatedly, but the natives gave up on trying to goad their docile routine, regularly sending out their interfering with one another. the Celtiberians into complacency by making Once he was confident he had done this, he he ordered his subordinate, Lucius Acilius, native auxiliaries to make a circuit around and approach it from the rear. From there, To trigger the trap, Acilius sent a contingent enemy camp and challenge them to do battle. them, they immediately engaged, first sending by infantry, who formed a battle line and his men to retreat, drawing most of the Celtiberian Once the Spaniards were half a mile out from army to engage, advancing upon the approaching the Acilius' forces on the hill charged only 5,000 men had been left on guard. The and the Roman equestrians were able to take it to the torch. When the Celtiberians saw dismay spread among them. Knowing they were to, their confidence crumbled. Nevertheless, the end. The Celtiberians crashed into the with such fury that it seemed they might break before long, the Romans were reinforced by contingent, which smashed into the Spaniards Now surrounded, the battle became a slaughter. at least, according to Livy, Roman casualties Through their victory at Aebura, the Romans but it still took another two years to stamp were ambushed in the Manlian Pass, and although they sustained heavy casualties in the process. Gracchus as governor of Hispania Citerior. of his tenure grinding his way through the where he was said to have destroyed over 300 of aggressive Romanization in the Ebro river towns on tribal land, and encouraging Celtiberian he made most native tribes sign treaties which while taking members of their nobility back Gracchus was convinced that he had prevented future. He was wrong. a war with the Romans in Hispania Ulterior. the Celtiberian Belli tribe stopped paying a 7KM long circuit of walls around their stronghold like the Titti to move into the area. By doing of Celtiberian resistance against Roman rule. but when they protested that the denizens made with Sempronius Gracchus two decades that that treaty had forbidden them from building Naturally, the Romans would not stomach such began. newest Spanish insurrection was Quintus Fabius spring at the head of a 30,000-strong army. city abandoned, for the inhabitants had known the Romans arrived. They had retreated northwards both as the capital of the Araevaci tribe heart of Celtiberian independence in the heart with the Araevaci and their allies and elected With typically Roman ruthless efficiency, northwards to Numantia. While the Consul was he was ambushed by Carus' army, comprised who poured out from the treeline and smashed who recorded this encounter, did not specify it was, it would forever be a legionary's victory' there, his warriors cutting down began routing, the Celtiberians pursued disorderly, 'prodigies of valour' in combat, according been guarding the baggage train at the rear cutting him down. Now deprived of their leader, army, despite being heavily bloodied, would for centuries thereafter, the Romans would of the festival of their God Vulcan, for their had occurred on that day. tribes elected two new chieftains named Ambo the anti-Roman war effort. Meanwhile, en route by 300 Numidian light cavalry and 10 war elephants Romans arrived at the rebel stronghold, they lines before the walls and intended to engage his army into two and advanced, placing the armies were about to clash did the consul great-trunked beasts. The natives, having and fled back into their fortress. Nobilior battle commenced. chaotic turn of events: "one of the Elephants stone, whereupon he became savage, turning that came in his way, making no distinction excited by his cries, all began to do the and hurling them this way and that. The Romans perceived this, they sallied out and pursued They also captured many arms and standards." on his own pachydermic petard, and Numantia Withdrawing in disgrace, Nobilior attempted enigmatically describes as "having accomplished there, he was once again ambushed by the Celtiberians, Biesius. This landslide of Roman disasters the rebels, another severe blow to the Republic's there. Completely hobbled, the Roman expedition his winter camp, where many of his men died Nobilior's campaign to subdue the Celtiberians surprise, he was sacked the following year. Claudius Marcellus. Upon landing in Iberia Marcellus was immediately more successful ambushes shrewdly, and rather than assault ground down the natives' resolve to fight countryside. Eventually, it became evident the Celtiberians simply did not have the resources war machine, which would just keep sending until they were ground down into dust. Thus, Marcellus seeking peace. Marcellus sent the engaged in diplomacy with the Republican Senate. status quo ante Bellum, with the tribes reaffirming had signed with Sempronius Gracchus a generation indirect Roman overlordship. brought lasting peace if not for the abject Lucullus and Servius Sulpicius Galba, the In 151, Lucullus waged a genocidal campaign endeavour that even Appian, a Roman writer, for fame and money. The governor of Citerior where they put an end to the Lusitanian war, the Lusitanians peace and leniency if they only to commit a treacherous massacre once One of the survivors of this massacre, a Lusitani the Republic into another massive rebellion into chaos for another twenty years. Soon, up their falcata blades, and resolved to make The result was the third Celtiberian war, of Numantia was once more the nexus of the place where Celtiberian independence would city fell after a prolonged siege, mastered starved its defenders into submission. After Nevertheless, insurrection and rebellion remained didn't come under the Empire's dominion out a mind-boggling 200 years of struggle. the Romans conquered outside Italy was also completely pacify, a testimony to the valour It is now that our story shifts east, to the dwelt the Galatians, a collection of Celtic region as a byproduct of King Brennos' failed a sea of Greek-speaking successor states to had adopted many of the trappings of classical as career mercenaries, as their Gallic ferocity ambitious Macedonian Kings' army. For a pillaging the fortunes of Greek rulers on At the turn of the 2nd century, the Galatian the Hellenic worlds' mightiest King, Antiochus that the Gauls assumed this would be a contract was engaged in a struggle for hegemony over the Roman Republic. Inevitably, the Seleucid mouth when his cataphracts, war elephants, decisively defeated by the Romans and their in 191BC. the Roman consul Gnaeus Manlius Vulso proposed highlands of Galatia. The official pretext alongside the Seleucids, but in truth, Rome that the Anatolian Gauls had accumulated over season of 189 BC, Consul Gnaeus Manlius Vulso Ephesus, where he was reinforced by some auxiliary Eumenes II. Vulso then set forth on his campaign, the Tolistobogii: one of the three major Galatian the closest thing we have to a contemporary with a speech: "Of all the nations inhabiting fame. Their tall persons, their long red hair, their yells and dances, and the horrid clashing preconcerted to inspire terror. But let Greeks, are unusual and strange, be frightened by tumults, even these vain efforts to strike from them, but it was long ago, when they time, the Romans drive them before them in Despite making his utter contempt for the to secure victory through diplomacy before sent envoys to Eposognatus, a Galatian chieftain convince the other chieftains among the three Encouraged by this, Vulso marched inland, stronghold of Cuballum and awaited further envoys but by mounted Galatian raiders, who inflicting light casualties before being driven Vulso broke camp and marched on the Galatian-inhabited to be completely abandoned. Eposognatus' the obvious: that their chieftain had failed authority. Furthermore, they reported that under the leadership of one Chief Ortiagon, Olympus, where over 50,000 warriors, alongside Meanwhile, the Tectosages had retreated to strategy. Olympus, they discovered that the Tolistobogii summit of the mountain, where they had dug their position. They hoped that, by forcing slopes of the mountain, they would exhaust pitched camp five miles away from the mountain, weapons, including javelins, arrows, balls his cavalry and personally led two scouting they were accosted and driven back by a vanguard able to successfully reconnoitre, discovering his army up the mountain: "one at the middle and two others, both very difficult, one on After making the appropriate divinations and his army into three divisions. The Consul and marched up where the mountain afforded his brother, Lucius Manlius, and his subordinate, more treacherous south-eastern and north-eastern up the facile path, the Galatians sent an overlooking the main road. Here, they encountered was joined. Immediately, the Roman velites and slingers began unleashing a barrage of and lead balls shredded through them to devastating and "their shields, long, but too narrow them." When the Gallic vanguard attempted were thinned by more missile fire, then cut Routed into a panic, the Gauls retreated back Around this time, Lucius Manlius and Caius contingents now closed in on the Galatian arrows, rocks and lead balls rained upon the families, who were holed up in their camp notes that it was only by hearing the wailing that the Romans knew their missiles were properly once the enemy's numbers had been properly stormed, and the Romans overran it almost and fled down the mountainside in all directions, told, in the Battle of Mount Olympus, 10,000 bondage. Roman casualties were minimal. and Trocmi, Vulso marched for Mount Magaba Tectosages sent envoys to the consul, offering a ploy to make him lower his guard: ambushing he was proceeding to a diplomatic parley. by the skin of his teeth, with a contingent Horsemen. After this, he doggedly proceeded tactics he had used at Bithynian Olympus, total victory belonged to Rome, and the land the overlordship of the Republic. After Gnaeus remained nominally independent, but increasingly absorbed Pergamon in 133BC, the Galatians used to wage a proxy war on their Cappadocian wars, the Galatians were faithful allies to Pontic King Mithridates. In 25BC, after nearly was finally annexed and became a province Now, let us dial the clock back to the 2nd the Alps in Rome's control, the proverbial the region of the Gallic world roughly corresponding La Tene world. That catalyst for this came which had a complicated centuries-long relationship by. By the 2nd century BC, they had also become rising star that was Rome, so in 154BC when them, the Greeks called for the Roman help. its legions beyond the Alps, and helped defend 154 and again in 125. After the second bout, assume control of Massalia's hinterlands The Greeks, caring more about trade than territorial Meanwhile, the defeated Salluvii King, Toutomotulos, who were closely allied to the Arverni. This pursue an expansionist campaign into the rich of chasing Toutomotulos, they invaded the by 121BC had conquered much of southern France. the province of Transalpine Gaul, which meant to Cisalpine Gaul, Gaul within the Alps. Transalpine Gaul, later renamed Gallia Narbonensis, remained relatively stable, and even friendly, of this was the Celtic federation of Noricum, a mutually symbiotic relationship with Rome. the Republic with much of the steel they needed provided them with military protection. Consequently, invaded Noricum in 113BC, the Romans were At the turn of the 1st century BC, trade between flourish, with a complex system of trade networks be easy to imagine commerce between these barbarous Gauls coveted the riches of the profited greatly off Roman wine, but Rome their excellent metalwork to other radical And soap. Nevertheless, the relationship between once more in the 50s BC, when a certain Gaius and Transalpine Gaul, setting the stage for conquest in Roman history. to prevent the migration of hostile tribes full-scale subjugation of the entire Gallic the erstwhile Triumvir and the valiant Arverni famous clash between the Celtic and Roman the least time to in this video, as we have exhaustively covering it, which we will make we all know how this story ends. When Vercingetorix feet of the Roman consul who had defeated had come to an end. Europe had all but disappeared. The Celtic that had not been subsumed by Rome were eventually Iranic Sarmatian pastoralists, and early Germanic the shadow of the Imperial Eagles' wing. brought under the Roman Eagle through no small their story. The native Celtic population presence, and their still functioning infrastructure Gallic hillfort sites like Condatum, Lutetia, were all turned into Roman towns, as clusters gridded streets, public baths, and gymnasiums. served as the power center of a local Gallic Outside of the cities, life did not initially them had been rural farmers, and under Roman as their ancestors, speaking the same Celtic To the Arvernian cooper or the Armorican shepherd, they paid a portion of their labours to a governor. As a result, the majority of the for centuries. among the higher castes as the Romans focused the top down. Many Celtic chieftains had been and had already developed a substantially sped up as many Gallic rulers sent their children served as another vehicle of assimilation, warrior caste signed up for the Legion as substitute to the proud Celtic warrior tradition. to the Imperial cult shrines present at every full Roman citizenship, cementing their integrated Apart from the mandatory observance of the Roman Emperors as divine beings to be revered, whatever deities they wished, resulting in Imperial era. Romans and Celts drew parallels was associated with the Roman Jupiter, while likened to Mars. Some Celtic deities even as the Horse-Goddess Epona, who became the However, there were limits to this cohabitation. of Roman persecution. Their suppression began under Emperor Claudius. Anti-Druidic policies ending ritual human sacrifice, but realistically, control. Indeed, several Gallic rebellions that Druids sowed from the shadows. Nevertheless, hard to stamp out, and it is exceedingly likely continued their teachings in hidden caves During the reign of Claudius, select Gallic joining the Roman Senate. Many snobbish senators Emperor allow barbarians to sit amongst their them matter-of-factly that they themselves and Samnites: Italic tribes the Romans had To him, the Gauls were simply the latest in the grand Imperial project. the Empire by storm; whose practitioners worshipped themselves had put to death 200 years earlier. the provinces, first as a persecuted underground fortunes, the state religion of the Empire. soured, and by 392 AD, the devoutly Christian entirely. This was probably the death knell polytheism on the continent. world that the Gallo-Romans had lived under Celts, the Germanic peoples had become the centuries, many of their tribes had traded, along the frontier of the Rhine and Danube century, as peoples like the Visigoths, Ostrogoths, decay to pour into Roman territory and carve an end to the western half of the Empire. into their newly conquered lands, they found of Chieftains and Druids, men who had once Insubres, Boii, and Arverni. But these people the Western Roman Empire collapsed, the Celts hegemony for over 400 years, and Gaulish culture cults had been replaced by a monotheistic declining in favour of the dialects of Vulgar Romance languages. It is possible that the mountain villages as late as the 6th century the middle ages, the Celtic identity had all custom would be predominant culture upon which were formed. did not bring about the extinction of Celtic foggy island on the edge of the continent Celtic language and identity. Indeed, the is one we have not yet touched upon, for they in two ways: they were never fully conquered outlived the Empire which subjugated them. Thanks again to War Thunder for sponsoring in this massive vehicle combat game on PC free bonus pack with premium features - get In our next longform documentary on the ancient ancient Britain, from the tragic tale of Queen of the North, to the myths which gave rise sure you are subscribed and have pressed the releasing weekly patron and youtube member-exclusive members via the link in the description or watch these weekly videos, learn about our join our private discord, and much more. Please, helps immensely. This is the Kings and Generals one.