Welcome back to our macabre series of shows have done to each other in the name of punishment. While in other shows we have talked about be said to be basic - claws that rip flesh, instrument of horrifyingly inhumane torture folks. As with just about anything we have talked to suffer this treatment, but hey, we aren't your intestines chewed on by starving rats. Like that punishment, though, this one was very merciful in comparison. This form of execution was created by the It had a few names, and it might also be called But how do we know anything about it at all? One of the answers is because it was written historica", which translates as "Historical It consists of many books written by an ancient In these books you'll find his version of in ancient Egypt to the leader Alexander the Quite a lot of it is still intact, but some In one of those books Mr. Siculus wrote about The guy who invented it was an inventor by It's said before he built this thing, somewhere the idea. He was what you might call a creative technologist He got that funding from a man named Phalaris, Given his frightening title you won't be be very cruel. In some accounts of his life it's written as to eat children. We should say that the Encyclopedia Britannica as some people have written. Whatever the case, it seems he commissioned So, how did one perish in the brazen bull? Well, it was certainly a thing conjured up It was said to be the same size of a bull, a man could enter the thing. A fire was then lit under the bull and the But get this, it was made so that when the emanate through specially distorted pipes would get was an animal bellowing in pain. This might have been the fun part for someone The smoke would come out through holes in with incense since burning bodies don't The bones that were left would then be turned When the idea was pitched by Perillos it's "The occupant will shriek and roar in unremitting the pipes as the tenderest, most pathetic, Your victim will be punished, and you will When the bull was finished, Phalaris told out the sound, but some sources say he lit Others say he pulled him out but then killed It seems for all his hard work Perrillos was want to pay. Even though Phalaris is said to have been this to Perrilos after hearing about the execution I loathed the thought of such ingenious cruelty, I said to him, 'If your art can really produce to roar; and we will see whether the pipes By the way, it's written that on his downfall So that's inventor and commissioner both Word of the brazen bull was passed down and with these two men, the inventor and the tyrant. But the history of the bull doesn't stop The Romans it's said had a taste for the shows on Roman torture you won't be surprised scruples about roasting a man to death and We might look at the story of a man named It's said he became a martyr after being The Romans were punishing many Christians under the emperor Constantine, but that was Before that a lot of Christian blood was spilled, to death inside a bronze animal. Saint Eustace was said to have been one of Before he converted to Christianity he had light so to speak when he had a vision one Christians might tell you that this man then of God. He lost his cash; his servants and his wife things a lion and a wolf. Yet his faith remained strong throughout. There are a few different stories as to what tell you he got his wealth back as well as his children were all roasted to death in We looked at some Christian sources and they all say his family got the treatment, too. We also found this piece of Christian history, It seems to suggest that when Eustace and miracles did happen. This is from that text: alive for three days, praising and blessing At last, when their voices ceased, the bull life, but also without any injury to their It's written that other Christians close a man known as St. Attipas. This is written about him: the temple of Artemis, and there they threw metal bull where they normally put their sacrifices people. He loudly prayed God to receive his soul and begged God to forgive those who were inflicting He then departed as peacefully as if he fell We should say that there are people who don't to legend than truth. It's not for us to say what is true or not, tell you that the stories from the bull's martyrs not feeling any pain while being roasted What is very much true is that stories of the ages and those manuscripts can still be By the way, while you might see a brazen bull real thing, only a depiction of one. Have you seen worse in our other punishment Tell us in the comments. And then go watch "Eaten Alive (Scaphism) Thanks for watching, and as always, don't See you next time.