The tech sector shed more than 386,000 jobs in 2022 and 2023. 80% of Twitter either left or quit or was pushed out, to call it. And yet the website still runs. Even though two thirds of tech workers are men, more 2023 were women. Approximately 50,000 H-1b holders lost their status due course of this year. Canada is going to be developing a specific stream for will be able to come to Canada to work for tech Hi, Brittany. Hi. Thanks for meeting with me and Rosie. Um, we have an important meeting today. Uh, we've finished our evaluations of 2023 This is where you have not met Cloudflare expectations We've decided to part ways with you. Yeah. I'm gonna stop you right there. This is a viral video posted by Brittany Pietsch, a tech company. The video posted on January 2024 and got subgenre of viral video: watch this person get laid The tech industry is again seeing widespread layoffs LinkedIn just laid off nearly 700 employees. Qualcomm is planning to cut more than 1200 jobs. Google, Amazon and Snap are among the companies And the start of 2024 seems no different as layoff continue to make headlines. Units affected they also include hardware engineering Last night, CEO Sundar Pichai told his workforce to An Amazon spokesperson did confirm those layoffs. The head of Prime and Prime Video and MGM saying in cuts to prioritize investments for the long term. Layoffs are also plaguing industries like health care, However, the tech industry is the one that's been And everything that's happened in tech, I think is You know, like you can have your dream job, you can it's my dream to work for AWS. And you get there and you realize huh, okay. It's just like any other job. It's a great place to be. There's a lot of great perks, but at the end of the The layoffs to the start of 2024 signal a dramatic We're going to continue to see layoffs happen as the has changed, and as investors appetite for risk and has dramatically changed as well. So why are big tech companies and other industries the US economy looks strong on paper? The start of the Covid 19 pandemic was a dire economic The tech industry, though, boomed. In 2020, Tech's top seven companies added $3.4 The Fed's emergency moves to bolster the pandemic-hit helped boost tech stocks. This move helped the tech industry to expand and went Amazon added the most number of employees during this employees in 2021. If you rewind before the layoffs, all the tech and so capital was really cheap, you know, so you Access to capital was really affordable. And then you see, as interest rates went up and you translate to growth and profitability and access to You saw many companies start to hit the panic button. And so we saw these thousands and thousands of people And that was quite a shock. 80% of Twitter either left or quit or was pushed out, call it. And yet the website still runs. Um, do you think people are looking to Elon Musk and people. I do give Elon Musk credit for this, for kicking off But a lot of the big companies decided to get lean and And, you know, this is where you kind of start to see really have, which is they didn't need those people, They were hoarding the talent. It was an option bet, and it was a cheap one for them. Yeah. I ask every tech CEO, do you take inspiration for what And they'll say on the record, no, we don't. We would never want to do that. But, you know, in the move. The artificial intelligence hype of 2023 is starting to In 2024, major tech CEOs are doubling down their In January 2024, meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced intelligence known as a GI. Hey everyone. Today, I'm bringing. Meta's two AI research efforts closer together to support our long term goals of building general and making it available and useful to everyone in all All this investment in creating AI jobs, but at the The recent report from indeed shows that the number of So there's about a 500% increase in the number of jobs There's about a 6,000% increase in the demand for job But there still is, I think, a mismatch the other way talent far outstrips the number of AI professionals. Every company in every industry is trying to figure out I mean, AI is going to create a lot more jobs as well. But at the same time, I would say that there will be So you think AI has already hit the business Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. Especially in the tech sector. I mean, they've been talking about it for years now. The fact that you have more companies moving toward fact that as opposed to paying somebody 200 or use artificial intelligence to do the job that they This AI thing is real. It's not going away, and they can't have people And so what they've been doing over the past year is trim so that they can get to a place where they're So taking managers out and then engineers who are also leaving to make room for people who are more Ai is definitely playing a role in the layoffs that Uh, automation has increased efficiency for some of make marketing decisions, to analyze data, to serve So AI is a paradigm shift that is changing the way priorities of tech companies. Right now, I don't. See that there's a big impact from AI in these tech Uh, some businesses have maybe cited that they're letting some employees go to focus more energy on some But I think it's important to say that that's very Well, we can let people go now because, you know, The tech industry used to have this shiny image of recent tech layoff stories have completely shattered I really don't have any regrets about posting it or I think the bigger picture is that I've been able to similar. You know, the stories that I've received of still remember to this day how that made them feel, And I think that we should shed light on stuff like change. In my experience, the public sharing of things like partially due to the fact of the rise of social media People are becoming much more comfortable with sharing And oftentimes when layoffs happen, people feel shame In reality, though, oftentimes if people are being company. Tech companies that conducted widespread layoffs have The tech heavy Nasdaq climbed 43% in 2023, its best Meta was the biggest gainer among big tech, surging The tech stock boom also helped boost the wealth of The super rich CEOs saw their wealth grow by 48%, or 2023. It's hard, particularly for a company like Google, moment like this. But, you know, we've always deeply cared about our Layoffs are not a sign of a negative developments. They are, in some sense a sign of positive services and of automation and productivity Now we see the stock market reacted quite favorably to We see these record stock prices for a lot of these And so the stock price, the investors really favored favored this lean year that these tech companies had. And so instead of rewarding the growth that we saw rewarding profit. And so the layoffs have continued. People have become used to them. And regrettably and sadly, it seems that the layoffs Data suggests an influx of layoffs in the tech industry 2023. Some non-tech sectors are also seeing widespread A prime example is UPS. The Courier giant raised eyebrows by announcing 12,000 The media industry isn't immune to layoffs, either. In 2023, the industry shed over 20,000 jobs. And 2024 looks no different as big names like Times all have announced major job cuts in early 2024. The banking sector is also not shying away from Citigroup, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank are some of plans for 2024. It's worth noting that even though these mass layoffs strong. The US economy added 353,000 jobs in January, for 185,000 jobs, with the unemployment rate held at 3.8%. Experts are divided on whether the recent tech sectors. Looking at the current job market right now, there's no Obviously, you know, kind of the jury's still out. It's still early to tell. But it's interesting, as we look back at 2023, 2023 industry, and we didn't see any of that trickle out. Even within the tech industry, which is usually the the information sector. We didn't see a very high layoff rate, so we saw a lot But those companies kind of carried an outsized share up, there was maybe about 1% of employment that was So really, ultimately, the overall rate of people remains near historic lows. It hasn't yet trickled down to the rest of the economy. As we're seeing, the stock price is really high, But at some point, if this continues, uh, both spending. And that has consequences that reaches far The tech sector shed more than 386,000 jobs in 2022 and 2023, and that number is climbing. Google today joined a growing list of tech giants workers in the industry who find themselves It is Amazon doing another round of layoffs. Mark Zuckerberg's year of efficiency back in focus this morning after another The email that was sent out in the morning to everyone role was impacted. And that's how I found out. And then they pretty much shut everything off at the I was on the committee that was hiring new college It was like thousands and thousands of applications But I thought, you know, if we're still hiring new Why would we hire, you know, new grads if if the Known for its boom and bust cycles, tech has seen its More recently, the industry has faced headwinds Silicon Valley Bank. Job postings for software development positions. They're down closer to 60% year over year, and they pre-pandemic levels. So we've seen a much starker pullback in hiring for development, which a lot of tech jobs. But while layoffs have taxed retrenched workers, a industry a renewed sense of optimism. I have been in San Francisco for almost 12 years now, here for the mobile boom, right? I worked at Uber, which I think was the one company And I can tell you it was nothing like this. Every cafe, every restaurant, every conversation that it's AI, it's the latest company that's being funded. It's it's accelerating. Generative AI startup deals announced or finalized in $12 billion, compared with about $4.5 billion invested Amazon, Alphabet and Microsoft have also made massive The US tech industry accounts for 10% of the nation's It employs roughly 12 million people who work in more Those businesses are concentrated in a handful of DC, San Francisco, Boston and New York City. So how have layoffs impacted tech workers and what The pandemic and ensuing lockdowns brought the US businesses to shut their doors. By May, 23 million Americans lost their jobs. The unemployment rate surged to 14.7%, the highest But tech companies face a different climate. Remote work and cloud computing meant more people were revenue spurred on by rosy predictions and lower Microsoft, Amazon, Salesforce, Facebook, parent Meta hiring spree. Meta had about 72,000 employees at the 60% higher than 2019. Alphabet had more than 190,000 on staff at the end of 2019. But after years of unstoppable growth, Big forcing tech companies to trim their rosters. I want to say, you know, up front, uh, that I take full decision. Um, you know, I'm the founder and CEO. I'm, uh, responsible for for the health of our our Met was a company I've always wanted to work at. A Dream Job, a dream company, for sure. Carl Wheatly, a recruiter for meta, grew up in the Bay giant. Meta laid off more than 11,000 workers, or 2022, it announced a few months later it was reducing I was talking to my family about it. They grew up in the Bay area. They've been through multiple layoffs over the past. I think for our age group, I would say this is biggest downtrends or look for layoffs. Other companies quickly followed suit. If you want to think about a company that overbuilt during the Amazon is the number one company that overbuilt. Where is where are the cuts? Amazon announced in January 2023 that 18,000 workers Two months later, it said an additional 9000 positions That same month, alphabet cut 12,000 jobs, or about 6% I thought, Holy crap, I've finally made it. I'm working at probably one of the best companies in and I have longevity. Like I am good for many, many, many, many years. Paul Baker, a video producer in tech, worked at Google We all got this email early in the morning on January It's just it just hit me like a ton of bricks. I actually froze, going, wait, is this for real? I opened my work laptop and it says no access denied. Like no passwords are working. So I had to look at my personal laptop, which had an hey, you've been officially terminated. We're giving you two months notice, but like you're office. You cannot contact anyone like nothing. Company leadership was in a far different position. Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai's 2022 compensation, for million, about 800 times the pay of the median The company's stock has continued to climb since the Other companies in this space that made cuts to their While tech layoffs have been painful, the blow has packages. Recently laid off google employees in the received 16 weeks of pay plus two weeks for every year Salesforce employees received a minimum of nearly five Stephen Campbell, a software engineer, was laid off service, in December 2022. One night I stayed up especially late and woke up to a saying, are you safe? Are you okay? And I thought, like, was there an earthquake in SF? Like, what's going on? Obviously I'm safe, I feel fine. And as I woke up a little more, I thought, oh no, And so I, like, opened up my work laptop and I got a will end in 30 minutes. With help from a severance package, Campbell co-founded RevAmp AI uses machine learning and generative AI to His other business hosts in-person events to discuss The thing about generative AI in San Francisco right crypto, right? There's all these meetups which I'm There's all this venture investment going into it. I mean, absurd amounts of money is getting funneled The difference for me between generative AI and Ai is solving problems for people today. It's delivering value for people today. San Francisco has 11 out of 20 of the top AI companies raised. Collectively, those businesses took in $15.7 and 2023. Investments in automation and AI at big tech companies layoffs, meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg told employees prior investments in tools like AI would help engineers flow. Crivello founded Lindy in 2022. The company's AI personal assistant helps automate calendar invites, and taking notes during meetings. Something absolutely huge is coming, and I don't think that everything is about to change, uh, especially the knowledge workers. Steve Jobs said that computers were I think that AI is like a jumbo jet for the mind. I think it is. It is going to radically change how Generative AI could add as much as $2.6 to $4.4 economy annually. I think, counterintuitively, it is actually going to industry. It's a basic fact of economics that when valuable. Tech workers are a complement to AI. Ai makes tech workers a lot more productive. And so when something becomes a lot more productive I don't know if I necessarily would want to say that I but getting laid off was such an overall positive Really, the only downside to it was the initial shock While layoffs are having a big impact on tech growth and contraction. Tech has always been an industry with very high churn, So job seekers have always really valued the company to startup to major company to really grow And at the same time, tech, because it's often at the busts. The bursting of the .com bubble two decades earlier The Great Recession spurred additional cuts. By 2008, Silicon Valley tech companies employed 17% 2001. But there are a few key differences this time Even though two thirds of tech workers are men, more 2023 were women, according to a study analyzing more The groups most heavily impacted by layoffs include HR and marketing employees. Bianca Brown started with meta in 2019. She was laid off from her job as a program manager in I tried to sleep the night before, I couldn't, and then mark. I got the email. Um, my heart kind of dropped, you know? I took a deep breath and I was like, okay, you know, reality. This is something you have to navigate. The study also found 48% of laid off employees were 89% were based in the U.S., and the average employee And while the number of U.S. tech jobs are projected to slightly lag the longer high for the foreseeable future. The unemployment rate for tech workers as of May 2023 figure of 3.7%. While tech companies shed a modest 4700 jobs that year, a significant number of jobs were added in IT processing and hosting, and tech manufacturing. Employment opportunities for software developers is 2021 and 2031. It is a cooler job market for tech workers than it was But at the same time, a lot of these skills and demand. Oftentimes, these tech skills and this other parts of the economy as well. Tech workers are also finding jobs in other industries services and manufacturing to the government. Nationwide, tech workers earn on average $87,000 more than the average U.S. salary of $54,000. California tech workers average about $117,000 a year. Despite those trends, competition for jobs remains restless job market. I've already applied to probably about 165 jobs, and only two interviews, and both were first interviews they ghosted me, like, didn't respond to my emails. Nothing. So we're also living in a time where people But if you go on LinkedIn, there's so many recruiters looking for jobs, right? There's hundreds or thousands of people applying for I just tell everyone to kind of put your sales cap on, have to go out there and kind of find your own job. The H-1b visa program is essential for bringing capability into the country. We need to bring Americans back into the workforce and before we expand immigration. If 2 million more immigrants came to the US each year, productivity decline. After decades of deliberation surrounding US High skilled tech workers are looking towards a new Many warn that if the US doesn't find a way to bring in Canada will. Canada has launched a new initiative to attract this skilled American workers. But how did we get here? And how does a country that is home to the world's workers to Canada? We spoke with several foreign tech workers and US's bureaucratic visa process pushes workers north. It is very stressful. Every single year. The stress increases. It's not straightforward, it's very convoluted, and you Your ability to even work in a country and contribute The H-1b visa is a nonimmigrant work visa that allows in specialty occupations. Specialty occupations require an area of expertise and These jobs often include high skilled workers in tech. Since its creation in 1990, Congress has limited the The current cap is 65,000, with an additional 20,000 university with a master's or doctorate degree. Because the visa is sponsored by an employer, holders transfer their visa status, or face deportation. Shiva Koul is from India but came to the United States She started working at Microsoft in 2018, who I was lucky enough the first time, but I've had friends who did not get selected or picked up in the lottery Getting an H-1b visa has become increasingly In order to get approved, an employee has to be rigorous application process. Once vetted, they are entered into a pool of Harinder Singh, a software engineer that has a is an H-1b visa holder, knows all about this. I have been in the lottery three times, and it took me For the first year, I wasn't accepted. For the second year I wasn't accepted. It was very stressful because if things don't work In 2021, nearly half of the eligible registrations But for the upcoming 2024 year, out of the 758,000 government, only 188,000 were selected for the final 25% received a visa and thousands were turned away. Once someone receives an H-1b visa, they'll face a I've been living here for a decade. I've been paying my taxes since my student years. I don't have the same level of rights that a person exact same and even more number of duties since you're have a green card, you can't even work at a subway. Because you're restricted with your visa status in the around, you don't really have flexibility to change Plus, the green card process, which is the pathway to tedious and a long one. Since holders are at the will of their employer, they The spouse or child of the holder also cannot work So you have highly educated spouses that are just, you Sometimes they're PhD holders that are just staying A natural way to get past this bump is to apply for an But for holders like Shiva who come from highly lifespan. It's painful because all that's left between me and piece of paper. That is the last step of the green And because there's a backlog, that's why I can't get There is no other reason for that. The US implemented a country cap of 7% for green cards, in highly populated countries like India and China are 75% of the people who are on H-1b visa in the US were Majority of Indians suffer by this wait time a lot. They can never get permanent residency in their In 2023, the backlog reached a record high, with 1.8 million of those people came from India. With the grim path to permanent residency, a lot of H-1bs were moving to Canada, applying on their own for started, you know, 20 years ago, the highly educated the US employer. Big tech companies account for a large amount of H-1b Amazon, Google, Microsoft, Apple and Meta accounted years, but all of these companies, except for Apple, H-1b visa holders in limbo. Like what affect that would ever take that is going on. And the US immigration rules. You have up to 60 days to leave the country. You have to gather your everything. And if you don't have anything doing, you have to Originally from Ghana, Anokye moved to the US in 2019 bachelor's and master's degree in materials science After being laid off from micron earlier this year, he visa while searching for his next step. I'm still looking for jobs in the US. It's not easy. Even till now, companies are still From October 2022 to April 2023, approximately 50,000 lost their status due to unemployment, and 12,500 of status, meaning they had 60 days to find a new sponsor Then on June 27th, 2023, this happened. Over the course of this year, Canada is going to be developing a talented people that will be able to come to Canada to tech companies, whether they have a job offer or not. And on July 16th, Canada opened visa applications for a H-1b visa holders in the US to apply for a three year This is unprecedented. Never heard of any similar program in the past, and. The program was a huge success, reaching its 10,000 But this pilot program is only one part of Canada's recruit the world's top tech talent. There's been an unprecedented labor shortage in Canada. The tech field is growing, and the labor shortage has specific industry for years and years. So that's why the focus is really it's really to be the economic situation in Canada, the economic skills. Basically, Canada's tech market has grown 15.7% since grew at 11.4%. The country now has 1.1 million tech workers, which A CBRE study found that Toronto and Vancouver rank Canada, with Ottawa and Montreal ranking ahead of Chicago. Canada is also home to Shopify and other big Intel, Microsoft and Amazon all have a presence. Both energy and coal were affected by the tech layoffs permits. I knew he was going to be very competitive, since there workers who also have been affected on layoff, and My main reason was to have a sense of security. I wanted to make sure that if nothing pans out, if I apply for positions in Canada before my grace period The open work permit is not job specific, which means tech. And unlike the H-1b visa, they do not need to Currently, it is on my plan of trying to move to Canada am not able to find anything within the US as soon as Personally, I prefer, um, mostly like jobs in my field So engineering. Others, like Singh, didn't apply but had Canada as a I had already applied for a different program to have a process to go to Canada as a backup option. Not everybody is jumping on the next flight to come to They're probably taking their time out of these 10,000 arrive in Canada? I also understand, at least from some of my clients a backup plan. They don't intend to move to Canada in the immediate They probably want to wait for six months, one year, The Canadian government issues work permits at the Canada. It says so far, more than 6000 work permits measure. The H-1b is a really good when they move to Canada really well, and usually they like Canada because it's It's always been a pool of ideal candidates. Canadian Immigration Minister Marc Miller wasn't this statement. The immense interest in Canada's H-1b indication of just how competitive Canada is on the By 2030, the number of Stem jobs in the US is 11.3 million. But in 2019, only 14% of us Stem students worked in In fact, 62% of college students that studied Stem After graduation, foreign students have an easier US green card. In Canada, most of our work permits are study permit. There is a direct facilitated pathway to permanent It's fairly new where retention is very important worked here are the best at establishing economically Hakuna Kochar is a tech worker who came to Canada on a He has since been able to gain permanent residency. I didn't want to go to a country where I feel like I ended up working there, and to me, Canada felt like a I graduated in 2021 and within a one and a half year, residence. Full time tech workers in Canada have an average salary the US is $129,700. However, this hasn't fazed many immigrants. I'm pretty stable in Canada versus I know many similar who didn't, who are still like struggling with that. And many have ended up coming to Canada as well. In Canada, the government uses a point based system skills, work experience, age, and education to Unlike the US, it does not base your permanent The Canadian immigration system in Canada is not to the, you know, globalization and the change of the more than where the person comes from. It offers a lot of permanent stability, peace of mind, easily accessible in the current US immigration Some say Congress needs to act in order to retain top People should just take a step back and just revisit taking eons to make those changes because it affects Reform is is needed based on the circumstances. But I think that all civilized countries are moving qualified labor. I mean, that's it's that train has The policies are extremely inflexible. And when I say inflexible, they haven't changed with people came in from a particular country. Now you have, you know, plethora of people coming in As for the future, where do these tech workers see If I had opportunity, I would like to stay in the US, country, especially for immigrants. I don't think. I would want to stay in the states long term for sure. I think right now people are choosing to go more to And frankly, if somebody asks me today if I would would not recommend it. So long term. I'm definitely going to stay in the US more opportunities in the US. I haven't really considered living anywhere other than