Nobody has seen a wormhole. Nobody has produced one. Nobody knows if it is just beautiful Well, we'll take the world's best quantum computer and see if we can map that And then it became just at I think the discovery of the Higgs, which point the most exciting point of my entire It can begin to explore quantum states that Now, the wormhole becomes traversable. So, the story begins in 1935 when Einstein wrote a paper with Rosen, where the first And these are bridges that connect two ER-Einstein and Rosen-they pointed out that black holes, which are connected, but with But that wormhole has the Wormhole is a very unstable passage. It opens and it closes and it gets So Einstein, when he proposed the because you couldn't actually go through a himself. And so, what good is a wormhole And it turns out that that's because he 1935: same year, another paper. The EPR paper, which is Einstein, Rosen, Podolsky. EPR is about quantum entanglement and what something he was not happy with. Entanglement is this property when subatomic them apart, and take them at the other edge of measure the one, you know what the other will Einstein didn't like quantum entanglement, to understand how to reconcile quantum has been a challenge over decades physics and general relativity fit Einstein's dream was to figure There was no reason to think at the time or anything to do with one another, apart And then comes 2013: Maldecena and They are the same. This is very daring. Wormholes and entanglement are the same thing. That was totally unexpected. One of them has to do with quantum mechanics. Didn't seem A lot of times in physics, you can have thing. And we call that a duality. It's just The basic idea was that when you two black holes, necessarily there So there we have a picture of quantum gravity. We have this dictionary that relates gravitational You can tackle the same physics from these most concrete paths forward we have in The physics of the black holes, we think, send an experiment in a So instead we can ask, can whose dual description looks like space-time? I think it might have actually been during a talk by Juan Maldacena about ER = EPR Could traversable wormholes exist? And people configuration of space-time. But I think many So we saw that it could. One of the magical things about quantum energy. And this allows you to do things that Daniel Jafferis showed was that if you introduce you can support your wormhole and get something Now, I'm an experimentalist, so I look at that And so Maria and I were thinking, we have the laboratory. We're physicists. So could we It almost occurred to us immediately that that we know how to manipulate. And Quantum computers speak a different bits. A bit-you look at it, okay, The correlations among qubits are richer among bits. It's this language of quantum this extravagant quantum world, which I've worked on a few projects at Google Quantum, The Google device is the best All the magic happens in this little chip. You pieces of aluminum on a silicon chip. And We had access to the Google quantum Joe and I said, "We have a proposal to try to And to put the proposal together, it In physics, you have to have the courage of maybe it won't work the way that I thought, that's really the attitude we had going it was going to work, but we thought we would They didn't say, &quot;You're crazy. They said, &quot;Okay, you are crazy. Let's do it.&quot; You can use the holographic duality to We look instead at this set of it in a way that has exactly the same And so, on the quantum computer, one side of the wormhole and If you take the physical system that theoretical work out pencil-and-paper, &quot;how good of answer that's like, &quot;a quantum computer But we thought, "Let's try." We are here in our GQ2 lab... the controlled signals actually are produced in these When you try to just run a wormhole on a quantum computer, you find that you So that's big. That's a big fat problem. We have to do what physicists to preserve certain features-in this case, gravitational features, while throwing We knew we needed to get to a smaller system size and so we were banging our heads And then finally, you come up The idea of rewriting it as a neural network idea because you usually don't think of The wormhole itself has these many network weights. We then have a data which is the dynamics that we want to It sounds like a generic and we can just plug it straight I proposed the idea and tried it out. The original system has 210 terms. And we found out that we can do this with seven. The machine learning managed to keep all of It's still baby enough that it fits in the crib. That was the first moment where, whole wormhole thing we've been talking about At probably like two in the morning, We're looking for a peak. That's the I'm watching the data as it comes out and first I was like, this is probably just coming in and the peak kept getting clearer "I think I just saw one." And so I was like like, "I think we have a wormhole, guys." He said, &quot;It's there.&quot; I It was nuts. It was nuts. The qubits of the Google quantum computer are making a little bit of extra What happens is, a pulse of negative Now, the wormhole becomes traversable. It opens. You put a qubit through one side of the wormhole. The qubit is now in the interior of this wormhole. That information will actually spread over this spread of quantum information is chaotic. It becomes shared by many particles in the After spreading, it has to As the wormhole is closing, the qubit is exiting. I was absolutely astounded. I thought we would get quantum computer. And I never really believed that The experimentalists have a reaction I told my brother and he squealed and he are you doing?&quot; It was difficult to explain to On the processor, if we had a we wouldn't see a ripple of space-time. We would see the physics that we expect from the gravity point of view and So if that is the case, then we are making That's been the holy grail of my whole and the things that go with it, like wormholes. We are studying quantum gravity Einstein committed his life to arrive to here we are almost a century later. I wish he was alive to see this because What would have Einstein said? He would've said, But he didn't. I think this is concrete The vector is pointing right from This is a confirmation-a direct exploration-of on the one hand and the way space is As Google builds more and more capable be able to get this into a regime where we don't And I think we're going to have now writing papers about all the doing now-now that we've sort of And as always in physics, when you there will be discoveries that weren't more powerful accelerator to study particle look at the more distant universe, a able to study highly entangled matter that Being very close with quantum, There's so many questions that one And I think most exciting are the