You're the captain of a cargo ship, navigating The radar shows a direct, fast route to your An entire section of the ocean, a perfect straight route, but no captain dares take it. Why? What of the ocean that ships refuse to pass through? are over 1,600 miles from any land. If a ship off from help. But that's just one of the reasons areas, the danger isn't just due to distance. By itself, wind can present a significant made to be particularly aerodynamic when while ship sails were rendered obsolete with the engines, wind can still "dampen the sails" There's even a precise formula to determine a is being pushed by the wind at any given time. much higher than the front and back. After and relatively lean. But going a bit further, than tankers or container ships. This is due to that also minimizes water displacement (which the water). Furthermore, larger water displacement travels, which amplifies the benefits of As for how that translates to cross-oceanic that cover the ocean. Typically, ships will it. Otherwise, they'll go through areas that pressure. The average trade wind speed on the there's no surface to allow for cloud gathering, coverage and resulting pressure changes to seasonal typhoons, which can pick up wind speeds overlap the shipping map with the wind map, brewing in the area by the exact absence of ships. wind but also from oceanic currents as a whole unoriginally called wind waves, and there's an wind can create them. To keep things relatively surface in a uniform way (that is, doesn't it will displace enough water for a wave to pick detecting exact wind speeds over a huge area range of waves that are considered most likely to Let's consider that the wind speed picks up 33 miles per hour. According to statistics, 340 miles can generate significantly varied waves height in this instance is 11 feet, but 10% of there's a 5% chance that one in every 200 waves cargo ship height (above the water line) is some into a decent-sized cargo ship. However, all somewhere, and that somewhere is the ship's hull. existing water currents, the waves get amplified, or SWH. Such amplifications can cause rogue waves, tall and cause significant damage to a ship. they are more common in the Atlantic rather than oceanic currents, and traffic routes are important SWH formations and the resulting rogue waves. particularly dangerous to ships. Called the North anticyclone that disperses air currents outward, there's an area northeast of Hawaii that sees technically shorter than going closer to the the anticyclone shifts slightly with the lanes through the area to minimize the risk Worse yet, the wind and waves over the ocean seem grown by nearly a foot over the course of the warming. Since we haven't really solved that but it's not insurmountable just yet. tall enough to withstand waves, why is there it's because modern cargo ships are packing And storage containers are much more and even being tossed out of the ship. there were reports of a total of 3,000 shipping number has been lost to explosions (possibly due fell into the ocean itself, typically never to be number compared to what the shipping industry losses for some companies can be ludicrous. It covers more than 30% of the world's surface continents combined. Simply put, there are so many shipping route, that ships could probably keep But that distance comes at a cost. Just because of miles between the ship and the nearest human doesn't mean it's practical. Consider, as a simple of the Pacific. It is roughly 1,600 miles away two tiny islands in the Pacific and Antarctic. don't have the means to provide assistance, help The northern part of the Pacific is a there's a good chunk of continental U.S., it. If something happens to a ship in the But that's precisely why most shipping lanes that typically stray relatively close the Pacific is vast and already well-protected remaining relatively close to each other. on websites are grossly misleading. What may seem that are miles away from each other. The advanced them to easily course-correct way before spotting been reports of ships ramming into each other--such ships at the end of August 2024--those typically involve smaller fishing or patrol vessels. is called the Mercator Projector. It's just one of this time a rectangle. One of the main benefits type is precisely for navigation. objects and distances farther away from the cause significant discrepancies between landmass same size as Africa). However, what it doesn't using traditional compass navigation. Using to describe its destination, and so long as arrive at its destination eventually. For smaller and Mercator-compass lengths is negligible. For that run for hundreds or even thousands of miles. navigation. First, the straight line between the shortest distance the ships have to travel. course corrections can stick to the actual latitude would "curve up" above the equator using the "straight path" as on the especially when dealing with the additional In truth, the actual shipping lanes fall somewhere projection to keep navigation simpler while trying time. At least the ships passing only from one deal with the mess that is the Strait of Malacca. is affected by both natural and economic winds and doesn't deviate much from the shortest it's a give-and-take relationship between how much destination and how long the travel will take. the shorter route would be more dangerous or the same time, a longer route can minimize the and its precious cargo or passengers. complexities of shipping across the ocean. Leave us your thoughts in the comments section