(cheering) (narrator): 30 years ago It ripped through the city, tearing Now, a group of people Are you ready to go? - To experience the Wall again. (Hannah): What on earth? - Three YouTube Creators... - Oh, my God. Wow. That is... frightening. - ...will discover - This is really a place - And three relatives will get - This man in this picture - In a way - Wow... (rat squeaking) It's incredible. (intense music, (reporter): 20 million as the smoke of defeat (narrator): Out of the ashes Germany, and its capital The Communists control the East, As the years pass, in search of a better life East German authorities if they can't stop the exodus. In the early hours a brutal secret plan begins. Lines of barbed wire caging in all those living - Whoa. - This is madness. - Look at this barbed wire. - It's kind of wild how normal - Yeah. - Just completely tore through. - It's such a scar on the city. - This is just a normal Everyone's gone to sleep, and they'll peek out and then see this. - It's all a product That one side wanting all of the manpower, to keep the economic stability when the process of doing that - And now you only know - But you're caging in people - The people were pawns to be They have no say in it. (narrator): In these moments, one family living close is faced with Whether or not to flee. - This picture has been shown I can see my grandma in here, She was trying to escape It's just a picture, I would love to know - Are you ready to travel - I am. Let's go. (intense music) - It's just stunning. Just give me a moment - So now here we are - Wow. It's really incredible. I've never seen her If I would extend out my arm, I - So this is 1961. It's the 17th of August, in West Berlin. - It's crazy. But it feels different I just want to know more; - I can't over-emphasise So this row of houses was where but what's so remarkable, so important is that while the houses are in East And even while we stand on that's still West Berlin. - But the houses themselves - That's crazy. I remember and I didn't really get that - Now these border houses because you can use them Your grandmother and family that the secret police, are on their way to occupy the So in this moment, your grandmother and to flee to the West. - I think she must have felt What to grab, what to take, - And underneath the window, are just two passers-by and just threw down their and helped the family. If you look up there, you can and he's hastily passing down that they'll be able - Right, he's so close, like what he's thinking. I can see all - So here we are in your the room that they All these photographs, - Yeah. I've seen them There's a lot of the photo albums my It's very emotional seeing that because - Being in this room, we can the sense of urgency that's in the photograph. - If you look there, the chair According to your grandmother's account your grandmother's parents They had an hour to pack - Yeah. I can see my grandma's I didn't know that he was - Absolutely. Him still being - He's trying to take care but he doesn't know what's - He knows the police They've actually entered the building at this stage. - He has barricaded himself by shoving a chair up against He knows that everything hangs he really just has to take So he jumps from that and ultimately into freedom. Just days later, your to look at the street and seeing that the windows and all those along the street had been bricked up. Any later, and they could've There's so many outcomes and that could've had a huge - It's an incredible feeling I feel a lot more connected now I'm very proud of her. (reporter): The Communists to keep their people and it does just that. (narrator): In a matter the lines of barbed wire are closing off communist East Families are torn apart, friends will never see The Berlin Wall is born. (Hannah): Whoa... (Rezo): That is huge. - It's just so menacing. - Oh, my God. (Hannah): I had no idea - This is oppression, - You'd not miss this. - Does this have any resemblance - This? No, no. Now, the city is such and of course, you have the - The idea of families being it reminds me of what He was born into an Iraq All of his friends were being to basically die You know, my dad had to make &quot;Do I stay with my family, everything that I grew up with, And he decided to go. He's one of the lucky ones. - And this story is retold not just in Iraq, but in Berlin, (Hannah): My great-grandmother and she was Jewish, and went back one time to visit and then after the war, because of the divide and then didn't go back until the Berlin wall came down. - Wow. - A lot of people would've experienced that here. Not seeing their family even though they lived - It's crazy isn't it? - We're lucky to live in So to know that this was only 30 years so we have to be careful - We've got to keep a close eye What kind of language - If they want to build walls. (crowd shouting) (narrator): In the three years 42 people have died With border guards ordered getting over the wall is now a But a group of students ...are hatching - This man in this picture He's my grandfather, and in this under the Berlin wall. It's a pretty unique story. There's so much more I don't know - So Anton, are you ready - Alright, let's do it. That's him! We are - He looks so certain I can see in his eyes He's just like he is now, It's weird, it's pretty much - So at the time, he was He was 22 when the wall He was separated from And so he embarked on the huge task under the wall, in order to help - It's incredible - That's a winch and it's full of soil because they have dug What we're looking down now - 12 metres, wow. What's it like? - It looks so narrow, - Yeah it's only one by one metre. How long is that tunnel? - Wow... - If you look down at your feet, there - Yeah, I see it. - Open it up, and tell me - Paper with notes &quot;Nicht ein schlafen which means, - So you actually have and you're reading from... - ...the actual notes that your grandfather - Right, that's crazy. - This is how they would've They would've transported the - Ah, that's so interesting. - Because of the distance they had to do this as quietly as possible, - That's incredible, - I wonder if he ever his grandson would be holding - I don't think he actually thought It's crazy to actually build You go down there with a shovel and you work in here and I would always be concerned Okay, I gotta get out of here, It's super uncomfortable - Beyond the door is something This is the other end. - Exactly. So this is where the and then make their escape - Wow it's so close - It's so close the border. We're right under the noses Between the 3rd and 4th your grandfather the smuggling of 57 people through - Was it only in one night? Then the Stasi turned up, and so that was the end It still managed to free And because of that number, - That's pretty mind-blowing. - Your grandfather seems like - There are not that many that's pretty unique. And... I think there's a lot of people who and that makes myself Even though the whole situation it's still something People are getting imprisoned for helping because they can't live there - Yeah, those parallels - To have the courage to help is something that you should - As daring escape attempts ...East German authorities (reporter): No, you don't It stretches across Berlin like (narrator): It develops into a vast and a force of 14,000 crack shot guards. Running 27 miles through is an infamous central kill-zone (Hannah): What on earth? (Riyadh): Oh, my God. - Oh, my God. Wow. - Yeah. - It's like this is a war zone. I feel like we're in the (Rezo): And it's only - The measures that they've gone to... - The effort... - Isn't it mad that this expanse began - Yeah, on the ground. (Rezo): There are landmines, the guards in the towers - The trench over there. More barbed wire. No chance. (Hannah): I just, I cannot and how this is That's what I'm trying - This scale, insane. It's outwardly, obviously and you know, they weren't beating They wanted it to look this way. - The people in East Berlin - This is really a place Not just one or two, dozens of people This is insane. - And what a way to die as well, to freedom, and then to be shot. But not just that, Just left. As an example, - No one's gonna come and get your body. (war sirens) (reporter): The communists call This is to ease the idea of a (narrator): By the late 1980s, People's lives in the East of hardship, brutality, But, with the cold war thawing, the international community to rid Berlin of its so-called - Mr. Gorbachev, (crowd cheering) (official): Today we have permitting every citizen (narrator): On November 9th to witness the border being Finally the East Germans - I've got a picture and he was there at the fall It's definitely an amazing It was a very important moment in history, - Let's go. This is your uncle. It's overwhelming. - We've arrived at a really this is the 10th November 1989. We're in West Berlin just yards and it's the morning after the announcement that is going to open up - Wow. in this incredible moment - I think he's very determined, and he's totally - There's an amazing story According to firsthand accounts, it happened right This is the day that they made that the border's going to open There's a huge, kind of, (cheering) Wolfgang jumped up on the wall. Lots but then the East German (cheering) In the meantime, people literally and just trying to pull it whether the East German guards - I don't know actually, if I would - A section of the wall but because it gets stuck at an angle. And for a moment - Wow. - When you can see you almost - Yeah you're right. - This is the beginning You can almost feel (shouting, cheering) Your uncle celebrates And in the morning, The flag is one that belonged that he travelled down with. And he just picked up And this image was captured. - Now I know what he's been I think I can understand him (soft music) Young people take it for granted One of the things that Even my parents or my uncle (chanting in German) - You can feel the comradeship, and imagine - I think it's some kind of as if there was something when you know something - And apparently, and the flag was being held, and they were... one of the This is the end of this and system that has divided the country for 28 years. - So it's a real moment (intense music) (Rezo): For young people today, to imagine what it was like to (cheering) The story of the Berlin wall And I think it's crucial (Hannah): I think it's very We live in a world where borders seem I think the story Yeah, it feels hugely relevant (cheering) (Riyadh): What we've seen gathering as big masses, big actually causes change. (chanting in German) One person climbing 100 000 or a million people (Emma): I hope you enjoyed You can explore the Berlin Wall, and all in full 360 VR by clicking To see other original shows, Subtitling: difuze