We are a failed breed created against our will by others, only to have none of our own. And now them! Feed your hunger! Slake your thirst! If we Hello Internet. Welcome to Game Theory, where right now. Press them as fast as you can to play. Blue, Blue, Blue. Subscribe? Ha, how did that on the screen. Oh, it's below the video. Well, Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to Poppy us some curveballs. Is Poppy helping us or not? Am I getting weird feelings for Mommy Long Legs or You know, the usual questions. But as MOB games decided to surprise us but rather with the reveal of its brand new survival game where you can literally play In the game you and your friends act as resource collect the parts that will allow us to build as just playing a bunch of rounds of Simon you'll be hunted by one of the game's the newcomer Boxy Boo. My honest reaction. It's the emotes are fun, the puzzles find the team and I had a blast playing it few bugs that needed to be worked out as Is that you? Oh, yeah. Hey, bud, it is you. It is me. Ahahahah. Oh, don't worry about him, though. Tom would Oh oh, no! I have a toy part, Tom! Tom, come on! I had a toy part :( Everyone let's all Boo Tom in the comments Like I said, it's a really fun game. But of is fun or not on this channel. We are here And just like with the gameplay, MOB you first boot up the game, you're thrown lore drops left and right. And then when you've lore filled VHS tape, which means it's time where today I'm about to prove to you that the strings of this game may actually have folks. It's classic game theory time. In Project: Playtime's VHS tape, we're introduced to a new character named Not that kind of doctor. This guy bigger on the inside. Instead, he has a plan Huggy Wuggy, Mommy Long Legs and Boxy Boo; These initiative. In chapter two, we learned that the kids playing around in the game station. implications of that seriously. These giant toys working in the factory: lifting boxes, patrolling it actually helps the first ever VHS tape He's talking about Huggy, Huggy is literally there's a new night guard in town and he time in the series, we have confirmation as So the next question is when? As we start the factory, It'd be helpful to know Project: Playtime actually gives us Boo's description tells us that Huggy Wuggy's description is similar, telling created back in 1984, but Mommy Long bit differently. You see, it makes it clear Instead, the giant mommy that we saw 1991 in an effort to use the company's new quote, "so popular that Playtime Co. created That tells us that the Bigger Bodies initiative or before 1991. And considering that she's it had to have been significantly And that's not all the timeline information that to the Project: Playtime ARG. That's right. MOB And so they decided to raise me an entire ARG. and really complex. Unfortunately, most of it was and by the time we managed to solve it, the teaser either. Plus, the ARG has now been wiped from the to cover it anymore. But if you do want to see I highly recommend watching Sheeprampage's video and solutions as they were happening in real time, but it's a good series, so boom just Today, though, we're just going to be us moving forward. During the ARG, we heard an employee that was initially concerned about The next video we see of him Clearly, he figured out that something living Huggy security system was a he tries to throw everyone off Smooth Rohan. Very smooth. Clearly, Playtime is aware that he knows too much and And sure enough, that's exactly what basement and stands face to face with Eats him alive. Notice the dates on all of have seen a giant Huggy watching children it means the Bigger Bodies program was We can also add to the timeline when Project: one of the toys that we're tasked with assembling Based on the games... Sorry. We know that the toy boogie bot was made be functional as a toy factory, at least last major toy made, though, we can assume We hear this event happening in chapter Most likely. Then project play time takes place the time after everyone went missing, but before mysteries. Playtime CO needed specialists to go continue the Bigger Bodies initiative, despite the But what's interesting is that up until now, driven purely by their hunger. But Project: This mysterious voice is talking to toys throughout the factory, getting them to but also to stop those who are trying to Whoever this mysterious voice is, they do who could it possibly be? Fortunately, I didn't my playthrough on GTlive I got a loading I got a loading screen. I got Mommy Long Legs being puppeteered by 1006. chasing people. So you definitely got the I got the lore see. Experiment 1006 has been one of the franchise's little bit more about him. The first chapter toy experiments, that he had a digestive The second chapter revealed him tampering with cameras and alarm clocks in order him. He even showed up at the end of Chapter But his end goal, his motivation has largely though, we now know what he wants. He's trying to stop people being used to release all the giant toys before The giant toys are organized, and it's because this one creation is able this gives more clarity to something And while he doesn't want more toys to be made, he is taking care of all the He's keeping them fed. He's keeping he's keeping them safe. These people this isn't what they wanted. And while 1006 He has good intentions, even though a creepy metal claw hand. I think he's hero of this story. And his heroism isn't We know based on documents from Chapter two One thing everyone put together fairly quickly Playtime CO seemed to be testing children Specifically, we see two documents outlining the try to pair this girl with Candy Cat. But, was how these performance assessments Both of them trail off as the pen there's blood on the paper. It suggests that not while testing Makayla. And Makayla actually sees undergoing the statues game, we read that Presumably, this is the giant monster that's then, an important detail. The prototype is whether it was Mommy Long Legs coming in to We know that the prototype's behind it, because he's the one puppeteering all the big save the kids. I don't know about you, And he's not only using the he's also using us. Remember that line I Those last two words. Don't they seem familiar? Yep. The death messages from both chapters Get up. Which then results in us respawning. Up until now, we've been under the speaking to us through these death screens, the like "we're almost there" or "it's to get us to find her at the end of every "INNOVATION IS KEY" "THANK YOU SCIENCE" LOCKDOWN" being from either Elliott Ludwig or But now I don't think that's the case. but almost all of them end Get up. I think this is experiment "More lives are at risk than just help the trapped souls inside the has spent so long protecting. Why is it Simple reason could be that some of his lines are when he was first created. "The prototype there's actually another explanation. Mommy screams for her life, terrified of being away shortly thereafter, broken toys end up it's a way for him to keep the toys and That would mean that 1006 now has multiple voices have perished and are now incorporated into his us at once. This, I suspect, is what we're also It starts off as normal text, but then two very different tones present here. Near Initiative will fail", which not only lines just discussed, but it also matches the Except over there it's written in a glitchy text. that it's 1006. We have seen those death screens and a robotic monster trying to communicate appears glitchy fits pretty nicely. Plus, there that appear in the static of the VHS, one that and a sacrifice". Again, hidden messages, But while I'm certainly excited to for us in future updates and what his role there's still one major All the giant toys that we've met thus Long Legs even got a name: Mary Payne. So that paved the way for all the others, then In our previous theories we came to the to create these monsters. They were tested in fit for purpose, they would get on where they'd be experimented on So was Experiment 1006 just an orphan? A vengeful spirit, if you will? As much as another piece of FNAF lore, I don't 1006 is incredibly intelligent, able manipulate and trick the scientists in like Huggy were described as obedient. children who could be trained and But the prototype was different. He was an in recent chapters. I propose that 1006 is Elliot Ludwig. Now, I'm not the Ever since the release of Chapter two, it's I really feel like now we have the evidence to suffered a tragic loss in his family in the 1960s, be remade in Poppy. And throughout the game thus at heart, and he's always giving credit for his and maybe I've played just one too many indie like that and I immediately think; "Oh, this But nothing he ever says or does is outright it's trying to benefit children. we see posters pushing employees to And while again, my knee jerk reaction orphan kids to make living toys". I don't he wouldn't be outright encouraging employees posters that would be taking test subjects, No, I believe that Elliot did indeed have It was this new character, The Doctor, and he was able to do it because During the ARG leading up to Project: Playtime, Stoll reminding employees about the need to keep we get this line, quote: "Nobody cares and as our great founder Elliot Ludwig always looks after one another." Notice the tense is out of the picture by the time the whole So where did he go? In chapter two there's gel to bring dead rats back to life. almost 200 experiments prior to the prototype. Why would such an old note be sitting 400 experiments took place after later experiments would be at the top of A note that at the very end mentions I think Elliot realized what was shut the entire operation down. However He specifically calls out failed experiments. haven't been successful yet, just like we And so when Elliot stood in his way, there guinea pig. That's why that was the last to the office. Harley could just lock And so Elliot became the first. He became the all those that he failed to protect as a turned into monsters and the children And he's doing everything he can to stop it, preventing more toys from being built and Project: back to the toy factory to investigate and then But clearly, his mission is incomplete and Poppy that Mommy captured her again in chapter two. that he needs to be reunited with his daughter Not exactly sure yet. Maybe it's just a I bet we're going to find out more in chapter Playtime doesn't make so much money that MOB pursuing the single player campaign. That would remember, it's all just a theory. And if you're still looking to get your you can always watch our prediction video what they're going to do with that gas mask. people getting turned into monsters. You can Revival. Let's just say our leading lady, Audrey, over on the right. As always, my friends, don't