[Dragon Roaring] The problem started with Actually, I suppose it started with a show, watched, enraptured, late one school-night. And you could say it made me a little... obsessed -- not just with dragons, but with If dragons aren't real, the show asked, how far apart, have legends of the same creature? ...It's a question that kind of ruined my Title: The Dragon Paradox "I'm the Le Choy Dragon!" [Earsplitting Crash]. There's one obvious solution to the Dragon you. 'Dragons are real animals, they can just why scientists haven't noticed.' And to be fair to my younger self, the worldwide remarkable -- there is a fascinating anthropological But young-me wasn't here for that, I was breathing creatures. So, I went to a primary source. I had... a few dragon books when I was younger, Dragonology is the ur-text that truly began These pages seemed to contain answers for breathe fire, how they took flight, the consistency And the whole thing was written from the perspective wonder I treated it like an actual guidebook. It's really no wonder I became so obsessed. Yet there was a problem -- none of my sources Books and documentaries disagreed on whether or four legged, a few meters long, or a few Looking directly at global myths and legends seemed inconsistent, like these things were But I wasn't ready to give in: 'obviously,' of dragon, and different cultures have interacted This taxonomy-based explanation for divergences pieces of dragon-media employed anyway. So, I began to obsessively categorize the interpretations that failed to meet my invented If a dragon had hair: Not A Dragon, if it reading -- ...actually those dragons got Looking back, this full-blown fixation on of, uh -- ...I spent a lot of time wandering and looking for dragons. And though I remember being happy, I also confused why everyone seemed to interact with And somehow, I thought the solution was to... I felt that if I could explain the topic well and solve the paradox, I could... I don't know. So it almost felt like fate when at the peak released the first How to Train your Dragon maturity; empathy; loneliness; and being an Yeah, it's no surprise this movie struck At its core, How to Train your Dragon explores or even relate to the nonhuman or monstrous. At the start of the film, lead character Hiccup Viking culture requires physical strength against a demonized other (in this case, dragons) When he finally gets the chance to kill a him from finishing the job, "I did this." Instead, he nurses the creature back to health, the dragon instead of slaying it is because clear the real reason is because he couldn't He encountered a frightened, lonely, ostracized Now, I'm not going to act like young-me I was mainly pulled in by the dragons' designs, just... what it actually sounds like to ride a dragon, pauses around the hour mark to show us a detailed Though, on some level, I connected my experiences wasn't self-aware enough to do so more than I remember thinking, 'wow... it sure would be tough to be an overly-obsessive I'm 'the coolest.' ...It can be a challenging thing to reflect (Door creaks), I was cleaning out my childhood drawings that brought back... mixed memories. Recollections of sitting on my own, creating I recall how tightly I pressed the pencil, through the sheer force of my tiny hand. In the book "An Instinct for Dragons," creating art of draconic monsters is a deep-rooted fear of reptilian predators. Although most scholars disagree with Jones's from someplace primal... The truth is, no single explanation for the sufficient. Looking around the animal kingdom, there's scaley legends in the minds of ancient peoples the Latin 'draconis,' a term synonymous with dragon myths exist in proximity to formidable Dinosaur fossils have a broader distribution, might also conjure draconic images, but direct The anthropological origins of dragons likely Fiction is simple, the truth is... well, it's I think that's part of why child-me held literal creatures. I wanted them to be direct, categorizable, I could at least... know my dragon facts. Perhaps it's only natural for those who to seek knowledge of the monstrous. I've been re-reading Ryoko Kui's monster-centric adapted into an anime, and it's... kind my personal experience. Well, in a way. What begins as a standard fantasy adventure protagonist, Laios, an archetypal knight-in-shining-armor, to study and, uh, cook every creature in the It's like Lord of the Rings meets an episode but Dungeon Meshi ultimately offers a surprisingly the world differently. Through the series, we're shown Laios cannot peers, nor does he recognize that most people of monster facts. Though often framed through a comedic culinary nonhuman ultimately stems from his difficulties Perhaps Dungeon Meshi's greatest achievement perspective. Like How to Train Your Dragon, the narrative granular details of its world, getting so had monster parts on hand, I think you could It's a story just as singularly obsessed as its protagonist, and teaches the viewer And even if you don't share the same... a topic inside and out, to fully understand a relatable one. Though my obsessions aren't exactly the I do know what an all-consuming interest feels But no matter how hard I tried, dragon taxonomy was no untangling it. The truth I eventually had to face is that was looser than my sources had suggested. As it turns out, 'dragons' don't exist Okay that sounds weird -- what I mean is, all land vertebrates are fish descendants, that doesn't include... humans. Lots of animal taxonomy gets blurry in this Like, 'reptiles' make sense as a category birds are descended from dinosaurs, they technically right. That doesn't mean these terms are useless, orderly as they seem -- and folkloric nomenclature In my attempts to make dragons fit an inflexible seen in books, labelling wingless dragons ...but really, all I was doing was applying more fluid. The worst offender was how I called any two-legged I've been on before, but it's very close All over the internet people still claim that a wyvern. In comment sections for Lord of the Rings repeating this like its doctrine, saying that Martin are idiots for giving their 'dragons' And I get it, believe me I get it, if there me. You want clean categories, you want to be have never had a consistent number of legs. I wish it were true that Wyverns were an exclusive divided up creatures like D&amp;D monster types. But mythological taxonomy, like biological no matter how much young-me wanted to pretend Seven-year-old-me would have called this blasphemy, something that media framing them as 'real' How does seemingly every civilization, no exact same creature? Well, they don't -- not really. The definition of 'dragon' is so decentralized across cultures can be made to seem draconic So many of the categories applied to dragons relatively modern Western Dragons are often the serpentine dragon model more common in older. Yet it's hard to let go -- or at least, everything by type. It's hard not to wish dragon classification Nintendo's newest game Pokemon --" "- Pokemon lot of people, the desire for rigid categorization in particular. I never had a Gameboy or DS to play Pokemon the games to know I liked their dragons. Specifically, I liked that they were categorized. A series all about 'types,' Pokemon seemed I remember how ecstatic I was when I finally at a yard sale -- finally, I thought, here's the way I do. But pedantic little complainer that I was, placed in the 'dragon type.' Many of creatures bestowed that title hardly to be deserving of the designation, and other make the cut. I always figured this was just a me-thing, out that lots of people share my opinion, People have strong feelings about Pokemon up the regions in my old Pokemon Biology the most comments about. And I think that's great, seriously, I understand But in the case of Pokemon's dragon type, too harsh. Dragons in folklore aren't as consistent If medieval artists didn't have to limit maybe Pokemon artists shouldn't either. Maybe forcing things that are made up to follow limiting? Weirdly enough, I actually think the How to allowed young-me to overcome my obsession Because those films almost completely threw remember not caring. And this was when I was at the age where if from the book, I took it upon myself to care. A lot. But these films had their own themes, and to fit those themes. In the books, Hiccup's dragon Toothless personification of the unknown, and Vikings But directors Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders with the monstrous required a rework of the admit, it made the story better. For the first time, I remember considering a little juvenile. I wish I could say that my fixation on dragon result of outgrowing the subject. But that's not what happened. On the cusp of my teenage years, fear of seeming an outsider, led to me going full scorched interests. You might have noticed I used a stock image because I threw the real copy away. And I wanted to throw my dragon books away lost in a box years ago. The same is especially true for my drawings I created, an excruciating reminder of the If they hadn't, too, been forgotten... I honestly might have burned them. And it's hard, even now it's hard, to There is still, on some level, someone else's at and belittle my past-self for... what? Having an imagination? I said at the beginning of this video that legends of the same creature kind of ruined That's honestly not... entirely fair. Yes, Dragons: A Fantasy Made Real just appeared like a real scientist finding a dragon's Yes, that convinced me that dragons were real, But is that the documentary's fault? The narrator guy does say "What if the legends... it was seven-year-old-me who heard "the job to prove it." To be honest, I was probably always going how I was made. It's a curious thing to be born different. You can feel the shape of this person you wondering why you aren't that person. And I still don't know exactly what's... or category for it. I think I'm all right with that. Likewise... as I'm sure you've probably guessed, there (which yes, I know, isn't strictly a paradox). And maybe it's a groanworthy conclusion: we made along the way, but... that feels right Dragons have been with us since civilization's It's actually possible that, like most languages, root. It's also possible that making dragons is That we independently find them in pieces of the sky. There's evidence a third century Chinese to a dragon around the same time peasants away in Central Europe. And when I think about these past humans, more exciting explanation for the phenomena across time to my younger self, . . .doing I've spoken in past tense a lot in this to be. But I mean --a quick glance at my channel classification videos I've made, and it's I've just found ways to manage my obsessions teenage-me might be mortified, I think it's instead of trying to bury them. While making this video, sorting through the about how I haven't drawn anything in a So, I picked up my pencil again. Dragons still fascinate me, and it's clear to be part of culture, changing forms as worldviews I wouldn't want it any other way. And as always, thanks for watching. This ended up being more of a personal essay this entry, please lend your support by liking, icon, it helps me out tremendously. See you in the next video, and stay curious.