- November 23rd, 1998. I had an It doesn't matter if you What matters is that you check out and avoid it just the same. This was not a This was an out-of-body experience In 2 Corinthians 12:2 Paul when he he said, whether in the body or Well the Lord showed So in a vision you can travel, like Paul and John actually traveled 1 Corinthians 15:44 talks about and in Ezekiel chapter 8 carried from Babylon He was told to eat, he experienced the he wept, he conversed. My point is in a vision you can experience that you would in and this is not to compare my I'm just trying to give of how this can occur for a Christian. The only way a Christian can And in Job 7:14 it says, &quot;You scare me with Isaiah 21:2 he was given a grievous vision and in Job 4:14 Eliphaz was given a So you can have a grievous Now, um, you know this But you might say, &quot;Bill, why I'm a Christian Well three quick reasons why it's important Number one, when you you'll be much more from what you were saved from because a lot of Christians believe That's a teaching that says you but that's not true. Jesus said in Matthew 25:46 and these shall go into and the word everlasting So just as heaven is You'll thank God He saved Number two, it causes us as Christians What is the fear of the Lord? Deuteronomy 6 and the fear of the Lord is to and to obey His Word daily. That you have enough respect It's not enough to say, &quot;yeah I'm We're supposed to obey God you will want to You will not want to compromise When you understand how severe Jesus said in Mark 9:47 The word offend means causes It's better for you to enter in So the fear of the Lord is and it instills in us when you understand Proverbs 16:6 says, &quot;by the fear See, that helps keeping And number three, it'll give us as A desire to want to witness. See because when you you'll think, man I didn't I cannot let my family go there I've got to do something See we pray but we pray just a Most don't really take the diligence for the unsaved. And when you see how severe hell is, Paul said, &quot;Knowing therefore the Now even though that scripture is the reward seat for Christians, the commentaries also point out and hell in general. So when you understand you'll be more See you'll get up each day &quot;Put me in front of somebody Lord, I'm available. I am ready to witness. You'll have that passion and Fast and pray. You know how many of us do that? Where you really get on your &quot;Lord I'm not letting my &quot;They will not go to hell. I'm &quot;Father send laborers across their path. Lord open up their heart, open up You'll pray more fervently when you If you're not a Christian you because there's only two paths and we want to make We went to a prayer meeting that Nothing unusual about the night. At this moment this was in 1998. I I was a Christian for and I knew that was fiery But we went to this prayer meeting I had never gone to dark I've never taken drugs and We came home, went to bed. I got up at three o'clock in the and I was walking across our and suddenly something grabbed Like you're being pulled and I found myself falling through And it was getting hotter and And I entered this open and then I landed on a stone Rough stone walls, bars, filthy, I had no idea how I got I was fully awake and cognizant Isaiah 24:22 says, &quot;And they as prisoners are gathered in the pit, Proverbs 7:27 mentions going The word chambers means inner rooms. Job 17:16 says, &quot;They shall Jonah 2:6 &quot;the earth with The Tyndale, the new international that Jonah himself was at the gates of hell Well that's where I first found myself. The first thing I noticed It was far beyond the I wondered how could And my reaction I just wanted to run but I noticed I had no physical strength. It took so much energy to try to move. But Isaiah 14:9-10 says, &quot;hell at thy coming they will say,art And Psalms 88:4 says, &quot;I am counted I am as a man that has no strength.&quot; Now if you ever had it's a thousand times worse than that. Any movement takes But see Acts 17:28 says, &quot;in Him So even movement comes I looked up and I saw They were reptilish in appearance bumps and scales all over They had claws that were and these particular two It's not an exaggeration. but they were pacing in the They had an extreme hatred for but we know blasphemy Revelation 13:6, James 2:7 and some others. Then they directed this hatred they I wonder why? What have I done to them? But the one demon grabbed me, this prison cell, like I weighed I hit the wall, I collapsed. I felt as if every Now maybe a spirit doesn't have bones and now I have to explain one thing. I experienced pain but I understood I knew that then but On the way back the Lord explained that I would have felt from that but He so I could relate to people It's not a state of the mind. It's real, literal pain And then this other demon picked me up from behind, and just tore the flesh open. Again how could I be alive And I felt again a small amount of but I noticed I had a body. Matthew 10:28 says, &quot;fear Him who was Remember Luke 16 the rich man He wanted a drop of He had a mouth to speak, So you have a body in hell But something else I noticed coming from the Leviticus 17:11 says, &quot;the Well there's no life in And Zechariah 9:11 says, &quot;thy prisoners There's not one drop of water in hell. And these demons have no They have an extreme hatred for mankind. But see Psalms 103:17 says, &quot;the mercy Well,they don't fear Him in hell so About this time it went dark. Now I believed it was God's so I could see, to describe but then He withdrew His light of absolute pitch black darkness. I mean you cannot see the Lamentations 3:6 says, as they that be dead of old.&quot; Jude:13 mentions But it's not just dark, and that's not an exaggeration. Exodus 10:21 mentions a because it's so wicked it penetrates through You know, when I was at a coal mine in down real deep in the coal mine and they turn off the Just to give you a feeling in one minute people They were terrified in one minute You can't see anything and people were You can imagine in You're enduring all these things. You know and... I'm sorry, sometimes I just get a real glimpse of this place and you do not want to go to this place. You'll never get out. God's so loving He you know. Anyway I descended to get there. I ascended when I left. I understood And there's 49 scriptures that talk I'll just give you two. It's very clear it's Now I was taken out of this prison cell and I was placed over next This pit was about a mile across with flames raging high up in this It wasn't metaphorical or No, it was real fire. I felt but more importantly it's Psalms 11:6 says, &quot;Upon and brimstone, and Psalms 140:10 says, &quot;Let let them be cast in Matthew 13:49 &quot;angels shall sever and cast the wicked But this is where I could There were thousands of people burning. Most of us have never maybe unless you're a fireman but the people just You cannot distinguish a man from a woman. It looked like flesh and the screams were You wanted to get away from You had to endure But see Isaiah 57:21 says, &quot;There is There's no peace of but see Isaiah 32:18 says, &quot;My people See, quiet, that's a blessing so you don't even enjoy quiet. You know, I understood there and degrees of punishment. Remember Jesus said in Matthew 23:14 That infers a lesser damnation. Or Matthew 10:15 it says, &quot;It shall be in the day of judgment, Well that infers a less tolerable or Hebrews 10:29 says, &quot;Of suppose it shall be for you, you who there's a worse punishment. But my point is there is no Any level is far worse than I wanted to talk to my wife. I just want to let her but I understood I'll never You know Job 7:9 says, &quot; he that goeth You understand you're not going to get out and to have no you can't even say goodbye. See, they don't know Death does not mean cease to exist. You still exist, you're and to never see your family and get to hold them and You think about that and for all eternity you never get to say goodbye. You have no purpose, no destiny, it's Ecclesiastes 9:10 says, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in Sheol.&quot; And it doesn't matter if you're no one would know who you Ecclesiastes 6:4 says, your and you are forgotten in hell. Psalms 88:12, Isaiah 26:14, many other verses talk And you want, you Just to be with people is pleasurable but see those people in the pit So you never have You're completely by yourself You know, if they send you to prison today they only leave you for a short because you don't When in hell you never ever The stench in hell is the most Remember Jesus rebuked Demons have a a rotting smell to them and also the smell and also the smell of burning sulfur. You know if you go to Hawaii, to the where you cannot go past a of the sulfur coming it will kill you if you breathe Well sulfur is just another and the word brimstone So you're breathing in this that you don't want to breathe. But it's even worse than that because So you have to fight for and I'm going to demonstrate to and maybe only a asthma person can but you breathe like this. It was like, (demonstrates gasping for air.) That was as much Any moment you feel like and that's ongoing for all eternity. Isaiah 42:5 says, &quot;the Lord gives You're not upon the earth. God is very specific with His Word. You need to sleep in hell, If you ever stay up for just try staying up and don't You can't even function, right? Well in hell you need to sleep also Revelation 14:10-11 says, &quot;and they &quot;in the presence of the Lamb &quot;And the smoke of their torment and they have no rest day nor night.&quot; I mean you could never sleep but see rest is a blessing from God. Psalms 127:2 said, &quot;the and Isaiah 57:20 said, &quot;the wicked are You know, the sea is always moving. So you never get Just that one thing alone I was standing next to this big You know, here on the earth a pit filled but in hell it doesn't. It is I don't know, it's like a black where it just draws in the So I could only see through and along the edges, just barely. And all along the edges and some people were And the fire would rage up and they would scream in agony and it would rage back up again. That went on for all eternity. Others were in this big pit of fire and demons were But they have no And then I noticed there were And there were actually spiders that looked That's not an exaggeration. I know I can't give you a but in Revelation 16:13 talks in Revelation 9 John describes a demon that read that sometime. The most bizarre So there's some bizarre things in hell. But also I noticed I was Solid maggots crawling all You know, Jesus said &quot;where there worm The word worm is the word maggot. And I never knew this and I know If a dead animal is when they consume the I never knew that. But that's why Jesus said, because the flesh is So as Job 24:20 says, Is that disgusting enough? Isaiah 14:11 says, &quot;where the and the worms will cover thee.&quot; Look it up in the original. The fear level that you know, here we're all comfortable the fear that you have to endure And in hell it's fear constantly. Well, I'll share with you an When I was 17, I used to surf a lot and we were surfing And it was a big day and it breaks and it was about a All those guys there, was about a hundred and suddenly the guy next to me, a shark came and grabbed Blood all over the water. Now all us guys were paddling and sharks came. They were And I got up on my nine foot board on and a shark passed by As he passed by I saw his teeth, how big and he had stripes so I I knew something about sharks and if they're vicious, they eat anything. And so the shark came back Now I'm swimming in the water and and he looked at me because we're about a sharks all around us and he And then suddenly and grabbed my leg and Now you can imagine the fear I mean, maybe you haven't been through to how fearful that would be Nothing you can do. Well that fear that I paled in comparison Wouldn't even register in hell. Psalm 73:18-19 says, where they are utterly I mean you're consumed That's the fear level that you're at. I just wanted this to because this will give you Nobody should go to this place. Your worst enemy, You know, I just want to I've got to say one thing about The shark not only opened but I didn't have a mark in my leg. That's a miracle. God was looking out for me. (congregation applauds) And I was not even a Christian then but I got saved Hey, I knew there was a God. I knew that that was And I've been serving Him ever since 51 years ago. Praise the Lord. God's been good to me all these years. Amen.