November 1965 saw one of the most widespread the freezing cold evening of the 9th, the grid tried to stay warm when a misconfigured relay The loss of that single line cascaded into a the northeast US plus parts of Ontario in people is no simple task. In this case, the generator in Southampton, New York. That's but it was enough to get power plants in Long all of New York City, eventually returning The grid is a little bit of a house of cards. thing gets knocked down, you have to rebuild up. Restoring power after a major blackout can imagine. The consequences of messing it up real-life scenario. It seems as simple as flipping than you might think. And I built a model this works. This is my last video in a deep dive so go back and check out those other videos is Practical Engineering. In today's episode This video is sponsored by An ideal grid keeps running indefinitely. Maybe it vehicle accidents, hurricanes, floods, and wayward circuit breakers to isolate those faults and keep we know that no grid is perfect, and occasionally devices behave in unexpected ways that cascade blackout kind of freely to refer to any amount meant to describe an event like this: a widespread area. Lots of engineering, dedicated service from mishaps, and a little bit of good fortune have all these days, but they still happen, and they're explored the extreme consequences that come from those consequences in mind, the task of bringing black start) is frightfully consequential with The main reason why black starts are to make power. Most large-scale generating to nuclear - need a fair amount of electricity and of course configurations and but power generating stations are enormous and scrubbers, precipitators and reactors, control panels and pumps (so many pumps): cooling water pumps, and much much more. Most plant to run and requires electricity. Even the I don't own a grid scale, three-phase generator truck, and they are remarkably similar moving a conductor through a magnetic field called induction, is the basis for the grid. Some source of motion we call the spins a shaft called a rotor inside a set of of a grid-scale generator, just like (if you magnet inside my alternator. You just see that this physical phenomenon works both ways. you get a magnetic field. If that coil This is my model power plant. I got this idea but their model was a little more sophisticated we have the prime mover. Don't worry about the plant consumes more energy than it creates, but I this demonstration. The thing that's important is in my case through this belt. And the generator "modified" to create an Alternating Current in a vehicle. The alternator is connected to And I have an oscilloscope hooked up to one of all this is so we can just see that sine wave of tiny 3-phase motors; It could even have just models so I thought you deserved something other things here too, including a second model The alternator I used in my model has two brushes can supply current to the coil inside to create an has a major benefit over using permanent magnets the prime mover to see how it works. If there's which means there's no power. We're just spinning But watch what happens when I apply some current have to say, I'm pretty excited too, because I can excitation current, we can see that the voltage more power. Of course, this additional power more mechanical load on the prime mover. You can current, it turns freely. But when I increase Modern power plants adjust the excitation voltage of electricity leaving the facility, device that used permanent magnets that don't The power for the excitation system like the other equipment I mentioned, it can't power plants often use around 5 to 10 percent of black start of a large power plant is often has to pick itself up by the bootstraps. It start and maintain its own creation of power, be familiar with the standby generators used at and many other critical facilities where a Lots of people even have small ones for their gas for fuel and large banks of batteries to get that would be needed at a major power plant. even at a quarter of its nameplate capacity, It's just not feasible to maintain that amount plant. Instead, we designate black start sources batteries and standby devices or that can remain grid. Obviously, these blackstart power plants are have so many of them spread across each grid. fraction of electricity demands, but we don't need to create enough power so that larger base load used as blackstart sources because they only need excite the generators to produce electricity. used as blackstart sources, but most aren't set But, producing enough power to get the bigger to restoring service during a blackout. The next we have some major extension cords stretched transmission lines, but during a blackout, they just energize transmission lines with blackstart so that you don't inadvertently try to power up a predetermined cranking path disconnect their and create a direct route. Once the blackstart a baseload power plant can draw electricity One trick to speed up recovery is to blackstart provides more flexibility and robustness in synchronization. Let's go back to the model to see running now, each powering their own separate But you can't just flip it willy nilly. Take that these two grids aren't synchronized. frequencies. If I just flip the switch when there's a surge in current as the two generators a few volts here, so it's a little hard to two generators are out of sync, they jerk as If the difference is big enough, the two essentially trying to drive each other like but something like this in a real power plant during a black start, each island, and in fact has to be perfectly synchronized (and this is I can adjust the speed of my motors to get then flip the switch when the waveforms match between the two systems at the moment they're oscilloscope are identical now, showing that way to check this is to simply connect a grids. If the light comes on, you know there's aren't synchronized. If the light goes off meaning you're good to throw the breaker. Older would show both whether the plant was spinning slower) and whether the phase angle was a but it needs much higher voltages than I'm willing over the top of it. Operators would manually adjustments to match the frequency of the rest you also have to match the phase, so this was a both stopped moving and was pointing directly During a black start, utilities can slowly matching generation capacity plants come online. Generally, prioritized during the recovery like natural and military installations. But even connecting Some of our most power-hungry appliances only get example an outage during the summer means all air conditioning. When the power does come back to run. It's all of them at once. Add that to heaters, and you can imagine the enormous initial don't forget that many of these appliances use For example, here's an ammeter on the motor of my 28 amps as it gets up to speed before settling thousands of motors like this starting all at the cold load pickup, and it can be as high as eight the diversity of loads starts to average out operators have to be very deliberate about how If you ever see your neighbor a few keep in mind this delicate balancing act get the grid through the cold load pickup for The ability to black start a power grid quickly electricity is vital to our health and new reliability standards were issued, to have detailed system restoration plans. even though it's often incredibly expensive. Some stands by. But it still has to be carefully case that it gets called into service. Also, the and if something goes wrong, breakers can again. Utilities have strict security measures disable or frustrate the black start process. they can bring their grid up from scratch, to practice the procedures; All this cost and that we can get the grid back up and running to Cost and effort are good things to but I prefer our family dinners to be inexpensive and activities, it gets hard to fit cooking time on the crazy weeknights by making cooking "A tomato..." HelloFresh has a lot of recipes that you can you meet your goals, try something new, or just fit and wholesome, vegetarian, and a bunch "Yeah, really get your thumb in there..." We've been using HelloFresh for more than 3 years, delicious, and healthy the meals are. It's is basically a shortcut to a memorable night "Isn't zesting something just peeling They have a new offer if you've been on go to HelloFresh dot com and use code plus free shipping. I really think you'll use code PRACTICAL18. Thank you for