[music] Going to the check-up, so everything's okay. Doctors are here to help us, and brighten up our day. She takes the stethoscope, and listens how my heart goes. She takes the thermometer, measures what's my temperature. She taps me on the knee. My reflexes are amazing! She's measuring my height. She says my legs have grown. She's measuring my weight. My arms are getting strong! Going to the check-up, so everything's okay. Doctors are here to help us, and brighten up our day. She takes the pressure cuff, and measures how my blood pumps. She checks my eyes and nose, and says that I am good to go! She's measuring my height, she says my legs have grown. She's measuring my weight, My arms are getting strong. Going to the check-up, so everything's okay. Doctors are here to help us, and brighten up our day. Going to the check-up, so everything's okay. Doctors are here to help us, And brighten up our day. Going to the check-up, so everything's okay. Everything's okay! [music] Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. First, go the crayons in their box. If you make it a rainbow, it's more fun. Then go the pencils in the cup. Tidy, tidy, tidy, tidy tidy them up! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. Close the glue and put it away, so you can use it another day. Get the papers, stack them up. Stack, stack, stack, stack, stack them up! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. Wash your hands after you paint, then close the colors and put them away. Get the scissors. Keep them safe. Close them up, that's how they stay! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. [music] [music] There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. B-I-N-G-O B-I-N-G-O B-I-N-G-O And Bingo was his name-o. There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. [clap] -I-N-G-O [clap]-I-N-G-O [clap]-I-N-G-O And Bingo was his name-o. [music] There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. [clap][clap] -N-G-O [clap][clap] -N-G-O [clap][clap] -N-G-O. And Bingo was his name-o. There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. [clap][clap][clap] -G-O [clap][clap][clap] -G-O [clap][clap][clap] -G-O. And Bingo was his name-o. [clap] There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. [clap][clap][clap][clap] -O [clap][clap][clap][clap] -O [clap][clap][clap][clap]-O And Bingo was his name-o. There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. [clap][clap][clap][clap][clap] [clap][clap][clap][clap][clap] [clap][clap][clap][clap][clap] And Bingo was his name-o. [clap] What was his name? There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. B-I-N-G-O B-I-N-G-O B-I-N-G-O And Bingo was his name-o. [MUSIC] If you're happy and you know it, do a dance! If you're happy and you know it, do a dance! If you're happy and you know it, and you really want to show it. If you're happy and you know it, do a dance! If you're sad and you know it, hug your friend! If you're sad and you know it, hug your friend! If you're sad and you sense that you could really use a friend. If you're sad and you know it, hug your friend! If you are angry and you know it, count to ten! If you are angry and you know it, count to ten! If you are angry and you know that you want to let it go. If you're angry and you know it, count to ten! If you're excited and you know it, shout &quot;Yippee! Yippee!&quot; If you're excited and you know it, shout &quot;Yippee! Yippee!&quot; If you're excited and you know it and you really want to show it. If you are excited, shout &quot;Yippee! Yippee!&quot; [MUSIC] Hello there sun sun sun sun sun We're gonna have fun fun fun fun fun Hello there sun sun sun sun sun We're gonna have fun fun fun fun fun Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Here comes the rain rain rain rain rain It's rainy all day day day day day Here comes the rain rain rain rain rain We're gonna play play play play play Here comes the snow snow snow snow snow It's snowy all day day day day day Here comes the snow snow snow snow snow We're gonna play play play play play Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Oh no It's a storm storm storm storm storm Run, run away, away, away, away, away Oh no, it's a storm We'll come another day, another day Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh And this is how we play, we always play This is how we play, we always play This is how we play, we always play Let's play Everybody, get up. We're going right. Right. We're going left. Left. We're going up. Up. We're going down. Down. Now don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Raise your arms. Arms. Turn around. Around. Kick your legs. Legs. Now shake. Shake. Don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a smile on your face. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a-- This is how you put a-- This is how you put a smile on your face. Baby Baby Bot Bot. We're going right. Right. We're going left. Left. We're going up. Up. We're going down. Down. Don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Raise your arms. Arms. Turn around. Around. Kick your legs. Legs. Now shake. Shake. Don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a smile on your face. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a-- This is how you put a-- This is how you put a smile on your face. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Wherever you may be look around and see People doing work for the community. Wherever you may be look around and see People doing work for the community. A fireman putting out a fire A dentist fixing up a little smile An electrician soldering a wire A car mechanic changing a tire. Wherever you may be look around and see People doing work for the community. The traffic guard tells you when it's green A farmer in the field planting beans A janitor who's scrubbing until it's clean A policeman who stops you if you're mean. [music] Monday, Monday Monday, Monday Tuesday, Tuesday Tuesday, Tuesday Wednesday, Thursday Wednesday, Thursday And Friday Monday, Monday Monday, Monday Tuesday, Tuesday Tuesday, Tuesday Wednesday, Thursday Wednesday, Thursday Friday, Friday Friday, Friday Saturday and Sunday Seven days of the week. Saturday and Sunday Dance with me! [music] Monday, Monday Monday, Monday Tuesday, Tuesday Tuesday, Tuesday Wednesday, Thursday Wednesday, Thursday And Friday Monday, Monday Monday, Monday Tuesday, Tuesday Tuesday, Tuesday Wednesday, Thursday Wednesday, Thursday Friday, Friday Friday, Friday Saturday and Sunday Seven days of the week. Saturday and Sunday Dance with me! Saturday and Sunday Seven days of the week Saturday and Sunday Dance with me! A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. A-E-I-O-U. Vowels are here for you. A-E-I-O-U are vowels. Learn the sounds today, make a word tomorrow. Tomorrow, tomorrow. A-E-I-O-U That's how words come true. A says a like a in cat. E says e e in bed. Cat, bed, cat, bed, cat, bed. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. I says i i in pig. O says o o in box. Pig, box, pig, box, pig, box. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. U says u u in run. A-E-I, oh vowels are fun. Vowels. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. A-E-I-O-U. Vowels are here for you. A B C D. A B C D. Let's pretend to be a tree. Let's pretend to be a tree. E F G H. E F G H. Let's go swimming in the lake. Let's go swimming in the lake. I J K L. I J K L. At breakfast time, we ring the bell. At breakfast time, we ring the bell. M N O P. M N O P. Learning letters helps me read. Learning letters helps me read. Q R S T U. Q R S T U. LingoCamp is here for you. LingoCamp is here for you. V W X Y Z. V W X Y Z. Start again and chant with me. Start again and chant with me. A B C D. Let's pretend to be a tree. A B C D. Let's pretend to be a tree. E F G H. Let's go swimming in the lake. E F G H. Let's go swimming in the lake. I J K L. At breakfast time, we ring the bell. I J K L. Yodel lay ee, yodel lay ee, M N O P. Learning letters helps me read. M N O P. Learning letters helps me read. Q R S T U. LingoCamp is here for you. Q R S T U. LingoCamp is here for you. V W X Y Z. Say goodbye and wave to me. V W X Y Z. Say goodbye and wave to me. Goodbye. Goodbye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. [music] Who? Cowy! Where? Here! When? Now! How? Like this! [music] Like this. [music] Like this. [music] Like this. Who? Elliot! Where? Here! When? Now! How? Like this! [music] Like this. [music] Like this. [music] Like this. [music] Who? Lisa! Where? Here! When? Now! How? Like this! [music] Like this. [music] Like this. [music] Like this. [music] Who? Billy! Where? Here! When? Now! How? Like this! [music] Like this. [music] Like this. [music] Like this. [music] Now, let's go Baby Bot! [music] Like this. [music] Like this. [music] Like this. [music] Like this! [applause] [music] Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see some circles spinning down the street. Wheels of cars and buses looking really neat. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I see some orange cones right next to the road, warning there are people busy digging holes. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see cylinders, when it's time to eat. Open up the pantry, to get a can of peas. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see a sphere, when I'm playing ball. Pass it on to my friends, this is fun for all. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see a big heart, a big heart on a shelf, wishing love and friendship, happiness, and health. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see many cubes, in my big toy box. Try to build a tower, stacking up my blocks. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? [music] Pick up the paper, put it in, Pick up the paper, in the recycling bin. Pick up the food put it in, Pick up the food in the compost bin. Pick it up, Put it in, put it in. Pick it up, pick it up. Put it in. Pick up the plastic put it in, Pick up the plastic in the recycling bin. Pick up the glass put it in, Pick up the glass in the recycling bin. In the recycling bin. In the recycling bin. You're at the pool and swimming and you start to get that feeling. I think you know what it's time to do. Take a break and go poop. You're outside jumping rope and you think you gotta go I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. Poop, poop, poop It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Now wipe. And Flush. And wash. You're sitting down and eating And you start to get that feeling I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. You're playing in the snow And you think you gotta go I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Now wipe. And Flush. And wash. You're cuddling up and reading but you start to get that feeling. I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Now wipe. And Flush. And wash. Everybody goes poop. Here's a little song I wrote You might want to sing it note for note Don't worry, be happy In every life we have some trouble But when you worry, you make it double Don't worry, Be happy Don't worry, be happy now Ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh Don't worry Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh Be happy Ooh-ooh-ooh Don't worry, be happy Ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh Don't worry Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh Be happy Ooh-ooh-ooh Don't worry, be happy Ain't got no place to lay your head Somebody came and took your bed But don't worry, be happy 'Cause when you worry your face will frown And that will bring everybody down Don't worry, be happy be happy now Ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh Don't worry Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh Be happy Ooh-ooh-ooh Don't worry, be happy now Ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh Don't worry Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh Be happy Ooh-ooh-ooh Don't worry, be happy Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Look how easy it can be Sing with me 1 plus 1 equals 2 2 plus 2 equals 4 3 plus 3 equals 6 4 plus 4 equals 8 5 plus 5 equals 10 Now let's add the bigger ones 6 plus 6 equals 12 7 plus 7 equals 14 8 plus 8 equals 16 9 plus 9 equals 18 10 plus 10 equals 20 Now you know how to add. Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Look how easy it can be Sing with me 1 plus 1 equals 2 2 plus 2 equals 4 3 plus 3 equals 6 4 plus 4 equals 8 5 plus 5 equals 10 Now let's add the bigger ones 6 plus 6 equals 12 7 plus 7 equals 14 8 plus 8 equals 16 9 plus 9 equals 18 10 plus 10 equals 20 Now you know how to add Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles My cake is bigger Your cookie is smaller It doesn't matter We can share both My football is bigger Your baseball is smaller It doesn't matter We can play with both If your friends are sad Go give them a hug If your friend feels bad Offer him a hand Sharing with your loved ones Let them know you care for them Sharing with all your friends Makes everything twice as fun Sharing is caring Sharing is caring Sharing is caring Sharing is caring My truck is bigger Your car is smaller It doesn't matter We can share both My apple is bigger Your grapes are smaller It doesn't matter We can share them all If your friends are sad Go give them a hug If your friend feels bad Offer her a hand Sharing with your loved ones Let them know you care for them Sharing with all your friends Makes everything twice as fun Sharing is caring Sharing is caring Sharing is caring, Sharing is caring [music] I'm feeling hungry and there's nothing in the fridge So come on, tie your shoes and let's go to the store We need to cross the city, say hi to everyone We go by the post office, the butcher, the park, and the clothing store The hospital, the fire station, and the ice-cream shop And there is the store Filled with everything that we've been looking for From fruit and meat, to fish and eggs, and my favorite vegetables How fun is the store [music] Let's get our bag for the groceries, make sure it's a reusable one Don't forget to smile at the cashier and pay for everything we've bought We need to cross the city to take all the things back home We go by the post office, the butcher, the park, and the clothing store Oh wait, I think we forgot someone Let's get back to the store Filled with everything that we've been looking for From fruit and meat, to fish and eggs, and my favorite vegetables How fun is the store [music] How fun is the store [music] [music] Every day I walk into the store. I'm filling up my cart and then I'm headed out the door. Gotta have bananas, kiwis, oranges and more. Fruits are my favorite! Ooh, ooh. Every day I walk into the store, can't wait to eat these foods, there's really so much to explore. I spy carrots, peppers, broccoli, tomatoes, and more. It's a rainbow. Ooh, ooh. We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Every day I walk into the store, want to try some healthy foods I've never had before. Grabbing chickpeas, lentils, tofu, bean sprouts, and more. Legumes are cool. Ooh, ooh. Every day I walk into the store, skipping down the aisles, I see things I can't ignore. Loading up on hummus and peas, berries, yogurt, and more. It's snack time. Ooh, ooh. We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. In the morning In the morning Hurry up and don't be late. Hurry up and don't be late Learn the letters very well. Learn the letters very well. What we say is what we do. What we say is what we do. You love me, and I love you. You love me, and I love you. Start again and chant with me. Start again and chant with me. In the morning brush your teeth. In the morning brush your teeth. Hurry up and don't be late. Hurry up and don't be late. Learn the letters very well. Learn the letters very well. What we say is what we do. What we say is what we do. You love me, and I love you. You love me, and I love you. Say goodbye and wave to me. Say goodbye and wave to me. Bye. Goodbye. See you next time. Bye. Bye-bye. Bye, bye. [music] At home I love to help with chores. First in my room and then in yours. We can do incredible things with these amazing machines. The oven is great for baking just be careful because it gets so hot. At home I love to help with chores. First in my room and then in yours. We can do incredible things With these amazing machines. The washing machine spins so fast and cleans all my clothes. At home I love to help with chores. First in my room and then in yours. We can do incredible things with these amazing machines. The microwave heats up the food in less than one minute. At home I love to help with chores. FIrst in my room and then in yours. We can do incredible things with these amazing machines. The dishwasher saves water. Makes the dishes squeaky clean. At home I love to help with chores. First in my room and then in yours. We can do incredible things with these amazing machines. The vacuum cleaner removes the dirt And keeps our house clean. [music] Code Masters! Code Masters! If you talk to your computer, you communicate in code. It's no secret - ask a coder! Applications do what they're told. Let's start to code, now! One o one, yeah! It's time to develop a program. It's fun, yes, you will know. Algorithms got the rhythm. With A.I. the digits flow. Because we are, Code Masters! Code Masters! Code Masters! Code Masters! Sometimes, in the world of coding, errors called bugs slow you down, that's when you have trouble loading, the code you worked so hard on! Stay in the loop, now! One o one, yeah! It's time to develop a program. It's fun, yes, you will know. Algorithms got the rhythm. With A.I. the digits flow. Different kinds of coding language, make up lots of games you see, working as a complete package, like C# or C++. It's time to develop a program. It's fun, yes, you will know. Algorithms got the rhythm. With A.I., the digits flow. Because we are Code Masters! Because we are Code Masters! Because we are Code Masters! Because we are Code Masters! [music] Sailing my boat over the big blue sea. Sailing my boat, all the islands we'll see. Sailing my boat, look at the big palm tree. Sailing my boat, oh yeah, sailing my boat, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away. On the island we go, swimming a lot. On the island we go, sand is so hot. On the island, treasure is what we've got, On the island, oh yeah, sailing my boat, yeah yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah, I want to sail away, [music] Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Hey, move your knees, move your knees over here, please. Hey, move your knees! Hey, move your knees, move your knees over here, please. Don't stop, move your knees! Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Freeze! Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Now, bend your legs, like a chicken laying eggs. Bend, bend your legs. Now, bend your legs, like a chicken laying eggs. Bend, bend your legs. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Freeze! Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Shake your big toe, show me how high you can go. Shake your big toe. Shake your big toe, show me how high you can go. Shake your big toe. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Freeze! Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Now twist your spine, twist it like a porcupine. Twist, twist your spine. Now twist your spine, twist it like a porcupine. Twist, twist your spine. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Freeze! Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. [music] Get out of bed. Pull up the sheets. Go to the kitchen. And take a seat. But if you've just run out of your favorite food, why don't you try something new? Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Look in your closet and find a shirt. Put on your pants or grab a skirt. But if you just can't get your shoes to tie, give it another try. Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Let's go potty, try just in case. Look in the mirror and wash your face. But if your hair is looking kind of wild, why don't you try another style? Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Zip up your jacket and grab your lunch. Put on your backpack, then give big hugs! But if it's raining outside and it's getting on your head, wear something else instead. Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Today, we're going to learn to count by twos. You just need to repeat after me. Here we go. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. Wow. You're pretty rocking. Let's do it again while hopping 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. Wow. I love your rapping. Let's do it again while clapping. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. You're a counting champion. Let's do it again while dancing. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. I think you've got this mastered. Just one more time. Much faster. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. You did it. [laughter] [Music] I spy with my little eye something beginning with the letter P. Piano. Paint. I spy with my little eye something beginning with the letter P. Pen. Peas. [music] [music] More songs, activities, and the full interactive adventure [laughter] That was fun!