(mellow techno music) (religious music) - [Narrator] Five times a day, every day, over a billion Muslims bow down and recite a prayer to Allah, given to them by Muhammad, their prophet. Every day, five times a day, they face a Black Rock in and submit themselves afresh Every day, they bow as a corporate group all around the world, to as followers of Islam, for the Qur'an is their scripture, (chanting) However, as archeological discoveries are beginning to point scholars are seriously examining about the founding of Islam. And if they are right, how We have tools at our disposal that have never been available before. Modern technology is the opening years of Islam that have puzzled historians for years. All over the world, universities, are putting ancient books for scholars to access. Now, we can check these with just a few clicks of a mouse. Today, both academics and amateurs alike can accurately check via that would previously have and can share them via social media and academic forums. So, now for the very first time, a whole new era of research surrounding the founding of Islam is coming to light, and we can piece together in Arabia 1500 years ago. (religious music) Writer and historian Dan Gibson has lived most of his He has extensively researched the peoples and places of the ancient - I first came to Arabia in my early 20s, and I've spent more every corner of this piecing together evidence which I believe will change Years of study have led that Islam began somewhere other than where the conventional history suppose, and that in early Islamic writings, there are clues and references that reveal the hidden truth about the Mecca mystery. Back in 2002, I had occasion to visit a conference on Nabataean by the Al-Hussein Bin Talal University. During the conference, with leading archeologists and from Jordan. I asked them specifically about the archeological record in Mecca. While not to wishing they admitted that there in Mecca before 800 AD. I had expected them to defend the opinion that Mecca was a walled and public buildings and temples. They said, &quot;No, there was Did you know that the only once in the whole Qur'an? Muslim scholars link names such as the or the Holy House, or the All of these terms are with Mecca today. Nevertheless, the Qur'an in so many words that Muslim scholars see no But in recent years, some They have noted that and not located on the People have imagined that the caravans carried incense, spice but according to recent research, the age of frankincense was now long over, and the Arabs engaged in a hardly items that could have that was described as and the center of the trade route. Look at this map. Where do all the trade routes intersect? There are three places in northern Arabia that could be described as What is interesting is that Mecca was not even a stopping place because it was not even - [Narrator] In this why there is a total lack from the time of the Prophet Muhammad, why descriptions of Mecca do and how an early Islamic civil war altered the truth about Islam. While Muslims all over the world believe that their holy city and all lived in Mecca in Saudi Arabia, Dan Gibson believes the evidence actually points elsewhere. - During my studies of Arabian history, I've come across evidence but to northern Arabia as Up until now, no one has ever questioned that Mecca was the Holy City of Islam. Every Muslim believes that he should pray towards the Black Rock in Mecca, but years of study and countless trips to all parts of the Arabian Peninsula have led me to a radical new understanding of Islamic history. I believe that in the Islamic history, a fundamental It wasn't a deliberate falsehood, it was just a misunderstanding during the founding years of Islam. So later, Islamic writers corrected what they thought was an when it was actually the truth. - [Narrator] Is it possible who followed the religion how and where their religion began? And if so, what implications for the average Muslim who wants to follow the instructions of Muhammad, his prophet? We are going to have to and a setting that few of us understand. For centuries, the histories and Middle East empires but little effort has been This ignorance is true, but also of the Arabs themselves. - The prophet Muhammad was born in 570 AD, at a time and a place really know about. His grandfather and his father and, in fact, Muhammad himself One day, Muhammad was meditate in the cave and an angel visited him. The angel taught him Later, his wife convinced Muhammad that it really had been an angel and he was, in fact, called During his lifetime, he had many visits from the same angel, and each time, there was a new revelation. These revelations from the whole of the lifetime of Muhammad to what we know today as the Qur'an. - [Narrator] Adel i-Shemari studied Islam at the Islamic College in Kuwait. Over the years, he and Dan and have often found themselves about faith and its history. - Muhammad and his followers so he and a few of his Now that city actually converted to Islam and Muhammad established And in fact, we can from this period of time. Shortly after this, his followers started attacking caravans, growing in power, growing more and more people where they became an in fact, threatened the whole of Arabia. Muhammad gave his vision of taking Islam to the entire world. However, he died unexpectedly. And at that point, disputes broke out, leading to civil wars. But despite these differences there was the continued to the whole of the world. Eventually, much of North became under the control of Islam. And today, Islam is the second largest of the world's religions. - [Narrator] Today, all when construction companies there should be someone present from the Ministry of Antiquities. It doesn't matter if you're in Jerusalem, Damascus, or Amman, Jordan, wherever you dig, the chances are, you will expose an In the city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia, developers are digging all over, putting up great buildings, but to the surprise of archeologists, there are no ruins of a great The city where Muhammad It had no trouble in to work caravans and march in its armies. Not only did it have a but it was also an agricultural city. - The Prophet Muhammad would and journey far afield until and the beds of its valleys. Aisha, Muhammad's wife, was longing for Mecca. Would that I but stay overnight in a valley filled with When we came to Mecca, we saw a town blessed with water and trees, and delighted with it, we settled there. Al Bukhari speaks of a prisoner who is eating grapes while and he says, &quot;This was not - It's hard to believe that these things were written about Mecca. The area around Mecca Mecca averages less than 10 With its extremely hot this is scarcely enough to let alone grow enough food to Yet the Holy City of Islam is described as having fields with But there's no cultivatable It doesn't match the ancient descriptions. Even the Shaq mentions were reluctant to cut down The presence of trees and can be easily tested by and pollen in undisturbed ancient soil. To date, there is no record of trees having ever existed in ancient Mecca. - [Narrator] Another puzzle is missing on all early maps of Arabia. One would expect that would be mentioned on early maps. But not one shows Mecca - Over the years, I have gathered copies of many ancient maps of Arabia. I have diligently translated them. But never once did I find Mecca mentioned on a map before Islam. Did you know that the in any literature prior to 740 AD? That's 120 years after Don't you find it puzzling that for the first 120 none of the surrounding about the existence of Mecca? - [Narrator] How could a major city, a city that could raise a city that had agriculture, trees, grass, fruit and grapes, be How could a major city and public buildings not be found in the annals of other nations, especially if it was a merchant city that undertook trade with And most puzzling of to the physical location we find that there is no It was an insignificant location, not even on a trade route. Many historians today have that the accounts of the Obviously, there is a great discrepancy between what Islamic records tell us and what the archeologists So the conclusion they draw are just fabricated myths. - In my years of study, that the early records are not myths, but that they refer to another location that fits all of these descriptions. I believe that Muhammad was born and raised in another are facing the wrong According to commonly the Ka'ba was a major and the focus of pilgrimage in Arabia. A good starting place might before the founding of Islam. - [Narrator] This Umra before Muhammad was at a time when the focal was to a place known as the This location held many pagan idols. (pensive music) - In order for us to understand what was happening in pre-Islamic Arabia, we need to understand the importance of holy places in ancient Arabia. From ancient times, have equated gods with regions rather than being universal. Modern readers of history by Greek and Roman concepts and have failed to that the ancient Arabs applied In the eyes of the ancient who lived in Mesopotamia, and gods who lived in Greece, and so on. Arab merchants passing through an area would respect the local gods. They were not opposed to What they were opposed of a god in human or animal form. They prefer to use geometric shapes. For instance, here is a god That one over there is Each of these gods were and must be respected when - [Narrator] Such a view to accepting territories and locations as being sacred to specific gods. Thus, the area around the temple, such as a particular valley could be considered as sacred. It would have a precinct even with their enemies, and be safe, because violence was forbidden - When tourists enter the here in southern Jordan, they're so often taken up of this valley on the rugged mountains, that they miss a temple or al-Lat as some call her. This Nabataean temple had a sacred area. It was located in front of the temple with the mountains marking - [Narrator] Before into many groups. They worshiped different gods and often fought amongst The one thing that held them together was the pilgrimage to a The Qur'an calls this Masjid al-Haraam, or the Forbidden Gathering Place. Masjid means gathering, and is translated mosque today. Before Islam, there were no mosques, so the Masjid was simply The Forbidden Gathering of refuge and security, where regular activities ceased and violence was forbidden, or Haraam. The concept of Haraam or forbidden is very strong in Islam. - Allah has made Mecca a sacred sanctuary and it was a sanctuary before, and will be so after. None is allowed to uproot its shrubs, or cut its trees, or hunt its game. - So we have two Holy City of Islam. It was a Haraam place where and it was the focus of the pilgrimage for many centuries before Now, look here. Much of the graffiti found throughout the Negev in southern Jordan was written by people on pilgrimage to the ancient city of Thousands of people scratched their names and messages on rocks to Petra for pilgrimage. This creates a problem for us. Mecca is unknown in maps and literature before and during the rise of Islam. The descriptions such as the the mother of all cities, of the ancient pilgrimage, do not fit. How can we solve this? The answer to that In Islam, it is universally understood that the Qibla is towards No one questions the However, the Qur'an tells The text of the Qur'an does to which prayer was originally made. It only mentions Masjid al-Haraam, or the Forbidden Gathering Place. Muslims believe they originally According to Islamic sources, in 624 AD, Muhammad changed the Qibla to Mecca. Muhammad revealed this - Thus, we appointed the Qibla to you. Indeed, it was a momentous change, except to those guided by Allah. Allah would never make Now shall we turn you to a Turn then your face in the direction of the Mashjad Al Haraam; wherever you are, turn your - As a historian of the Arabian Peninsula, I've always been interested of the original Qibla. What direction did Muhammad pray towards before the Qibla was changed? Was it Jerusalem, as some claim? Was it Syria, as some claim? Or was it some other direction? - [Narrator] If we were to it would require an incredible We would have to travel the to find the earliest mosques in Islam. Now, in a few moments, we can do what used to take a lifetime. Google Earth lets us look And websites like ARCHNET of hundreds of students and professors. We can examine structures We choose Islamic buildings, arrange them by date into then determine when they were constructed, check their Qibla direction and collate this to determine when the Qibla direction changed towards Mecca. This will give us solid data to work with. - Now, determining the Qibla direction is not an exact science. Some of the early mosques like this one are not exactly square. So researchers need to find the Qibla wall and project to 90 degrees from that wall. Because early buildings were not square, we cannot use the side (nostalgic strings music) This is the mihrab of an old mosque. The early Arabs set the Qibla and they were very accurate. The best way to determine is to visit the mosque and use Not every mosque can Many of them were totally so much so that it is no longer possible to determine their However, a number of mosques survive. For instance, there is a mosque called the Mosque of the two Qiblas in Medina. Islamic history tells us that that the companion leading prayers was told of the Qibla and started praying towards Mecca. The question is where Muslims have a ready answer. He prayed towards Jerusalem. Now today the Mosque of But in 1987, the mosque so it could be rebuilt. During the construction process, the old foundation was revealed. And they discovered that that did indeed face north, And so Muslims believe, originally, the Qibla was towards Jerusalem. - [Narrator] There is a simple way that this can be put to the test. If we go to the earliest where we can identify we can plot them on a map, and see if their lines converge. We'll find one of three things. They all point in different directions. They all point to Jerusalem, or they all point to another location. After the Mosque of the there are a further 11 that we can research. These are located in China, Egypt, southern Jordan, Lebanon, central Jordan, Yemen, Israel, Iraq, Jerusalem, West Bank, and lastly, Lebanon. So, if we go in the order the second surviving mosque Guangzhou is the modern as the city of Canton. - When Marco Polo reached he discovered over 100,000 Arab and Persian merchants living there. You see, the Arabs have been for hundreds and hundreds of years. This is all well-documented. And so Abu Waqqas, an uncle of Muhammad, traveled to China on a trade mission. And according to Chinese manuscripts, he built a mosque for the or six years after the founding of Islam. I personally examined this mosque and used the GPS unit to determine the mosque's Qibla direction. What I found was surprising. This mosque does not face Mecca. It faces 12 degree north of Mecca, meaning that it does not Its Qibla passes south of Jerusalem. - [Narrator] The next about 20 years after in the town of Fustat, - This mosque was rebuilt so that today the original However, a description of the original ground plan of the mosque survives, and the Islamic records tell us that the first Qibla pointed east, and later had to be towards Mecca. - [Narrator] The next is the Umayyad Palace in southern Jordan. - Around 700 AD or about 80 years after the founding of Islam, the Abbas family built a This house had no special mosque area. Rather, the faithful would line up here in the courtyard to pray. This house has a Qibla direction, but it is not towards Jerusalem. - [Narrator] The following in Baalbek in Lebanon. Notice that its Qibla - One year later, the and impressive mosque here on This mosque points south. Mecca is over there. - [Narrator] A couple of years after this, in 705 AD, or 84 years Muslims constructed the in the capital city of Yemen. While this mosque points in it actually points to - [Dan] The following year, in 706 AD, the Umayyad Muslim rulers a large palace complex in This palace complex had a According to the inscriptions it was built 87 years by the Muslim ruler al-Walid. This building and its mosque That same year, the Muslims also built the Wasid Mosque in Iraq. Originally, archeologists pointed to Jerusalem. However, further research has shown that this mosque points - [Narrator] The next in Jerusalem itself. This mosque is not the temple dome but rather the old mosque This mosque is already in Jerusalem, but it also has a Qibla, and it does not point to Mecca. The next mosque we come 103 years after the founding of Islam. This is the Khirbat al Mafjar Mosque near Jericho in the Jordan Valley. This palace was built near the end of the Umayyad Dynasty. By looking at the floor plan, we can see that the palace and its mosque faced south, rather than towards Mecca. That same year, a mosque about 58 kilometers from Beirut. It was built near the and no more than 30 years and eventually was abandoned. Since it was never rebuilt, we can easily determine which does not point (mellow techno music) Now, let's put this all The result is amazing. During the first 100 years of Islam, 100% of all the surviving face a spot in southern From north, south, east, and west, mosques all face towards one spot. This isn't some small error in determining the Qibla direction. They all specifically - Directly under this point This is a city that is It is a popular tourist site. Tourists come from all over the world to marvel at the great temples and the monuments in this city. Could it be that Petra is described in the Qur'an? It was the focus of the So could Petro also be the and the founding city of Islam? Every good Muslim tells me that Muslims used to They know this because And I agree, Bukhari But Bukhari is writing some and is writing more than a hundred years after the Qibla change took place. So he's not an eyewitness. He's just collecting what And he actually notes that were circulating at the time. - While some people were a man came to them and &quot;has been revealed to &quot;that he should face the Ka'ba at Mecca, &quot;so you, too, should turn At that moment, their and on hearing this, they turned - I believe that originally, Muhammad, while living in Medina, which was in the Roman province of Syria. By the time Bukhari was people had forgotten Petra, and everyone remembered that prayed towards Syria. Those who bring up the raise an interesting point. I agree that in Islamic is synonymous with the When Muhammad was a young man, the people decided to rebuild the Ka'ba. In the rubble, they found with inscriptions written in Syria, the language of the Nabataeans. They found a Jew who could - I am Allah, the Lord of Becca. I created it on the day that and formed the sun and moon, and I surrounded it It will stand whilst as a blessing to its - The word Becca is an which means to weep or lament. If a location was it would mean the place of weeping. The name Becca has never It appears only once in Here it is used in reference but the Qur'an also speaks where Hagar was weeping over Ishmael. The Qur'an places this story in Becca, which is the early name for the place where the Ka'ba was built. Surely, this location was not Jerusalem, which is built on top of the mountain, and not in a valley. I think the answer is quite simple. There were many major such as the one in 551 AD, only 19 years before Muhammad was born. We are told that during that earthquake, much of Petra was destroyed. Petra could have been because so many people were from all the earthquakes. - [Narrator] If Petra is then there should be the Quraysh, around Petra. If Dan Gibson can find Muhammad's tribe, it will greatly support was from the Petra region (mellow strings music) - Long ago, this was known or Humayma as it is known today. Archeologists have uncovered a farmhouse belonging to the Abbasid family and a mosque built some time later. When the Muslims of Iraq defeated they wanted a member of Muhammad's family to support and legitimize their revolt. And so they came here to It was here that they and the Quraysh tribe. They didn't go to Mecca in they came here to Humayma, It was here that they and the family of Muhammad, - [Narrator] So far, we have discovered that the early mosques of Islam all faced the ancient city of Petra. But does the city of Petra of the original Holy City of Islam? - There is a story told by all of the early biographers of Muhammad. It concerns Abdullah, Muhammad's father. He was working in the field one day and he came home with dirt on his hands. He went into his first wife But she refused because he was dirty. So he went out, washed off the soil, went into his next wife, Aminah. She conceived and in this What is important to us all of the early writers for the dirt on Abdullah's hands. They all used an Arabic word for soil, especially the soil of a The problem is there is no However, when we come that Petra had water, fields, and trees. - [Narrator] According to archeologists, there were private and public gardens, as well as running water through aqueducts and clay pipes. Archeologists have described fruit trees, grapes and gardens Even today, there are between Petra and Al-Beidha, By analyzing ancient soil, that only 100 years ago, were covered with trees, including oak, juniper, pistachio, and carob. - Not only did the Holy it was also a walled city. Ibn Ishaq says, &quot;And they surrounded him &quot;by the walls of Mecca.&quot; Now this is very puzzling because Mecca had no city walls. Some think perhaps this But Ibn Ishaq specifically But Mecca was not a walled city. So what about Petra? Petra was built in a valley. On either side of the valley were large mountains with cliffs. These cliffs were as good as city walls. So the people of Petra built walls from one mountian cliff to both on this side of the valley and also on the other side of the valley. So Petra had city walls. Another distinctive feature in Petra is that it contains a very unique stream. Now usually, you have on one side, mountains on the other, and a stream running down But in this case, long ago, earthquakes cracked these mountains, so that there is a crack in that mountain, water runs through that and out the crack in the other side. The Nabataeans built a colonnaded street from one mountain to the other mountain and beside it was a rain watercourse. Let's go down there. Now in Islam, one of the is to go seven times between two mountains called Marwah and Safa. What is interesting is that Muhammad chose to do this running in the rain watercourse between the two mountains. But there are problems. Safa and Marwah are just small rocks. Today, they're housed right As you can see on this shrine, there was no rain watercourse But here in Petra, the from one mountain to the other. There are four ways into the Petra basin. Since Petra is in a from either end of the valley. - [Narrator] During the year the prophet entered Mecca - But there are also other The ancient records tell could be entered and exited In Arabic, this is called a thaniya. Al Bukhari mentions this several times. - [Arab Reader] Allah's from the high thaniya and used to leave Mecca The prophet went on advancing through which one would go to them. That is the people of Quraysh. - There are two thaniya entrances. One of these is the famous siq that tourists pass The other is on the far side and leads into a maze of empty out into Wadi Petra also has many temples. Over here is what is known today as the Temple of the Winged Lions, or the temple to Al-Uzza. Behind me is what is known or the temple to the god Dushara. This short chain of mountains and here in the very is the temple to this god, al-Dushara. - [Narrator] Now, Ibn Hisham relates to us a very interesting story. It's very early in Islamic history. Only a few people have One of those was a man known He accepted Islam on one of his journeys. And once he returned home to Mecca, his wife also decided to accept Islam. Al-Tufail then tells his wife to go to the Temple of Dushara and cleanse herself there. In the sacred area, there where she could wash herself. She did this and returned - Did this story take place in Mecca, a thousand kilometers away, where there is no temple to Dushara? Or did it take place here in Petra? If it did, then Dushara's temple is there. She would have come down to this temple, washed herself, and gone home. Is there a temple to Dushara No, there are no temples, no cracks in the rock, no water stream, no city walls, no grass, no trees, nothing. It's all here in Petra. And for the first 100 years, every mosque in the entire Islamic world pointed here to Masjid al-Haraam, the Here, in Petra. There is no other city in the world that fits this description so perfectly. - Now, al-Khattab had so harassed Zayd that he forced him to withdraw and he stopped in the Mountain - It's interesting to Mount Hira is located in If you go to Mecca today, the cave of Hira doesn't face the city. But here in Petra, the is north of the colonnaded street, and the low part of the city is south of the colonnaded street. In effect, the city was divided in half by the colonnaded street. - [Narrator] If Petra is then the cave where Muhammad should be located there. - The ancient records say and that it was low down to climb the mountain If that's the case, I But we'll have to go over there. (nostalgic strings music) Here in this cave, we can see where there are many various god blocks. (nostalgic flute music) Up there is a large crescent symbol. This is just the sort would go to contemplate The descriptions and location of this cave are just like the ancient just outside of the city, the entrance facing the city, and evidence that people spent time here in religious worship and meditation. I think that this is for all of Islam. And it's here, in Petra. (religious music) - [Narrator] The Qur'an to face the Forbidden Now, the Forbidden Gathering It was much more than this. It was a large area marked These stones marked the No killing was allowed inside this area, even birds were not killed. Now, what kind of stones would you need to mark out such an area? If you had just small round stones, they would be lost among the They must have been larger stones, and there should have been so that you knew for certain that this was the boundary Today in Mecca, there are Historians have long wondered what these marker stones but they seem to have that have passed since then. Or perhaps they were never there. If Petra is the original then, of course, the special They would be in Petra. - Now there's a feature about Petra that's absolutely fascinating. Whenever tourists come to this city, they pass by a number of square-cut stones known as the jinn rocks. This is a fanciful name given What is interesting is of these large square stones marking all of the entrances of the city. Is it possible that these mark Perhaps that's why they're If that is true, then Masjid al-Haraam, or the forbidden sanctuary, would have been located here. And if it was located here, then the Ka'ba would have been located here as well. But it's not, because a man - [Narrator] So far, in this program, we have been examining that Muslims originally faced. As we've seen, all of the mosques constructed during the pointed to Petra. By using the two mosques Dan Gibson has determined when the Qibla direction changed. Does Islamic history give the direction of prayer If we look into Islamic we come face-to-face with - At this point in history, was Abdullah Ibn Zubayr. He was particularly unhappy. In his eyes, the Holy City was the most important city of Islam, the mother of all cities, but the Umayyad rulers chose Damascus as the new capital city, and a lot of people were unhappy with the corruption and the So in 683 AD, about 64 years Ibn Zubayr declared himself and that started the - [Narrator] The Umayyads reacted strongly and sent an army against the Holy City. Ibn Zubayr then did a shocking thing. He destroyed the Ka'ba, the - Ibn Zubayr then demolished until he had leveled it to the ground and dug out its foundation. Then he placed the Black Stone beside it in a wooden stand, in a strip of silk. - The Umayyads fought against but after 40 days, news arrived that the ruling Caliph Now the Umayyad generals insisted that the battle wasn't over, but that they must return to Damascus so that a new caliph could be established. The members of the Umayyad Royal Family had come to the battle as well, and they insisted that they onto the protection of the entire army, so the whole army marches off. - The problem we face The Islamic records are quite clear, that when the caliph ruled in his place. Al-Tabari, Volume 20 tells us specifically that his son survived only before he, too, was killed. During this time, the returned to Damascus. Now, a slow-moving army to cover the 1,400-kilometer trek across the desert from to Damascus in Syria. If the army could move at 20 miles a day, it still would have taken them 43 days. When you add up the to bring the message, the to decide to return and get mobilized, and the 43-day march, there Mecca is too far away to be believable. However, if the Holy City was Petra, then the distances would This problem of distances again and again. Mecca in Saudi Arabia is to fit many of the stories - [Narrator] Now, with Ibn Zubayr had time to and prepare for the return - Now, I want to show you something. Here are some of the volumes of Al-Tabari's history of Islam. Al-Tabari managed to collect that he writes about what happened during each year of Islamic history. He devotes whole chapters, sometimes two chapters to every year. But then something strange happens. The battle for the Holy City takes place over several years, but Year 70 of Islamic history is of great importance. Now, notice Al-Tabari spends 15 pages describing what happens in Year 69. And he spends 27 pages describing what happens in Year 71. But where is Year 70? Look at this. For Year 70, Al Taburi only Did he not find any more Or did later editors censor this year from Al-Taburi's record? Only a few lines, but what he records gives us a few tantalizing details. It tells us that Mus'aeb Ibn Zubayr, apparently a brother of Abdullah, brings supplies to the Holy City. Were these supplies military equipment? No, it says he brought I believe that this is the of Ibn Zubayr moved south from Petra to the deserts of Arabia to find a place where they could hold out against the Umayyad forces. All details of this year have been removed from Al-Taburi's history, but we know that they obtained many horses and camels which would have no other purpose than to move many of the This lull in the work so Ibn Zubayr took advantage of the break to undertake a religious project. He decided to rebuild the Ka'ba. But Al-Taburi does not tell us where the new Ka'ba was constructed. Was it in Petra? Or was it in a new safer I believe that the new Ka'ba and that the Black Rock was so even if Ibn Zubayr lost the Holy City, he still had the rock and a new Ka'ba. - [Narrator] After a new the Umayyad army returned. This time the army was bigger, and the Umayyads brought large among them, a stone-throwing - The war between Ibn-Zubayr and al-Hajjaj took place six months and 17 nights in the hollow of Mecca. Yousaf bin Mjak said, &quot;I saw the manjanik &quot;with which stones were being hurled. &quot;The sky was thundering and lightning, &quot;and the sound of the &quot;rose above that of the stones &quot;so that it mastered.&quot; (thunder roars) (heavy thumping) - During the fighting, in a ruined building beside the Ka'ba. And this began another battle which completed the destruction of the Ka'ba area of the Holy City. Eventually, Ibn Zubayr lost the battle, but the cause was taken up by those in the city of Medina in Saudi Arabia, and by the city of Kufa in Iraq. I believe that during this time, the Islamic world was Should they pray towards Petra? Or should they pray towards Mecca? The great Islamic Empire Originally, the Umayyads and they prayed towards Petra. But they were defeated in battle and now the eastern part of the empire was ruled by the Abbasids, their mosques facing towards Mecca. It was during this exact time that we see a change Before this, every new mosque But now for the first time, began to face Mecca in Saudi Arabia. But the problem still existed, what do you do with the old mosques? They were built facing Petra. It was during this time that mosques began hanging a sign on the wall to indicate the direction of prayer. - It was said in the reign of Uthman that the caliph ordered to the walls of the mosques in Medina. This was so that the pilgrims the direction to which they - Now this is a very because up until this time, mosques were built so tthe faithful had only to face the Qibla wall and they face the Holy City. Why would you need to introduce a sign, unless the direction Around this time, around 89 years after the founding of Islam, a niche was suddenly introduced to denote the direction of prayer. This niche was added to older buildings and also incorporated Today, the niche is but it wasn't originally. There was no niche until In the civil war, the Umayyads But the rebels in the Holy chose to pray towards the - When the armies of Kufa met ibn Zubayr, Bujayr ibn Abdallah al Musli spoke. &quot;Praise be to God who has &quot;and tested you by your forgiving us. &quot;Ibn Zubayr, we are people who turn &quot;to the same Qibla as you.&quot; - What a strange phrase. &quot;We're the people who turn Muslim historians argue that this means the same Qibla as every other Muslim. But now that we have uncovered evidence of the change of Qibla at this very time, this phrase takes on special significance. The people of Kufa join with Ibn Zubayr in accepting his Qibla. This is key to understanding much of what takes place later. Even though Ibn Zubayr and seems to lose the civil war, the city of Kufa plays a major role in the development of and Kufa becomes a theological center and a place for copying Qur'ans. - [Narrator] In the Islamic Not only were Muslims divided politically, they were divided religiously. Obeying the wishes of Allah as revealed by the Prophet Muhammad was at the very heart of Islam. Should you obey Muhammad and the Qur'an and face towards the Forbidden Or should you pray and the Black Rock which So far, Dan Gibson has from the first century of Islam, and they all point to Petra in Jordan. So, what about the mosques of Do they all point to Petra as well? - Here is where things During my studies, I built during the second century of Islam point in different directions. This is what I call the time of confusion. - [Narrator] 102 years the mosque of Uma was in the ancient city of Bosra. As you can see, the mosque's orientation does not point towards Mecca. But clearly, it does not - Five years later, the in the Syrian desert known This is a drawing of the and the mosque in the The whole complex seems to face somewhere between Petra and Mecca. - [Narrator] A couple of years later, Qasr al-Hayr al-Sharqi palace was built about a hundred kilometers If we examine the ground we notice that the palace and its mosque don't seem to align to Once again, it points in between. Is it possible that something had happened which made the builders not want to choose either Petra or Mecca, so they pointed the Qibla between the two? We can see from the map exactly between the two cities. It is not a slight error in calculation but a deliberate avoiding So, we must find an answer - 109 years after the founding of Islam, a mosque was built in Banbhore, Pakistan. Like all of the other it had only a Qibla wall without a niche. This mosque, however, pointed - [Narrator] Here, we that we can identify as pointing to Mecca. There may have been others but this mosque is significant because it's the earliest surviving mosque that we can truly say faced And what is astounding about 100 years after This is very late for Muslim historians, and it is going to cause all kinds of trouble. - One of the most important is found here on the This Umayyad Palace was after the founding of Islam. Now, if you remember, we looked at an Umayyad This mosque points directly towards Petra. But when they built the palace, its Qibla direction was so clearly, the Qibla direction changed sometime between the and the construction of this palace. This will help us determine how and when the Qibla direction changed. Remember, it was during the that the name Mecca first The next major mosque that was constructed was built 32 kilometers This was known as the and it was built in 743 AD. As you can see, it was a very large and impressive Umayyad Palace in the southern part of Indeed, the entire complex faces Petra. What makes this interesting that Islam is now split There were the traditionalists like this one, facing Petra. But there were reformers And there were others who and they refused to select - [Narrator] During this took place in Islamic history. The Umayyad rulers of Islam in Damascus were defeated by the Abbasids of Kufa. In 754 AD, al-Mansoor, the the construction of a choosing Baghdad in Iraq as his site. - The new city was built Rather than the haphazard Middle Eastern cities, this city was built in a great circle. The designers went out to a brand new area and used ashes to draw out the city plan on the ground prior to construction. The city, which was completed in 767 AD was two kilometers in diameter. As you can see on this drawing, the main mosque of the city had no niche indicating the direction of prayer. That was to come later. One wall was used as a Qibla wall, and that wall pointed directly to Mecca, as would all of the other by the Abbasid rulers. - [Narrator] If this is all and the first four and the following Umayyad rulers who ruled Islam from Damascus, all prayed towards the city of Petra. But late in the Umayyad that caused the builders to change the direction of their mosques. Some pointed to Petra, some to Mecca, and some chose to be neutral This created a problem for The people in the West was still loyal to the earlier Umayyads. So the Islamic world The Abbasid rulers in Iraq controlled the eastern part of the empire, and the Umayyad rulers control This is an important because the Umayyads in and begin to build beautiful The builders in Spain had a problem. Traditionally, Umayyads But as we're going to see, resulting in future mosques no Their enemies, the Abbasids, now pray towards Mecca in Saudi Arabia, so they don't want to choose So what should the Umayyads do? - As I examine the mosques I discover the most These builders chose Now, as we have seen, some of the builders in the Middle East chose to point their Qiblas But the builders in North Africa and Spain decided to do something Over the years, historians puzzled by these mosques. Their Qiblas seem to point towards somewhere in South Africa, but all of the African and Spanish mosques point to slightly different places. It all seems very confusing. However, when plotted on a map, we can see that the mosques all have Qiblas that drawn between Petra and Mecca. So rather than choosing Petra or Mecca, they chose to make their Qiblas parallel to a line drawn between the two cities. If you're still not convinced, I wanna show you something else. Do you remember when we discussed the Second Islamic Civil War? Ibn Zubayr barricaded and the Umayyad Syrian army surrounded him and kept him there for four months. During the month of October, the Syrians brought a where they lobbed rocks right How is this possible? Normally, people live A catapult would simply But in this case, it said the catapult hit the holy places of Islam right in the center of the city. How is this possible? Well, here in Petra, Petra had city walls, in the city walls crossed the valley. But in the north, the all the way to the canyon, because there was a watercourse I believe Syrians brought their catapult up the dry river course, where they could lob rocks into hitting the Ka'aba and - [Narrator] Archeologists have been digging here Their project was to as the Great Temple area. As they uncovered the to find evidence that - One of the interesting is that people built See, here in this so they could defend themselves. This happened sometime after We can date the defenses of that were used in the However, there are no recorded battles in Petra during this time. So we know this happened during But this is not the only evidence we have. During the excavations, the archeologists uncovered over 400 catapult stones. These stones are buried at exactly the right time. This is an extremely strong indication that the battle took place here, and that the first original Ka'ba was close to this location. - [Narrator] So, Islam was divided between the traditionalists The traditionalists prayed and the reformers prayed and others deliberately How were they ever going Petra, the city of weeping, Massive earthquakes destroying buildings, temples, and houses. The damage was so bad that the - The evidence for that The catapult stones destroyed much of it. Ibn Zubayr destroyed the rest. In 713, an earthquake destroyed the dam that diverts the water around Petra, so every year, floodwaters washed away whatever evidence was left. - [Narrator] So, with the memory the chroniclers of Islamic history, writing some 150 years later, would never mention it by name. In time, the memories became merged into one, that From now on, all Qiblas would point here. It wasn't until modern satellite photos, and the of historians, academics and to start piecing together - In order to understand the events that influenced the we need to recognize several things. First, it is my belief in the early Islamic empire who destroyed books and manuscripts, erased inscriptions, burned libraries, and destroyed all literature which was mostly bits and of the revelations that Muhammad gave. This destruction of written has been well-documented. One piece of evidence from the Caliph to General Amr, the leader of the Muslim armies in Egypt, who asked the Caliph what should he do with the thousands of manuscripts he found in warehouses in Alexandria. The Caliph's answer has been recorded and known for centuries. - As for the books you If their content is in accordance with the revelations of Allah, we may do without them, for in that case, the revelations of Allah more than suffice. If, on the other hand, they contain matter not in accordance with there can be no need to preserve them. Proceed then and destroy them. - The Muslim writer, Ibn were distributed to the where they were used to feed the stoves which kept the baths comfortably warm. - They say it took six months to burn all that massive material. - Eutychius, the patriarch recorded that there were 4,000 from the Alexandria library. - [Narrator] This burning did not start in Egypt, but four years earlier in Persia. Caliph Umar's army met in the Battle of Qadisiyya In early January 637, reached the outskirts of Ctesiphon, and laid siege to the city for two months. Eventually, the city fell, During the fighting, the palaces and the library at Ctesiphon In the end, the only book in Arabia was the Glorious Qur'an. - When it comes to the historians have struggled. It seems that most of the Qur'an was retained in an oral fashion rather than written form. While the Arabs were great memorizers and had the ability to retain the retention of materials suffers from several difficulties. First, the accuracy of the memories of the individuals In the case of the Qur'an, arguments arose over the various verses, and if they should or should Second, the problem of from the learned to the novice is often a difficult step. In the case of the Qur'an, most of the men who memorized the sayings of As is often the case, and their knowledge of the This is amply illustrated when an estimated 450 men who had memorized the Qur'an were killed. - Hudhaifa bin Al-Yaman came to Uthman at the time when the people of Damascus and the people of Iraq were waging war to conquer Armenia and Azerbaijan. Hudhaifa was afraid because had differences in the So he said to Uthman, &quot;Oh, &quot;save this nation before they differ &quot;about the revelations.&quot; So Uthman sent a message to Hafsa saying, &quot;Send us your manuscript of the Qur'an &quot;so that we may compile &quot;into perfect copies and Hafsa sent it. Then a group of men sat down to create a new copy of the Qur'an. Uthman said to the three Quraysh men, &quot;In case you disagree, write &quot;for the Qur'an was - When several copies were written, Uthman returned the original Uthman then sent every Muslim province one copy of what's been written, and he orders that all rather written in fragmentary manuscripts, or even in whole copies, - And so the burning continued. This time, even Quranic But it did not stop the arguing about what should or should not When the new Qur'ans arrived people argued against them. - Sa'id bin Thabit said, &quot;was missed when we copied the Qur'an, &quot;and I used to hear Allah's &quot;So we searched for it, and found it &quot;with Husaima bin Thabit al-Ansali.&quot; - [Narrator] These five the only Qur'ans in the Uthman's order to burn try to wipe out all Qur'ans everywhere, except the few that were held - In effect, all non-Muslim and then the Muslims destroyed all of their own books and writings except for five or six copies. Remember, the Islamic empire at this time stretched from the Atlantic Ocean through the Middle East, all the way to Afghanistan, and only five or six copies in all those millions This is what I refer to when Much later, once the Abbasids took control of the Islamic empire, they recognized this literary vacuum and they set out to correct it. The problem was, they were an Abbasid version of Islamic history, so all of the materials produced reflected the politically correct version of Abbasid history. These histories and (mumbles) about the previous 250 or more years were collected, copied, and distributed. Those books that were written earlier were either destroyed or who thought they found errors in them. - [Narrator] Under Abbasid scientific and academic The Abbasid rulers encouraged that would not only present in a good light, but would also confirm their own right to ruling the empire. - During this period of time, we find the great Islamic historians writing the treatise on Islamic history. And they also edit the earlier accounts. For example, what we original biography of and the Abbasids corrected what he called grievous errors in the original account. - After the editing of Ibn Hasham, the rest of the great Islamic historians began to write their histories, and they present us that was tailored to suit their religious and political worldview of Is it possible that of an Abbasid cover-up? Did the Abbasids purposely from praying towards the in Petra as the Qur'an commands, and make them pray towards the Black Rock now residing in Mecca? Are Muslims still being I believe the stage was set when early Muslim the various scraps of the Qur'an. The problem wasn't the collection. It was the destruction of - [Narrator] There is a great divide here between Western thought In western thought, the later manuscripts are less reliable as they We need to go back to as it's more accurate. Muslims, on the other hand, think earlier manuscripts are less reliable, and later manuscripts Even in the Qur'an, later revelations replace or abrogate earlier revelations. Once you allow the concept of abrogation, you open yourself up to - If the Abbasids tampered with history, did they go so far as tampering For instance, how did the Abu Bakr, the successor of Muhammad, made the first compilation Uthman, who followed and then added to it. The historians tell us that even after Uthman had compiled his Qur'an, people remembered still more verses that Muhammad had revealed. Every time a new Qur'an came out, it was touted as the most complete Qur'an. The previous ones were okay, but the newer ones were more complete with more revelations in them. Did the Abbasids bring out that contained mention of Mecca? Today, we have many of in museums from Istanbul to (mumbles). These Qur'ans use the Kufic script invented in the city of Kufa. But what about earlier Qur'ans I have searched through many of the early Quranic parchments written It should come as no surprise that none of the pre-Kufic material includes verses about or the city of Mecca. Historians have challenged me that I'm trying to rewrite I assure you I'm not trying to do this. I'm only suggesting one small change. Long ago, the Holy City of I believe that name was After repeated earthquakes after Ibn Zubayr moved scribes had only to make one small change to Islamic writing. In Arabic, Becca is written like this. It's very easy to change the Ba to a Mim. Watch again. That's all it took. It is virtually undetectable Did the Abbasid scribes to Becca in the Qur'an, I believe that all of the evidence points to Petra as being the founding place of Islam. All of the mosques of the point to the Forbidden and all of the descriptions Muslims are instructed in the Qur'an to pray towards the The Qur'an says nothing - [Narrator] It is clear that although Dan Gibson's research is and he has a great affection his theories will be As faiths around the globe to prove the veracity of their origins, all religions need to they may find difficult. Islam needs to ask if it is possible that over a billion people have been misled by Abbasid propaganda regarding how and where And if true, what for the average Muslim today? (upbeat music)