In the last 100 years mankind's technology of the natural world. In the 20th century alone mankind nearly doubled table, many of them completely artificial Today man has the power to create matter that universe, and even more than what wondrous new concoctions could unlock, we want to know different elements in the periodic table take Polonium, or element 84, is one of the radioactive and Pierre Curie, who helped further mankind's of their own lives. Extremely rare, it is nonetheless a naturally ore and even cigarette smoke. Science hasn't found many applications for insanely radioactive- with one gram of polonium of radium. Polonium is so toxic that one gram could kill thus it is a favorite tool of government assassins. Most famously, former Russian spy Alexander tiny trace of polonium poured into his tea Though it took him 23 days to die, this was he ingested- and even then the assassins, left a trail of radioactivity throughout London to track. The submicroscopic dose of polonium Litvinenko British police to track down the killers with Mankind has known about the dangers of mercury of years to understand the true danger of For a long time mercury was used in everything purposefully as an elixir of life. China's Qin Shi Huang famously sent wise men search for an elixir by which he could cheat poisoning. Today we no longer ingest magic tonics made we ingest it nonetheless every single day polluted by our industries. Mercury poisoning via seafood has become such that young children and pregnant women are such as the north sea in Europe. As a powerful neurotoxin, mercury can cause numbness in extremities, memory problems, death. Typically less than a gram of the stuff is comes slowly but surely as an individual's Despite this, doctors throughout the 19th mercury to patients suffering from constipation, the colon quite effectively. While this is definitely not recommended today, the digestive system before absorbing much This element is most dangerous when inhaled, a spill of mercury can lead to mercury atoms These atoms pass through the lungs and into Mankind has known about the dangers of arsenic poison of choice since the time of knights As mankind entered the industrial revolution, leading to individuals being poisoned by this Today arsenic is used in wood preservatives to arsenic from the contamination of groundwater. Drilling of drinking wells into the ground rich in arsenic, which inevitably leaks out Today an estimated 25 million Americans and water that is contaminated with arsenic. Low doses of arsenic can have a cumulative orifices, vomiting, and diarrhea. Long term exposure also often results in cancer, death within hours. Surprisingly, this deadly element actually and today research is being done using arsenic cancer cells to generate energy and communicate. Element 87, also known as Francium, is a member These are metals which are extremely reactive, potassium which reacts violently when coming While potassium heats up and can burst into Francium is something altogether different, in your skin would be enough to char your If that wasn't bad enough, Francium is also The exact effects of francium on the human reasons: number one being that any quantity in the human body would immediately turn you that Francium is the second rarest element Scientists believe that only as much as 20 the entire earth's crust, and the element quantities. The greatest amount of Francium ever produced application for the element is yet known. Lead is an element that humanity is well acquainted it is present in nearly everything you come Lead is used in everything from gym weights materials, and most terrifying of all, there Yes, that means that any amount of lead is everything we touch. Lead is so toxic because it's known as the ingestion and working its way throughout. Lead then fools cells into believing that to function, such as iron, calcium, and zinc, starving and killing them. Lead is infamous for causing damage to the individual's cognitive ability if exposed In children lead is especially dangerous and to their organs, and even reduced intelligence. In the late 40s and early 50s, geochemist horrifyingly prevalent lead had become in an anti-knock agent in gasoline fuels. Patterson was attempting to discover the age of very old rocks and the time it took the his samples continuously became contaminated original sample. His discovery of widespread lead contamination digging up ice core samples from Greenland concentrations at the same time it was added Patterson was fiercely opposed by the oil Patterson's results, and the case wound up helped ban lead's use as an additive in fuels. Incredibly, lead is so dangerous that researchers between the use of leaded gasoline and the After leaded fuels were banned in America, lead levels in blood directly correlated with and 2002, relating with the 22 years it took from American air- though scientists continue is terrifying given lead's prevalence in Today though lead is banned in the use of concentrations in the soil next to roads that and ingesting even small quantities of this Plutonium is an element most people are familiar the Cold War. Produced in vast quantities for decades to deadly element that is not just toxic, but long before its toxic effects take hold. Plutonium constantly emits high levels of deadly that an estimated 500 grams of plutonium ingested. While not as deadly as polonium, plutonium thousands of nuclear weapons and nuclear reactors. Plutonium also oxidizes in air and can appear to see for the few seconds it'll take for With a half-life of 24,000 years, plutonium time. Another member of the alkali metals family, that's not saying much. In fact, Caesium is so reactive that it can the only way to safely store any amount of Caesium is also very rare in the earth's crust, having to dodge explosions every time it rained. If you were to spill some caesium on your would burst into flames. Because it is very similar to potassium, it it for much-needed potassium. Also, Caesium happens to be slightly radioactive, of deadly. The periodic table of the elements may as ways to die, given the extreme reactivity, elements on the table. Luckily most of the more dangerous elements of laboratory conditions, or extremely rare Others though, such as lead, are ubiquitous a huge impact on our behavior that only now how of our past is shaped by our exposure What element do you think is the deadliest? Do you agree that violent crime could have Let us know in the comments! Also, be sure to check out our other video And as always if you enjoyed this episode for more great content!