Two years ago, we &quot;6 Facebook Privacy Settings Today, we have many more to limit how much information Those tools are so powerful, Facebook recently lost $232 - They did. Sorry, Mark. - So we're gonna talk about those, but first we're gonna limit Facebook's access to your We're gonna start in the Settings app. Open Settings, and then scroll down to So right here, Facebook, Do you want Facebook to Some people do like to - People upload photos to Facebook, David? - [David] Some people do. - Right now, Facebook has access to all the photos on my iPhone. - Too many. So you can do Selected Photos, where you choose which photos Or if you're like me, you don't really upload photos to Facebook because that's just not something I do. You could choose None. So whatever you're comfortable that's every single photo on your iPhone. Let's tap back to Photos, of the screen, back to Privacy. A few below Photos is Microphone. Tap on that. These are the apps that have Do you want Facebook having - All the time? I don't think so. - Probably not. - No, just unless I'm, if you're doing a live video on Facebook, you need to do this. - So just tap that switch Let's tap back to Privacy. One more setting we're gonna Here are the apps that - And so different than photos. Photos are the photos that this is for taking and new If you don't think you're or live streaming. - Yeah. Same thing too. You can turn it off, and then on the off chance through Facebook and it'll ask for access again. You can just give it to and turn it off again. So I'm gonna tap that So let's tap back to Privacy, upper left hand corner of the screen. Let's come to Tracking here. Allow Apps to Request to Track. Do you want Facebook to be tracking you across other apps and websites? - Facebook hates this setting so much. They took out a full page saying that if you turn this off, then you're killing small businesses. And they also said, don't because they don't want you to subscribe, but you're not gullible. You are gonna subscribe to this channel. - This setting is really to that $232 billion one-day loss. It's amazing how just turning can really deal a death blow to Facebook - Death blow! - Geez. - And while you're here, is just turning that switch and then, not just Facebook, now no apps can track you across other companies apps and websites. It's something I just really recommend, turning that switch off. - Yeah, the secret is that small businesses by We're a small business. We could care less about the setting. - Yep, let's head back to Privacy, upper left hand corner of the screen. Then tap on Location Services. Let's scroll down and find Facebook. Right now, Facebook has access even when I am not using Facebook. - Too often! So let's tap on Facebook, Always. We don't want it to have While Using the App, Ask Next Time Or When I Share, or Never. - Ask Next Time, I kind of like, but also While Using the as it gets for your. - I'm gonna choose While Using the App, and then just look at Precise Location. A lot of apps use your specific Apps can only determine That's probably good enough - Yeah, you don't really need to have Precise Location turn on. You would, if it was Google - Yep. So let's tap that and turn it off. The next two tips are and Facebook has really So I'm gonna go and open up Tap on your account icon on that lower right hand and then scroll all the way down to Settings &amp; Privacy. Tap Settings. Scroll down. Tap Ad Preferences. Tap Ad Settings. And then down here, Data about your activity Choose whether we can use data from our partners to show We recommend turning this switch off. - Yeah, turn it off. If you join the channel, - We do. - It'll walk you through that whole thing. So if you don't like rewinding, you don't have to leave a comment that says, &quot;You guys are going too fast!&quot; You could just join this channel - Get the PDF, and also not just Facebook. And trust us that they are So let's go, tapping that back button, upper left hand corner of the screen. And we're gonna go back again. And we're gonna scroll up to So we did set Facebook to my location all the time, but did you know Facebook So if you have always had Always as your Location Services there's probably be a list of locations that Facebook has saved. - Right. And what are they using it for? To sell advertisers ads, - Once you're in those Location Settings, tap on Location History, and then turn off this switch If you wanna see the you can tap See Location History. I just turn this on for this video, so there's not much there, but if you just haven't that list is probably pretty long. In our previous Facebook settings video we recommended turning and they listened to us. - They did. face recognition in That's really, really cool. - Yeah, they did. And you're welcome. - You're welcome. - Everyone and privacy experts worldwide, they're reaching out to us. People say we're doing a really great job. - Yes. Those are some Facebook settings that you should turn off now. Thanks for watching this video. Make sure to subscribe, make You get on the screen with Their names are rolling down the screen like a post show credits. - Yep. Like, literally a post. - Yeah. Literally. - Like, they are. Okay. - Thanks for watching.