- Hey guys, Metal Jesus here. Now, I'll admit that I was late to getting an Xbox One console, but the benefits of waiting is that often you can get a stack of So in this video, I'm gonna share with you my entire Xbox One collection, and tell you why I think the Xbox One is a pretty decent console. Let's take a look. (upbeat music) Now, before we get started, I do wanna mention that I have a little over 70 Xbox One games, and I'm not gonna go I don't wanna bore you guys, and I really just wanna highlight some of the more interesting ones, or the ones I think that And the other thing I I've only ever owned the Xbox One X, which is the most powerful so that's the system that I And one of the first games is of course the Rare Replay collection. This is an amazing collection, and I think a lot of when it was announced. And so this is a Best Of collection for the developer Rare, which has put out a ton of games on many different systems to the original NES, all there's 30 games in here to explore. It's such a great collection and honestly it's a really good deal. I was able to buy this Tons of value there, lots to explore, a lot of games to play. A game that's been on my on the Xbox One is Ryse Son of Rome. A lot of people recommended So as you can see by this footage, it is a third person hack and slash game, and it was actually a launch all the way back in 2013. And I gotta be honest, I still think it looks In addition to the great visuals, it also has a really So you are one of the Roman generals, and you're trying to fight back this attack by barbarians, and also help out the emperor. And it just throws you into but then it goes into a and I'm not gonna spoil much to you, but essentially the game and you start learning the and who is obviously your character, and starts filling in some of the events that led up to those opening moments. But the combat in the very intuitive. I'm not super far into this game yet, but I am loving it so far. Another game that a lot of when I bought the Xbox Now, this is a game by Insomniac Games. Now, many people at the were pretty surprised a fairly high profile exclusively for the Xbox One. Because you see, up to this point, they were mostly known as putting out a lot of classic games on Sony's hardware. They released Spyro as on the Playstation One and So here was this brand new game released on Xbox One's brand new console, and a lot of people loved it. This game is highly regarded. It's loved by lots of gamers. I know the game that I because it's been out So this is an action platformer that is currently exclusive And this is another game that had a lot of hype and interest around it when it was originally shown at E3. But ultimately didn't It got okay reviews, but it seems like people weren't really blown away by it. Now honestly, I haven't put but I'm curious to know down in the comments. Here's Quantum Break which when it was originally released, it was blowing people's minds with its amazing graphics and the acting, and the motion capture. And it also just had this really But I don't know, I off with this game when I played it. I mean, I thought it was really interesting to explore, but ultimately I just lost interest after a couple hours. So I don't know, again, to know what you guys think. Killer Instinct was that fighting fans were And Microsoft did something is that initially it was So anybody could play it. The barrier to entry on and people certainly loved it. Although, at the time, people complained that it was a little especially at launch. And since we're talking well we gotta talk shooters, and I have a decent stack of 'em here, including Gears of War four and five. Now, the funny thing is is that, while I own these games, I actually haven't had They've been over at my buddy because as soon as he he had to borrow them. He loves this series, and on his Twitch channel. So now that I have them back, I can start playing them as well. I recently picked up the Now, this has been out for a while now, but it's just been something that I've been waiting for to drop in price, and I'm glad I did because packed onto this disk. It comes with Halo one, ODST, Reach, and Halo four. And most of those games This is another one that and I was watching him play It's cool because in Halo one, you can switch back and forth between the original Xbox version and so that was pretty cool. And here are some more shooters that I picked up on the cheap, and I just kinda went out on a limb and bought random stuff that either looked interesting or again, maybe it was just so cheap for five or 10 dollars. And the first one was Mothergunship. So I don't know why I hadn't but basically what this is, it's a rogue-like first person shooter. And essentially what that means is is that it's all randomized, and you basically just try earning credits to build up better weapons and just try to survive And this game gets nuts really quick. It actually kinda reminds Serious Sam in how fast it is. It's furious, it's crazy, I was enjoying this a lot. I also picked up and the reason for that is because a lot of people have been It's a little bit I think it sold okay, but most people don't And I think the reason for that is is that it started out but then it got reworked into its own standalone release. Now, it only lasts about six hours or so, but from what I can tell, the action and the shooting in it is a little bit amped up, it's a little bit more run and gun than some of the main releases have been. I also picked up Shadow Now this is a reboot of a that came out, geez, And this is a game, again, I but for whatever reason, I just never picked it up until now. You can get this really cheap, and it's another one of where it's just all about gunning down as many people as possible. The reason why I really like is because it's very silly, and in addition to guns, you can also whip out a sword and just start hacking people apart. So really fun, over-the-top shooter. I'm probably gonna check out but right now I need to play this one. I also have a stack of, what I'm calling, I guess third-person action games, maybe open world style action games. And I finally picked up and that's a series I've been meaning to jump into for a while now, pretty much ever since I I think probably the reason why is because a lot of on the original. But from what I've heard, where they really got everything right. So both these games are They look like they run really well, so I'm really looking - Not just any alien. (phone ringing) Oh come on, anyone else having Oh God, oh God! (whipping sounds) - [Metal Jesus] And of course there are a bunch of Assassins Creed but the one I'm really looking forward to jumping back into is Assassin's Creed: The Ezio Collection. So this collection has which just happens to be my favorite, as well as Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood, and also Revelations. The reason why Assassin's Creed has kind of a special place in my heart is because when that game first came out, I had just visited Italy like And so I came home and I was just missing so many of those beautiful Italian cities like Florence, Venice, And Assassin's Creed two was 'cause it put you back and they looked astounding. Here are some more third party releases, including Red Dead Redemption II, a game I played a ton Looked and ran fantastic on that. As well as a newer release there, that's the 10th anniversary edition of Bayoneta and Vanquish. I played and beat the original Bayoneta, but Vanquish is a game that I haven't put a ton of time into, so looking forward to checking it out. And now let's check out I picked up on Xbox One, including an RPG called Indivisible. Now, this was a total blind buy, I got it really cheap and it so I thought I would take a chance, and I was right actually. This is not a bad game at all. So as you can see here, that was released, I guess, But again, for some reason But it plays very similar a game I did play a lot on my PSP. And I have to say that I really like the hand-drawn graphics here, and also the realtime so if you're looking for something a little bit different, you should definitely check this out. Next up is a game that I had no idea was released on the Xbox One because I originally played it on the PC. I was actually one of the backers when they crowdfunded this that of course as you see And the Bard's Tale series has been around for a long time. I originally played the I think on the commoners So when they announced Bard's Tale four, I was blown away. I was like, yes! I mean, that's a great And I have to say, it anything else I've ever played before. It is a first person your characters that you can position on a 4x4 grid, and that's So in the game itself you're in first person, But then you go into combat and on a grid. It's very unique and Another RPG that I have on So this is a hack and that's very similar to Diablo. And I have to say it's very well made. It's a very polished game, and I'm kinda surprised how It's really a shame. Now, what's cool about this game is they eventually to the heavy metal band, Motorhead. So in addition to the main game, there's also version of that will come with a DLC that will allow you to download the Motorhead add-on for free. And it's really cool because if you're a fan of Motorhead, well, first of all, Lemmy's in it. He shows up, he's at the bar, it's really funny. And what's even better is with Motorhead's music playing. As well as, you're just on a different Motorhead style world so it's Yeah, again, if you're or if you love Motorhead, you Some more RPGs I picked up So this is a spin-off of the I was kinda surprised to see this released on the Xbox One by Sega, and it turns out it's Again, I had never heard so kinda cool to check it out. I know it's an action And then we have the complete so this was originally by Obsidian and it made all 'cause essentially what they were gonna do is go back to their roots in that Icewind Dale/ Baldur's Gate style, and fans were just super excited. Over the years, I've also kind of horror/survivor horror style games and you can see them here. The Evil Within is a game that I've been meaning to check out for a while now, especially because I know and enjoyed it a lot. But for whatever reason, so it's cool to have it on the Xbox One. And I've definitely A Plague Tale on my friend's list. I know a couple people have It's a game that I think is kinda flying under the radar a little bit. I could be wrong about that, but I'm glad I finally picked up a copy. Here are some more random Some of these are kinda weird including Bridge Constructor Portal. So this is such an interesting game. So basically it's like a puzzle game, but it's also a bridge simulator. Now what's cool about this game is that it takes place but it has you working for GLaDOS And the developer said that to get all the original as well as even get the voice of GLaDOS to reprise her role in this game. Now, I don't typically play a but sometimes you're just in the mood for something new and different, and yeah, this definitely fits the bill. And speaking of something that I normally don't play a lot of, you guys know that I sports games on my channel, and that's 'cause I don't really But I do love some of and this is Mutant Football League, and this is a spiritual sequel, and also the same developer And I think the reason why over traditional sports games is that again, there's whimsy to it. The thing is actually for sports games, I really just like the like SSX and Tony Hawk, and for some reason in my mind, Mutant Football League kinda I definitely appreciate and just completely Next up is a shooter called Sine Mora EX, and we recently had a about this game. Somebody posted asking is this game good? And it was really interesting because I had kind of in my mind thought, yeah, this is a good game, but a lot of people are like, uh, is it really or does And it kinda made me pause a little bit because I do like this game, but I also find it incredibly Sometimes unfairly so. Anyways I just wanna again, it's just a beautiful Is it good? I don't know, you be the judge. And then, another game that people would send me and that of course is Shadow Tactics. Now the reason why people would do that is because they know that especially really well-made stealth games. And Shadow Tactics actually is something of a little bit different than I would normally play because as you can see here, it's more which is pretty interesting. So as you can see by it takes place in the Japanese Edo Period, and then you play and control Samurais. And then you do what Samurais do; you sabotage stuff, and you'll be sneaking around. Thankfully there are a ton and we're gonna start going into The Crew 2. Now, I never played the original Crew, but the Crew 2 was a game I picked up and really enjoyed it It's kinda shrunken down, but basically you can in real time. And what's great about it is that it's not limited to just cars, you also have boats and planes, and you can swap between them on the fly. It's a crazy concept, but And as you can see here, the and tons of variety here, The Crew 2 is just great. And here are even more racing games; there are some really weird ones in here, including an Xbox One So this game is kinda weird because, as you can see by this footage, you're on a roller coaster, but it's also, how do I describe this? It's not really a racing game, perse, but you do control the acceleration as well as the tilt of your vehicle that's on the tracks there. As well as you can control boost so when you drive over those you then have to hit X to time it to build up turbo at the top there. And essentially what you're trying to do is get the maximum amount of screams out of the people in without crashing or falling over the side. It's a really weird concept, it's a very cheap game and so if you're interested in this, and playing something a little And speaking of something this is another game that and at first, I was like what? But it's Crayola Scoot, it is unlike anything on this list. It actually reminds me more of, say, the Tony Hawk games in the controls and also the tricks. But then it has this element which is very similar to Splatoon in that the color of your crayon And so that's actually A surprisingly deep and fun game, controls really well, than you would expect. And speaking of games that are way better than you might suspect, this is a game called Onrush. This is a fantastic game that is actually technically the sixth game in the MotorStorm series. It's just that for whatever reason, they couldn't use the MotorStorm title. They used this Onrush name, which I think probably contributes to the fact that nobody really unless you were really paying attention to when it was released. So yeah, basically this especially in how the vehicles handle, and also how the tracks are designed, but then they mix in a little bit of what feels like road rage from Burnout. And what makes this game different than almost every other racing is that this game doesn't care about getting over the finish line first. It doesn't matter at all. Actually it's all about maintaining that, and then It's a shame that more people If you love arcade racing games, well, I hate to throw around but I think this is definitely one of 'em. (upbeat music) Here is Forza 5 and I'm not gonna really talk much about these games are very popular. Microsoft owns the studio and they're fantastic, Obviously if you like Forza, you like realistic driving Sims, you're gonna love this one. I recently picked up simply because I just found it in a store and it was really cheap. Hadn't played a MicroMachines and this is a really fun one. It's classic MicroMachines, top down view. The trick to these games is because you can't see So the more familiar with the track, the better you'll do. Plus it's got some that are pretty fun, so you know, it was cool to get a new And speaking of old games brought anew, here is Carmageddon Max Damage, another game I picked up as MicroMachines. And this one I'm not loving as much. I haven't played a and I feel like this one is not great. The Carmageddon games are all about creating havoc and destruction They're completely over-the-top violent, they're non-PC, I mean who are in walkers and wheelchairs, but that's part of the gig. And I think for me really though, it just doesn't have a lot of I didn't love it, I think Wreckfest I've talked about before. It's a Bugbear game which and it is really fun. It rides the line of simulation I would say this is actually one of the more enjoyable flat-out style games that they've made. I just think it's fantastic, it controls well, it feels well, the physics are awesome, it's definitely a really cool game. If you remember back to a pickups video I did with Reggie a couple months ago, he reminded me and got me in the mood to replay some of the Tomb Raider games, the newer ones that have come out. And so I decided to pick on the Xbox One, simply just I loved them previously, so I to go for the achievements. All right guys, well that's a quick look at my Xbox One game collection, and I would love to know if you have an Xbox one. Do you like it? Do you have games for it, and which ones would you recommend for me? Love to know down in the comments. All right guys, thank you thank you for subscribing, and take care. (upbeat rock music)