4.35 million. 9.44 million. 83%. What do those numbers have to do with data security? I'll tell you in a minute. Welcome back to the Cyber Security Architecture series, we talked about principles, fundamentals, We covered identity and access. We looked at the endpoint, Today, we're going to talk about data security, So the first one, 4.35 million. Well, according to the Ponemon Institute, breach worldwide. That's a lot of money every time somebody breaks in, that's what it's costing the organization on average. And by the way, that's taking out some of the really So this is the baseline that we're looking at, 9.44 million--cost of a data breach in the US. Twice as much, if you're in the US, if you get hit with this. And 83%, That is the number of organizations So this is answering the question Now we're going to talk about in the rest of the video about governance, about discovery, Hang around to the end. And I'm going to tell you the top will reduce the cost of a data breach for you. So stay tuned for that. First of all, we're going to cover governance and discovery. So think of this as a data security ecosystem. We're going to fill this thing out. These are the technologies that go into allowing us First of all, we have to have some sort of governance plan. This is our way of saying this is what we want to do. If I don't define where the finish line So first of all, we're going to have a policy, we're going to spell out what kinds of things are sensitive We're going to spell out a classification criteria that says this is keys to the kingdom Nobody needs to protect that. We don't really care, that sort of thing. We need to spell out that criteria. We need to also spell out what kinds of protections So we may have confidential, unclassified. We may have super confidential, super top secret, super duper top secret, whatever your classification scheme is. But you need to spell out what those are. We can't expect the users in our company to protect the data So it all starts with this governance policy classification. Build a catalog that tells us this is where the data is. This is where the really sensitive stuff is, We're going to be updating that as well. And then build a resilience plan that says if we lose data, So we'll talk a little more about that later as well. So that's the first stage is build the plan, Now, I've said Now let's go find where the data is. A couple of different places That's where we expect That's we're going to see a lot of the keys to the kingdom. But don't overlook this other area. Files, emails, spreadsheets, all kinds of other things that make up unstructured data. We need to be able to discover sensitive content In other words, in places where we might not otherwise look. We expect the keys to the kingdom But what if somebody makes a copy of that? What if somebody excerpts parts of it Now we've got sensitive data and I'd like to look on the network and maybe discover when there are certain types of issues And one of those discovery things will help us in particular with a thing called data loss protection. So DLP is a technology in real time on various systems Okay. Now, we've covered the why of data security. These numbers down here How do we do governance and discovery, Now, let's talk about protection and compliance. I figured out how I need to secure things how am I going to actually protect it? Well, encryption is a huge part of that. That is, I scramble the data And I need to be able to do that for data at rest. Like sitting in a database, for instance, or data at motion. Data that's in motion could be on a web server, So there's I wouldn't need to be able to keep the data secure and in motion if I'm going to be encrypting data. The other thing I need to be able to do a really good job of If you lose the keys, you lose the data. So remember that we want to generate keys in a random way. If anyone can predict the way keys are generated, They can read all your data. So it has to be done randomly We also need to be able to keep up with the lifecycle of a key. It's not encrypt and forget, it's encrypt at appropriate times. We have keys that we rotate in and we rotate out. Another aspect of all this to is this notion of quantum-safe crypto. Quantum computers are going to be able to break We don't know exactly when, but it's not that far off. And so we're going to need to keep an eye on this space that will keep our data safe against the quantum threat and started trying to crack all of our data Access control is another part of data security. Access control is also part of identity and access management, But it relates here as well, because it doesn't matter If a user that has access to this set their password to the word &quot;password&quot;, If we don't have a good way of authenticating then all of this strong crypto isn't going to matter. So access controls need to be there. Backup. If we face in particular type scenario where someone says, Well, the best defense against that is saying, I've also got a copy of my data So this is the type of protection that we need not only to keep the data from prying eyes, so that we have a level of resilience that I mentioned earlier in case of attack or disaster or things of that sort. Also, I need to be able to ensure that I am complying to some of the industry regulations The Generalized Data Protection Regulation in Europe, GDPR we have in the US, HIPAA for health care information. There are lots of regulations in lots of industries It's essentially, there's a chance that you have So I need to be able to report on I need to be able to report when I'm not complying that goes into these data breaches are the fines It's very substantial. And if you think because you're operating a company in the European Union, that you're exempt from this. Think again. If you've got European citizen data, even if you don't Check with your lawyers to find out. And then a policy. I need an ability to retain records, but only as long as is necessary according to the law or other regulation. It really doesn't do us good to keep a lot of information So what we need to do, though, is the law will require and we want to store it for that long and probably not longer And the longer we're holding this data, that if in fact, we have one of these breaches, So it's best not to have it in the first place Okay. Now, we've covered the first bunch of security protections about governance, about discovery and things of that sort. Now we're going to take a look at two more-- detection and These first ones are mostly about the prevention. This is about the detection and response. Detection. Now, what does that involve? Well, I need to be able to monitor my systems How is it moving around my organization, who's using it, under And in fact, I also may want to use a technology that will monitor users if they're downloading normally a thousand files a day downloading a million files in a day, Or if someone who normally doesn't access certain data starts having a lot of interest in that data, If someone is doing something different than their peer group, So that's what user behavior analytics is looking for, So we're trying to detect misuse and abuse of the data. And ultimately, I'm going to generate alerts and someone then can go take an action on that. And the action is our response part. So one of the things I might do is open a case and then assign that case to someone We might guide all of those efforts with something A dynamic playbook would tell you, this is what just happened. Now you need to do the following steps. And based upon the results of those steps, I'm So that's the dynamic nature of it, as opposed to just a a hardcoded script that someone follows. This is more like a dynamic script that they can follow. and allows them to automate the recovery and orchestration and automation of these problems. What's the difference between those two? In a perfect world, I'd automate all of my responses. But we don't live in a perfect world that are first of a kind type of situations. I can't automate because I don't know what I should have done Orchestrate is what I have to do in a lot of these cases I'm looking for certain things and I'm providing guidance, but like an orchestra, the conductor of the orchestra when do the trumpets come in, when do the the saxophones come in. This sort of thing. They're going to basically direct all of this, So think about those things. We're going to talk about these actually where we're going to talk about security Okay. Now we've done a quick flyover view of data security. We started off talking about governance, setting the plan And if we don't have that right, Then we move into discovery, find out where all the data is Then we're going to put those protections in place. Then we're going to check our compliance and see if, We're going to look for anomalies. Then we're going to respond when we find those and feed So the whole thing then becomes this ecosystem of data security, So that's in general how we want to do this. And now what I told you is if you would stay to the end, I'm going to tell you the top five things So no need for a drum roll. But according to the cost of data breach survey, five things that reduced the cost of a data breach. Number one, And in fact we started using You'll hear more about that in the future videos as we as But you can expect to see AI be infused So look for that moving forward. DevSecOps. That was a big part of the discussion If you missed that, make sure you go back and check that out. But that breaks down the walls and put security in a shift left position. Incident response. We talked about that here. That's this response capability and it's going to be So again, stay tuned for that. Cryptography. We've talked about that here in this particular space. And as I said, if you can't encrypt the data, And then ultimately employee training, because at the end of the day, it's There's an end user and the user, the human, is almost always the weakest link in any security system. So don't ignore this part. If you do, it's at your own peril. Okay. There we go. Those are the top five things that you can do to reduce the likelihood Make sure you have a good plan for doing all of these things. All right. Now, in the next video, we will cover monitoring and then the following video security response. So make sure you stay tuned to check those out--[click] like, subscribe, and hit the notify button