- I wanna be that Colonel because now, today, we have and have you noticed how popular it is? I have cooked millions and millions of pieces of chicken over my lifetime. We just pulled in a delivery of chicken, and we wanna right away That's one of our secrets, marinating. This is a one and a half I learned practically about a chicken from We have a farm that is for producing chicken in the country. My middleman and I have for over 25 years. He knows what I need as a chef. So it starts with this raw product that comes here fresh So that's the process for Now we're gonna take it to the cooler. - The new goes to the top. The stuff from the day And then we kind of is what's used in the day. Make sure that it's marinated You can only imagine how many biscuits and how much chicken we go through if we get these once a week. And the brown mix is for chicken. The white is for the biscuits. So we load them here. We count it, make sure we have enough, and then we bring it in and So right now I'm gonna get the batter and I'm gonna walk you that process going. Yes, we used to do this back and that was actually one of I would have to drive all that my dad had in Compton - Trenton is my middle son and he works real closely with me on everything Honey's Kettle. He's an amazing chef, a truly amazing. - So here's the mix and the ingredients, the flour of course, different spices and seasonings and different types of salts. So we start with filtered That gives us the best My dad has been doing these recipes and creating his recipes for years. So every so often he changes 'cause he wants it to be - We're probably going through a day of batter mix. That would be two of - We pour that in. So we ready. And it's like the perfect consistency after the three minutes and I like to call it like a type of consistency. - So what we do is we come This is the marinated chicken and we put it to one side like that. And the purpose for that the chicken in it, we don't off really slow because then And we don't want it falling off so fast that it has no bubbles to it. We dip it in our batter, and you see that nice and we shake off the excess And you see that batter, You're already an expert, as you say, it's not running off like water. It does have a certain Our chicken is made through a process. We call it the reinvention A kettle is a deep vat of oil. We're talking like 50 pounds of oil. We use 100% peanut oil. It's the highest grade of oil you can use. When we drop our wet chicken, So what it's doing is locking a crust of crispy crackling crust. And that crust is gonna lock in all the natural flavor of the and it's going to cause the inside of it because of the heat. Where does the heat come from? The heat comes from the bottom. So this is a modern kettle, right? So that heat is gonna be more intense at the bottom than at the top. This is an invention of mine. It looks like, you know, a sword. But we call it a kettle fork. We can't put our hands in there, but we can reach down here And you'll notice when the chicken has lodged itself I had these purposely made. It's a heavy duty process so you need heavy equipment. So then now, I take the fork and I dislodge all the chickens and any batter crumbs from the bottom. So we're gonna take that and boom! And there it goes down to the front and that's ready for the production line. My mother, who is from New Orleans, my father who's from Shreveport, are two of the best cooks that ever was. And I used to just kind around my mother, just But it's based on all my experiences. We've been around here for 20, 22 years. I think we had something of fried chicken because can get healthy fried chicken, fried chicken that leaves and gives you only the final product. And then we're gonna break it apart and get it ready for when the bell rings. - Ready to make the mama biscuit. - Biscuits are as American as it gets. The recipe for the biscuits, it came from research and 1985, she joined me in the pursuit of running a business in Compton. We call her mama's biscuits. - Even at home, they call me mama biscuit. They're famous in here. - This recipe took years - I have people at work to make biscuit. As long as I'm in the store, I don't want nobody while I'm in the store. - She cuts at a angle and at the same time, and it dislodges the biscuit And then they're touching very important in baking so they rise together. The center of that, we with the dimple. It's where people put their And they put it right there in the center. - Fluffy. I didn't invent fried chicken. The thing I did was perfected it. We say to people that, We're American food. When I did my research on Honey's Kettle, I went to the central library and researched early Kettles in the family fireplace, and guess who was in the kitchen? They all were the color of my skin. They were the cooks. Our people are very I can tell when I eat something, when it's been cooked right. That could be in my DNA. It was my passion to deliver Chicken is now the number We are seeing this resurgence as chicken is because some people and we're one of those people. That's my thing. Honey's Kettle fried chicken,