A day in the life of a Japanese ham and sausage shop that won a gold medal at the German World Championships. "Wow, this is delicious!" "The cheese inside is melted." Many people visit the store in search of authentic German-style ham and sausages. grilled sausage hand-pulled corned beef Japanese beef steak beef jerky "I started making it because I wanted to make delicious beef jerky that I'd never had before." croquette pork cutlet Please subscribe to our channel! Japan, Kanagawa Prefecture Preparations before opening the store. Mr. Hajime Hata, the owner of this shop. "Hausmetzger" is German for "butcher in the home." Mr. Hata learned how to make ham and sausages in Germany. The ham and sausages from this shop have won gold medals at the German World Championships. First, we got to follow the sausage-making process. pork thigh meat Separating the fat from the lean meat. mince Kitchen near the store "We're going to make a sausage called 'cheese knacker' now." Making the minced meat even finer with a German-made meat grinder. "This is ice." Ice is put in to prevent the temperature from rising. coarsely ground meat cheese Add the spices. Add the cheese and coarsely ground meat. "This is a sheep's intestine. We'll be stuffing the meat into it." "Let me put some air in." "Many machines have a function for automatic twisting, but I deliberately twist it by hand while checking the state." Setting the sheep gut in the machine. Adjusting the thickness and stretch of the intestine with your fingertips. Twisting the sheep intestine filled with meat by hand. It takes a high level of skill to twist the casings by hand to ensure even pressure. "We stuff the meat in when the tension is at its limit." "There are some holes in it because it's a natural intestine." "In some cases, pressure can escape through there and cause it to tear." Putting the sausage in the smoker. Leave a gap so that they are evenly spaced. Light the wood chips and smoke them. The delicious aroma of the smoked food wafts through the air. Checking the temperature of the sausage. "OK! Shower." Taking a shower with water to cool the sausages "It's important to always shower them, because if you leave them to heat up, they'll shrink." I was allowed to taste the sausages while they were being smoked. "I will eat it." "Wow, this is delicious!" "The cheese inside is melted because it's just been made." Smoking is finished. Cheese Knacker (sausage with cheese and coarse ground meat) There are over 10 types of sausages on display in the shop. Mr. Hata boiled up some of his popular sausages for us. Cheese Knacker (sausage with cheese and coarse ground meat) "The juice is amazing." Frankfurter Sausage (Gold Award at the World Championships) Plain dough with the aroma of onions as an accent. Weisswurst (sausage with parsley) Boiled white sausage "It's a grilled sausage called Leberkase that contains pork liver." It is a grilled sausage that is baked in a mold without being stuffed. Baked in the oven with water on the surface. Baked "It becomes really round, doesn't it?" I had some freshly-grilled sausages cut for me. "Here you go." "This is delicious!" "There's a little bit of liver in it, isn't there?" "The green herb called marjoram helps to reduce the bitterness." Liverwurst Please subscribe to our channel! Next, we'll show you how to make corned beef, which won a gold medal at the World Competition. "This is the peach, the loin, and the other is the shoulder blade." "If you only use one part of the meat, the flavor will be unbalanced, so we add various parts to make it delicious." Salt "Sprinkle salt on each piece of meat and mix it in." It is vacuum-packed and pickled in salt for about a week. Cook the salted meat in a pot for one week. onions and carrots "This is the pot of stew we cooked today." "This is the pot that has been stewing for two days." "I'll make sure every single strand of fiber is separated." Carefully untangling it by hand. "I thought that the Japanese would like the texture of the food, which is like the texture of beef boiled in soy sauce." "One thing I thought about was trying to create a similar texture by hand." Add spices to the broth in which the meat was boiled. Packing the meat into the bag. Poke it with your fingers to let out the air. Chill in the refrigerator. Japanese beef corned beef (Gold Award at the World Championships in Germany) I had some freshly made Japanese beef corned beef. "Here you go." "I'll have it." It's delicious! The flavor of the beef is concentrated! We also recommend eating Japanese beef corned beef with white rice. Please subscribe to our channel! Next, we'll show you how to make beef jerky using Japanese beef steak. Japanese Black Beef Sirloin Remove the fat. "I'll chill it in the fridge overnight." Japanese beef that has been chilled overnight "I can't believe this is the meat for beef jerky." "This meat can be used for steak, sukiyaki, or yakiniku." Slicing the Japanese beef. Spices used to marinate beef jerky "What rank would you say this meat is?" "It's A4 to A5." Soaking the meat in spices. "We'll smoke it after marinating it for five days." Meat that has been marinated for five days Laying the meat on the smoker's grill. Putting the meat into the smoker. Lighting a fire under the cherry wood chips. "When I went to Germany to train, I was told to make enough products- &quot; &quot;-to be able to give them to customers within the range that the smoke from my smokehouse can reach." "I started making delicious beef jerky that people had never tasted before, for people within the range of the smoke." "Normally, we leave it to cool overnight, but would you like to try some?" "It's delicious!" "If you leave it to cool overnight, the aroma and flavor will be enhanced by your body heat, turning it into jerky." Leave it in the refrigerator overnight. The finished beef jerky. "It's dried to the point where you can taste the original flavor of the meat." "I think it's quite moist." "The meat has a lot of thickness, so I think you'll be able to really feel the texture of the meat." It's soft beef jerky that bursts with the juiciness of the meat when you bite into it. Please subscribe to our channel! At Haus Metzger Hata, deep-fried foods made with the finest meat are also popular products. Preparation for the fried food starts at 6 in the morning. Mr. Ishii has worked at this restaurant for about 50 years. "What did you have to prepare first?" "Minced meat cutlet, hamburger steak, and also croquettes." minced beef for croquettes "How long have you been doing this job?" "How long? I've been in and out of this place a lot." "I was doing a lot of things, like architecture." potatoes for croquettes Steaming potatoes onion frying minced meat Add the fried minced meat and onion. Mix the minced meat, onion and potatoes. Shape the croquette batter into a mold. Coat the batter with the batter. breadcrumbs deep-fry Potato croquettes 179 yen ($1.15) / 1 piece Preparing liver fries. pork liver Skewer the liver with a skewer. Coat the liver with batter. deep-fry Pouring sauce on top of it Liver fry 386 yen ($2.48)/ piece Fleischkase (grilled sausage) "We sell this as a fried ham cutlet." Next, how to make ham cutlets. Coating grilled sausage with batter Coating with breadcrumbs deep-fry "Are ham cutlets a popular product?" "Here you go." "It's delicious!" "So it's a sausage cutlet, is it?" "We've given it the familiar name of ham cutlet." Ham cutlet 267 yen ($1.71) / 1 piece How to make cabbage and minced pork cutlet Minced meat and cabbage mixed together to make a batter. into a mold. breadcrumbs deep-fry cabbage meatball 292 yen ($1.87) / 1 piece chicken breast meat flour deep-frying tartar sauce Chicken Tatar 335 yen ($2.15) / 1 piece Roast pork blended with 12 different herbs. They serve freshly roasted pork every Sunday morning. Preparing Shumai The minced pork, onions, potato starch, etc. are mixed together by hand. The ingredients for the Shumai are complete. Wrap the ingredients in the shaomai skin. Arrange the Shumai in the steamer. Shumai(Steamed dumplings) 610 yen($3.92) / 1 pack Pizza Sausage (grilled sausage with a pizza flavor) Roast ham that won a gold medal at the World Championship. Seasonal pork sausage shaped like a pig. with broccoli and spinach Preparing macaroni salad This shop has a history that began 60 years ago as a butcher's shop, and its meat products are also popular. Japanese Black Beef Sirloin Marbled 1,864 yen ($11.96) / 100g Preparing minced pork minced pork pork belly meat The pork used is of the extremely rare Duroc purebred variety. "It's so delicious you'll jump up and down!" Pork belly, sliced (Duroc pure breed) Pork loin (Duroc purebred) Pork loin (Duroc purebred) 10:00 a.m. The preparations for opening are complete. "Thank you for waiting. We are now open." There are lots of pigs in the store, so please try to find them. There is a retro-style well at the entrance to the store. It can be used for washing hands, etc. After closing time 6:00 p.m. After the store closes, Mr. Hata gives special training to young employees. "What lesson are you giving today?" "Today, the goal is to prepare a whole chicken each, without any help." "You can break the bones, but not the meat." "It doesn't matter in what order you remember them." Mr. Hata will give you some pointers. "It's a job that's really fun and interesting, so how to convey that is my current challenge." "Before, the knife wouldn't go in smoothly, but this time it went in smoothly for the first time, and I thought, 'Good job'." "You were in good form today." "In some ways, teaching also allows me to learn." "That's the end of it." "It's a steady job, but I hope that the people who come after me will be able to develop it further." Thank you for watching!