On the evening of Friday, February 3, 2023, 38 train derailed in East Palestine, Ohio. Five of a hazardous material that built up pressure in Southern to vent and burn it in a bid to prevent brought the normally unseen process of hazardous and the event became a lightning rod of federal involvement in chemical spills, but in the flurry of political headlines and what actually happened. Freight trains, like are fascinating feats of engineering, and the and others have released preliminary reports I'm not the train kind of engineer, but I think story, now that some of the dust has settled. In today's episode, we're talking about Modern freight trains are integral to daily and chances are nearly every human-made object you finished goods, spent time on the high iron. our lives is because there's nothing else that cargo over land at such a scale. Steel wheels (especially compared to rubber tires on asphalt). are almost trivial compared to the enormous its engine could practically fit in your pocket. not so much a just a vehicle as they are a moving With this scale in mind, you can see why condition of all the cars behind them without much good when part of your vehicle is a half too long ago when every freight train had a a crew at the end of the train who could equipment. Now modern railways have replaced are computerized systems that can monitor message to the crew over the radio letting them Defect detectors look for lots of issues including dragging equipment, over height will be passing through tunnels or under overheating axles and bearings. Depending these detectors are often spaced every The freight train that derailed in East Palestine, along its way, and NTSB collected the data responsible for the crash was located on the registered a temperature of 38 degrees Fahrenheit the bearing's recorded temperature was 103 degrees but it is still well below the threshold set by to stop and inspect the bearing. Twenty miles that recorded the bearing's temperature at 253 threshold), triggering an alarm instructing the Freight trains are equipped with a compressed air. There are two main one is the coupler that mechanically joins transmits braking control pressure. the brakes are released, and the cars are free to like it would be during a derailment, the loss of single car of the train. That's what happened the over-temperature bearing. When the defect immediately applied the brakes to slow the train. the train's emergency braking system activated. showing significant sparks from what is presumably Understanding the severity of the situation, the possible derailment. They applied handbrakes uncoupled, and moved the two locomotives mile down the line away from the fire and damage, A train's "consist" defines the collection of locomotives at the head, a locomotive near the and 149 railcars. 38 of those forming a burning pile of steel and 11 were carrying hazardous materials including Local fire crews and emergency responders immediate threats resulting from the derailed five of the derailed cars transporting vinyl to rising temperatures. Norfolk Southern a reaction that would continue to increase eventually leading to an uncontrolled explosion The cars carrying vinyl chloride not just steel cylinders on wheels. actually has very specific requirements for DOT105 cars have puncture-resistant systems at a hole through the tank. They have a thermal steel jacket to protect against fires. They would normally see, and they include pressure open to keep the tank from reaching its bursting cars did operate to limit the pressure inside the As fires continued to burn, state and federal vinyl chloride cars was reaching a critical tanks safe from bursting, they decided to perform an explosion. While they were still making Federal Emergency Management Agency were running resulting plume. Local emergency managers used to be affected by the release. On February vented the five vinyl chloride tanks on fire to burn it off. Despite being done on the resulting fireball and pillar of smoke You might be wondering, like I did, why tank cars were fitted with PRDs. While the they have released some details about their of the cars were manufactured in the 1990s (as opposed to the more updated standard and "energetic pressure reliefs", it and obstructed the relief valves, impacting You might also be wondering why a train passing much vinyl chloride in the first place. Vinyl it is the 'VC' in PVC. This channel makes a lot of a lot of applications, so we produce it in vast vast quantities of bulk materials and chemicals. and flammable liquid, not something you want a to burn it off. Flaring or burning chemicals is a gases or liquids that can't easily be stored. convert a hazardous material to something less While the byproducts of burning combusting it into the atmosphere was the concern of it harming people on the the US Environmental Protection Agency flew a to measure chemical constituents of the resulting of concern and concluded in their report that the But "success" is a strong word for an event like While there were no immediate fatalities far-reaching. Chemical pollutants were not into local waterways during the firefighting way to the Ohio River, and the Ohio Department 40,000 small fish and other aquatic life away from East Palestine. Between it's impossible to say what the long As for the residents, both the state and in all aspects of the cleanup, monitoring and the city's fresh water supply. So far, of health concern after the derailment. As for none have shown evidence of significant of my previous videos, it can take a while The EPA has ordered Norfolk Southern to with the East Palestine train derailment. The regulatory requirements in regards to the cleanup. from air, water, and soil testing, to disposal the whole thing is a mess, literally. The cleanup but so far they've removed over 5,000 tons million gallons or 26 million liters of the site and washing off trucks working on but we know how these cleanups can go. The EPA's highest priority only has 450 examples of sites The whole situation has also sparked agencies. The NTSB is opening a special and practices of Norfolk Southern. to public statements from the Department of a huge variety of public officials, one will have an impact on the way railroading The residents of East Palestine have a long testing so far paints a relatively safe and many have reported symptoms and effects. Even if at dangerous levels, the anxiety and unease of hard to escape. The economic impact of just the and things like home values and local agricultural really close to a freight line myself, something when I see those tanker cars roll by, what's inside them and what might happen if But I also recognize that much of the lifestyle I and despite the tragedy of events like transportation to be the safest overland method bulk of hazardous materials being transported more than 8 times as many fatalities! So, freight feasible way to move the mountains of materials and really, the world. And the fact that engineering details of tanker cars, defect operations is a testament to the hard work that But freight rail in the US is unlike any other operate Class I railroads that make up the vast The US rail market essentially consists of two and Union Pacific and BNSF in the west. That as we've seen in recent news. So, we have to ask however rare they may be, just a part of doing I think the answer in this case is clear. regulations in the future to make sure something next Practical Engineering video on railway Speaking of that next episode: If you grew fondness for the great TV shows that used and the Science Channel. Now those networks but hopefully you've noticed what's been happening it about myself, but I will say it about my like Brian from Real Engineering, Sam from and Johnny Harris are all making videos that any of the old tv shows I miss. Sam's series released this incredibly-produced documentary on goes over the history, logistics, and great the north slope. That video (along with a ton of Nebula, the streaming platform built by and for Nebula is the answer to the question of on YouTube didn't have to cater to an getting better and better: totally ad-free original series and specials that can't from your favorite creators like Devin from you can pay just $30 for an entire year's access My videos go live on Nebula the day before they to just wait for them here, a Nebula subscription my link, a third of that revenue will go quantity of Practical Engineering videos. The rest the Nebula platform. If watching videos like you should have the best viewing experience on free like it is right now at the link below. Thank