I am Harshith and I welcome you all to this new using AI and this is going to be an episodic all because we've just reached 1,000 subscribers because I've been doing YouTube since 2018. of found my niche because if I show you guys the 28 days and I've just been posting consistently one of my viewers where they wanted to see a so that's what the entire series is about. this is actually the first episode. It's called SaaS in episode one Genesis. Just to give you a something which I really wanted to build because but then all of that was not documented and this haven't built the product yet and I will be one Genesis, I'll just give you a small walk and what exactly can you expect from these series Just to give you a small point here, I'm going to that later. That's something that we're going to and my vision is to reach 100,000 subscribers by and empower non-coders to create sophisticated experience because I am a complete non-coder. you have to be an engineer to do this. AI I get a lot of hate saying you can't build an AI a full-stack SaaS application with just AI and I'm time to inspire you guys that we can build this. one of my subscribers has just told me, a complete SaaS using AI,&quot; so that's what they that it'll be great to have a complete series, a this is Genesis 1 where we're going to do a small overview of the series. I'm going to be doing a in each of the episodes and also my philosophy building and why am I even building it, what's my which is the current episode, is a small non-coder concept as well. Episode 2 is going to the SaaS idea using AI tools. We're also going to worth it to build. Now design, for design, we're amazing UI and UX using ShadCN UI because it's because that's the language that we're going to do not know how to code. All I know is I'm really, for 2 years, meaning I've been prompting since so I have a lot of prompting experience and that will be UI/UX and episode 4 is going to be the and we can actually develop the backend also with building any products and we already have what we're going to use to build this. Episode QA testing processes, maybe even get some of my if this platform is fully functional. Episode 6 is Product Hunt, so episode 6 is going to be great we're also going to launch this on Product Hunt. lot of products are being launched on a daily even some of the biggest applications like YC to get some traction as well. Episode 7 is going I come from a marketing background and that creating content, even podcasts--all of these are how we can do that as well. Then monetize. What's to make revenue? That's when we'll be monetizing to do all of that in this video itself, in this scale--how we are going to scale this application. I've created these episodes but all I know right myself for episode one, so I don't want to bombard take it step by step, only focus on the first one. After scaling, of course, Beyond is going taking more feedback, and all of that. Now let's why am I even building this? The thing is I am but I can still build applications. I think AI you can build applications. All you need is a and for Claude--maybe not Claude because you these subscriptions. All you need is, let's say, can build it. Why me? Because I've actually exited and it was acquired by a San Francisco-based were really nice people. They wanted to talk was a small tweet that I posted. It was actually at this tweet as well. It was one of the biggest of liquidity to experiment with a lot more, so I've done something. I have the knowledge, so why Now, what is the vision for the series? The by Skool.com. If you guys know what Skool.com is, where creators or YouTubers can create their own it's his own community where members are joining what I've been focusing on a lot. There's another members in this one, and I think most of these as well. I've seen one by David Andridge, also I think it's called The New Society. It's a are empowering themselves to honestly say it's real value ads. Once you enter this, you get all want to build for myself, for my own community is going to be to demonstrate AI development. You you're just watching this video, if you use these you can build your own SaaS application. This a non-coder myself, before ChatGPT, I was super I know is developers have ideas. They don't have I had the understanding of the world, I had the just changes everything. All you need is, what then you're able to build it by yourself. And then what's the point because we have all the just focus on that. That's my personal goal as well. It's very important to do that because the ourselves from everything. Achieve scalability. entire document so that you can dive deeper and itself. The community dashboard project is private community, and email integration as well, monetizing this with a paid membership. I'm not would be in episode two where we'll be doing more trying to validate this more on Reddit and all of to build my own community where you guys come courses that I post, and this entire course is It would have options like calendar, classroom, brainstorm more features. Maybe I'll be taking then maybe I can do a better one. That's my goal philosophy behind me even doing this is that hard to get VC funding and if you really want of connections that most people have in SF, your have a personal brand for yourself, people know and that's what I want to build. Naval Ravikant's and media--are central to our strategy. In our AI tools and media through YouTube to maximize AI-driven development tools to build and maintain and media is leveraging my YouTube channel to the series and the platform simultaneously. my own platform as well. This is a meta thing. Butcher showing what traditional people do: they traditional businesses. But what we're doing here then you sell it to multiple people. That's what article from 2008 called &quot;100,000 True Fans.&quot; All and make $100,000 per year. Imagine if you keep a thousand of them to earn $100,000 per year. I'm but I really think there is value in this because talking to everybody. I'm also consulting at a good at something, never do it for free. Joker make sure you monetize it, and that's exactly dashboard. Another philosophy is ownership. I community. I have my own community called Micras it never really took off. It's been almost a year I had to pay like $100 a month for this, but decide to ban me or do anything. If it's my own I have complete control over it. With email when I get users on board my dashboard, I also community, building my own tribe. When I get into email newsletters. When they're reading my me to read those newsletters as well. There are easier once you get to a certain amount of Let me reload maybe a little more. Yeah, just one my Indian accent may be English, I don't know what or they say Indian accent may be... I don't know, to talk. I don't give a [__] about what you guys stick. They are the ones I'm after. One thing I myself because I live alone with my parents. one really good friend who lives abroad. We talk I'm looking for like-minded people who want to build, build, make some money, create wealth for themselves. That's what I want to do, that's But it just takes so much work and I was kind of found traction. I thought maybe it wasn't for is AI automation. I have experience in web3 and we can do this. This is basically the gist. Thanks building SaaS application using AI. The episode and sticking around and understanding my whole you can watch and read through the Notion document even this document will be integrated inside the to it anymore. It'll only be my community members. idea, if this is even a good idea. There are a lot scrape through Reddit, but that's going to be or building-heavy, but before building you have to that's what we did in this Genesis episode. Thanks entire series. We are going to build the kickass learn with me, and earn. Let's earn money using tools to earn a living using AI tools. That's