Transcriber: Katrin R. Imagine it's one year from today, and we all agree that we're going Not maybe, absolutely; we'll all come back, and we're to come back for a reunion. Only we're going to share the things during the last 12 months of our life. We're going to share when we were here and what's happening 365 days later. What would you love What would you love to say where humans actually do create results? We live in a spiral universe. In a spiral, there's an ever upward pull A little blade of grass feels it to become more of itself A tree presses to the edges of itself to become more of itself And humans feel the same thing; We feel it through longing, We feel a longing for greater freedom, we feel a discontent with And if we just keep breathing we will create results, because that's what humans do. Now, we create results in four areas. We create results You could look at your own results but what'll you love a year from now? Because if you keep breathing, Humans create results in relationships. Some of them are wonderful, some of them are deep, some of them are supportive, What would you love To bring someone special in your life? Would you love to transform Maybe a relationship is on auto-pilot, Humans create results in vocation. What we do with our time and talent, whether we earn income doing it or not, because just by our beingness, we're doing something Even if we think, I'm going to crawl in bed What I create that day I don't get to not create And humans create results - here we go - humans create results - humans create results in time and money, freedom or constraint. So if you think about next year what would you love to be saying? You know, on my calendar here's what were the evidences More freedom for me where I could go where I wanted to go, but maybe even more importantly, actually give to the things Provide some of the things Now, about 40 years ago, I got very, very interested I was getting my undergraduate degree, and I cared deeply about kids. I longed for quite a while While I was getting I wanted to study everything I could And the purpose was to help so no matter what their circumstances they could actually believe that they could become and achieve the things I went on a got a graduate degree I earned an honorary doctorate; my first book, &quot;Building Your Field I had the privilege of working over the course of seven years, creating week-long conversations. I could just sit right next to him three different times. Conversations with world leaders about I got very interested and how to transform results. I had the privilege of speaking with the Martin Luther King kids and creating a 64-day season particularly teaching junior high kids about how to solve problems And I spoke at the UN one of them with Rosa Parks. I was building my dreams; I had the privilege of working and meeting with Nelson Mandela. I had a deep dream &quot;How did you transform your results? How did you be a man you served 27 years in hard prison - and then not only do you get but you actually then become president of the country Who on our planet does this? How did you do that? What was going on inside of you?&quot; And that has been my quest so that I could transfer that and offer that to the people working with tens of thousands around changing their results. Does it mean that because and worked with my own life and others, that every time for me No. Does it mean My first business I took my eye off the ball, I hired somebody to run the finances, I lost everything I had built. It was heartbreaking to me. But there are three steps that dream builders use to transform their results so that the dream wins over conditions; so that the dream wins over time; so that the dream wins over and even our history, and sometimes About 150 years ago, a man decided That's what we're invited to do Keep breathing and do He went to the woods, Henry David Thoreau, and he said, prior to his - this quote &quot;I wanted to learn to suck I wanted to live a life I went to the woods because I wished to deliberately front and see if life could not teach me and not when I came to die discover that I had not Now, Henry did this two-year, and then he wrote an essay about it. In the conclusion of that essay, he writes a quote that is worldwide known: &quot;If one advances confidently and endeavors to live he said, &quot;I learned this if one advances confidently Well, you can't advance in a direction And the first thing dream builders is they have an idea of what they If I say to you &quot;your front door&quot;; if I say to you &quot;the kitchen sink if I say to you &quot;the bed you did not see the letters you saw pictures. You saw a picture of a door, This is important for us to know because most of us dream dreams, We don't really see a dream. We say, &quot;I want it to be better, I'd love to travel,&quot; and there's no picture The more specific you are this talk will mean way more to you What would you really love? Most of us ask this question: What do I think I can do? What does the economy say I can do? What do you think I can do? What would you love? You'll have different thoughts than you will have What would you really love? Because you're going to have results Now, I knew nothing about this in 1966. In 1966, I had grown up My mom and dad, This was 1966. I was a junior in high school, I was homecoming princess, had a lead in the junior play. I was my class vice president, had three best friends and we'd hung out together, In spring break of 1966, my high school sweetheart came home on spring break, and I got pregnant. May 1, I tell my mom and dad My mother wept for me as if I had died. We had a very hasty The high school principal &quot;Are these rumors true?&quot; I said, &quot;If the rumors are I'm pregnant, He just put his head &quot;Mary, you will not allowed It would be totally inappropriate for a pregnant girl to get mixed in but we have a place for people like you. It's a high school It's across the river - I hadn't been allowed and it's where the pregnant girls So that's where I began my senior year, and my first son was born Only now, the mothers would no longer let them see me It was as if what I had was contagious. I graduated from Washington and in July of 1967, having been diagnosed One kidney was totally the other kidney was 50% destroyed And in 1967, this is a death sentence. We don't have dialysis, and every medical physician, all said the same thing: &quot;The best we can do if we can get the blood toxin level to remove that surgery, then maybe you'll have six months.&quot; And I was terrified. And my belief system at that time I was being punished for being a bad girl, Well, the night before the surgery, a woman walked in my room at 10 pm who identified herself for people who'll have surgeries And I'm thinking, you know, probably needed to have (Laughter) It's the only God I knew at the time, She didn't do anything She talked to me, what had been going on in my life and when I was finished, she said, &quot;What do you mean?&quot; She said, &quot;You know this. Almost nobody knows The bed you're on, your nightgown, the walls, ceiling, floor, first had to be a thought You know this.&quot; Then she said, &quot;I hear but I also hear how much You feel like you shamed yourself, And now that you're thinking could you consider because, notice this Mary, if you think embarrassing thoughts, if you think scary enough thoughts, It doesn't mean it doesn't even mean anything it means you think those thoughts, Could it be that if you think there could be a correlative, a toxicity, that actually could threaten your life?&quot; Well, this was so beyond anything that I had &quot;Could you believe it's possible and this could completely and when they come they say, 'Get up, go home. You're fine.' Could you believe that?&quot; And I told her the truth: &quot;No.&quot; I didn't believe that There was not one part I was way more belief She said: &quot;Alright, remember there's an infinite There has to be one we pull all the genesis of this dis-ease and put it in the kidney And when it's removed, you get better. Could you believe that's possible?&quot; I didn't know if it was possible, but I could tell and I believe it was the first time I ever chose to believe on the frequency who was operating at a higher domain. I said, &quot;Maybe it's possible.&quot; Remember, this is before Sheldrake and all the things - at this point, there was I mean, in the last 40 years, So she said, &quot;Alright, One idea,&quot; she says, &quot;one part of you open to the idea; She said some words. She gave me a prescriptive for how to use and then she left, and they did the surgery, and about a week or two later, my numbers were stable - &quot;You might have a bit more time. I went to my parents' house where my son and husband were staying. I could hardly get my head off the pillow. But subtly - I was in many times a week as being checked, And subtly over time, my numbers And four or five months later, with a surgeon and a specialist and they're scratching &quot;We have no science is not only getting [better] it seems to be functioning We don't have any science for this. We'll put medical anomaly on your chart. Whatever you've been doing, (Laughter) That's when I began to do the things I got into undergraduate school, and over time as I reflected and I studied people people who transform their results, not just wish for a better result, there are three things they do, whether they do it When I transformed my health result, I just did what she told me to do. She said: &quot;Here's what's going to happen. When you have that surgery, yet your mind you thought those thoughts so much, your mind is going to want They're going to remove that one kidney. Every time you notice yourself say, &quot;No, that left with the kidney,&quot; and then immediately imagine yourself - like you're walking in imagine yourself.&quot; I wanted my two big dreams: I want to be a teacher, &quot;Imagine you're walking into a school Feel the warmth of his hand in yours. He goes into his kindergarten class. You hear the click-click of your heels. Around the corner, there's your classroom, and you're a teacher, and he's five. Imagine yourself. Then fast forward: imagine There's caps and gowns down there. Your son's 18; he's graduating and your teaching career is growing. Then fast forward and imagine You're the mother of the groom. Your son's marrying the love of his life. And your teaching career is flourishing. Keep repeating that.&quot; I had done that unconsciously. Every time I would start and start to generate I said: &quot;No, that left with the kidney.&quot; Then I saw myself, and I imagined being the person being the person seeing him graduate, being the person sitting I had no idea the power of that. But after 45 years of studying what I know are these three things. That if when we get together and if you would love in particularly where you feel the greatest longing then these three things will help you. Number one, you want to create Imagine yourself: health, As clear the dream you can design, the more your brain You know if you want to change you have to change the frequency. You know if you want you've got to change the frequency. We're not really different. We think on frequencies. Our ability to see are on the frequencies we think from. Create a specific dream. See yourself in it. Refuse to stay discouraged. I didn't say refuse to get discouraged; Not everything we try We learned to walk by falling down; We were little kids. It was normal to explore, experiment. We got older, and we thought every step So decline to stay discouraged. Okay, that was feedback. When Edison was asked He said: &quot;I never had a failure; You'll have some feedback this year. Decline to stay discouraged, and then be more interested by means of having a dream. Yes, many, many wonderful things not a dreamer, a dream builder, because you're going But to stay in the comfort zone means you're going that's where you're comfortable. If you want something you've never had, that's growth. We'll get a little unstable So if you're more interested you're willing to be interested because it's more for you and do that in service of your dream. So those three things: be specific about your dream; decline to stay discouraged; be in service of your dream and you can have that every single day before we have our reunion next year. Now, not one of us can go back but every single one of us can decide Thank you. (Applause)