I just built this bunker, and these two people who going to attempt to live down here Take your blindfolds off. Hugo, this is Rayne. - Rayne, this is Hugo. This is their first time ever meeting. And this is the nuclear bunker Everything you would need to live You can even grow your own vegetables. - Cool. You'll find your bedroom. All 40 feet underground. - Wait, what? - Above you is a bed. And here's another bed. And most importantly, over here - Dude. It's real. If both of you You keep it. But if one of you leaves, you We're not leaving. 100 days, you could have - Wow. Okay. let's see if they survive 100 days. I can't believe we're actually here. Isn't it crazy? - I know. We're not going to see the sun If we can grow our own food, So far, But little did they know, You are so stupid. You're a monster. I don't like you, dude. Hey, hey. We're getting ready for night one. Hopefully we don't fall off tonight. - Good night, Hugo. Good morning. I will say I don't like that We didn't know each other We didn't. Now we're just cooking breakfast. And even though they're going to have to work If they want to win half $1 million. However, like always, That does look a little sus, Hey, yo, what is that? Why are these boxes locked? I don't know, man. There's something going on here See this button right here? It represents But to find out about that, they're going to have to wait That is, of course, if they What do you want to do today? I'm going to learn Why do I need a radio What the heck? Over the next hundred days, It's our third day in the bunker. Let's go. We're going to come out You're my new favorite human You're the coolest person What? And by day four, the challenges of living with a stranger I got to tell you something. You were snoring bad last night, Sorry. Some earplugs would be nice, but If Rayne ever annoys me, this'll just freak her out. This is our view of the outside. It's just dirt. So gross to look at. Hey hey hey. But since leaving would cost him they were going to have to make I made enough salad for both of us. I am so bored. Today we're building I'm Hugo. I'm Rayne. - And this is life in the bunker. No! And once they got to day 10, Wow. It's Jimmy. All right. I think it's time I show you guys There's - Yeah, we saw that earlier. - A button? Oh my God. A hand scanner. And on the other side, Oh, and one more thing. A one minute timer. Hey, Chandler, do the thing. Finally. As you'll see, If you let that timer ever hit zero, your incinerating every single dollar And to stop your money from burning. You two are going to have to work It's pretty simple. Put your hands on those scanners, The timer stopped. So every single day, at some random time, - Every single day? - What if I'm showering? If you guys mess up just one time, both of you - Oh my gosh. Oh my God. I won't be able to sleep - Yeah, yeah. If we mess up one time, we're done. - We should move our beds down here. I still feel this weight on my But it could be at any time. I'm not going to lie. I am a lot more stressed out. Just having that lingering could be pressed at any moment. Oh my God. Rayne, Rayne, Rayne, Rayne. Go go go go. Oh, God. That scared me. Dude, my heart just dropped to my toes. Well, it's not going to go off And after the daily alarm, reading This is Beast Boot Camp. Get down and give me two. And honestly, it seemed like they were on track But to test their strength I visited them at 6am To see if I could trip them up. Oh my God, hurry! But they were still pretty fast. However, Hugo and Rayne weren't it only took them 13 days to find the surprise Is that a latch? There's no way Tying up. No way. This is like a whole And now that they're equipped Hugo and Rayne were really of saving their money - Let's do this. And with every day gone by, they were one day We scare the alarm. The alarm doesn't scare us. From now on, every ten days, And since it's day 20. Nolan, can you hear - Yeah. You guys And literally do it Which makes me wonder, - Yeah. - Yeah. Let's see how much you'd like it. I will add an extra $50,000 For a grand total of $550,000. If you let me shrink this one minute Really think about it. Because the next 80 days, both of your hands on these. If you miss once. $550,000 burns instead of 500,000. Let's think about this. This is a lot of money on the line. Now we're about to shrink the timer Is $50,000 worth it? I don't know. We've been here in less than 10s I think we Let's go. We're doing it. It will now permanently rest at 30 seconds. Nolan. Here comes the money. As promised. Here's your $50,000. Hopefully it doesn't get you out. I'm not going to lie, No, you can't say that now. Actually, You see, not once did they Each day getting to the hand scanner Rayne, we got this alarm thing in the bag. Now it's like don't get too bored So with day 30 offer. Let's see if we can take It's day Instead of telling you the offer. I'm going to show you. Press the button. Oh, it's quiet. That's my offer. $50,000 will be added to the prize pool But there will be no noise I'll give you guys Yeah. We won't get the alarm back. What if this is the last money We got $550,000. We've been able to protect so far. Is that not enough? We would have to take shifts from Do you want to do that? Dude, it's so much money. All right, guys, Do you want If you let me turn off the sound? As much as we would like it. - We can't. Really? We could already buy Teslas, though. - You can buy more Teslas. All right, I'll see you in... I don't know, sometime See you later. Maybe. I can't believe we said no. Jimmy just offered me $50,000. Who says no to that? Say no to that much money hurts. He'll come around to it. I think we made the right decision. So in an attempt they moved all their food supplies for their new team Dang, I crushed that. Yeah. You're welcome. But it wasn't enough that he was doing such as feeding the fish - This is gross. And maintaining the garden. So they never ran out of fresh Yeah. Good job, good job. - What would I do without Hugo? And on top of that, Hugo had done And since they were eating that meant he had cooked over 100 Oh, my God, you're Don't disrespect me like that. And while the tension my day 40 offer wasn't going And before we go in the bunker, - Nolan? - The money sucker. To kick off day 40. Hey, Chandler, do the thing. Chandler and Tareq vacuuming up a $100,000, - We're doing it. And for the next ten minutes, you can walk away with the $100,000 and the other person But you'd be abandoning your teammate isolated in this bunker If one of you want to leave, Maybe I could leave. I do everything around here. I do all the cooking. I even entertain you with how bad I think I might leave. - No you can't. We were supposed to be Sewer Rats together. We can do this, dude. Where's your Sewer Rat mind, dude? If you want to say Whatever Hugo wants. I feel like All right. Is either one of you getting $100,000 I'm going to say no. I'm sorry. - But I'm staying. Let's go. I'll go See you in ten days, then. And even though they ultimately decided Hugo's hesitation was testing It almost felt like Kind of hopeless. Should I have let him just leave? - Hugo, what's your deal? It was just a little too basic I'm so okay with being basic. - I don't like being basic. You're so stupid. What did she just say? Dude, don't yell at me like that. That is insane. I don't know if they're making it. Over the next four days, Hugo and Rayne which makes for terrible content. So I decided to shake things by introducing a new variable. - What? Are they bringing in another person? That is like my worst nightmare. I don't want to trust anybody else. But I guess we're going to find out Very soon. How's it going? Hey, Jimbo. This ladder never gets less sketchy. I brought you two a friend. Someone who knows a thing or two I brought Ryan Trahan. - Okay. Not cool. That's the wrong foot because he's going to be spending the next 50 hours in the bunker This is crazy. Now that you're a contestant. That was not supposed to happen. You have to play by the same rules I'm a liability. Okay. You look thick. In exactly 50 hours Ryan's going to be with you guys Wait, Jimmy, no! Enjoy Ryan. - Hey guys. - Hugo? I'm Ryan. - Ryanalicious. Nice to meet you, buddy. - New roommates. Guys. I'm shaking. To be honest, I probably should I brought you something. Stop it. Beyonce. It's her album. It's her album, dude. It's time But I'm gonna wait until they're very far Oh, go go go go go. Nice. I'm going to use the restroom real quick. Okay. She uses the restroom all the time. I genuinely cannot fathom that they have been here Hugo and Rayne and it's actually a threat to them You guys spend most of your time during - Yeah, After I realize the entire reason that I'm here get to day 100. So today A friendship test. The first test is a 60 second stare Oh my God. Okay, you guys ready? Three. Two. One. Success! This is the final question. Rayne, why do you want to win for Hugo? This is such a crazy opportunity And he's the biggest fan of MrBeast. They pick, like, That's so true. Hugo, I know how much her family helps her and literally given her the ability She really wants to repay to her I want to help her really better - That's it, I'm about to cry. If you guys can just remember you're doing it for yourselves, - Yeah. Then this money is yours. Friendship test complete. - Thank you. With Ryan around, it seemed And when it was finally day 50. - Jimmy. They even made a chocolate cake which obviously tasted phenomenal. Happy 50 day to you. You guys are both incredible Unfortunately, Ryan, your 50 hours I must escort you out of here. The first thing I see out And he almost And now that Ryan has left. What do you think your day 50 offer is? I personally think you're going to cut the time in half. It's not far off. My day 50 offer is for every second - I'll add $5,000 to the prize pool. That's the offer. I'm thinking either 10 or 15. That's too risky. You said I can say yes to any 10 seconds down? - I'm cool with 10. What are you guys thinking? We're cool with cutting down 10 seconds. I'll go get the money. - Thank you, Jimmy. And now that I've thrown away I'm going to once again I'll see you in ten days. - All right. See you, Jimmy. Now it's day 51. It's the first morning without Ryan. So quiet down here now. So we just experienced It was a little scary, actually, It was scary. Without Ryan Hugo and Rayne's relationship I want to make it very clear, Hugo, we don't have a charger I'm going to be the only one - I don't get one song? You get some of my pineapples, you get all the coffee, you're eating my jam right now. Okay. Okay. Not like I put my hand on the other And in an already compact to make space for himself. There's some storage space and I turned it into a little vibe cave. No girls allowed. Got my snacks, my books, and my couch. Painting with music feels amazing. You want to come hang out Rayne? What the heck? And as the days went on, the tension between Hugo and Rayne I'm going to feed these fish. Morning, fishes. Come on. Rayne! I'm coming! Rayne! Go, go, go, go, go, go! Rayne! That took way too long. I'm not about to lose $300,000 because Rayne doesn't have I'm starting to forget Waking up in the bunker. it's like my normal life doesn't seem It just feels like But no matter were continuously able to prevent me So come day 60, I wanted to see if Let's see I win. No, I win. Oh, sheesh. I need to drop something. Do you mind moving really far away? Oh, nice. Sorry about that. For my day 60 offer, I will give you this $50,000 three times a day instead of one - Oh my God. Dude, I really want to do that. It would be cool to do it. But I don't know how likely it is that That would be ideal. All right. What are we doing with this $50,000? Am I adding it to your bank accounts - No. Really? I'll take my money and leave. I think we made the right choice. We've been pretty uncomfortable, want to be uncomfortable 40 days is still a long time. And considering over two months ago, Spring was in full bloom I'm kind of tired of like, waking up It's now our new normal I just don't want to read anymore. I don't feel like painting. All the things that used to be fun Having shared the same space Hugo was now becoming addicted to the alone time I'm gonna go hang out in the vibe You've been reading all day, Hugo. I think Rayne's trying to get a little but I don't want to go up there What? He stopped reading for two seconds. I think I'm going to hide his books. Rayne needed to take it into her Hugo's attention. Did you hide my books? Did I hide your books? Now I know you're because I have another I thought they're over there. Like, think about it. She's starting to And I'm not gonna lie to you. You started thinking back to Jimmy's I could have taken that, but I said So just knowing that because I decided to stay. I don't know if I can make it. After hearing the regret in Hugo's that would be too perfect But as always, first things first. - You closed it. - What did you do? How's it going? We're good, how are you? Before I could reveal the day 70 offer, Hugo. Head upstairs. Rayne, go by the money. Time to set up the wall. These curtains are stressing me out. What's going on? Hey, Karl, Sucking 200 grand. We're currently sucking up $200,000 And similar If one of you leaves, I think I might leave. No, you can't. One of you can leave and go home You brought the offer back? Yes, but this time you can walk away with a guaranteed 200 grand without Okay. But unlike my day 40 offer, so that this time that she can't If you still want to. That's spicy. Oh, my God, Jimmy, You'd be doing Rayne a favor instead of competing for 300 grand, which is what you both would make She's competing for 400 grand. So by leaving, - I do give her 100 grand. I don't know. I don't know if I can forgive myself and I ended up losing this challenge. And while they're deciding on I'm going to tell you guys What? Monster Hunter Now is a free to play Kind of like Pokemon Go. Does that make either of This is awful timing for this. Come on. And to really showcase this game, Monster Hunter Now encourages you Let's say you're walking a dog. You can hunt monsters, You can still fight monsters. Or I'm on a date. That's not realistic, but Monster Hunter Now available Plus, MrBeast Sword, Click the link in the description or scan this QR code to download and use Code MrBeastHunt My quest is only available so you need to I almost left at 100 K. This is double that. And remember, if you don't step out, in this bunker. Do you want to see the sun? And more importantly, do you care about and want them to make an extra 100 grand? Five. Four. Three. Two. Last chance for a guaranteed One. We're coming down. There's I'm now going to pull down these Neither of you left. What? And since neither of you I'll see you in ten more days. I just said no to $200,000. I'm amazed you said no. Because I don't want to hear it. They may have stayed together, but the money was the only thing I don't really care Sometimes the hardest part of this It's living with another person. Especially when they're Would you mind making me chicken? Did you make me scrambled eggs? Do you think when a little bit It's just sucks now. I'm just tired of doing I don't mind helping Rayne, If Jimmy came down here and I'd probably just dip. Spending all this time with Rayne and when their plants started Rayne was hesitant to get her hands Yeah, Well, you're not going to help here? - No, you got this. I'm going to do cartwheels. The smell. So I don't know why, but And of course, Destroying and his morale - I think I want to leave. The money's going to burn I could tell So let's see if my next offer cheers I'm going to ask you two a question, I will not press the button - You'll have 10 days off. But if you answer incorrectly, I'm going to shave Oh, I think I know exactly The question is, A Feastables chocolate bar Pretty obvious, Feastables. She's right. That was easy. For the next 10 days, I'm You guys should catch up on sleep Rayne, Rayne, the alarm. Oh my God. I'll see you two then. - I'll say we can just cover this up. See you in 10 days timer. And so, despite all the tension that's been building up the alarm might have been that these two needed Since we don't have an alarm. So that's what I'm On the menu today. Donuts. Rayne said she would never My roommate is over there And they look great. Thanks, Hugo. Taste test. Feastables chocolate covered donut. Oh, my God, Feastables is so good. And since Feastables single the rest of the 80s And so they decided from each day to prepare for What we should be doing Let's get this game plan together I'm going to have Hugo time me running from different areas Using the stopwatch on the Go. 2.61. That's... okay, okay. Go! 4.09. Okay, cool, cool, cool, Go. 3.87, 3.57. Okay. 3.39. Day 90 to 100, it's going to be war. Go hard or go home. I'm going to go hard The timer comes back But after all this training, we got this. Time to take the sign down. There she is. It's officially day 90, which means in over ten days. The button pressing is back. - Did you miss the button? Okay, coming down, here is a $100,000 And I'll give it to you right now, And in exchange for this money, I'm actually going to give you more time on the counter, raising it from 20 seconds However, once you scan your hands and that one minute will have to last you for the last Okay. We'll give you one minute What do you think? - It's kind of scary, but... Our math is there. We've averaged Every time. - All in. - Go hard or go home. Jimmy, - All right, what is your decision? - You sure? No takesie backsies. Adding it to the money pile. All right. - Go hard or go home, that's what it is. Since we officially have and only 60 seconds, it's time We've set up the bunker, than a foot away from the scanner. We even brought all the food We've been in here for 90 days, Let's see how we turn off the alarm 1.11. That's crazy. Every second literally counts. And terrified These two waited by their hand And so of course, when we pushed - Let's go. That was their fastest one, ever. Yes. And so they went to bed. But little did they know, it was now past And all we had to do was They were literally asleep, They didn't fall for it, but I knew that at some point they So I waited for the moment as far away from the scanners Rayne, Rayne, the alarm. Nice. Nice dude, you came down there flying. All right. I think we can Excuse me. - Yes. Don't you dare Get back over here. Don't you take a step farther, Hugo. Hugo. Come on, come on, come on, come on, That took five seconds. Dang it, that's slow. You're not allowed I really want that to be the only five second alarm So no using the restroom tomorrow? We're just going to have to hold it I'm going to paint a line on the how far he can go, Here's the line. Rayne's bathroom rule but for the next few days, the rule actually kept Hugo on track But on day 98, Hugo started Hugo! Hugo! Come on, come on, come on, - How long did that take? Hugo, you went over the six I mean, I ran as fast as I could. The longest amount of time these alarms Do you not see a problem? Am I no longer allowed Hugo, - don't play with it. I'm just peeing. And through all the tension, Hugo took the next opportunity Rayne is showering and this is the last time I have time Unfiltered. It obviously hasn't been easy and we are two completely separate Seriously, I wouldn't choose I'm grateful I was put in here with someone and someone that really pushes me Hey dude, that was nice of you. You weren't supposed to hear that. I really appreciate that, though. Like, we have gotten a lot closer Both of our just determination to win, Yeah. As much as I did at the beginning, like, brushing each other off, like, Once we got to know each other, it wasn't us It was like, I'm going to win this - And you're going to win it for me. Happy day 100. I'm heading down for the last time. Unless someone nukes our country 100 days. All for this. You both ready? - Dude! Yeah. - You sure? Karl! Yes? Press the button. Dude. - You ready? All right, y'all - Yeah! Let's go, let's go, let's go. Yeah, come on, come on. Ready? Come on, Hugo. Don't mess this up. Hugo, come on. All right. Yes! It's been a hundred days. Go on up. This is crazy. This is their first time seeing Yes! God. Oh, my God. I missed you guys so much. Yes. As promised, here's And Rayne, here is your 350 grand. I'll see you around.