You ever play a really good Geometry Dash level and just think, &quot;Man, I love this level so much.&quot; &quot;I wish it was blue.&quot; wait, that actually worked? Mythic Geometry Dash levels are definitely one of the simpler but more interesting changes to come out of update 2.2. It's a badge of honor given to only the best of the best custom levels, to forever highlight the fact that it's masterfully designed. As of right now, the rating's been out for 11 months and there's currently 10 mythic levels in the game. 5 classic, and 5 platformer. So I figured - I love reviewing random stuff like this, why not talk about them? I have lots of great things to say about these levels, but also some constructive criticism that I think is healthy to share. Also, since there's 10 levels, I might as well rank them in an extremely subjective top 10 list that's entirely based on my own opinion. It's just gonna be a rough organization of the levels I enjoyed from least to most, so please don't take it too seriously. It means nothing. But before we start, I want to share my thoughts on the mythic system in general. Like I said, it hasn't even been a year and there's already ten mythic levels. And this heavily goes against the developer, RobTop's original promise that there would only be 2 or 3 of them a year. Except not really, because I don't think he actually ever said that. I checked his Discord, Twitter, level comments, and I couldn't find any sign of RobTop ever actually making this promise. I mean, four years ago he said &quot;a few times a year&quot; but this was way before 2.2 was even close to releasing. So either his original statement was lost to time, or we've all been collectively Mandella effected. That being said, RobTop did follow up more recently by saying that mythic is just a great way to highlight the incredible work of a creator, so giving out more of them isn't really a bad thing. And I think this is absolutely the right attitude to have! Yes, some mythic levels might be less mythic than others, but I can't help but feel honored to be in a community where one of our problems is the fact that the levels are <i>too good</i>. Unfortunately, not everyone sees it that way, and it's starting to feel like mythic tears this community apart more than it brings us together. Whether a level does or doesn't get mythic, people will always find a way to be disappointed. And the reason for that is obvious. Everyone likes different things for different reasons, so it's hard to label a Geometry Dash level as &quot;perfect&quot; when that's extremely subjective! Prior to 2.2, the idea of a &quot;mythic&quot; level was done through word of mouth. Every now and then a level like White Space or iSpy or Change of Scene would drop, and even though it would just get a boring old epic rating, there would be endless discussion in the community about what makes it so special. But now, when a level gets rated mythic, it almost feels like you have to force yourself to like it. There's usually no explanation given for why it even got mythic, so you have to play the level with super high standards and figure it out for yourself. And if it doesn't end up appealing to you in particular, it leaves you really disappointed. Especially if it's a platformer level, which has a huge time commitment. For that reason, I think the solution might just be to make mythic more objective. Something that would allow it to reflect the community's opinion on the level, rather than just RobTop's. Like reserving it for contest or award winners, even if it means the rating is only given months later. But ultimately, there's no solution that will please everybody. With that out of the way, here are my <i>personal</i> thoughts on each mythic level, ranked based on how much I enjoyed them. Please don't take the order too seriously, because like I said, mythic is very subjective. All of these levels are fantastic, and I couldn't be more proud of the creators for pouring their hearts into such amazing works. Got it? Alright, let's do this! Coming in at last place is PixelPath II by... AwiXan? I'm gonna butcher a lot of names in this video, I'm so sorry. This one is a really cool platformer with some sick theming, but unfortunately I have to put it in last place since it's held back by a lot of pretty severe design issues. That's not to say I hate the level, though. I absolutely love the vision for it, and it really shines in its environmental storytelling. This level is obviously a sequel to the shorter PixelPath I, but you don't really need any context from it. Both of them involve exploring some kind of lab, but in PixelPath II there's also... all this as well. A casual playthrough of the level will take about half an hour, but it never gets boring since you constantly move on to different areas that all have so much personality. Like look at how you transition into the robot, or like, this section with the train, or this part with the ATM where it's like- Not to mention the entire ending of the level, which is pure cinema. Seriously, whenever this level does something right, does it ever! Oh, and there's a bunch of hidden items you can apparently find for coins, but I didn't get any of them. With all that being said, I do think it's important to discuss why I <i>didn't</i> enjoy this level. Not because I hate it, but because there's a lot to learn from it. Starting off with the most important issue: You can't see. There isn't enough contrast between the decoration and actual gameplay, which means that you have to constantly guess if an object is solid or not. Normally that's not the end of the world, but some of the spikes in this level are like, straight up camouflaged. Level design is one of the most important things to communicate to the player, and sadly it wasn't really a priority here. By the end of the level I was genuinely terrified to touch anything even remotely spiky, because it was a total 50/50 on if it would kill you or not. No joke, I would have enjoyed this level so much more if I had hitboxes turned on, which is very problematic, because I shouldn't need hacks for this information to be communicated. I also noticed there were a lot of gimmicks which you have no chance of understanding on your first try. So, essentially, you have to die to them to learn how they work. Like this icy pond, or the fling from this zipline, or this single room where you randomly die for being too loud. There's a section where you have to stop a train, and the whole time I had no idea what to do. Though I guess that does reflect how it would play out in real life. It just sucks, because these are all awesome ideas with so much potential! Once again, I love what the creator was going for, but there clearly wasn't enough playtesting. Which is a MUST for a project of this caliber. What really ruined the experience for me, though, is the chase section. If you played PixelPath II, you're probably having war flashbacks right now. About halfway through the level, there's this random chase sequence where you have to be absolutely perfect. If you hesitate for even a split second, you're dead. You have no time to react, and since you can't see, it's basically all memory. And the section has lots of weird obstacles that you don't really get a chance to strategize with. I played this level when it first got rated, but since then it's actually gotten a... &quot;couple&quot; of updates. Most notably, this part has a practice mode now! I was hoping it would offer a chance to freely scout out the obstacles, but unfortunately it just slows down time, and you're still being chased at the same rate. Also, this has fortunately been removed, but on my original playthrough, I died so many times here, that the level actually started making fun of me, saying things like &quot;are you AFK?&quot; and &quot;stop grinding attempts&quot;. I thought I was making progress on this part, but these messages implied that I was still doing so much worse than the creator ever imagined. To me, this is honestly kind of disgusting. There's really no excuse for talking down to the player simply because they're struggling with a hard section. It works in contexts where like, the joke is that the game hates you, but here it feels like a direct attack. The big takeaway is to get testers for your levels, so you can identify where people struggle the most. And more than anything, remember that games are fun because of their mechanics. Not the setting, or visuals, or effects, or anything like that. In fact, constantly dying to visual clutter makes it harder to appreciate the details! So regardless of how well you can decorate and animate, your level will leave a bad taste if doesn't focus on the actual playability. Rage Quit by Bli is a work of art. Like, literally, it's meant to be watched, not played. Don't get me wrong, this level BLEW MY MIND, and it still continues to. But the reason I'm placing it so low is because it's basically just an effect showcase, and I find that playing it is no more enjoyable than just looking up a video on YouTube. In fact, by not playing it, I get to appreciate the details even more! Like I'm watching some cool animation. This level was the first place winner of Waboo's $1,000 Stereo Madness contest, so for that reason, the gameplay is just a nerfed version of Stereo Madness. But that's okay, because you're not supposed to care about the gameplay. What matters is that it goes absolutely nuts with the visuals in the best way possible. Not to mention, the way it intentionally kills you a bunch of times is super clever and very out of the box. Or should I say, out of the screen? I could go on about every tiny detail in this level, but I really do think it speaks for itself considering it won the popular vote on my community tab poll. It definitely helps that this is a glorified auto level, since it makes it accessible to every player, compared to most other mythics which are demons. I'm also super glad that it got rated easy instead of normal, since the blue on blue looks kind of awesome. But yeah, overall, I like Rage Quit, just not because of how it plays. To me, there's so much more to Geometry Dash than just sitting back and watching a light show. you wanna see a blade? i'll show you a blade Tears of Denial by MattewGame was the 10th level to ever get mythic, and after his legendary streak I'd say he had it coming. Most of his levels are very combat-focused, with a sharp pixel art style, and some extremely impressive engines running behind the scenes. But Tears of Denial cranks this up to a whole other level, to the point that you can't even tell you're playing Geometry Dash anymore. I don't even think this level uses a single vanilla mechanic! Like, even the movement feels different. It's just so amazing from a technical standpoint. The actual level is a sort of boss rush, where you have to beat three increasingly difficult fights with multiple phases and lots of unique attack patterns. The bosses themselves are super cool as well, and the entire level just has this awesome art and animation style unlike anything I've ever seen before. Checkpoints are extremely sparse, so you have to really master all the attack patterns, and be strategic with how you land your hits. Finally, the storytelling is also really nicely done, even if it can get a bit disturbing at times. All around, Tears of Denial is an excellent game that happens to be made inside of Geometry Dash. Now, there's two main reasons why I'm putting this so low on the list. Number one, it's the only level I wasn't able to beat. Fortunately, you probably didn't even notice that I was using Nexus' footage this entire time. So, thank you Nexus. also please unblock me from your comment section i don't know why i'm blocked i've only ever said nice things about the levels you showcase But yeah, I'm just not good at these kinds of fighting games. I suck at conserving every last point of HP, and when I mess up, it can be annoying to replay the same 5-minute fight over and over again. It's a total skill issue on my end, and I don't want to force myself to play a genre that I don't like. You're looking at someone who struggles with the Hollow Knight bosses, and mains Kirby in Smash. So make of that what you will. My second problem with this level is the fact that it actually borrows a lot from another game called Worldless. The art style, boss designs, and even entire animations are lifted from it. And yet, as far as I can tell, the level doesn't actually credit Worldless in any way, outside of the prequel level being called Shapeless. Which kind of sucks, because lots of commenters, and even Viprin, praise this level for being &quot;mostly original&quot;, and I had to search far and wide to find even the smallest mentions of Worldless. I'd never heard of the game before researching this video, and that's a problem, because it shouldn't be kept a secret! It's clear that Tears of Denial was made out of love for the game, so that love for it should be shared with others, rather than... hogged! Look, it's totally fine to take inspiration from other games when making something. But I also think the level would have still been insanely good without trying to lift so much from it. I know it's just a passion project, so I really don't want to use the word &quot;plagiarism&quot;, but it's worth having a discussion about when it actually does become that. Because as the editor becomes more like a game engine, recreating games becomes less impressive, and more like stealing. But I'll touch on that more later. Anyways, indie game developers need all the support they can get, and I don't think it's right to borrow this much from them and then leave the level description blank for the vibes. So if you enjoyed Tears of Denial and want to play a combat platformer kind of like it, definitely check out Worldless. It released about a year ago on all platforms, to overwhelmingly positive reception. See, it never hurts to give credit. Thanks so much, Nexus. i like trains Astralith is a megacollab by Geogamer12 and many many other talented creators. It was the first ever mythic classic level, and a really good one to set the bar. Because the theming in this level is absolute fire. This opening section pretty much tells you exactly what you're getting into, and the level only gets more impressive as you go on. Plus, the music is awesome and the level complements it so well, whether you use the song replacement or not Being a megacollab, each section feels wildly different from one another, which has both benefits and drawbacks. Obviously, the style of visuals and gameplay changes with each section, which helps keep the level fresh, but comes at the cost of less consistency. Which is important for giving a level its personality. It really feels like you're exploring some kind of magical universe, and even though you're just randomly jumping from scene to scene without much that connects them, I think that works fine for a two-minute Geometry Dash level. But for that reason, it also feels less like world building, and more like the level is trying to show you as many different locations and characters as possible, without a coherent narrative that ties it together. Does the level need one? Not really, but I think it would have left more of an impact on me if it did. Regardless, the problem with Geometry Dash is that it's hard to feel immersed in these kinds of levels since you're so hyper-focused on the gameplay. For a player, taking in all the visuals just isn't a priority. Unless you're watching on YouTube, I guess, which there's nothing wrong with. From a gameplay standpoint, Astralith is... average. I've never been too fond of levels with a realistic art style, because when so much energy is put into the visuals, you already know that the gameplay will be about as interesting as drinking a glass of water. That's not to say there's no good ideas in it, though. Like the ship part at the drop is really nicely done, and I love the train section towards the end. Plus, I'm glad that they didn't try to force any gameplay into this dragon cutscene so that you can just sit back and appreciate it. I will say that some parts in this level could definitely benefit from clearer gameplay, since there's a few spots where it really meshes with all the decorations. At the end of the day, Geometry Dash is still a game meant to be played, so it's usually wise to make sure there's a strong contrast between the gameplay and background, even if it means making the visuals look a tiny bit uglier. To me, a good Geometry Dash level is more fun to play than it is to watch, but after beating Astralith, I was more than cool with just pulling it up on YouTube. I did not expect to like Throat of the World, let alone beat it. But somehow both of those things happened, so this is technically my first extreme demon. But it's a platformer level, so, no it's not. While Tears of Denial is extremely centered around combat, this level is just pure vanilla gameplay. You versus the environment. And since that aligns much more with the types of platformer games I like, I managed to make it through this one in four hours and 800 deaths. For context, my first completion of Farewell from Celeste took seven hours and 3,000 deaths, though it's not a perfect comparison. The thing I really love about this level is that there's no annoying gimmicks that make it hard. The custom mechanics are used very sparingly, and there's no cheap moves like spike clipping or overly aggressive slope climbs. It's just pure tech, with precise jumps and heavy focus on vanilla features like slopes, ice blocks, and momentum. And while some of these things, most notably slopes, are pretty unfun to deal with, they're never used unfairly. In fact, I'd argue that this level does a great job with how it uses ice. The main reason this one is on the lower end on the list is simply because it's really hard. Harder levels mean slower progress, and slower progress means less reward, and less reward means less dopamine for my little fox brain. What's annoying is that when you're dealing with a hard level, even the tiniest gameplay problems can be enough to really bother you. Like there's a few checkpoints that are especially difficult, or have some pretty obnoxious choke points right at the end. In the moment it absolutely sucks and you hate everything, but as soon as you beat it you suddenly feel amazing. So yeah, when I played this level my mood was constantly swinging back and forth based on how much I liked each part. But again, there's no part that I would say is bad. I really like how the checkpoints are distributed in this level, because they're not too close, but also not too far. They're done in a way in which you can really feel yourself improve at each section, which is exactly how it should be! The level also has two boss fights, both of which are amazingly designed and just short enough for it to not feel like a pain to retry over and over again. Like I said with Tears of Denial, I've never been crazy about boss fights, but the final boss of this level absolutely blew my mind. It is SO well made, with super fun attack patterns that are all perfectly telegraphed. And this is a boss made in GEOMETRY DASH, where you have to store your attacks off screen since you can't create or destroy objects. This whole fight is so cool. All in all, fantastic level! I never thought I'd see an extreme demon with gameplay that isn't just tech spam, but I was happily proven wrong. Normally I'd encourage you to go play this level if you like hard platformers, but honestly, I'd wait until there's some sort of progress saving feature. Beating this all in one sitting can get really exhausting, and when you're playing levels this hard, it's important to be able to take breaks. But if you think you're hardcore enough to beat this in one session, I cannot recommend it enough. HELLO YOUR COMPUTER HAS VIRUS You know, I expected it to take much longer before there would be 10 mythic levels to rank. But then the NCS Gauntlet contest happened, and, people went so hard, that it led to 3 new mythic levels. I think they're all great, but the one that I enjoyed the least... was BER ZER KER ...ext Cab Soon wannacry It's WANNACRY. Look before you start screaming, WANNACRY is an amazing level! It's very worthy of mythic, but it's just not my favorite compared to the other ones. I know a lot of people who absolutely love this level, and I think that's awesome! But once again, this list is based on how much I personally enjoyed each one. By the way, WANNACRY is pretty crazy, so I'd like to give a huge flash warning for this section of the video. I'll try to be careful with what footage I use, but if you're uncomfortable at all, it's fine to look away or skip to the next level. So, WANNACRY is the 4th place winner of the NCS contest, and it's pretty easy to see why. It manages to do a lot with the whole digital virus hellscape theming in a way that's somehow not too cliche. The whole level also does a fantastic job complementing the music, despite being so incredibly different from... whatever the original music video was going for. The level is named after the WannaCry ransomware attack from 2017, and I only realized that after being very confused by WannaCry getting named dropped in one of my classes. And obviously, the level is very creative in both the visuals, and the gameplay. Like this 3D section is brilliant, and even though it's a bit janky, I do like that it's at the very start of the level so dying feels a lot less punishing. Even beyond that, every section of the level does at least one cool thing I've never really seen before. My favorite part is definitely the swing, where you fly back and forth through this really neat environment, using the screens in the background to guide you. It's a great usage of the gamemode, and I don't think the ship would have had the same impact. Being an XL medium demon, (which was officially discouraged by the way) I had some worries going into this level, but it actually ended up being very easy to learn, especially that first part which felt hopeless in practice mode. But my main problem with this level is that similar to Astralith, it clearly cares more about the audience on YouTube than the people actually playing the level. Because even though the effects in this level look great, they're extremely &quot;anti-player&quot;. You're constantly being blinded by absurd amounts of flashing lights and visual chaos. And you don't even get a chance to focus on most details since you need to look ahead at the actual gameplay, which is constantly being obstructed. This wave part in particular is probably the worst example of this, and it really hurt my eyes when I was practicing it. I'm not saying this level shouldn't be flashy, it's clearly a huge part of its identity. But I really do think that the level could have achieved the exact same impact without having effects that are this brutal. Or at the very least, the gameplay should be more considerate of it. Like, I died a lot at these teleport orbs in the final ship simply because I can't dart my eyes up and down with all the strobe lights going on. So the icon might as well be invisible. I also died after that at 90%, but I think that one's on me. My biggest takeaway from the NCS Gauntlet was that gameplay clearly wasn't a priority to anyone. And I know it's because it does the least to give your level a unique personality. Most people aren't going to praise a level because the jumps were cool, even though it actually plays a huge role behind the scenes. There's just not much room to innovate with gameplay, compared to like, the story that your hyperrealistic background tells. On one hand, I love how much the contest was able to push the creative limits of our community, but at the same time, it felt like people were less focused on making a unique gameplay experience, and more like they just wanted to put on the best show possible. WANNACRY still has a lot of genuinely great spots, but the entire second half of the level felt like it was spitting in my face as a player while pandering a little too hard to the spectators. YES KIIILLLLLLL And here we are at the #1 winner of the NCS contest! BER ZER KER is the 9th mythic level to get rated, and the second mythic to not be a demon. Which technically means that 100% of the non-demon mythics have won $1,000 in prize money. So if you're short on cash, consider. I was actually going to put this one a little higher on the list, but the main thing holding me back is that I just don't have that much to say about it. It's just a cool level, and I'm more than happy with it being chosen as the winner of the contest. Naturally, the level feels like it's showing off a bit too hard, though I actually had no major issues with the gameplay, likely because it's not a demon level. It flows really nicely as long as you understand what you're supposed to do, and most sections are super simple but very effective. It starts with a cube section that plays around with a custom down-warping mechanic, which is fun, even if it could have been communicated better. I like this part where you just hit a bunch of orbs, since it takes very boring gameplay and makes you feel awesome from this epic rave going on around you. Similarly, in this ship part, all you do is follow a trail, but you're more focused on the destruction in the background and the super faithful recreation of the NCS visualizer. The gameplay here isn't groundbreaking, but it's still a perfectly valid use of the ship. The weakest part is probably this UFO section where you hit every orb, since the way you move around is really weird and the whole thing just makes me feel nothing. The gameplay in the final ship part also feels extremely shoehorned in, and if you take away the reckless driving in the background, you're just left with this. I don't know how you'd actually go at fixing this, but it's a clear example of putting 99% effort into the visuals and 1% into what you're actually playing. Like here, I put the Polargeist ship part over Family Guy, where's my $1,000? But jokes aside, BER ZER KER looks amazing visually, and it's obviously the main reason I enjoyed the level so much. I find that it does a really good job at directing your attention to certain spots on the screen, so you can still appreciate the key details even if you're focused on gameplay. In a demon level like WANNACRY, it's just a lot harder to effectively pull that off. I love how much sheer chaos there is from the drop onwards, like the way you smash through this building, and then defenestrate yourself in this really convincing top-down effect that I haven't seen many people try. There's not really much of a plotline to this level, things just happen. Like next thing you know you're getting chainsawed, and then you hop into the car of this rather cool skeleton. I won't sit here describing every little thing that happens in BER ZER KER, just go play or watch it for yourself. Grax did a super great job, and there's an endless number of details that deserve to be appreciated. - what's your power, exactly? - i can put people in a time loop Okay, I know we're pretty high on the list, but there's one thing about The Towerverse that I really hate. The fact that it's controversial. It's fine if you don't think it deserves mythic, but that doesn't make it a bad level. I know the art style isn't exactly groundbreaking, but I find that it makes up for it in every other field. Visuals don't really make or break a game, like many people in this community seem to think. Like nobody bullies Undertale for not having air deco. If anything, I actually prefer this style, since I can clearly see every solid block and spike without confusing them for decorations like other levels. The Towerverse is the first ever level to get a mythic rating, being released just three months into 2.2. And that's probably why people are so critical of it. When I think of mythic levels, this is the first one to come to mind. But personally, I could not think of a better choice! Because it uses and demonstrates pretty much every new 2.2 feature flawlessly. Pixel blocks, camera controls, area triggers, particles, keyframes... they're all used in such simple but effective ways. Everything still feels like Geometry Dash, so it's a perfect way to inspire creators and show them what's possible without making it look too complicated. Also, everything in The Towerverse has so much charm. There's a bunch of mushroom guys that comment on the most random things, and it reminds me a lot of the flowers from Mario Wonder. I love the bits of GUI for level, especially the save indicator. There were definitely some things that felt excessive, like this quest start message, or the use of an achievements system, but it's all in good fun. Also, the fact that this level is fully localized for two different languages is INSANELY underappreciated. I don't think people realize just how much work that is for a project of this scale. Moving on to the actual gameplay, it's insanely polished! Every area has its own unique set of mechanics, slowly building on them as you progress and following a super smooth difficulty curve. There's so much personality at every moment, and the use of coins encourages you to take your time and explore everything. The only major gameplay issues I encountered were like, the crappy camera in this cave part, and a few bits of the propeller section. Oh yeah, if you don't know the propeller section in this level, this part alone would be enough to get rated as a platformer demon. It's probably where the difficulty comes from in the first place, unless it's from the level taking about an hour to beat casually. It centers around this custom mechanic where you jump really high and float down, but have to heavily focus on how you control yourself midair. About halfway through, it starts introducing more advanced tech like sideways gliding, which probably should have been taught in a safer place rather than the middle of a super long checkpoint. I do like the overall checkpoint placement though, since it forces you to be a lot more careful and really master the mechanic. Once you get the hang of it, it's a lot of fun. I feel like I should have been more interested in the narrative for this level, since I sort of just accepted whatever it threw at me. There's nothing groundbreaking about it, and even though the dialogue's a bit corny in the moment, the overall story is fine. It's just enough to immerse you into this world and give you a reason to care about what's going on. I'm pretty sure the creator, 16Lord, has a whole cinematic universe going on, since the level makes a few references to his previous works, almost like you're expected to know them already. It adds to the experience if you do understand, but doesn't take anything away if you don't. I actually spoke to 16Lord directly, and he told me that this level was planned all the way since the Dash sneak peek. So, over two years before 2.2 even came out. I respect the HELL out of that. He had a vision, and he made it happen. Also, apparently the propeller was supposed to be a paraglider that takes you down to the center of the moon, but the final mechanic was made by accident and just ended up being way more fun. All in all, I'm not afraid to say that I like The Towerverse! Hold this against me for as long as you want. It really embraces the fact that it was made in Geometry Dash, compared to many other levels which try to pretend that they aren't. So I'm glad it got mythic, since it clearly shows mastery of all the elements that make a good game. uh, yeah i sure hope it does! Did you guys know that Next Cab Soon abbreviates to NCS? Which apparently stands for Next Call: Subpixel. Honestly, I'm just as surprised that Next Cab Soon made it this high on the list. I don't think of it as a top-tier level, but it made it this far solely out of process of elimination. I had a lot of fun with this level, and practically no issues with it. This level won second place in the NCS Gauntlet contest, and as happy as I am with that placement, I also feel like it was a bit rigged given that it was rated mythic a week before the contest was even over. And in classic RobTop fashion, there was no direct explanation for why. When it comes to an official competition, I think it's important to avoid picking favorites like this until it's over. Because it can be discouraging to the other participants! It makes it look like the winner's already been chosen. I still think the level is mythic worthy, but it really should have stayed at legendary until the winners were announced. It also led to this awkward situation where instead of the top 3 levels getting mythic, it was 1, 2, and 4. And it's solely because 2 and 3 were rated <i>before</i> the contest results were announced, and 1 and 4 were rated after. None of this is actually related to the level in any way, but it felt important, so I wanted to speak up about it. So aside from also being an NCS winner, Next Cab Soon is also the second mythic megacollab made by GeoGamer12 and the rest of the crew. Whether it's the same team as Astralith, I'm not entirely sure. But being another megacollab, the biggest overlap with it is obviously the fact that the style of gameplay and decoration is constantly changing every few seconds, as each creator brings something new to the table. And again, you're sort of jumping from idea to idea without much that actually connects them together. But this time, instead of going for that hyperrealistic style I've gotten a bit tired of, they did the exact opposite and went for something super cartoony and unique, with bright colors and very strong outlines. The style doesn't scream &quot;mythic&quot; nearly as much as Astralith, but that shouldn't make or break if it deserves the rating. Compared to other levels, Next Cab Soon is a much more clean and pleasing visual experience that never blocks out the gameplay with unnecessary clutter. It's also really good at drawing your attention to its more creative effects, like these cartoon exclamations, or especially this transition towards the end. It's so peak. If you pause at nearly any moment in this level, there will always be at least one charming detail to appreciate. And whether you're watching on YouTube or actually playing for yourself, it hits just as hard. But I know what you really want to hear from me. Is the gameplay good? Yeah, I'd say so. It matches the fast-paced energy of the song quite nicely, and with a bit of practice, it becomes really fun to play through. Although some of the timings seem difficult at first, it's extremely lenient with them. For me, the highlight was pretty much everything past this robot part since it flowed so nicely without ever feeling boring. But before that, it's kind of hit or miss. Like this mini cube is pretty annoying, and felt too much like it was trying to hold on to an idea that just doesn't work. And this dual's a little inconsistent. But overall, you can easily win by just turning your brain off and autopiloting through level. If you're a loser, that is. See, this level actually has a secret ending that rewards you with a single user coin. And while I'm picky with my golden RobTop coins, there's nothing I love more than a user coin that pushes the limits. Because in this level, it represents a medal of completion. Throughout the level, there's 11 secret triggers, all of which probably could have been coin routes on their own. They usually involve going off the main path in order to interact with a decoration in some way. The process of hunting them down adds a whole extra layer of interactivity to the level, even if you'll likely have to do it in practice mode. Whether you notice it or not, each secret actually reveals a number, and when combined, they form a phone number at the end of the level. If you missed a couple, like I did, it will also briefly tell you which ones are still hidden. But if you get all of them... nothing happens. That is, unless you sit back and watch the end screen. Because suddenly this girl dials the number, opens Geometry Dash on her phone, and starts playing 20 MB of audio assets worth of levels. Then the cab arrives, a coin pops up, and... Wait, you're still on the end screen. If you wanna actually pick up the coin, you have to replay the entire thing from 0 now that the flag is set. I'll admit this part is kind of excessive, but I was really wowed by the idea of a coin that extends outside the confines of the level, so I'll let it slide just this once. Anyways, the genius of this coin comes from the fact that most secret routes are actually more fun than the main ones. So it lets you customize your run a little, and adds a ton of replayability! Whether that's going for the coin, or just finding more numbers than last time. So yeah, it's a good level. Congrats to everyone involved! So, before we move on to my favorite mythic level, I thought it would be fun to cover some honorable mentions. As in, levels that didn't get mythic, but I think deserve it. Because I'm sure we all have a few. After all, the rating is extremely subjective. Realistically, all of these picks would land at first or second place on this list, since they have everything I'm looking for in a good level. First up, DECAY by Vegtam. Vej-tam? I don't know. This is literally a full short story platformer made inside Geometry Dash. I love the art style, I love the story it tells, and I love the actual design of it. But more than anything, I just love the fact that Geometry Dash has given so many new people the chance to make the game they've always wanted to make. Making video games from scratch is really difficult, and finding people to play them is a whole other story. Geometry Dash does most of the annoying work for you, and if the level gets rated, it will immediately be seen by tens of thousands of players. I won't spoil too much, just go take half an hour out of your day to play this level. If this got submitted to a game jam, it would win. Number 2, CASINO BLITZ by Danke and many more. This is hands down the most creative classic level I've ever played. Every frame of this level is filled with so much charm. The casino theming is spot-on, but what I love even more is the fact that there's pretty much always at least one inside joke on screen at all times. The gameplay takes some practice, but after that it becomes so fun, and I love all the creative ways that it utilizes the random trigger, like this wheel that might give you a hat or a pet for the rest of the level. There's also a coin that you get from touching cards in a way that adds up to 21, which is so creative! And if you miss a coin, you can even spin for it before the level ends. This level is perfect to me. It's so silly and could not be executed better. Next one is too hard and too long for me to actually want to play, but Commatose. It's gorgeous. Some parts are obviously more boring than others, but you quickly realize it's because every moment of this level perfectly matches the music in both gameplay and visuals. And since the song is constantly changing, you end up with a bunch of unique sections that all play around with different ideas and themes, just as the music is doing. It's one thing to have a few pulses that sync to the beat of the song, but matching up every tiny thing to it is a whole other story. Unfortunately, the actual song isn't usable in Geometry Dash, and that's probably why it got stuck with legendary. Overall, this is definitely a level that I'd rather watch than play, but I love what it stands for. And finally, the best level of them all, Generation Retro. Look, every time I joke about this level, I unironically get a little softer towards it. It's still terribly put together, but man, I see the vision. Can't wait for the sequel by the way, I still hope that's happening. Okay, honorable mentions over, let's talk about my favorite of the 10 mythic levels. That's right, my favorite mythic level so far is Quarion by Zejoant. (I hope I pronounced that correctly) This is a full short game where everything is custom made, from the movement system, to the art, to the actual mechanics. Nothing about it feels like Geometry Dash, but clearly it did something right if it made it this high on the list. In this level, you work your way around a massive open-world map, gradually unlocking new abilities that help you reach places you couldn't access before. You'll get an air dash, then a double jump, then a wall jump... and it's all done with a custom movement engine that feels perfect. The whole idea of exploring a non-linear map and slowly powering up is the textbook definition of a metroidvania game, and that's exactly why I enjoyed the level so much! I'm a huge fan of metroidvanias, and this could very well be thousands of players' introduction to them. I've also never played Metroid or CastleVania. But like, I enjoyed Hollow Knight. The level is split up into individual screens, all of which have interesting designs and serve multiple purposes as you unlock more ways to get around. There's a minimap system if you ever get stuck, and it serves as a good reference for where to go next. You'll encounter a few boss fights on the way, all of which are fairly similar, but each build on the mechanics of the previous one while also forcing you to take advantage of your new movement abilities. The attacks are kind of RNG-heavy and often a little unfair, but it's nothing that you'll get stuck on. At the start of the level, you fall down this big hole, and it's only when you find every ability that you can finally climb back up and fight the guy who kicked you off this ledge in the first place. Also, there's a ton of collectibles scattered around the level, which will score you user coins, and the personal satisfaction of finding everything. All in all, a playthrough of this level will take about an hour. No joke, this is the EXACT level I was waiting for as soon as 2.2 came out. A full metroidvania with custom mechanics, smooth progression, a minimap, and extra collectibles. I had the whole thing visioned in my head, but knew it would never happen, and then... it did! I think it was because I was playing a lot of Animal Well at the time, which is another metroidvania, and probably my favorite game to release this year. But what's really funny is that the idea I originally envisioned was directly reflective of an older game that I liked, called You Have to Win the Game. It's a really simple retro-style game where you explore an open-world map that's split into screens, and gradually unlock new abilities like a double jump or wall jump. And it's only when you find all of these things that you can finally climb back up the hole you fell down at the start of the game. Hey wait a minute. Yeah, I think it would be an understatement to say that Quarion was inspired by You Have to Win the Game. No, Quarion IS You Have to Win the Game. It's directly credited as an inspiration, which is already leagues better than Tears of Denial, but like I said back then, at what point does it stop being a love letter and actually turn into stealing? For context, if you look at the first few rooms of both games, you'll notice that they're pretty much one-to-one. And it's only when you fall down this Quarion takes its own turn. Both of them use bells as save points, and money bags as collectibles. In fact, even the names of the items you collect are pretty much identical. They also both have a little elevator shaft section somewhere in the middle. That's not to say Quarion is fully unoriginal, though. Most room designs are unique, the air dash is brand new, and the level has actual boss fights, while Win the Game just had a few bullet hell rooms. Anyways, I directly asked Zejoant about these things and he revealed to me that Quarion was originally going to be a one-to-one recreation of You Have to Win the Game. But at some point he realized, &quot;wait, maybe I should turn this into my own thing!&quot; And even if there's still lots of leftovers from the original game, I'm honestly so proud of him for it. Because game recreations are so incredibly unoriginal! By making someone else's work, you're not actually adding anything meaningful to it. Instead, you're just hoping that people will be impressed by the fact that you recreated a game they're nostalgic for. It's the Geometry Dash equivalent of a reaction video. Now look, I do have my fair share of rated game recreations, and while I'm not too proud of it, you can't deny it was a bit more impressive with the constraints of 2.1. But as the Geometry Dash editor becomes more and more like a game engine, there's just less reason to be amazed. So yeah, I'm glad that Quarion is somewhat original, even if it borrows more from the source material than I would have hoped. But at the same time, I've always loved You Have to Win the Game, and seeing a level inspired by something this niche was a really special moment for me. Once again, it <i>is</i> properly credited, though I do think it should have been even clearer. So if you have some free time, go check out You Have to Win the Game! It's completely free on Steam, and the main campaign will take about the same amount of time as Quarion. And if you like that, there's a paid sequel called Super Win the Game which expands on everything and introduces an overworld. Funny enough, it clearly takes just as much inspiration from Zelda 2, as Quarion does from You Have to Win the Game. See, it's fine to take inspiration from other things, as long as you add your own spin to them. And if the game you're inspired by won't be well known to the target audience, like with Tears of Denial and Worldless, make them aware of it! Worst case scenario, fans of your work will find a new game to fall in love with. So yeah, all this to say that I love Quarion, and I'm glad it gave me an excuse to talk about You Have to Win the Game. My only complaint is that there's no room names, because that was like the best part. But yeah, Zejoant, if you're watching this video, congrats on making my favorite mythic level! I'm sure at some point it will be topped by something more original, but we should all be very excited for that! This community has some seriously amazing game designers, level designers, artists, and everything in between, and I couldn't be prouder. And there you have it! My thoughts on each of the mythic levels, as well as what I did and didn't like about each one. Even though I don't really agree with how these levels are chosen, it is really nice that Geometry Dash has been experimenting with new ways to celebrate all of its amazing creators. An interesting pattern I've noticed is that none of these levels feel like they were trying too hard to get mythic. It's the ones made out of passion that get rated, not the ones that the creators hype up as &quot;the next mythic level&quot;. And whether or not you agree that a level deserves this blue fire, I just ask that you be respectful about it, and still appreciate all the hard work that went into it. As always, thank you so much for watching. And remember that in a way, every level is mythic! No seriously, I think my game is broken can someone please tell me what to