Toontown, a beloved game for many which is more bizarre lore than you would think. The game is relatively surface level involving cogs to save their town of Toontown but when of loose ends that are left unresolved. I did a little bit of digging and came to information surrounding the world of Toontown final days before going offline permanently Toontown itself is a place where the cartoon A version of Toontown was first displayed be an area of Los Angeles which is designated In the movie a real-life human who works as name of a toon who is accused of... well... Off to a lovely start. In the game, however, the exact location of to but it is established that it is a network toons can run businesses and live in their Toontown is known for some interesting inventions is that there is a very influential toon that story is buried deep in the games history. This toons name is Gyro. So, who is Gyro? Gyro Gearloose, originally from Ducktales, the outskirts of toontown. (ironic that a chicken species was never implemented who is said to have invented, portable holes the trolley (what toons ride to go play mini of currency), and the name generator which are faced with after selecting their toon As an ode to Toontown a scene was even added down things that are good and evil with the Everyone knows that one of the most fun parts your own. So, now that we know where and what Toontown Upon loading into the game, players are able their Toon to be. The available options were a bear, a cat, a pig, a rabbit. Although there were never any new species to have other animals be choices instead of decided against, not by the game developers, When the game first launched, the options and rabbit but in 2004, there was the first This event which lasted a little over a week into the game next. These elections took place two more times, which locked in the final species choices, A chicken, a cow, and a goat were the unchosen all together. When it comes to choosing colors for said just about every color you can think of. Out of the 24 options, 3 major colors are However, that doesn't mean that you can't what?? If you can't select these as your toon color, Well, there is one exception to this plain If you were to create a solid colored cat a pre-programmed phrase during the game's to then reveal a black cat when it cleared. The color change was permanent and it definitely Want your toon to rock some new clothes? Maybe some nice furniture for your estate? Don't go looking for your Toon's wallet In fact, they use something quite strange If you played Toontown, you'd know that but you might not know how they came to be. The first jellybean was all thanks to a mixup According to a Toontown Online trading card, villain of Toontown, the accidents, and the Throughout the game, the streets and even "cogs" which the toons must continually cogs come from? Let's take it back to the beginning. The original Toontown Online created by Disney fans of the game have created their own versions such as Toontown Rewritten, or their own offshoots For the sake of accuraccy, in this video I the original Toontown Online. When downloading the game for the first time, as an introduction while they waited. In the video, we can see Scrooge McDuck, from as he walks into a seemingly empty laboratory. As he progresses futher into the room, he of paper reading "do not touch." Believing that he can use this robot to help to connect the unfinished wires together to It works, but not in the way he was imagining wires. The robot springs to life and turns on a machine to go and invade Toontown. This original cog is rumored to be the game's Oddly enough, for someone who is so influential only mention of Gyro or Scrooge. After the cogs invaded Toontown, Toons were There are 7 types of gags, Toon-up which is Sound, Throw, Squirt, and Drop which are used These weapons are definitely original to the a pie or squirting a water gun at an enemy be a match for most game enemies or bosses, Well, cogs are a play on stiff business people Gags, are silly, unusual objects used against Since cogs aren't capable of having fun, and that is how the cogs are defeated. Over time, the cogs created their own headquarters bossbot, cashbot, and lawbot. In the sellbot headquarters, there are two head sellbot, or VP lives and the sellbot The sellbot factory is implied to be the place even though that is never actually seen by We know this to be true however, from the titled "Sellbot Leg Factory." Before the Sellbot Factory came to be, the individual cog part. In the game, players are tasked with gathering for their toon to be able to sneak into Sellbot This process is also done for each other cog for now. One more distinctive quality of Sellbot HQ middle of the area. It stands out because all of Toontown is generally slight hills. The explanation, although never confirmed During the battle of the VP, players must the cogs are defeated, the VP decides to take Players are given pies to throw at him which by pushing him all the way to the edge of knocking him off to the ground below which As cogs began to grow stronger and expand, a government of sorts over the cogs and where Cog Nation is never seen by players but it design, but by Disney. In the Cashbot HQ, there are several crates currency called "Cogbucks" with the words When Disney would put out newsletters for occasions such as &quot;The most Toon-centric Holiday hundred rounds of notes and revisions to finalize record in Cog Nation.&quot; Doodles are the jellybean shaped companions They are the only type of pet you are able by healing Toons using tricks they can be Doodles overall are a useful addition to toon where did they come from? Flippy, the mayor of Toontown somehow had One day, his doodle escaped and toons were Once found, it came back with a multitude to adopt their very own doodle from the pet The doodles are such a crucial part of the them. This event was called "Operation: Storm During the event, doodles had escaped from is in Daisy's Gardens. After escaping, they made their way to the through some wires that supplied power to This in turn caused the power to the Towers Due to the reduced power to the facilicty, level cogs or attack for as much damage and that kept toons without a cog disguise from who were previously unable to enter Sellbot There are 3 easter eggs of sorts in Toontown The tunnel to nowhere, the hidden moon, and In one of the playgrounds within Toontown, sign saying "under construction" blocking Tunnels are the way for toons to get from from a street into the next playground but Some players believed that it was actually a new playground or possibly to Cog Nation to fit the Acorn Acres theme of being a golf course always being under construction. No information about this tunnel was ever The second easter egg is the hidden moon which When at your in game estate, you could see daytime. Since the game was new and still had its bugs, the map. When going under the map of your estate and with a moon in the same design style of the It is odd because going outside of the bounds egg, so was the game encouraging you to explore Players thought so and would find ways to and headquarters available. Upon going out of bounds in Bossbot HQ during "Back 3," if you ran just far enough, to be a castle. Some, including myself believe that it is others believe that it could be the home of Although we will never get a fully fleshed fun to see the lore of the game that is often I have been playing this game since I was would have never even realized or even considered. All in all, this was a fun project and I hope knowledge along with me. Feel free to join my community if you want you again soon.