So a while ago now, I did a PhD, and I actually thought it would be Turns out it was really hard. My PhD was spent coding up and writing CUDA kernels, very much computer-based science. And at that time, I had a friend who worked in a lab He was trying to work out the structure And this is a really It can take a whole PhD's worth of work just to work out the structure And then 10 years later, machine learning, revolutionized his world A neural network called AlphaFold that can very accurately predict and solved this 50-year challenge And just two weeks ago, this won the Nobel Prize in chemistry. And it's estimated that since we've saved over a billion (Applause) A billion years. (Applause) A whole PhD's worth of work by a couple of seconds And to my friend, and I'm sorry about that, but to me, this is just really The sheer scale of new knowledge that we now have access to, due to an AI model for real-world experimental lab work. And that frees up our precious human time to begin probing Now some people say that we can't expect to see with AI to be repeated. And I disagree. We will continue to see breakthroughs with AI. Why? Because we now have that can eat up any data modality And we have tried and tested recipes of incorporating any possible into these learning algorithms. And then we have to scale these models to take advantage of the massive amounts And finally, we're always creating every detail of our real messy world that then creates even bigger data sets that help us train even richer models. And so this is a new paradigm that of creating AI analogs This new AI paradigm takes our real, and learns to recreate the elements of it And why these AI analogs are so powerful approximating or simulating the world but this actually gives us that we can experiment in at scale to ultimately create new knowledge. And you can imagine that this this can also happen in silico, in a loop of in silico, ultimately to create new knowledge and change the world around us. And this isn't science fiction. Right now, we have thousands training foundational models and then agents that are probing to design new molecules And I want to show you exactly because I believe to bring about a whole new wave of the future of AI-driven scientific and technological progress. Now drug design is such because it's actually becoming harder This is a graph of the number per billion dollars of R and D And what you can see is exponentially decreasing. It's becoming more and more expensive Now during this same time period, we've had a huge amount of advancement driven by a whole host But one of the secret sources has also been that of Moore's Law, that the amount of computing power has just been exponentially And these days, that we should care about, Jensen Huang, being the CEO of Nvidia, for the exponential increase in GPU FLOPS that are now powering our neural networks. So really the question is, how do we bring this world of AI to that of drug design? Can we think about using our AI analogs and jump on this exponential wave of GPU Actually bringing these worlds together is the day-to-day So how can we go about modeling biology? Well if we were in the world of physics, then we can actually write down and very accurately predict, for example, even millions of light years away. But we can't do that for the incredibly We can't just write down We can perhaps write down That's physics. But then simulating these interactions on the scale of trillions is just completely unfeasible. And then we haven't worked out in coarser and simpler terms It's just crazy to think that we can but not the cells at our fingertips. But AI and machine learning for a biological world. Using the snippets of data we can then learn the equations within the activations In fact, our company is called Isomorphic because we believe a fundamental symmetry, that we can create between the biological world machine learning and AI. So to see how we are using I want to dive into the body and think about proteins. Now proteins are one of the fundamental And these proteins carry different And if we can modulate then we are well on our way Proteins are made up and there are about 20 each one here depicted An amino acid is a collection and these molecules are joined together And the function of a protein is not just but also due to the three-dimensional And there are thousands each with their own unique sequences And remember, trying to work out can take months or even years of lab work. But with the breakthrough of AlphaFold we now have a model that can take and then very accurately predict as the output. And this allows us of our known protein universe. It's our AI analog of proteins. So proteins carry their function. But these proteins, They're part of bigger molecular machines with these proteins as well as other biomolecules like DNA, RNA and small molecules. For example, let's zoom in and have This is a protein that repairs DNA, and it interacts with DNA clamping down on it, helping facilitate repair and then the repaired DNA Now in drug design what we want to do is either make molecular or actually stop them from working. And in this case, for cancer, we actually want to stop this particular because in cancerous cells there is no backup DNA repair mechanism. And so if we stop this one working, leaving just healthy cells remaining. So what would a drug actually Well a drug is something that comes in And this could be a drug molecule goes into the cell and then sticks And this drug molecule actually glues so it can't do effective DNA repair and leaving just healthy cells remaining. Now to design such an amazing drug we'd have to understand how all of these biomolecular We would need an AI analog Earlier this year, we had a breakthrough. We developed a new version that can model the structure of almost all biomolecules coming together with unprecedented accuracy. This model takes as input the DNA sequence and the molecule atoms. And these inputs are fed that has a large processing trunk Now unlike a large language model that operates on one- instead, our model and operates on a 2D interaction grid And this allows our model to explicitly that could occur in this And so we can use the features to condition a diffusion model. Now you might know diffusion models as these amazing image generative models. Now just like diffusing instead, our diffusion model diffuses the 3D atom coordinates So now this gives us a completely It's our AI analog that we can probe We can make changes to the inputs, changes to the molecule designs and see how that changes So let's use this model for our DNA repair protein. We can take a small molecule that's been and make changes to its design. We want to change the molecule design so that this molecule makes and that will make it stick And so you can imagine that this a perfect game to play. How do I change to create more interactions? Now normally, a drug designer would have to wait months to get results back from a real lab But for us, using this AI analog, And this is the reality of what our drug designers So we have this beautiful game who are using this AI analog to rationally design But you can imagine that we don't have to just limit this game to human drug designers Earlier in my career, I worked on training agents to beat the top human professionals And we created game-playing agents So why can't we create agents that our human drug designers are playing? So now our AI analog and we can train agents against that. And we already have that are already doing this today. Now in this setup, all of the drug design So what happens if we have access Well instead of having one working on some new molecule designs, instead, we can have thousands of agents Just imagine what impact that could have on patients suffering the speed that we could get to address this medical need or the ability to go after many Cancer is often caused and even within the same type of cancer, each patient can have different mutations. And that means that one drug molecule But what if we could go in and measure each individual and then have a whole team working on that individual's Then we could create a molecule I'm showing just this. Here the protein is randomly mutating, and each mutation in red subtly changes the 3D shape And we're able to generate molecules in response to these changes. Now this is still far away from patients, and there's a huge amount of complexity but this really does give us a glimpse So we've seen how this new AI paradigm And you can also see this paradigm in creating new forms of energy and in chemistry. The ability to take our real messy world and then create our own AI analogs to then on a computer to create new knowledge and change the world around us. This is an incredibly powerful paradigm, and one that will bring about and technological advancements. And we're going to need especially those working AI and technology, to help drive this new wave Thank you. (Applause)