- This video is brought an all-in-one platform and growing your business online. Hey everyone, my name is Mina and if you're new here, welcome. If you're a returning It's been actually a really long time. This is the longest hiatus I've taken, since I started my and honestly, I was just and tired and exhausted and I feel like it was like I just wasn't as excited. And so I took a break for my mental health and I'm back now and I feel so reenergized and so excited about everything, about life, about fashion, about movies, about literally everything. So, I'm so excited to just Also, quick announcement. I have a Patreon, if you don't know if you I also have a podcast and I'm practically active because I'm addicted to the internet. All right, let's just get started. So in 1991, two German tourists were hanging down a when they came across a This mummy was named Otzi and turns out he was during the copper age. I didn't even know there was a Copper Age, like I thought it was just the Bronze, the Iron, Silver? Was there a Silver Age? Definitely have never so this was new. Otzi was found wearing and a coat belt, leggings, all made of different leathers. - Now, about the shoes. - While men of Otzi's time at low elevations, these shoes were made for him specifically to walk along the rocky Shoe historians Petr reconstructed the shoes and soles stretched across a and stuffed with hay and moss. Thanks to microscopic analysis, they discovered that Otzi's dear skin, the bindings out of out of bear skin. The two historians then tanned methods with pig brain and pieces with a piece of flint a bone needle. Hlavacek and Gresak also of the leather, (keyboard clacking) (ding) the thermal conductivity of the hay. (keyboard clacking) (ding) The sole's adhesion to ice and to the bottom of their feet, slipped on the shoes and If you don't understand I didn't either. The important thing is that aside from the tensile strength, the shoes outperformed modern They hay had more loft and standard synthetics and the best rubber. The shoes were so well cushioned evenly distributed across the soles. To craft a pair of shoes like of specialized skill. Hlavacek check told the telegraph in 2005, &quot;I'm convinced that even 5,300 years ago, people had the equivalent of other people.&quot; In 2001, Hlavacek and three experiment to the next level, embarking on an expedition in the Alps. Climbing over 1500 meters granite scree and streams of temperatures, wearing the shoes. By the time they reached one of the climbers of a Vclav Patek, who was also a designer of declared that the boots were than any he'd worn. Hlavacek told the New Yorker, &quot;It is miracle in these shoes the blisters.&quot; 5,300 years ago before the even early humans cracked the code for comfortable quality clothing. Yet in the modern era with our disposal, we're stuck creating coats shirts that last like four to five years. So let's discuss. (majestic harp music) (ding) I first got along to thinking this tweet before deleting Twitter, and I am aware that sounds like this tweet and trust me, I didn't. But you know what? Let's just spread that rumor. I deleted Twitter because of Ben Schwartz specifically. So basically actor Ben Schwartz. He recreated a film still and it features Billy Crystal outfit, famous outfit, I don't know, it's like an outfit that I winter when people are looking Anyways, Ben Schwartz recreated this of course took to sweater between the two sweaters. - Do you like this sweater? - [Voice Over] No, no. - And specifically the So for this video, I wanna dive into why clothes they've ever been, and also give tips on how despite the odds against us. Thank you Squarespace for Squarespace is a fantastic customization options, so you can definitely build you wanna build. They also use a new website design system called Fluid Engine, which lets you customize unique drag and drop technology, and you can of course use it design both your website's desktop and mobile layouts. You can also use your Squarespace offers storefront from physical products to Squarespace also allows welcome emails, announcements All of these can help introduce or yourself to any new subscribers. Check out squarespace.com for ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/minale purchase of website or domain. (keyboard clacking) First things first, we gotta gotta establish what are wearing. They're both wearing Aran inspired by the Aran Jumper. For those of you who don't know, the Aran jumper otherwise otherwise known as a fisherman's sweater, is a densely textured knit garment with cable stitch patterns. It originated from the Aran islands, which is a group of islands that are part of the Republic of Ireland, made from the cream colored These sweaters were intended while seafaring. This wool known as Bainin, was maintain its high lanolin content and lanolin is sheep grease, You're the one that I want - But it contributes to the resulting garment's water resistance. Originally, these sweaters by local Irish women. Nowadays most of these sweaters imported wool and not There's also a very popular and I swear to God this was like listed on every single website, almost every single website in Aran knits. But it is a myth and it's manuals, it's mostly to sell like elusive sounding, but it's not true. It's a myth. Okay, anyways, the myth basically spreads the island develop of stitches and cables. The story goes like this. A fisherman goes out onto wearing a jumper knitted by earn a living. He is lost at sea. His battered body once washed His jumper, however, identifies the corpse as who can then claim and bury his body. So while poetic, as I said, the myth is false, stitching particular family, who this rumor around? One goes back to James &quot;Riders to the Sea&quot;. This play is set in the Aran scene in which a drowned sister from a small mistake, a drop stitch in one of the knitting for him. (keyboard clacking) Many people trace the commercial back to Muriel Gahan. In 1930, Gahan opened a shop in Dublin outlet for the products of weaving, that rural families, particularly women used She virtually made this knitwear the capital city. Also in the 1930s, most of Ireland was newly recovering from the Civil War that followed partition in 1921. During this turbulent time, the Irish were eager to link with its present in part romantic nationalism was northern Europe in general. As an example of this, a Heinz Kewe suggested a direct connection between the patterns on Aran Jumpers and the Medieval and even pre-Christian Ireland. A theory he began promoting later book called The Handknit Sweaters were the identity, especially because there's an innate romantic untainted vernacular practices more simple times. So the Aran jumper became that it was further used especially during the start and '70s. The troubles was of violent Northern Ireland, and a key issue during the and loyalists who were Northern Ireland to stay part of the UK, but the Irish nationalists and Catholic wanted Northern Ireland to be reunified with Ireland. Due to the association between prominent Republicans were For example, journalist Ed Curran recalls first meeting Martin McGuinness in 1972. McGuinness was a member of Sinn Fein, one of the Irish Republican leader of the associated In the article, Curran described McGuinness dressed in a soiled Aran sweater.&quot; Dr. Schon Cardin, a research fellow at the Islands wrote for costume the &quot;Worn by the Public Faces of the Aran jumper is a comfortable, relaxed, confident way of saying I am Irish, and so is the north of Ireland.&quot; On paper, the troubles ended in 1998 with by the British and Irish parties or groupings from Northern Ireland including Sinn Fein. In 2003, the Guardian that some people were for their new more moderate policies along the peace swapping AK-47s for Armani suits. The implication was that these getting bought out and bribed and holiday homes. In a 2009 interview, the artist Rita Duffy recalls the black leather jackets disappeared. The wooly jumpers disappeared infamous slogan &quot;Tiocfaidh The new phrase, &quot;Tiocfaigh Armani&quot; was coined, the link between Irish identity and the Aran jumper was thus Ireland only increased the mid-century. Starting in the 1950s with the growth of the airline industry, American tourism spiked, the American visitors to Ireland, created the Aran jumper as Also, in 1961, the Clancy Brothers, Ireland's of the decade, appeared on to an audience of 50 of course their Aran jumpers. - How did the Bonin sweater bit start? - Now, our mother, the Clancy's mother, sent over three of them and said, &quot;That's what I want. I want something to show - He was looking for a - And so the garment was etched into the American pop culture overnight. American Stars, Steve and Grace Kelly were all Aran or Aran inspired in the high fashion space, designer Digby Borton featured in his 1955 Autumn show in London, which caught even Vogue's attention. Considering all these factors, it's maybe unsurprising that per year, a third of the 600,000 yards Gaeltarra Eirean, I don't know which is the National Body for was being exported to America by 1956. Since the '60s, Aran Knit has gone in and outta a resurgence in 2019 with Chris in &quot;Knives Out&quot; and again in photographed wearing one. So now that we've established the history of the Aran jumper, at Billy and Ben's sweaters. So it's pretty obvious that they're completely different. One Twitter user even said that was circumcised. I don't even know how people Billy's sweater uses a and it features double ribbing whereas Ben's sweater Normally a heavyweight is expensive because it looks but that's not necessarily true. It's kind of impossible to unless you can actually at the same time, I also think that part of the Billy's sweater is higher it more aesthetically and Like Aran sweaters are The point was for them to be the mass appeal of the Aran rooted in this kind of vintage, rustic, fisherman nostalgia vibe that Ben's, which looks so much more modern. This is not a sweater this is a sweater meant and under another coat. - Okay, take off that sweater. - I'm not taking it off. - There're definitely still that are heavy like Billy's, Ben probably just went through cream sweater he already owned that matched the original look. If that's the case, sustainable king and my hat's off to him. - You got him right here. Leave a message after the beat. - Another thing that people quote tweets though was that a sweater like Billy's for $20, but now it probably cost around $400. So let's explore the question. Has good quality become more expensive? Abso-fuckin-lutely and not For example, the price of high-end women's 250% between 1998 and 2010. Like why did this happen? Pricing high tricks consumers is more exclusive, even if it actually wasn't the rich are interested in which means wearing unaffordable to the poor. And over the years, the As the EPI reports, the top 1% earned 14.6% twice as high as their 7.3% share in 1979. And this affects clothing prices of people willing to then luxury stores will And I don't wanna rewrite been unaffordable clothes but in the days of poor fast fashion, if you couldn't afford then you could at least sew maker to make a copy of the For example, around 1902 when lingerie style her book &quot;Service and Style&quot;, Jan Whitaker found that these Marshall Fields for 25 to $75, which is 893 to $2,678 in today's money. This was very unaffordable to be more inclusive. During the Christmas department stores sold embroidery as many women versions of the lingerie dress, and if people did buy clothes they looked for investment As a result, the clothing at department pretty good quality. In the 1950s, even Sears, which is a catalog and chains goods had quality standards in the back of a 1955 Sears catalog, a picture taken inside their accompanied by a guide to buying wisely, which lays out the differences virgin wool, sun fasts as well as a glossary of at the time, even discount stores had to lure the middle class because from just sewing the dress themselves? It'd probably be cheaper, for dress like it had to be a certain achieve themselves. Elizabeth Klein wrote in &quot;Clothing of this era was independent manufacturers, and the garment trade which often resulted in more stylish, more detailed and better in stores today.&quot; At the same time, there are people who think a when actually when adjusted for inflation. That would be considered This is because according to Klein, &quot;The widespread availability the domestic industry to brand it is producing and selling mid-priced garment.&quot; So it's no surprise that mostly because of fast fashion. Jan Whitaker still remembers when most store bought with a blind hem, which is a labor intensive and almost invisible. If the clothes didn't have a hems to make a garment She recalls, &quot;You never saw straight hem, that was considered trash. Even poor people didn't wear Now that's the norm&quot; Today, by contrast, are finished with a quick, simple straight hem and seams which is a type of machine overlock stitch and then There is virtually no loose or hems, which used to be the standard. So nowadays clothes can no to alter if they don't fit you perfectly. This is done of course to cut costs, cheap clothing skimps on labor intensive details like lining, But skimming out on these kinds our clothes are more likely to fall apart with repeated wear. Also, with fast fashion, there are deadlines and production quotas that have to be met. There are a lot of skilled countries, but if they're that means that sewing The actual fabric quality has gone down too. Before fast fashion when people shopped less, people really cared about the and paid a lot of Nowadays, the synthetic for more than 40% of all Klein suggest that the main Asia has poured enormous With China producing well production, polyester is also very cheap, and to create low cost garments, companies are flocking to and viscose to cut costs. Sean Cormier, a textile development and The pressure to produce a from cheapskate consumers increase their profits. It's a two-way street. Obviously the manufacturers but the consumers are just Clothing companies can't afford well-made stuff on sale and quality product year after year. Something has to give, another effort to shave costs is using thinner and lighter fabrics. Cormier told Klein that he's ounce shirt and reduce it to five ounces. He says, does it still meet the Yes, but is it as aesthetically as nice? Sometimes no. As an aside, not everything either though. For example, designer t-shirts that retail anything remarkable. So there are definitely luxury to maximize profits too. Let's bring it back to sweaters though. As I said, Aran jumpers not machine knit. And hand knitting is It takes days to make one sweater by hand. So a company that specializes many and as fast as a company There are a few stores left OMaille, run by the OMaille family for the past 80 plus years and the Tweed Project and newer traditional Irish crafts both For me, I'm not a stickler when it comes knit, but I'm just saying it'll probably be more expensive because it took longer to make. When I look at sweaters, which like in other types of clothing, has gone downhill too. Actually, back in 1999, Rebecca Mead was already writing going downhill for the New Yorker. Currently in China and Mongolia the world's cashmere. And in the '90s, Mongolia's economic liberalization led to the country's severely increasing their cashmere output. In 1991 is estimated there in Mongolia, in 2004, it was 25.8 million. According to Mead, as the number of goats quality has declined. This is partly because much cross-breeding with coarser to boost production. Another reason though, and probably more is that the enormous amount Overgrazing has led to dust region's soil, water, and plants and animals that live The goats started getting diet led them to grow Ultimately, the mass availability of driving down the quality of Dick Forte, who is the president of &quot;Short cashmere, which can trade for as little as $25 a kilo. While long cashmere is You cannot make a good What you're going to find is cost conscious are just going It'll be a hundred percent cashmere, but it will be terrible.&quot; Okay, just like as a I'm not trying to police I'm just trying to give tips sweaters that I hope That's not going to be shopping, and that's fine. So I'm not trying to like tell this way, you're like doing a bad job or guide for people who are that's gonna last them hopefully don't wanna make a bad investment expensive sweaters out what they promise, and I just like wanna share how Yeah, in case you are interested. - I'd like to buy a sweater. - Not all cashmere is created equal, but retailers that promote sweaters that cost a hundred dollars are too good to be true. And if you notice, a lot of these times these details of the cashmere yarn using cheap cashmere. So cashmere yarn is Thickness of the fiber, average length of the fiber and percentage of short Rebecca Mead wrote in 1991, &quot;It is generally accepted that the length of a good cashmere fiber is somewhere between When the length drops to 25 millimeters, the fabric will pill more easily. The width of a Mongolian than 16 and a half microns, a fraction of the width of a human hair&quot; essentially short fibers So if the percentage of short there will probably be a Of course, all knitwear pills like we but some more than others. Also, a lot of times during milling, manufacturers will add chemicals reduce pilling of low quality cashmere. However, the long-term effect the yarn leading the sweater Generally, if there's no I would pass on buying the garment. If you're looking for a true actually last you decades, (zipper unzipping) (magical tune) cashmere is really soft but it's less durable I usually avoid it unless it's vintage. For sweaters, I prefer 100% wool, which is more affordable than cashmere. Wool is durable, warm, relatively light, water resistant, and the natural crimp that garments hold their shape really well. It also the natural fiber and doesn't get too hot. I also love cotton, but it's definitely not as and doesn't hold shape very well, just like by the nature by the Lord. Why did I say that? In terms of animal welfare, it's not looking too good. Truthfully, some people say there's no because animals shouldn't be but others defend animal animals are treated humanely while alive. The issue, if you agree with the second monitor farms into compliance fact that countries have different laws. For example, there's a which is illegal in but is legal in Australia where 70% of merino wool is produced. I won't go into the nasty details, but Mulesing is very painful prevent blowflies from laying which if they hatch, will feed on the sheep's However, this parasitic fate by breeding them responsibly, monitoring the sheep It's important to understand of selective breeding, will keep growing their coats humans regardless to prevent overheating. However, the problem is the when profit is the only shearing shouldn't be painful. The reasons why people do factory farming because they're possible leading to bigger free range, and then trying to do things as automated and cheaply as possible, which leads to using dangerous and lack of anesthesia or vintage or secondhand is going to be the best choice, obviously. But if you're insistent look for these types of certifications. Responsible wool standard certified Animal Welfare, Soil Association and Climate I also discovered Sheep Inc the other day, which is a ZQ Merino certified brand. It's a company that is very transparent about their production. On their website, they have a detailed product pages the yarn they make sweaters and a link to their sweater repairs in case you need to fix up your sweater anytime in the future. As just an aside, there are and I know why they do this their profits. If the clothes in your closet deteriorate, then you have to buy more benefiting them. But it would be so helpful like having a sweater clinic and offering lifetime like Hermes does it for their luxury bags, which makes sense because But I'm like, I would definitely spend more if I knew that like if I could just send it in and I got the sweater and I'm so excited. It's so soft and it smells so good. And I really wanna show you, because the packaging it has like a little instruction of your sweater. Yeah, and it says when you're done, like if you don't want your knitwear is made to last a lifetime, but it is also totally biodegradable. Put it in the compost and If you don't have a compost, send it back to them and they recycle it or find the next most environmentally friendly So when you scan the QR code, it takes you to the sweater your sweater. I gave my sheep the nickname, Basquiat. You can name it whatever you want. Maria is the name of the the sweater. It also tells you the carbon the carbon footprint for all sweater making process. But then total it ends up being here and it tells you the So my garment was and then if you go to this So it tells you some Obviously it takes more than particular sweater like the But it tells me where and then when you wanna interact with it, it becomes this tamagotchi game. (upbeat music) And then you can also look at came from and read about practices and you can see some featured about the farm. But yeah, really super cool. You see like once we it becomes so irritating transparency everywhere we shop. But honestly, most companies probably have no idea where their fabric is sourced from. A lot of processes in as a whole are so alienated. So a lot of these companies, like they just know where Like they know what factory factory, they know where but they don't know how And then the fabric makers but they don't know how the the workers who are farming Like all these steps in the from each other. And it's very rare, unfortunately, that a company is able to trace but they should be able to buying something, right? Back to fabrics though, I polyester or any synthetic fabric, not only are these really bad they're made of plastic and to produce, release microplastics and won't biodegrade. They also tend to pill more which makes me feel So the real issue is not all that these fabrics are but it's the fact that they make me sweat and they trap my sweat. I'm just kidding. - You're sweating. - Also, I stay away from So what this means is when they synthetic fiber, it's like when you read it says like 50% wool and 50% acrylic. These are not as bad for the less fossil fuels to make, So they're still bad for the environment. Also, they're cheaper to make. So the wool that's used in quality wool. As David Giles-Kaye, co-founder Hatch + Make told the Guardian, &quot;Wool synthetic blends are They need more cleaning, so they quickly start to And the synthetic microfibers constantly pollute the environment. However, according to textile R, natural fiber blends are biodegradable. So that's when a cotton fabric is blended with a wool fabric, for instance. And those I will still buy. But at the end of the day, there are very, very few For example, unless it's organic, even a natural fiber with a lot of chemicals. So many cotton growers in been severely poisoned due to Cotton also uses a lot of water, yet has grown in a lot of depleting the limited water that live in these environments. Honestly, I was debating for a while on of these fabric options because as like shaming anyone And I also don't myself So like I definitely pick decisions I make based for my personal circumstances. And I was afraid of coming because of that. But you know, also at the end of the day, these systemic failures are systemic. They are bigger than any one of us. I just decided that I wanted because I think it's important consumers because we have And this is also information because they know what they're And so they're hoping people enough so that they can continue they're doing. The good news is that there are so many, so many organizations and brands the industry and supporting infinitely more impactful than purchasing decision. So list some more at the end of the video, but for textile specific organizations, Fibershed is a nonprofit communities by focusing on regenerative farming practices Textile Exchange is another strategy called Climate Plus reducing GHG emissions by 45% by 2030. Woolmark also has a petition calling for more fabric Well, let's get back to (majestic harp music) I would mostly ignore country is extremely transparent manufacturing process because and Italy have the best global reputations for quality knits, they've just been in the game especially when it comes to cashmere. Many brands that are still produce in China, and just because something necessarily mean the garment's made in a sweatshop. Likewise, there are across the US and Europe that are unregulated and paying So I definitely don't think you anything in terms of (funky music) And then of course there are can see by holding it that will more durable. Obviously this is like hard online so much, but if play around with the sweater For example, one thing to look for is a and knit tightly because that's A looser weave is more Oftentimes a tighter weave will that the fabric is dense. So more fabric had to go into but it's worth it in the long run. By the way, thinness is So a thin sweater with a tight to test the tightness. If you put your hand under a the sleeve and then you can see your hand, then the weave is not very tight. So honestly like I think the tighter, like in this part, but like for the cuffs it's pretty good. Like you can see the sweater weave, but I mean I think this is lot of sweaters that are on the market. Yeah, I mean there's like different but there are also definitely I'm like learning about Also, a ribbed hem will over time than a rolled hem. So yeah, these are just like little person that can tell you whether last longer. (light piano music) So these are just some tips to help, but it's really hard to going to be unless you actually wear it. I prefer vintage sweaters for lasted 30 or so years already then they're probably still however many decades. As for cashmere, anything less than $400 to be lower quality. If you are dying for a cashmere, but don't wanna spend that made before the '90s cashmere boom. As for more resources to get justice, there is fashionrevolution.org resources as well as a list to or volunteer with. I personally follow the Newsletter, Atmos is a magazine relating to environmental justice and also the Sustainable Baddie magazine which is always posting promoting sustainable Patagonia also has a page called a directory of local organizations campaigns that you can sign off on. You just enter where It's not available for every location, but it's worth checking out, especially if you want to be Okay, sidebar for Patagonia, because I was reading one of As always, I do list my so go there if you wanna sustainability and ethical fashion. But one of the books I was reading, I can't remember which one, but they were talking about Patagonia has always been demographic is like sports people, like outdoor people And Patagonia's like kind of like a coincidence. It's not something that he's He has like a lot of distaste fashion industry is. And so it's like this like people love Patagonia now but he's always really been environment or so it says on paper like, I don't know this man personally, so I can't say, if he says forget this entire But until then, Patagonia rocks and check In general, there are so many organizations involved with every single one, right? And I'm not trying to say every single one because they of fatigue and a lot of us but my take is that we should we're really passionate about to support. For me, I'm really passionate I think it's because I wanted I was younger, and so that's But it's all important. So just go with where Okay, anyways, thank you all so much for watching and for sticking ground with me. It really means a lot and I hope you have a lovely rest of your day Bye.