Maybe because the sun sets earlier and the temperature drops, I think I get hungry faster, too. I'll give it a 50 wash. This will keep it crisp for more than 5 days. I'll make dinner quickly with time-saving recipe. minced meat, salt, pepper, onion, egg, potato starch, sake-cooking wine. quick hamburger steak without shaping. 2 teaspoons each of soy sauce, mirin and sake 2 teaspoons of consomme, olive oil, a little salt and pepper. I burned it. The burnt sauce has a delicious aroma that makes the rice go down smoothly. I'm starting to worry about the tea stains on the tumbler, so Today's recipe is also quick and easy to make. While the water, sake, soy sauce, chicken stock powder and salt and pepper are heating up and cooling down, cut up the vegetables. I often have leeks in stock because they can be used immediately without peeling and they last a long time. I'll make a simple side dish using the lotus root I have in the fridge. The main dish today is eggs. I quickly blanch the lotus root in the hot water. It's the main dish, so it's a big-sized steamed egg custard. 1 tablespoon each of soy sauce, vinegar and sesame oil Stir-fry minced meat, pickled mustard greens and green onions and pour on the soy sauce. The aluminum foil that I used as a lid still looked like it could be used, so I reused it to clean the pan. It came out clean with baking soda, water and aluminum foil! The flower shop had Christmas decorations, so I couldn't help but stop by. Today I'm making a pasta dish that's a great time-saver! Cut the chicken breast into strips, Add water, cream, salt, pasta and tomatoes and simmer over low heat for the time indicated. Add 1 teaspoon each of curry powder and fish sauce. I'm going to have a little glass of Christmas wine. This is the first time I've had curry cream pasta. I'll have the rest for lunch. I stopped at a convenience store to buy just the roast pork, but my eyes met those of the winter-only chocolate. Today's dinner is a dish that you can easily eat a lot of raw vegetables with! Ginger, chicken stock powder, sake, fish sauce. soy sauce, black vinegar, salt and pepper. When the daikon is transparent, season with salt and it's done! Pour the sesame oil, which has been heated until it starts to smoke, over the top. Eat it with some warm soba tea. It tastes like savory fried noodles. I'll put the leftover egg whites in the soup for breakfast tomorrow morning. As I want to relax, as soon as I get home, it's a hectic night. I've been looking forward to this moment. Paprika powder, chili powder, garlic, salt. I also made a salad to ease my guilty conscience. I wanted to eat this. I enjoyed the blissful time. I found out about a shop where you can make your own notebooks, so I decided to go and have a look. There was a queue at the notebook shop, but I had to eat it fresh, but (It's okay) I often think about things I'm going to use for a long time, but this was a bit of an impulse buy. The line had disappeared, so I decided to try making a notebook. I had some time to spare before it was finished, so I unexpectedly enjoyed a night at a cafe. (I was handed a notebook that was bigger than I expected, and I realized I had made a mistake with the size. ) I bought a seafood set for hot pot dish and went home. Garlic, olive oil, fish sauce 20ml white wine 50ml fresh cream, add butter It's so delicious, I have to be careful not to drink too much! I bought some unusual-shaped bookends! I choose the title of a song I like for the book. I intended it not so much as &quot;I hope something lucky happens,&quot; but rather as &quot;Life is full of all kinds of events, so I'll find the lucky side of things as I go.&quot; and that's the meaning I tried to put into it. I put a sticker I got from the store where I bought the bread knife In the blink of an eye, it's night. I used a knife. I've been watching Korean dramas, so I've been craving spicy ramen. Maybe because I added seafood I had no idea that ramen made on a tabletop stove could be so delicious. It says it's delicious even when warmed up, so I'll try it It makes me want to drink it in the cold, Thank you for watching until the end.