-I'm chilling. Nah. Because I didn't really Mmm, mmm. &quot;Drunk Eats,&quot; lower Manhattan, I'm starving! Jonny Shipes on the check-in. Born and raised and today is one We are in Lower East Side, about to go eat We're going to have some drinks. It's going to warm us right up, and I'm going to show you is about, and, you know, real creative, real artistic, and the food is banging, First stop, on the corner of 6th I don't know if there's even a but if there's a man named God bless your soul. -Hey. Welcome. When inebriated, fried chicken is a good go-to. Why? It allows you to so you might catch me at a bar I leave. You sit down. You eat that sandwich with the sauces Gets you right back We'll go with a fried a Buffalo chicken sandwich, and I'd like to try the barbecue I know this man will only All right. Now, we're going to This -- This is I will fucking murder this I don't even give a fuck Just let me be in heaven It's everything that I stayed away from here because I knew I was coming and God, did I miss you. Like, I missed you, dude. They make this sandwich It's crispy, and the sauce is orgasmic. Motherfucker. I don't even know what this He's cute. Oh, this is with the honey. Now, macaroni and cheese. I'm lactose intolerant. This is going to ruin me but you can't not have It's too good. Is Bob White a real person, or that's just the name -No, bobwhite is a bird. -Bobwhite is a bird. -That just exploded my mind. -Holy fuck. Do you live in the neighborhood? -Okay. so this has been -Like, what's your go-to? is the Buffalo chicken. -Because -- This was your go-to to show -Yeah. -I had the chicken tenders -Interesting. So not -- You're not big Wow. -So, so, so hold on. Could I convince you guys to try the Buffalo Look at that. That's just good fucking food, All right. I hope this changes your lives New York, baby. Crazy, right? Let it marinate. Right? Thank you so much. -Thank you. -Did you know bobwhite -As you can tell, my energy because I just had We are on our way to one This is more in the SoHo area, than what we just came Shout-out to everybody That's not a diss. Hello. Yes, I know. I know. So we are at Cafe Habana. For 15 years, with my fat ass Ooh. and that's exactly We're going to keep it simple, -What can I get for you? -Mojito. You'll notice here, too, like, a little more trendy. around here This is, like, a really popping, so that, along with a restaurant for a really Really nothing has changed here 10, 15 years ago. I bet you when you go back there's still, like, It's just a good vibe. -Enjoy. Mayo, cheese, a little bit If you notice, the corn You feel me? It's very simple, well-prepared Pollo mirador. Look at the sauce, real deal. You know, when you think this is, like, You go get some chicken, and then boom, you're ready This is really good shrimp, Knock it out This is your guys' Are you guys going out after Got it, so this is really the And now you're just hanging. What's your go-to dish? Cuban sandwich? Yeah, the corn is insane, right? Where do you live? Damn. So really what you really is they drove an hour-plus Put that in the fucking books, Aah. That was smooth. It's 1:00 a.m., and you are about to that you would think was But it's not. 1st and 1st, going to one of I think I've ever had. Late-night eats like this New York City so special. You know, there's a whole bunch You look right here, One on One, and I actually think over there back in the day You know, Lower East Side, There's a lot of that are just running around Ah, Lil' Frankie's, my favorite. Whoo! Remember, this is 1:00 a.m. You're not going to some Italian hole-in-the-wall spot What you're about is the best Italian So we've been to but this spot holds a near because I've been coming here Till 2:00 a.m. on the weekdays, till 4:00 a.m. on the weekends, Spaghetti limone, I'm here for tonight, Drunk or not drunk, this is where you really You go home. you ask yourself -Any questions so far? -I usually don't do I just get right So we're going to go Can I get the spaghetti limone, the order wouldn't be complete Just your regular pizza. -The pizza margherita? And some zucchini fries. Why eat a French fry Feel me? Fried, still bad for you, Check this burrata out, right? Look at it ooze out. That's real, real good burrata -Excuse me. Spaghetti limone. -Thank you. -This is culmination First you get the chicken. Then you get the corn. And then you get I swear it never gets old. Forget how good the food this is late-night food There have been many races to make sure I got here right Sometimes if I really know I'll order a second one and the knock that out Mmm! I didn't get this dad bod looking this good for nothing, It's not easy work. How you guys doing? Jonny. Where at? Oh, word. Where? We probably know a lot That's my best-best friend. That's another great thing Lil' Frankie's You never know who This man right here, we know people I've worked with, and I love that, genuinely That is what makes New York City You feel me? How you doing? Right. Yeah? I'm a late-night person, too. Did you just hear this? For not ever coming here before, you picked All right. One more spot to go. There's about this much room I'm doing this for you. I'm giving you a guideline leaving that bar and there's one last spot And now we're in 14th Street, Nothing sleeps here, okay? Where did I choose to go? Normally it's a cart outside and there's a line Meat chopped up, bang, bang, rice, white sauce, and this is what we're going -I've never been here before. -All right. And yourself? -Man, it's the end I'm going to take a -Mm-hmm. and spicy sauce, please. And that sauce is hot, right? -Very hot. Real deal, the real ones know. You're going to tell them, It's finished for you, doggy. -You're welcome. Take care. -Mmm. See, like, that's spicy. You know, there's a lot a bunch of colleges. How you guys doing? You down to talk on camera -Oh, I'm so down for it. We kind of look alike. -A little bit. -I might grow stubble out -You feel me? -Yeah, I go to NYU. And you're ending up here to eat -I'm here. First mistake. -A lot right? I was dying. -See, I know what -Here's the order -- -Whoo! -Not a fan of shredded lettuce, -No lettuce. -But you ready Chopped up pita on top. Sometimes the youth Bang. Bang. -Cool. -Because then you get -Why don't all you guys come What's your best excuse from mom dukes or pop dukes? -Best excuse... -Museum? I like museum. It sounds smart. -A lot of it is really I didn't plan on spending -Are you guys from New York? -Nah. -Oh, word? -So they got the good -Oh. -All right, bro. -All right. Bobwhite's, Cafe Habana, &quot;Drunk Eats,&quot; Vice, thank you I love you all, man. Okay. They also have catfish on the Can I curse? You know, and shout out to every Fuck my life. Let's do it one more time.