Everyone's growth in life comes in phases. And that's pretty obvious when you consider From infancy through adulthood to aging. But growth phases can be harder to consider as minimalism. You see, I started decluttering in 2016 and I didn't necessarily expect to be part of When I first got started, I simply wanted that process involved, letting go! Not just physically, but mentally and emotionally But now that I'm here, the stepping stones me. So today I want to talk about the five phases so you can zoom out, recognize where you are toward the next phase. Phase 1: Curiosity And this is where you experience the most This is because discovering the lifestyle fosters excitement and well, curiosity. You're the new kid on the block, and you're with less. This means you're watching videos, reading You maybe considering joining a facebook group, best practices you hear about, while deeply want to change. Now eventually, once your curiosity meter start decluttering. Now knowing where to start when getting started because it's different for everyone. But your excitement pushes you to get started This second phase is where you learn so much And I'd argue this is where 95% of people And I believe that for two reasons: 1. Feelings of overwhelm A lack of clarity. And I get, because I experienced both of these So here are three simple tips for surviving: 1. Identify your core values When you understand what you value, it becomes This means you know with all certainty who to you and what's not important to you. The benefit of this is that it gives you a through. And by that, I mean when you're in the middle whether or not you want to keep something, If you take a moment to ask yourself whether prioritize your core values or pull you away It brings so much clarity to the decision Now if you want to hear my thoughts on this Clutterbug Podcast and Cassandra and I had and how your core values can help you declutter. So I'll leave a link to her YouTube channel to check it out. The second tip is to ignore the aesthetics. Social media is a free resource for minimalism the "minimalist aesthetic" plastered everywhere So please, please, please ignore it. Use the version of minimalism you see online And I feel it's appropriate for me to say home looks in my Youtube videos to you and But if you observe closely, you'll notice recreate my home or my family's lifestyle. Instead my goal is to help you prioritize supports what you care about. And this is something I've talked extensively also, Cassandra and I touched on this a bit So make sure you check that out, but I'll I've done that can be a great resource for And the third tip is to develop structure The one thing you don't want to do is dive without any structure or a clear action plan Regardless of how eager and excited you are in more overwhelm than necessary and likely altogether, or sitting in what I call the and have no idea where to start that you just Which brings me to phase 3: Building Systems Think of systems as processes that you can overwhelm. And here's exactly how you get started. Step #1 is to take inventory of your clutter. And I like to refer to this a building a project Now a project bank is a list of all of the home and across your life that you want to And the goal is to add to your project bank And here's what I mean, let's say you have And every time you open the door to grab something like oh my gosh, I really need to set some figure out what's in here number one, and Or another example, let's say you always mind about the random books your collected And you know that you have to go through them Well, the goal of this project back is to think about them or come across them in your The beautiful thing about this, is that your you feel when it comes to not knowing where Because let's say you have a free weekend well have this. list of projects that you can pick from, rather all at once and freezing because you have Step #2 is the pick one of those projects built, and begin fleshing out an action plan area. And you do that by creating a personalized the strategies and best tips that I and many Now I share how to do this effectively, with course, the decluttering starter kit I give you the tools, the resources, and the decluttering checklist and getting tangible I'll leave a link below or you can go to ronaldlbanks.com/starterkit included. Alright phase 4 is Work Focused Once you have systems in place, it becomes which gives you the freedom to shift your the role you want your career to play in your Now, I'm currently in phase four, and here role of work in my life right now. The first is by building a business. I. recently quit my corporate job less than But the vision I had, for my life was very working in Corporate America. So I quit to pursue a more meaning career. Now, I'm applying the principles I learned and building a business, and my content production. And that's because I want my business and Meaning, I want my work to support my life And the second thing I doing is I'm implementing I've committed to not allowing a come-up Because at the end of the day, I want to do my values and to put my family first. Which, for me makes growing my business and when the growth happens, because it's feeding I have. The last phase is all about building generational tree for generations to come. Now, I haven't fully reached this phase as the first four phases. But here's how I might think about it. There are four ways to view generational wealth: #1 Time Wealth If your life is clutter-free, you're prioritizing work on your terms, you have a wealth of time Every human on this planet is given 24 hours On average, 6-8 of those hours are spent sleeping. Which means time is the most valuable asset And being able to spend your available time that matter, makes a difference. #2 Experience Wealth More available time to spend on what matters Take your partner on that dream vacation. Treat them to a brunch date, every Tuesday Spend more time with your aging parents. Be present and build more memories with your how much you worked. Experiences add so much value to your life. And the more experiences you gain, the more #3 Monetary Wealth With the right vision, tools, and action plan, to creating multiple streams of income. Here's a new perspective for you to think "If you can talk about any topic for 30 Now by default we don't think this way, knowledge and tools you already have to create your family. Live off of one of them and use the others to come. #4 Knowledge Wealth My goal is to pass on the knowledge I've lens of minimalism--to my family. So that they can add to it and pass their You see, by pushing the first domino, I want that can be passed on and added to for generations. But ultimately, I'll know more about this And, of course, you'll hear about it when Let me know which of the 5 phases of minimalism in the comments. Keep growing on your journey, my friend, keep and remember to always stay true to you. I'll see you in the next one. Peace!