- So you've also re-released Hard Candy Christmas is a classic. It is hard to have a Like, you know what I'm saying? Like we all go to the White the Silent that kind of thing. But that song, one, I just have you always been able to write with that kind of vulnerability? - Well actually I did not Everybody thinks I did. The the music from The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas wrote that. - Cause that's where it's from. - It's from The Best Little Whorehouse. But I love that song and But I get a lot of credit for a lot of stuff a lot of people do just because I'm singing it or because... - Well, no, because - I do. - Yeah, yeah. - That's one of the ones I did not write but everybody thinks I - I know. But here's the thing though about that is that's the Like it's very, cause Like everybody thought that was you because how you tell that story is I mean, it just breaks your heart in the most amazing way. But it also, I think you being vulnerable with even with a Coat of Many Colors, all the songs, literally any song, like you were a fantastic which is amazing, but it opens up so many doors for us to be, you know, as a little kid, I didn't I thought a woman could speak her mind. I thought a woman could and that was okay. I thought that, and I know my mom and her generation couldn't. So it's just a thank you really. - Oh, you've made up for it. (Kelly laughing) - I did. - You can say what you want any time. - Oh, you should hear my next album. (Kelly laughing) I made up for it. - It is snowing in Tahoe. - Oh, it must be beautiful. - And it's making me homesick for how snow's back home at Christmas. So magical and peaceful. But Sam, it is only mid-October and I'm thinking that - Maybe some of that magic dust - Well, honestly, I do think I think it's a sign of that mountain magic to Why don't we do a special from Dollywood? - Welcome back y'all. We've got the incomparable (crowd applauding and cheering) - That was another look at her new movie, Dolly Parton's Mountain Magic Christmas. It premiers today on NBC. So by the way, I love that Why did you call it that? - Well, because to me especially the Smokey Mountains all that beautiful. I mean And of course everybody of their home wherever you're from. - Yeah. - But there's always the magic in the mountains for That's where mom and daddy were. That's where I grew up with That's where all my memories, you know, started and growing up in my grandpa was a preacher. So it's magic to me when I And so I always keep that with me and I think that's important and that's kind of what the show is about, trying to capture that magic again. - Yeah I love that. Okay, so you also just released called Diamonds and Rhinestones. I love the title. (Dolly laughing) - Is it true that your song Two Doors Down was about fried clams? - It was. But see... - I need this story. - I'm like you. No, I've always had - Oh, up and down. - I love to eat. I've been up and down. I've been every size in the world. And a long time ago, it I didn't like it. So I was, you know, you try everything to lose weight. And I had got on some like a liquid protein. You just drink an ounce of something that's ground up horse hooves (Kelly laughing) - I don't know or monkey pee or something. I don't know what it - This will make you slimmer. - Yeah, but you supposed to drink it like three times a day You just have to close the back of your throat off so you don't smell. You know how it goes but. - No thanks. - We used to stay at the the band when we traveled and they had a restaurant there and they had these fried clams that we couldn't wait to stop Even if we weren't staying over, we'd stop to eat the fried clams. But we were staying over and I was on that stupid liquid protein in the kitchen and I was and I could hear them - That's I'm saying you. - And I would start singing. I was just saying like two doors down. Two doors down, they're And having a party But two doors down, they're But here I am just crying - Over fried clams. Having a party just two doors down - I was just in there cause they was eating (audience laughing) - I love that that song is about that. - And it was two doors down. I was staying two doors That's why I... seriously. - But one of your biggest hits was I Will Always Love Do you remember the first time - Yes. - Cause I grew up hearing yours and then all of a sudden I'm just curious, what was your first, cause it's your baby? - Well, there's a little story about that. When they were doing The Bodyguard movie, they had chosen another and someone came out with that very song right when they were about And they were, they were drastic to. I mean they were really and Kevin Costner and &quot;Do you remember Dolly Parton's song of I Will Always Love but it's a beautiful song.&quot; And so they called me to see if they could use it and I said yes. And I didn't hear anything else about it. I didn't know if they had it. I didn't know if they had done it. And I was driving my car from on 16th Avenue back to my And I was just driving along and I had the radio on &quot;If I should stay,&quot; you know... - Yeah. - And it's, you know, it's it's like a dog hearing a whistle. You know. I go, what is that? And all of a sudden... - That's the first? - And that's the first time. They did nothing. I heard it on the radio. And so when it went into... And I - Yeah. - And it's like I just freaked out. I had to pull over to the side because I honestly It was the most overwhelming feeling. And you know how great that was. - Oh my god - And it was great. But that's the story of that. But when you sang that, of Country Music Awards, when you did that at the end, I mean, to Whitney, she would've been so proud of you cause I felt like she was watching you. You absolutely killed it. Seriously. It was incredible. And I was so emotional. - Me too right now. Like, I'm just, it hit me that you're like It's fine. - It was great though. - No. I will cry. - It was incredible. - We're not. They're saying No. I will cry. No. (audience applauding and cheering) - How about, how about if I sing a little bit of it and you sing harmony with me? - Okay. Okay. - Okay. I'll sing a little bit. And I Will always love you I will always love you You (audience applauding) - It's the little things. It's the little things. I don't know if y'all heard. It was like on will but there's this, your breaks in your voice are so magical. You're like a magical fairy human. I don't know. Anyway, so we need another short break. Dolly's got two collections A Holly Dolly Christmas and Diamonds and Rhinestones,