First of all, what is "Yakuza"? I sold methamphetamine and other drugs I was selling another drug to make some extra money without telling my boss. Murders are common as well &quot; Well, I'll cut it off the finger,&quot; You bit it off with your teeth? Yes. I didn't have any tools nearby. I was afraid that I would be killed if I quit, Hi, This is Shun from [(Dari Japan)] Today we welcome former Yakuza Mr. Junshi Urita and reveal the real life of Japanese Yakuza. Let's go! Can I have your name? My name is "Junshi Urita". Today I would like to ask you to talk So you used to be a Yakuza? Yes, That's right. I entered a Yakuza group 10 years later, when I was 27, In total I was a member of that group for 10 years including that period. First of all what is "Yakuza"? I don't know how it is now, but When I was a part of a Yakuza group, that means &quot;Help the weak, defeat the strong.&quot; In the red-light district, drinking places, and gambling places And there are many yakuza who charge If those nightclubs and casinos choose not pay the Yakuza, they will have a difficult time, such as being held up and threatened for money by other gangs. Therefore, at such times, the stores can say, to avoid getting into any unnecessary trouble Protecting the people who are doing business in general has been a rule of Nin-kyo for a long time, or the original form of Nin-kyo. However, as time has passed, people are now asking, "Are the yakuza really necessary?" and now we rarely see them at all. There were still many yakuza in Kabukicho, Shinjuku, where I grew up, though So, what made you decide to join the yakuza world? I was about 16 years old, I was a troubled kid in my hometown, and all we did was get into fights. I was a bit famous in the world of delinquents so I got big-headed. It was a time when you had to be a high achiever, or you'd get crushed After simmering down and quitting the delinquent lifestyle, I decided to start working I worked on a construction site as an apprentice, I did that kind of thing for about a year trying not to look at the past days. But the guys I used to fight with in the past formed biker gangs and so on. You know, the power dynamic reversed. At that moment, my old blood-thirst I started to think that I shouldn't have just ended it as a delinquent, but should strive higher Then I thought, I should become a yakuza. And my dad was a well-known person And my dad was a relatively well-known person People around me thought I was so up myself because of my father. I didn't like that and So I decided to join a group So if you want to join the Yakuza, is there a process or something that you have to go through? The well known rules of the yakuza in society is... exchanging sake cup that is one of "Girigoto" The person who is the head of the group gave me the Sake cup like this, from the inside of the clothes. The ritual is to receive the sake cup that the head has drunk and drink the rest. That's where a sibling-like, or parent-child-like, relationship is formed. But the group I joined didn't have that. only when you became the head of a unit you are allowed to share a sake cup with So, at the very beginning, new members are only introduced at the monthly Yakuza meeting. It's like "Today, we welcome 00 as a new member. They'd start by introducing me, and then greeting That's when we learn the special way of greeting of Yakuza that is called "Jingi" We have to remember the "Jingi" but it is just solong. It was too long for my 17 or 18 year old self so I had to go to a couple of study class of the group but still I couldn't remember. This is how "Jingi" began After the war, there were a lot of yakuza in prison. Because they will be living with people whose faces and names they don't know. They had a special formal greeting. It`s called &quot;Jingi wo Kiru&quot;. And the greeting was like... They used to do it like this. And when I was 17 or 18, it was already 1990s, I was wondering why I had to do this too. But I had no choice but to And we had to say this in greeting, "I am as young and inexperienced as you see me." "I wish to make your acquaintance" &quot;Going forward, I will rely on your We greet each other in this fixed way Only when you do that greeting will you be recognized by those around you. and a list was compiled for the first time at the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department's Organized Crime Section 4, which is in charge of policing yakuza. And this was the real moment when I went from being just a young man to a proper member of the Yakuza group by learning the greeting. Is there anything that changes when you go from that young person to a member of the Yakuza group? The big change is that the police And then we make postcards of the It is called "Chirashi", It lists the date and time of when you joined, as well as the group name and your name, with a identification photo of you. And it is faxed around to The reason why they did that is in the event of when you do something against "Jingi", or something in such cases, you are treated as worse than a dog and receive the punishment of "Hamon", when a member fails to follow the rules The head of that group may kick them out, that's "Hamon", though there's different types of "Hamon" Put simply, you get excommunicated. When such a punishment is handed down. The photos and information on the postcard are used to notify other members and groups of your excommunication. So when you get sentenced to The photo is of a very young you and doesn't match. So, now we know the rules of Yakuza in general, Next, what did you exactly do as a yakuza member? Well, I shouldn't say this, but I think the statute of limitations is up now, so I'll tell you. Actually, you could buy toluene (a solvent commonly used in paints and nail polish) in Shinjuku back then. It's not the same as methamphetamine or marijuana that is available in Southeast Asia or somewhere. At the time, toluene was available as paint thinner in Japan It was a relatively inexpensive and accessible drug, though I'm not sure you can call it that, Well, that was the trend, Actually, it's something you use at construction sites but such things were rare in Shinjuku. Therefore, there were dealers everywhere like west and south sides of the station. These guys used to bring in customers like this. It was such a strange scene that lasted for decades. People came from all over Japan for paint thinner. And those dealers were yakuza, actually. And if a yakuza leader went to Hawaii for he could make 2 to 3 million yen. And, as a newcomer to the group, my main job was to patrol the toluene sales place But the income coming in to me from that job was It's because the higher-ups in the group So, for pocket money, I sold stimulants in addition to toluene without telling my boss. Other things include scouting for nightclub hosts, as in the scene in the popular manga Shinjuku Swan, and yakuza were involved in various nighttime businesses to make money. For example, it was the yakuza who scouted for staff for the Korean clubs and Chinese "esthetic salons" In other words, every store that was even slightly out of the ordinary in central Tokyo, or illegal stores that are not registered with the health department or other public health agencies or run by guys who look a little bad, Underground money things were also impossible The fact that they could do run these stores was also a major merit to joining the Yakuza. I know you were a yakuza based in Shinjuku, but were there any such Yakuza groups Yes, of course. From Hokkaido in the north to Okinawa in the south, there were many yakuza groups Shinjuku is a little different. Few people in Tokyo, on the contrary. so bad boys from all over Japan were in Shinjuku. That is why there were not many people like me who were born and raised in Shinjuku. So Tokyo had a mix of different forms of Yakuza group. So Tokyo had a mix of different forms of Yakuza group. Have you encountered any troubles Trouble was frequent. Yakuza love trouble, actually. It is not uncommon for them to get into trouble with other groups over minor issues. For example, at places like Ten Yen Poker or, I don't know if they have it now, but at places like Dark Slots. The guys there are using drugs and betting money, so they're getting into fights. A lot of yakuza are in Shinjuku, but the places to play are limited, so we run into other Yakkuza group. And that often leads to fights. And if the trouble was with another group, but sometimes it's between the same group of people. In fact, yakuza organizations are very complex, with various factions within one organization, and these divided groups did not So there is really a lot of trouble between those groups, and it's terrible. Some of them even kill the other person. Some of them even kill the other person. This channel produces the following The first one is various interviews The second one is the The third one is Reaction videos and the last one is about how the lives This channel is definitely the best channel If you find this video interesting, don't forget to &quot;Like&quot; You mentioned fights between other yakuza groups, we often see fights between one yakuza group and another in the news. Also, I see the word &quot;Nawabari&quot; (Territory) How did these come to be? That's because it is important for the Yakuza to protect their various concessions. I mentioned that yakuza were almost always of the illegal stores at night, I don't know about the current yakuza though. The yakuza call the themselves "FURYO", In the yakuza world, yakuza are called "FURYO" and the other people are called "KATAGI", by the way. The important thing for the Yakuza is to protect their concessions and places they have. For example, we need to make sure that we don't allow other groups to come in the streets where we have Everyone knew their own territory, we were like&quot;You are not allowed to enter that area because it is the territory of the group So, if they scout girls in an area outside their control, it was considered a sign that they want to pick a fight with the group in charge of that area, and that can be big trouble. It is a natural act to ensure that because if they become intolerant of that, the group would be declining. To prevent this, the Yakuza are very strict about protecting their territory. And that territory is called Shima in the Yakuza world. It's a difficult story, as a territory, there are yakuza groups that have SHIMA(Island) and yakuza groups that have NIWA(Garden). Well, I'm not a yakuza now, and I know it's not nice to talk about things like that, but... There are two types of Yakuza organizations For example, Yamaguchigumi and Sumiyoshikai, which are well-known overseas, are classified as BAKUTO And the yakuza group I belonged to was called Kyokuto-kai, which was classified as SHINNO. SHINNO is a yakuza group as their main activity especially Conversely, when they come to the city center, We call the territory where So we say things like, "Here is our NIWA". And BAKUTO is like, the typical Yakuza that is often seen in movies like the yakuza with a lot of tattoos roll dice and play the game of gambling The yakuza that originated from that kind of things "BAKUTO" has territory called SHIMA. That's how it's divided into NIWA and SHIMA. I think many of the yakuza groups of those days One more thing that is very famous Why do they do that? That is called &quot;Enko&quot;. "En" refers to relationship in English And &quot;Ko,&quot; which means to break off ties The &quot;En&quot; (Relationship) is turned into &quot;Ko&quot; (Break off ties), and this is called &quot;Enko&quot;. Everyone at Yakuza has a relationship Through the rituals of &quot;Sakazuki&quot; and &quot;Jingi&quot; Yakuza have established relationships such as &quot;parent-child relationship with the boss&quot; and &quot;brotherhood with the senior members." In order to break the relationship I don't have a little finger either, Whenever they get into trouble in their group, Cut off the first joint after one failure. Cut off the second joint after two failure. But there are no clear rules about this In my case, I didn't have to do it, What happened when you cut off your finger? I was in a state of excitement, When I and my superior were arguing I yelled at him with that throwaway remark, Then one of my senior who heard it around me &quot;You, cut off your finger and take it to your superior or you'll be in big trouble, I was also excited, so I said, I was also excited, so I said, &quot; Well, I'll cut it off the finger,&quot; You bit it off with your teeth? Yes. I didn't have any tools nearby. Did you actually enjoy being in the Yakuza group? What emotions did you have? 20% of me is happy to be Yakuza. 60% of the time I felt &quot;I want to quit&quot; The other 20% was not knowing how to quit. I was afraid that I would be killed if I quit, So the things I was glad Did this feeling persist for a long time, I happened to go to the and there was a literary contest in the prison, I didn't listen to the guards in the prison, and every time I was punished, I was placed in a protection cell or a solitary confinement cell, and every time I was punished, I was placed in a protection cell or a solitary confinement cell, and that solitary cell was like where I spent so much time confronting myself So every day I would secretly write using the lead of a mechanical pencil Like, &quot;Today is the first day. But the day the mechanical pencil lead broke, But the day the mechanical pencil lead broke, In the meantime, I saw a flyer that said I could enter my work in a literary contest even during my disciplinary punishment. I was only able to write 13 pages of a manuscript, but my short story happened to win the grand prize from all the prisons in Japan. That made me want to publish a book, and I began to think that I wanted to In fact, while I was in the group, and I often asked to be in magazines But the truth is that I needed permission but I ignored all of them I needed permission to do anything, and of course if I said, &quot;I want to be a writer,&quot; they would say, &quot; and if you say, &quot;Don't write about our group,&quot; It was my goal that I had made, or rather, it was my dream at that time, I had made it clear, so I decided to quit. but is there any procedure for quitting Yakuza? Essentially, you talk to the boss of the place you belong to, or to the head of the clan, called oyaji, or to the boss or general manager and ask them to expel you from the association. Or you can quit by saying, and ask them to dispose of the postcard which I mentioned earlier, In my case. Actually, I've negotiated this But they said, &quot;What are you saying? I can't believe you just went to jail once and come back, and want to quit because Are you kidding us?" Well, they thought I could only do Yakuza. So they said, &quot;There's no way so just calm down for a few days, No matter how many times they kept telling me, &quot;No, you should calm down,&quot; or &quot;You can't live the life of a normal person, Finally, they wouldn't let me leave the group completely, and six months went by, And then I made a mistake again. I said, &quot;If you don't let me quit, and I went to the headquarters office where I was, and there was a tag with my name on it that said &quot;Meisatsu, I folded the tag and threw it away, I also told a senior who answered the phone "Share the information with all of us." I took all kinds of selfish actions. But every single one of my actions was reported to upper management as &quot;He's still a crazy guy". But every single one of my actions was reported to upper management as &quot;He's still a crazy guy". But every single one of my actions was reported to upper management as &quot;He's still a crazy guy". "He says he wants to quit, And they interpreted it that way. At the last big festival in Shinjuku, called &quot;Tori-no-ichi&quot; people from various groups came and I went there and said, &quot;You said you would quit me!" and said, The upper management said, I was beaten to a pulp by them After a few days, they said, I was banned from entering Kabukicho, From then on, I never entered Kabukicho Now that the person who punished me got banned from the Kanto area and quit Yakuza, so there are no more rules. But I still refrain from entering Kabukicho. What kind of work do you do currently? Right now, I am leading a modest, I also occasionally publish a book, I also train every day and compete I also train every day and compete I also compete as an athlete in a popular I also compete as an athlete in a popular and I also do some administrative work. I also have my own YouTube channel. You quit the yakuza and are doing What kind of life do you think the who continued to pursue the path Just to be clear That's not the place to talk about it. I am the one who quit the yakuza first, and I'm not qualified to talk about the lives of the seniors who are still on that path.