(dramatic music) - [Narrator] She has traveled nearly four billion kilometers. Delivered a probe to the Spent 20 Earth years in space. And produced science nine years longer than originally planned. She discovered flowing liquids Phantasmagorical structures A weirdly breathing magnetosphere. And a possible abode of life. On a tiny world with a Now, on a daring spiral orbit, the Cassini spacecraft will Traveling more than 124,000 streaming data directly to Earth, before searing tears her apart. (dramatic music) - [Announcer] Three, two, one. And liftoff of the Cassini spacecraft on a billion mile trek to Saturn. - [Narrator] On the evening a powerful Titan 4B booster at the Kennedy Space Center. - [Announcer] All systems go. - [Narrator] The product of two decades of intense collaboration between NASA and the European Space Agency, in particular the Italian Space Agency. - [Announcer] And the have been jettisoned. - [Narrator] Some on Earth They fear that if the launch fails, Cassini's nuclear electric generator will spread radioactive plutonium. - [Protestors] No nukes in - [Narrator] As she glides transit to Saturn, scientists organize their on past probes' findings. (dramatic music) Their questions nest within one another, like the giant planet's concentric rings. Does Saturn have a solid surface? Or do its clouds thicken perhaps creating exotic forms of matter? Like metallic hydrogen. Is there a rocky core? Why are the rings so bright? How old are they? What's going on beneath the Saturn's largest moon? How are Saturn's moons and rings related? (dramatic music) What will this giant planet tell us about the evolution of At its distance of nearly a from the sun, Saturn's orbit Over the past Saturn year, Earth has added some 2.5 billion people. Average life expectancy rose The internet has exploded. It now has almost four billion users, with the half the world's In the time of Cassini, with new ways of communicating, connecting, working, living, and seeing each other. Saturn is the Roman name for Chronos, the Greek God of time, in a fit of jealousy. In myth, as in the ever-changing universe, time is the devourer of all things. To catch up with Saturn, mission planners have sent each time hitching a ride to speed her on her way. Pioneer 11 flew by Saturn in 1979. Voyager One in 1980. And Voyager Two in 1981. Cassini will become the captured by Saturn's Cassini's prime mission but she will remain healthy far longer. Her assignments will be extended twice, an additional two-year equinox mission, and a seven-year solstice mission. Yet Cassini's entire exploration will span less than half a Saturn year. From late winter through early summer. The Saturn system lies 9.5 That's nearly 10 times The whole grand clockworks speeds along at 34,821 kilometers every hour, more than 10 times faster than The planet spins fast, once every 10 hours and 39 minutes. So while a year on Saturn it's about 24,500 Saturn days. Made up mostly of hydrogen and helium, Saturn is the least It's often said, if you could Saturn would float. That's not quite accurate, but its density is lower in Earth's oceans. And it's big. You could pour 764 Earths This mission is officially honoring two remarkable men The French-Italian also known as Jean Dominique Cassini, and the Dutch Christiaan Huygens. Key players in the scientific revolution, they collaborated and competed In the process, transforming (gentle music) As director of the Paris Observatory, Cassini built and refined But Huygens found a way to inventing the so-called air telescope, and its better engineered eyepiece. In 1665, Cassini co-discovered and used it to time the Huygens, applying Galileo's ideas, invented the pendulum clock and developed a balanced spring watch, both pivotal innovations Cassini published maps of though Huygens had And Huygens pegged the at 24 and one-half hours, just seven minutes shy of the By getting parallax observations of Mars, Cassini was the first to estimate the size of our solar system. And Cassini used Galileo's by watching eclipses of Jupiter's moons to lay out lines of longitude on Earth. Endeavoring to perfect the Huygens developed the setting the stage for Cassini explained the seen by astronomers as off dust in the plane of the solar system. Toward the end of his life, Huygens determined liquid water to be a key factor in searching for extraterrestrial life, a quest now undertaken and its Huygens probe. (dramatic music) We've known Saturn as the when Cristiaan Huygens had seen 45 years earlier. But if you were standing you would have a hard time Because most moons ride in the ring plane, you could only view them edge on. From the right, watch tiny Prometheus, just 86 kilometers across, 1,062 kilometers wide. Little Pandora scoots (dramatic music) Here, medium sized Mimas, traveling 14 kilometers per second, glides in front of the larger Rhea, at eight kilometers per second. When Cassini launched, 18 moons and 13 more were suspected. By the end of Cassini's mission, astronomers will confirm 53, with another nine marked as conditional. Only one of them is huge. Titan. In 1655, Christiaan Huygens Giovanni Domenico Cassini Rhea in 1672, Dione in 1684, and Tethys in 1684. The skywatching siblings found Mimas and Enceladus in 1789. In 1848, Hyperion was spotted by the father-son team of in the U.S. and William Phoebe was the first moon to be discovered through photography, by the American astronomer Some of Saturn's moons are particularly those in They orbit backwards, in from the rotation of the planet. Each Saturnian moon is a unique jewel in the majestic planet's (dramatic music) (upbeat music) Before Cassini, no one suspected Enceladus to be anything other than a But scientific sleuthing led Enceladus is about 482 It would fit neatly between The first good closeup, showed the globe was remarkably In fact, Enceladus is the The first hints of a more complex story come from Cassini's magnetometer. The moon's magnetic signature looks more like that of a comet. Field lines are bent around A closer fly-by shows has been recently resurfaced. Cassini's infrared is about 100 degrees warmer And that heat signature aligns with four prominent across the moon's southern terrain. They turn out to be fissures, Each about 150 kilometers long Scientists name them Alexandria, Cairo, Baghdad and Damascus. From each, jets of water shoot out into space. (dramatic music) Cassini eventually locates Mission planners arrange more fly-bys and in October of 2015, of Enceladus' South Pole, giving the instruments a It's mostly water ice. There's also some ammonia, key compounds associated with life. And hydrogen gas, which could be using as a source of energy. Some of the particles are flavored by sodium and potassium. The science team imagines lies beneath the icy crust. As it sloshes around, carbon like bottled soda. When it finds a path to lower pressure, through the cracks of the tiger stripes, it sprays out into space like Most of these salty to the ground as snow, decorating and repairing But some escape Enceladus' weak gravity. So Enceladus rides a misty (dramatic music) Were the moon to shut off its water jets, this e-ring would dissipate completely within a few hundred years. Tracking and modeling icy tendrils made by interacting geyser jets how much mass Enceladus is Enceladus orbits in resonance Their dance is thought to It's likely that Dione too Dione's big crater, Creusa, paints bright rays at least 500 kilometers across the moon's surface, giving researchers a Craters younger than Older ones underlie them. Water is pulled down into reemerging as steam through the sea floor. We know this because Cassini has detected tiny silicate particles that can only form in boiling water. In Earth's oceans, hydrothermal and white smokers, are oases for life. (dramatic music) The churning hot water provides energy and sets nutrient Is the same thing happening of Saturn's snow globe moons? To find out, future missions fatty acids, long carbon chain molecules, and perhaps microorganisms blasted far from the Many astrobiologists because it is very cold, about minus 180 celsius, yet it is wet. If anything lives on or inside Titan, it is almost surely not Titan is about the same diameter and mass as the planet Mercury. And Titan's surface as Earth's moon, but Titan has a thick atmosphere, even thicker than Earth's. And scientists don't yet know why. It's the second-largest At 5,150 kilometers in diameter, only Jupiter's Ganymede is wider. Titan is so much larger than it may have formed from the collision of several of its siblings. (dramatic music) By mission's end, Cassini will have flown by Titan 127 times. Each pass gives the craft a gravitational acceleration equivalent to almost 1,000 kilos of extra fuel. When the two Voyagers sailed they saw only this orange, American and European they began sketching out what would become the Cassini-Huygens mission. 23 years later, an international team commands the release of the Huygens probe, to land on Titan. January 14th, 2005. The European-built Huygens probe aero brakes into Titan's atmosphere deploys a parachute and floats down for over through a nitrogen-laden atmosphere. Its camera reveals an eerie landscape. Huygens lands softly in a along the shoreline of a hydrocarbon lake. Huygens continues transmitting after landing, sending back probably made of hard frozen water ice. Humanity has placed its The flowing liquid on Titan is methane, which acts there as water does on Earth. In the range of Titan's temperatures, methane can exist in all three states, solid, liquid and gas. It is not impossible that a form of life could be evolving on this moon, feeding on the constant a true second Genesis, completely separate from our earthly tree of life. Since Voyager first glimpsed Titan, researchers have speculated that liquid oceans grace its surface. But dense orange smog This haze collects when breaks up methane in the high atmosphere, forming long molecular to fall from the sky. These methane byproducts form snow drifts into a huge network of dunes Cassini's camera was outfitted to peer through the orange fog to verify bodies of liquid. Images come back of relatively flat areas, but are they truly oceans? Or perhaps just methane slush? Or thick tar? The answer comes from Cassini's visible It catches a specular reflection, a bright spot of sunlight bouncing off a clearly liquid surface. With Cassini's radar, flat surfaces, lakes and seas, appear dark, unless they are ruffled by waves. Titan indeed has oceans, ponds and pools of liquid hydrocarbons, Strangely, they form mostly in near the pole. Saturn's eccentric orbit is to blame. Northern summer is warmer than but because of the way Titan is tipped, its southern summer is more severe, so all the southern and rains out in the north. Over time, the whole system flips. In 15,000 years, Titan's lakes will all be in the Southern Hemisphere. This one, named Ligeia Mare, is larger than Lake Superior on Earth. It's probably 150 meters deep in spots. Mysterious, frothy islands appear, bubbling up from under the surface. Titan holds a store of hydrocarbons about 10 times larger and natural gas reserves combined. Hovering 300 kilometers a huge persistent toxic cloud of frozen hydrogen This vortex seems to develop when Titan's Southern Hemisphere Titan thrusts its methane up into space at a frightening rate. The atmospheric supply can't last longer than about 20 million years. Something must be Cassini's radar spots the answer. Mountains, some up to a kilometer tall. These may be cryovolcanos. Some could be active today, spewing methane from within the moon. Cassini's radio science flexing in response to Saturn's gravity. That makes it warm enough Unlike the subsurface oceans of Enceladus, with its rocky ocean floors, Titan's ocean is probably sandwiched So if there's an underground marine layer, it may be sealed off of geothermal vents and any Even after Cassini-Huygens, we still don't know how old or how long it's had an active atmosphere. Clues point to a cataclysmic perhaps 100 million years ago, that either created Titan or energized a barren, frozen Possibly like the primitive Earth. (dramatic music) To find out, we'll have to go back, float longer through the haze, and soar through the (upbeat music) To Galileo in 1610, the ringed planet appeared as three stars, with two small ones touching one large, prompting Galileo to declare But in 1655, using more advanced optics, Christiaan Huygens unmasked the apparition as a flat ring circling 20 years later, Giovanni Domenico Cassini discerned that it was not with gaps between them. The widest gap was later We know that it's 48,000 kilometers wide and far from empty. In 1859, Scottish mathematician showed that the rings are not solid discs but composed of many smaller granules. Each tiny fleck, pebble and boulder revolves around the jockeying for position Though all are flying several they jostle one another only very gently. (dramatic music) The concentric rings are given letters. A through G, in their order of discovery. Material riding close in the D ring whips around But particles in the distance F ring take at least four times longer. It wasn't until the Cassini's just how flat the rings are. Incredibly, they are only From top to bottom, only about as tall as a three-story building. These rings are 30 million And ring material can ripple up and down, crafting temporary corrugations. Many intricate wave patterns can be seen across the broad ring plane. Each one is conjured by resonance with a Saturnian moon. Though the basic physics of it's mostly the product the intricate structure of the rings is hard to mathematically model, even after 13 years of The pressure of sunlight, and forces from Saturn's magnetic field, can push or pull smaller, less massive ring particles around. The mission team flies a that put the rings By beaming radio signals of through the ring material, researchers build up a Red areas hold more big particles. Blue regions contain Radio waves, shown in the reveal finer structure than Most particles are small, from tiny crystals up to pebble sized. Less common are ice up to the size of houses. A few are the size of mountains. Moons in the act of Grabbing an average size ring particle would feel something around a thick layer of to find a glob of solid The packing of particles (dramatic music) Very little light gets through the B ring of crowded snowballs. An astronaut would have The A ring is less congested. And the G ring is very The Cassini mission of almost pure water ice. But tiny quantities of and shade them. The astronomer Carl Sagan called these colorful chemicals Crossing Saturn's dark side, Cassini's camera picks up the true colors and intricate complexity of (dramatic music) Subtle gravitational effects fashioned by the many moons Small moons, this one's named They seem to sweep clear The moon Mimas, gravitationally combing the ring's particles, causes the large Cassini Division. Other rings are herded into form by so-called shepherd moons, like Prometheus and Pandora. (dramatic music) Tiny Daphnis, just pushes a wave of ring material like the bow wave of a boat on a lake. Daphnis bobs up and down gravitationally pulling particles into dune-like mounds It has plowed a 35-kilometer-wide called the Keeler Division. The larger Pan forges the in Saturn's A ring, giving it a wavy edge. And Pan's gravity inspires Based on that gap, researchers in the late 19th century, But no on anticipated And it's not unique. The slightly wider moon Atlas Both wear skirts of gravitationally attracted icy crystals. Certain small satellites on eccentric orbits repeatedly leaving behind sets of disruptive splashes as evidence of their passing. Other minuscule moonlets, fashion propellor-shaped resonant waves in the snowy rings falling around Saturn. (dramatic music) The ever-evolving complexity of these ring circles playing in silence. (dramatic music) Once every 14 years, the ring plane lies exactly edge on to the sun. Cassini was present for one such equinox. In essence, the sunlight on the rings has been switched off, and They are only visible because Saturn reflects here digitally multiplied many times. Only the F ring, which is slightly tilted from the others, catches any sunlight. But because the rings are so thin, any tall structure within them throws its shadow onto the ring plane. Thus, in the outermost edge of the B ring, a surprise appears. Hundreds of long shadows Geometry dictates these points must range up to a Like icebergs growing in a these thorn-like clumps may be molded by the invisible fingers of with one of the moons. Or they may be drawn out inspired by Saturn's magnetic field. Some of Saturn's rings while others are stoically (dramatic music) How old are these bright, icy rings? They may have formed in when icy moons or comets collided or were torn apart by Saturn's gravity. Or they might be as old as Saturn, the leftover debris of Cassini may yet find the true answer. Looking down at Saturn's North Pole, Cassini gets a spectacular Some resonance of the wind into a six-sided shape, the hexagon. Apparently, an eastward-flowing is bumped by occasional storms. The jet reacts by settling into the most stable geometric shape, six roughly sides. This polar monsoon is about You could fit two and Its winds blow faster the Up to 540 kilometers per hour. (dramatic music) Why kill Cassini in a The international scientific to avoid any possibility of especially Enceladus and Titan. Cassini is warm inside, Any microbes that found could have easily survived. And Cassini's RTG will If she was allowed to Cassini might easily melt her way down through the ice into Back in 2009, studies had to go beyond Saturn to Uranus or Neptune. She could have been sent back to Jupiter. Or outward to visit a population of comet-like asteroids (dramatic music) But to get all the science Cassini would have to die here. That led trajectory designers at JPL to develop a jewel of orbital dynamics, the Solstice Mission. The plan optimizes The route features high orbits to look at the poles and the rings. Long loops to map the Flattened equatorial And ending at the peak of northern summer to mirror Cassini's Between the two, scientists of Saturn's seasons. The science based on Cassini's Nudging Cassini's speed by is enough to begin her death spiral. A final pass, 100,000 kilometers from Titan seals Cassini's faint. She'll make repeated dives between the innermost ring material and the roiling atmosphere. Maneuvers far too dangerous to contemplate when Cassini was designed. Beaming science data directly to Earth until the very end. On September 15th, 2017, the mission team at JPL on as Cassini streaks into and is gone. (dramatic music)