There is perhaps no single geographic feature than the Mississippi River. That's because nowhere long of a navigable, commercial waterway--nowhere kilometers down a river without encountering one rock in the way, one single obstacle And compounding this waterway's supremacy is navigability as far as Knoxville; the Arkansas the Illinois to Chicago; and the Ohio from the Mississippi, connecting Pittsburgh to The simple fact that goods from Pittsburgh, or map can be transported, exclusively by barge, ocean-going vessels bound for... anywhere cannot about 145 miles with a gallon of fuel. Trains, steel contact, extend that gallon to 477 miles. to transport that same ton as far as 647 miles is even greater than the efficiency one due to rail cars or 134 trucks, but a single tug can leading to tremendous economies of scale. By of $5.35 per ton, per mile, and trains $2.53, of just 97 cents. The friction of difference Especially because beyond the Mississippi and Lakes system. The Soo Locks, in Sault Ste. Marie, to the rest of the Great Lakes. By some measures, 100% of the country's Iron Core pellets pass plants in Indiana and Ohio. But if not carrying Lake Huron, then Erie, take this Canadian canal then make its way through the St Lawrence Add on the Columbia River in the Pacific as Idaho to the ocean; the Sacramento Deep capital to San Francisco Bay; the Hudson River, and a few others, the US boasts over 12,000 navigable inland waterways--that's a entire rail network of the United Kingdom. how important America's inland waterways are running them. DC doesn't really run transportation owned, airports are primarily handled by local network of highways--are just funded by DC, but The Mississippi and these other navigable, inland government actually running a transportation and perhaps bizarrely, it's a branch of responsible for keeping cargo on the river they dredge it and bolster its banks, and they're And it's these locks that have quite literally Brazil and the US, for example, are the world's respectively--tightly competing with each other far-away buyers like China. But it's remarkable that of Brazil, is able to meaningfully compete where the only thing that matters to a buyer is brought from farms to ocean ports by trucks, with costlier than barges. Only a tiny portion is have the inland waterway infrastructure that soybean from Brazil to China, for example, as much as double. US producers can therefore have to do is get their product to a river, and But before any soy, chemical, or petroleum product starts in a place like this harbor, where highway, Logistics Park Debeque sits. Here, goods, whether poured into a barge operator's standardized, with steel cables to another 14 barges and pushed Compared to most commercial vessels, crews on ten people, composed of a captain, a pilot, Almost universally, they work 6-hour on, 6-hour onboard--typically a 28-day stretch. In practice, then attempt to get some sleep before starting overnight rest starting at 11:30 pm. The only crew cook, who will generally prepare meals to be ready 11:30 am, and 5:30 pm transitions. of bedrooms, these boats might have but that's about it. After all, when working left for anything but sleeping and eating. 12 hours-on. Just 16 miles or 25 kilometers down and Dam no. 12. On the Upper Mississippi, there's arriving to a lock and dam. Tows notify the lock away, which gives the operator time to prepare the from upstream, or draining if the opposite. tightly lining up with the wall that marks its called an out-draft, pulling from the since that's where the water flows when the lock and sometimes does prove disastrous--it'll trap a the structure--so captains will often on their experience through the years, reminding But upon successful approach, a tug pushes its of them. That's because the Upper Mississippi has this stretch is 15-barges in a three by five about a thousand feet. Therefore, deckhands have in two before the lock master can even close the about another 20 minutes, then the first half of half, including the tug itself, waits another again. Next, after another 20-minute draining the tow back together, leading to a roughly three every lock--and that's if they're lucky. The locks meaning if there's another vessel going through, go through the 3-4 hour process. In the peak really compound and limit the throughput And it's along this process, passing lock after that the Mississippi, nor the Illinois for that nor the lower Nile are strictly rivers any more. in its simplest definition: to be sailed by to the haughty standards of what navigable whose definition hinges not on the possibility of consistent, reliability of travel along Rivers, no matter the state, country, or and course by the season and the year, they're Consider just the task of defining what you could start with this map. But that wouldn't such as these. And still, this is oversimplified, 500,000 cubic feet of water through it every these tributaries, along with the unseen basin draining eventually into this cumulative exhaustive--view of the river, the Mississippi 41% of the lower 48's landmass spread across 32 an amalgamation of precipitation spread across defined by its broader basin. Massive rain here, river below, as it did in 1927 when a swollen thousands displaced. Massive earthquakes here, as they did in 1811 and 1812. And a low snow flows down to levels so low that it threatens On the inverse, what a river does provide that an boost of buoyancy, and what a river offers that a not perfectly streamlined nor always dependable, To first turn a river into a navigable waterway there needs to be a legal framework as to beginning in the 1800s as the fledgling federal means of transportation to spur on economic features into navigable ones fell on the US their work began with this, the designation of the mission to figure out how its flows could be First, the goal was to provide, from the upper deep channel. As time went on, the ask grew. Then 6-foot deep channel, then finally, with the rivers channel. For the river's upper reaches, this Split at St. Louis, the Mississippi River St. Paul to St. Louis, the river moves quicker, steep--dropping 400 feet or 120 meters over 670 about wherever you zoom in on this upper section and every couple dozen miles, it's dammed. These storage or flood control, but for transportation, turning a wild river into a consistent canal for upon which the whole region still relies. Some maintains and operates these locks, and in account for 192 navigational locks nationwide. Mississippi has added the flow of the Illinois and the river's character flips. From Cairo, Illinois 600 miles to travel to the Gulf Coast. But with across that entire stretch, the river restlessly creating a winding path to the ocean that kilometers. Through the lower Mississippi average and dams unnecessary, but with so much water other challenges for the corps of engineers. lower Mississippi, there's a good chance they a grassy mound. If one is to look at the lower they'll notice that these grassy mounds don't calculated, perfectly straight lines across of levee, built primarily by the Army Corps of flooding Mississippi out of their towns and homes basin, and that barge operators count on to keep Of course, levees, while noticeable to the be said about the locks and dams, just relatively a reasonably slow and easy-to-contain section upkeep of the river is easy to overlook, too. to the outside observer, it's moving sand and continued dredging to keep the channel at 9 feet cost on average $45 million a year. The same goes banks with concrete matting--it's difficult the Armor 1, a vessel tasked with laying down the 50 years cost a reported $125 million. as a geographic super power, navigable they're expensive-to-maintain hybrids with a heavy US, the critical human additions that make these towboats are often overlooked and getting really or in the case of those along the Mississippi estimated 50-year expected lifespan. While still As a 2023 Department of Transportation report while total lockages have declined, the percentage the 50s. More problematic: the average delay while shipping companies can mitigate problems third of all lock delays were unscheduled. In the infrastructure report card, inland waterways Engineers reports both a $6.8 billion backlog on and $2.7 billion annually on funds not received even more difficult, and inland rivers even and increasingly common and increasingly extreme years in 2012, in 2013, in 2022, '23, and '24 for Then there's the fact that fundamentally, the small to serve today's purposes. Much Government should upgrade the river to 1,200 foot tows to make their way through in just one throughput enormously--the three or more hour 30 or so minutes, saving days of time across at the locks, waiting for other traffic to shipping rates might go down, allowing an farmers in Illinois and Iowa and beyond. this looks like in practice. Construction has to build a brand-new 1,200-foot lock. Funding Infrastructure Act, and construction is expected the total amount allocated for the project was Upper Mississippi's locks would possibly be a And it's not like there's a lot of revenue that completely free to use--including its locks. commercial or recreational, without charging a does charge a 29 cent per gallon tax on fuel waterways in most circumstances, which goes into a projects on the waterways, rather than operations. Army Corps of Engineering's spending on inland of a total annual cost of $1.3 billion. So that's massive subsidy from the American taxpayer to its One could, and some do argue that this is that only benefits the few. This argument waterways are particularly good at is getting agricultural products to New Orleans to be international export. That's to say, in extreme profit margins of agribusinesses selling their there is no significant, direct utility for this But right now, the Mississippi is in this state but it's also underfunded. America does rely on the foreign countries that buy American crops, it it transports raw materials that sit at the start it's estimated that each day the river costs the American economy $300 million. underutilized. Far fewer barges traverse its traffic has moved onto the rails and roads. The their limits--freight railroads are suffering infrastructure due to their unwillingness to industry is suffering from a driver shortage increasingly aged industry. There has been plenty and vessels capable of transporting container direct competitor to freight rail and trucks, The issues of inefficiency and deterioration on operators themselves successfully advocated to the hike from 20 to 29 cents per gallon in 2014 and upgrades. But it still wasn't even close to other inland waterways are funded and functional industries and responsible for the economic ascent they actually function even close to their full to have changed the entire course of American One thing I noticed while researching this attempted to solve the issue of Mississippi even the busiest locks are used well below their due to a lack of traffic management. This is a can help solve real-world problems, and our gain a solid knowledge-base in these topics. courses on subjects in math, computer science, on how large-language models work since you hear so I think it's really important to understand Brilliant since, to be honest, I struggled their clear explanations, interactive exercises, fundamentals of each subject, then as you go on, larger subject, and suddenly you understand also splits these subjects into small, bite-sized so it's super easy to make meaningful progress just while you're on the train, waiting at the day when you might otherwise just scroll through longest-term sponsors meaning plenty of Wendover to see why you can try everything Brilliant when you visit Brilliant.org/Wendover. And you'll