[laid-back jazz tunes] Greetings folks! we're looking at a rather the Sony Vaio PCV-MX2 from the year 2000. It is quite the eye-catching system with that blood orange LCD looking more like a part than a PC, and that's not It's also packing a built-in remote control, and a MiniDisc drive. Yeah! Right below its is a straight-up MiniDisc usable both on its own or in conjunction with Sony MiniDisc authoring Ooh this is going to so I hope you're in the mood for the late nineties Sony Ever since Sony introduced these computers always stood out from the desktop PC crowd in my mind. Compared to all the countless Vaios were a breath of fresh air. With Sony's classic design sensibilities and the series' trademark Though I wish the MX2 as seen in Sony's advertising where they added more color with more vibrancy than I've Whatever, either way, I like how they look and the As for what it cost back in 2000, well, it's hard to say precisely, since there was no suggested retail price. Instead, Sony listed it allowing individual Japanese how much to sell it for based meaning prices could For the most part though, it seems the PCV-MX2 sold for or around 3 to 4,000 US dollars, roughly 5 to $6,000 or so Yeah, Vaios were a lot of things, but low cost was never one of them, and that was another reason I The price made them unobtainable, and no one I knew ever had one, so they always seemed Doubly so with the Vaios like the original PCV-MX series. This initial line of was produced and sold exclusively in Japan between 1999 and 2001, beginning with the PCV-MX1, quickly followed up with the MX2 I have, and then the MX3 and MX5 We are sticking to the MX2 though, which came in three configurations. One with an LCD monitor, one with a CRT, and one with a speaker-equipped CRT that connected to a TV tuner card. Each model MX2 had the Starting with the CPU, a respectable 750 megahertz paired with 64 megabytes of PC100 SDRAM, a standard if unimpressive For storage, there's a 30 with Windows 98 Second Edition, and a whole lot of OEM software installed, and graphics are handled by a 16 megabyte Nvidia Riva TNT2 from ASUS. An AGP 4X card with DVI, Sound is handled by an integrated but it's surprisingly good. It's an AU8830 Aureal Vortex 2, supporting A3D 2.0 for spatial effects and pseudo-surround sound in stereo, and the audio situation The MX2 also has a with audio jacks for unpowered speakers, line level RCA output, Originally, it would have come with this pair of unpowered Vaio speakers, neatly completing the but mine unfortunately didn't, so I'm using this random set of Sonys I found at a thrift store. Unlike the original speakers, they're not magnetically shielded, and it's not a great idea to so I'm using this 15-inch It's not the same display but it's still a TFT LCD of the same size and general time period, so it'll do. The mouse was easier to track down, since it used the same with a scroll wheel, seen on late nineties Next up is the keyboard, a typical of Vaios from back then, but entirely usable. It's also got this with on-brand branding, and a row of application with special attention being How helpful. And, of course, the board uses with all the usual localized and the resulting cute little space bar. Another quirk of the MX2 is the power supply, which is set to 100 volts only, with no switch for any other voltages, and a power cord that has a standard C13 connector on one end, but a non-polarized two-prong with a ground wire sticking out. So I'll be using it with this US to Japanese power transformer to step down the voltage. Plus, it provides a place Lastly, in terms of peripherals, and unlike many PC remotes back then, this one isn't meant to on the software side of things. Instead, it's geared using the front panel audio stuff, via this infrared sensor. Yeah, that's only for the remote. It doesn't do IrDA communication like you often got on laptops and PDAs. And on that note, it actually does have for plugging in PCMCIA devices, something Sony was fond of instead of only laptops. And it's actually attached to this extra-long PCI modem card from Ricoh, so on the other side of it is this V.90 Kflex fax modem chipset plopped onto the same board. Neat. Also up front underneath is a selection of 3.5 a single USB 1.1 port, This was Sony's version of with a 4-pin interface on the front and the larger 6-pin port around back. An excellent thing to have And what is this little &quot;Sesame I don't think that was factory-installed. Hm, I guess the previous owner forget to clear their cookies! Another fancy addition integrated into the PC with a coax connector for better reception. Once again, though, being means it's limited to These ranged between 76 to 90 MHz, so it fails to pick up most used here in the States, which in Japan was used for So, there's not a lot without an FM transmitter, and obviously, that won't let me show the Though it is kinda fun to see all the station presets On the topic of this front actually functions Pressing the &quot;Audio&quot; button powers up the panel with all its own settings and controls. It's a weird stereo system letting you play CDs and MiniDiscs, listen to FM radio and optical sources, as well as record CDs, radio, and optical directly to MiniDisc. All it can do is basic You can't erase tracks or without booting up the PC but it's a fun novelty regardless, and you do at least get like a 5-band equalizer, a sleep timer, alarm, and so on, and everything is controlled or using the RM-MX1 remote control, with the exception of the time and date, which is handled by the PC and whenever it's powered off, the time display stays on acting as one seriously But obviously, the MiniDisc drive is the machine's real standout feature, which, in case you're MiniDisc was Sony's proprietary magneto-optical audio disc Not to be confused with Mini CDs or UMDs. Those are different things. It's also distinct from MD Data, which I've covered before on LGR. MD Data used its own for file storage, and while the they couldn't write them, so it's awesome to see a inside of a PC like this, which allowed reading both on its own and through Windows. And I gotta wonder how many folks accidentally tried sticking without realizing, since the if you're not paying attention. Also, it's worth noting that with original MiniDiscs, not the later versions like MDLP or NetMD. Sony released PCs during supporting those, several outside of Japan this time, like the PCV-RX403N and PCV-MXS10, each having MDLP drives but the original PCV-MX and in fact, the mechanism Same exact unit used in like the Onkyo MD-122MX here. Really, the only thing that's unique is the PC interface board it's connected to, which links the mechanism to both the front panel and the PC itself. I know this because the MD was totally dead when I first got it, so I ended up transplanting the mechanism from another MiniDisc recorder. Thankfully, the ribbon cable connectors are identical between the two, and the main challenge was springs, and doors between the two units, and re-housing the thing inside A little tedious but entirely doable, and yeah, works perfectly now. Right, so that's enough wafting about with wonky old hardware. Let's move onto the by hooking everything up, powering it on, and trying out the included [background beats come to a halt] All right, finally time to get this lovely PC powered on. [system whirring to life, drive seeking] Hear that DVD-ROM? And you got that lovely Sony Mm, how special. Not too loud, considering its age. The fans seem to have after a little bit of a cleaning, and of course, loaded on here, we do have a Windows 98 Second Edition, the Japanese version of it. So, this is localized as you would expect with the language settings and all that, which does make things in terms of loading certain software. [computer beeping] And yeah, if you heard that's actually coming or really the PC Card interface with the modem that's in there. That actually counts because, you know, and then the modem on the same card. The modem counts as slot two. [amplified Windows 98 startup sound] [chuckles] certainly are a step up from the usual desktop computer speakers that you got back in the day. At least that I'm used to. Sounds really good, and yeah, I'm also really lucky to with an original Windows complete with all the and the drivers and such. I mean, that stuff can be and I have yet to find any recovery discs for this particular model. So please, oh man, if anyone watching has access to a set of recovery discs from Japan, you know, if you got those lying around, back them up and share them. Send me an email. It would be hugely all the stuff that's on here, it's hard to get these things So I'm just really lucky I've backed up all the but the installation, it and I would love to get this without having to go So let's dive into some Just really quick before and get a closer look, check this out. I really do you like the fact that you have some special shortcuts that show up over here on the panel. So if you were to just this is gonna open the MX [triumphant startup sound] Oh, love those sounds. it's sort of a navigation cluster here for all of your different audio features. So yeah, we've got a media bar for different playback files from your hard drive or whatever. MP3s and things like we've got your regular volume settings. This is pretty cool too. So when you do the big knob, look at that. It affects it over on the and you've got this nice So, these kinds of functions that the whole front panel and the Windows software because otherwise, it's Like, you can press the audio button, and it doesn't do anything, none of that stuff, because It's by itself when the computer is off. Otherwise, you got the So, yeah, we will explore a little bit closer. Let me go ahead and to something a little All right. Hope that's good. I've done my best to on these old LCDs, but you So yeah, in terms of the I believe this Vaio folder is pretty much everything that was originally included I don't know if it's more *or* the previous owner just which is why I picked up and imported it from Japan, there's so much stuff still on here, and it hasn't been wiped or anything, but since I can't factory restore it since I don't have the discs, I'm just assuming everything's on here with the exception of I believe it's like a pet I don't see that on here, unfortunately, but there are some fascinating things. Got all these wonderful Vaio wallpapers. Got the water one. Sky. Oh, that one's cool. Those 3D objects. And then Fire. Yeah, all of those are just wonderful. I love OEM wallpapers, and it does have additional screensavers. I don't know which ones or were installed later, but MX Demo, I know for sure is unique to the system. Most of these others, you they're all just Japanese versions of the regular screensavers that you recognize from Windows 98. But yeah, let's open this one, because this is just It's less a screensaver, and more of a demo kiosk kind of thing. [upbeat music] So yeah, it just takes you through the key features of the PCV-MX2, all the cool multimedia and some fancy music in the background, which is actually kind of I don't know. I can just imagine seeing this set up in like a storefront, a shop just, you know. Oh man. You see this cool computer from Sony, and this neat little thingy going on, and you're like, ah, I want that. I know it would get my attention. Look at these. This is wonderful. This is so cool. Audio, it's got a CD Yes, FM radio. Sound. Those awesome speakers I wish I had. Internet, yes. TV, if you have the version with the TV capture tuner card thing. MiniDisc, dude. So many things, the That's all that is. I just want to show you that, because I think it's absolutely the best. Nothing too crazy to see If you've messed with 98, Let's open some music though. Of course, I've gotta go &quot;Canyon.mid&quot; Get that wavetable going [canyon.mid fades in] Yeah, it sounds like the other which is pretty good. I like the wavetable on there, and it seems that WinAmp was the default selection so I can see they were All right, so enough Let's go to the MiniDisc portion of the computing experience here, and so this is kind of fascinating. So I wasn't really sure how because, yeah, I had just never seen an internal MiniDisc drive in a computer. So, I was wondering like, okay, is it going to show up as like Nope, it doesn't, nothing here. Yeah, C is the main partition. D is a secondary partition on the drive, and then Q is the CD-ROM for some reason. MiniDisc doesn't show up with It doesn't even show up as I don't even see it listed as a device. Like, maybe it's just that are stuck in there somewhere, and I just don't notice it. I don't know. Maybe it's connected to some I just don't know. I don't know how exactly it works in terms of communicating but it does indeed communicate. [MX Stage startup chime] But you just have to use the and yeah, now that we have the little icon there is lit up, and it will open a program that we can mess around with playback and doing some basic [Quake theme plays] Stop that before we get a And of course, we can edit So, we can call it &quot;Farts.&quot; There's that. Playback. Of course, we can erase it. Oh, man, just erasing things. There it is. It has been erased. So, now, that is ready we want to on there, but yeah, it's just a very basic little program here for messing around with whatever recordable and then if you want to you just arm it by pressing Pause lights up, and then yeah, whatever's playing through [canyon.mid plays in chunks] Okay, and now we have a track. [recorded chunky canyon.mid plays] The worst track ever recorded We'll erase that crap, and then that's pretty much, you know, just your basic MiniDisc It's just in a nice It's pretty neat. You know, a little Apparently it was supposed OpenMG Jukebox to do more in-depth authoring but I don't see that in here, and I believe that would do things like drag and drop files, you know, like MP3s and WAV and put them directly over to MiniDiscs. It would do some conversion I don't see that on here, so, oh well. Either way, though, the fact that you have that sort of built-in is just so cool. It's so cool! I mean, you get FM radio. I mean, that's cool too, so many different ways I've been meaning to do a video on FM tuner radio devices for PCs for years and years and years, 'cause I've got a bunch of them, but yeah. And in case you're wondering, just MiniDiscs. The DVD-ROM that's in there So it reads only, and They did sell an external that was meant to pair but yep, that was separated, However, one thing that is on here was included with every single Vaio from this time period Yes, okay. You get this HTML browser-based It comes with two traditional songs, &quot;ABCs&quot; and &quot;Twinkle, How convenient they're the same tune. Whatever, let's open it up. You get a program here [upbeat ABC song plays] Karaoke, ABCs Ooh, this is just the best And there's also only two backgrounds, the shower head and the sand dune. So, you know, kind of a little demo. I assume there were more things available if you were to download them back in the day, but this is Two backgrounds, two songs. A baffling selection of backgrounds. Twinkle, twinkle, little star How I wonder what you are - [Clint] Oh, dude, absolute banger. You've got a singer to sing along with. You know, if I was paying 3 to $4,000 for a computer in Japan I expect this and here there is no microphone or any of the other I believe the mic was actually built into the Vaio monitors of the time. This is not a Vaio monitor necessarily. It's just a Sony monitor, but I think all the Vaio You could always get one separately. Let's see what else we've got on here. I know there's a lot of and tools for converting Yeah, DV Gate being one of them. So you've got DV Gate and these were for taking or camcorder and then putting slapping them into some files that could be edited I think it came with a Yeah, Movie Shaker. Hadn't heard of this, mixing assistant. I like the little cocktail shaker there, mixer, or whatever it is. Yeah, Sony Vegas, this ain't. It's a very stylized late nineties, early 2000s kind of Let's just drop some files in here and get some pictures or something. There we go. Put these on the timeline. Nice. Yeah, it's just kind of a Very simple stuff. I think we've got, let's see, Yeah, a nice circle to Question mark. We've got effects over here. I've got bubbles and bombs. Hearts, and I guess we can add messages, with different emoji or I don't know. Let's just put that in Okay, it added like a blank thing. I don't know. Maybe that's text, whatever. Let's just hit the output. We've got QuickTime, RealMedia, ooh, DV. Nah, let's just go with QuickTime. &quot;Excellence.mov.&quot; All right, Pentium III 750 MHz, let's see your blazing fast if it'll ever update the screen. There it is. The hard disk is rather lacking amount of memory plus there's all kinds of bloat I've cleared off a lot of All right, there we go. Oh, nice. There we go. All right, there's our transitions. Look, and all the effects at once. Oh man, and music. I didn't add music. [rather goofy music plays] [laughs] Why is it just putting Oh no, it stopped. Hey, what did I do? [laughing continues] It can't keep up with this Oh no. There's just, ah! What in the world? Oh. [clapping] What was that scatterbrained I didn't do that. I guess it just places whatever words you want in there randomly? Anyway, I think you get the idea of the kind of stuff that it came with. Just a whole lot of bloatware, honestly, but also media editing things so to speak. I wish it came with that pet program. I believe that's what this is. Like, you select your little shortcut here for your different all the links go to a folder I can't find the files. I don't know if they or, I don't know, maybe So, that's unfortunate, but yeah, a bunch of useful stuff and There's also this right &quot;Navin' You.&quot; &quot;Navin' You Digital Map Navigator.&quot; Yeah, look at that. So, oh man. That's an interesting way Pro Atlas, pretty cool, especially if this was a laptop, I could see this being I guess if you were, like, planning out your trip you could do that here and Good stuff. Well, anyway, we're absolutely every program let's go up to a little I've got games mostly, and I want to try some DOS games and some Windows 95 things, I just used a compact flash on the front there to So, that's handy, but yeah, let's go to the DOS side of things, because this is not quite in terms of sound support, and by that, I mean there is none. It does not have any There is nothing going on for the 8830 chip set here. The Vortex 2 normally does have that, but I mean, it doesn't There's no Adlib, there's no OPL emulation which leads me to believe this is either a cut-down version of the or it's just a version where Sony decided, hey, we don't need legacy So, yeah, the only option we It does have MPU401, so. [Duke3D theme plays, partially] That sounds a little weird. Where are the drums? Uh... Well, this was totally and now it just killed the MPU. Well, anyway, so that's a little buggy. Well, whatever. Point being that DOS support in terms of sound. So, you've got very, oh. Well, what the? Hey, whatever. I work I was going to say, it's unless you have the general I don't know. I don't know. Computers are so weird, man. I don't understand computers! So, yeah, you got that. You've got General MIDI No Adlib emulation, no You get PC Speaker. That's there. So, if you've got games Duke Nukem here, this is relying on MIDI and but yeah, that's about all you get. Runs great, of course, obviously. It's a Pentium III. You've got plenty, plenty, 750 megahertz. Whoops, I did not mean to use steroids. I can't help myself. Yeah, we're getting hundreds Go into a corner and we get way more. Look at that, 320. So yeah, that's what that is, and unless you've got a you're not going to get any sound effects. So, you know, and even then, the PC speaker is pretty quiet, probably just a little piezo beeper thing. I didn't notice what's on there. Doesn't really matter, because DOS games aren't Nah, this is very much and it's pretty capable for and when I think 1999, year 2000, I think &quot;Need For Speed: High Stakes,&quot; also known as &quot;Road Challenge,&quot; also known as &quot;Over Drivin' 4&quot; in Japan. I don't have that version Let's just try out &quot;Need For Speed 4.&quot; Mm, full motion video in full screen. [car engines rumbling] Those speakers sound awesome. [&quot;Cygnus Rift&quot; plays] All right, there we go. Hot Pursuit mode. And as far as graphics, yeah, I've got 800 by 600, 32 bit color, because we can get that And yeah, we'll just do that. [car engines rumbling] - [Announcer] Three, two, one, go! - [Clint] Ah, yeah. As you can see, it looks great Oh, yeah. It does start to slow down a bit as things get a little more detailed in certain parts of the track and more action goes This would have been 800 by 600, 32 bit color. I'll turn it down a bit. Yeah, I was stuck with a Voodoo much slower, in '99, anyway, and it was 16 bit color only, and going anything above 640 It would run too crappily I mean, we did it anyway, but you know. Like, this right here. Oh yeah, this is great, and you drop it down to 640 by 480, and then you do get a nice, smooth 60 throughout the game from Being able to go higher with pretty much max that is just, oh, it's awesome. It's so cool. Still, oh, 1999. - [Officer] Warning, drive with caution! - [Clint] I will never - So, yeah, another or I was playing it in '99. I guess it did come out in '99, didn't it? &quot;Age of Empires 2: Age of Kings.&quot; [dramatic menu music] So, I've got this set to the 1024x768. Honestly, this display does a great job of scaling lower I may as well go with the And the music isn't playing. Why is that? I don't know. Maybe the CD volume is turned down. You know what? I bet I I bet I didn't, because I was when I was messing around with stuff, and I believe the CD audio and I didn't stick it back on the motherboard. Crap. Well, I'll have to fix that. Do I need? No, I don't need a lumber camp. A mining camp, that's what I want. I'll put that over there. Give me my sheep. [sheep baa-ing] Good times, man. This game is awesome. Runs great, no surprise. Yeah, I gotta fix the CD sound issue. That's a problem. All right, let's move on to another go-to of the and yeah, I'm going with because I've got another that is an arena shooter instead of &quot;Quake 3,&quot; [id Software logo thumping] So noisy. All right, so I've got Full quality and all that. [tense music] Okay, so the CD audio is working on here. What's going on? Wait, does &quot;Age of Empires Maybe it was just &quot;Age 1&quot; I'm thinking of. Now that I think about it, I think &quot;Age 2&quot; uses like MP3s or something for its music. It's been a while since I've the music formats on Age of Kings. Anyway, whatever. The CD audio is working here, so I guess the cable is plugged in. Okay well, you know, I That's what I get, but yeah, you're probably noticing some Like, it runs great, and it just starts slowing down and stuttery and stuff. That is very much due to like I said earlier, I've cleaned up, I've run scan just little hitches like that. The game runs great for the but it's just on occasion, whenever it's like loading in or whatever data from the hard disk, then just get a little hitch, I mean, I would have been [rawk music] Oh, I need a better gun so badly, and oh my goodness, Whenever you load into a Give me the gun, a good one, please. There we go. That feels better. I'm going to die anyway. Okay, yeah. Well, yeah, so, it's loaded into memory or cached then it's pretty good. It's just like every time or some sort of new data's loaded in, it just gets a little iffy. Okay, moving on to another strategy, or really a sim game, &quot;SimCity 3000: Unlimited.&quot; Absolute favorite from that time period. Oh man, year 2000. [upbeat simulation tunes] Such a great game. Great And I remember this being, being a little tougher to run. Let me go with 800 by 600 here, and we're just going to load in. Yeah, we'll go for that. Why not? All right, so it is loaded, but it's still not going to be extremely responsive for a bit. Oh, this is like late game performance, and this is just kind of how it is. Oh, man, now, here's the thing. Yeah, let's do the whole zoom out thing, where you just get a bunch Oh, it takes so long to re-render. Come on. There we go. Oh. Yeah, look at that. That right there, I Honestly, it was even slower than this on my system back then, so again, I would have been cool These big ol' beefy simulation games, even these right here that it's just, there's a lot going on. Man, this game still Doesn't it? I think it does. Obviously, if we start a new city here, then performance is fantastic, because there's not much going on. [gentle music] Yeah, wonderful performance This is the way to play right here. &quot;SimCity,&quot; without the cities. Yeah, dude, entirely playable. Like I said, this is just that late game, where any of these later they're just rough to run on This is much better on, Much better on a much later if you can run it okay and while that's taking I've got one more Windows &quot;Unreal Tournament: Game which actually doesn't once it's installed, thank goodness. So, we're going to run that straight from the janky old hard drive. [UT theme music] Yeah, UT 99. So, Direct3D. I'm gonna go with 640 by 480. Do I want 32 bit? I don't know, this is kind of pushing it. We're gonna go with 16 Precaching. I don't see that message as often anymore. I usually play this on Oh, dear. Okay. Ah! Oh, I got a headshot That's how good I am. So, as you can see, we're at least for a bit, once everything is still Oh man, the hitching and for a good while. Once it does get everything into memory, I dunno, then it's all right. You know, runs pretty good actually, but it's just, yeah. More and faster RAM would A better hard drive, those and just cleaning up the system, or even doing a full fresh but I can't do that until So, again, if anybody does happen to find restore discs for this specific model, because, man, these Vaios are so specific. You have to have like the exact variant, or the restore discs won't work at all. Sucks, man. And yeah, maybe I'll I mean, I have imaged things on here, and I'll just take that all over manually to a new hard drive, and just sort of clone this drive and put it on a better one. I don't know. There's options. Either way, though, you can It's all right at this point, though. I would play this. I *am* playing this. Time to die! Neat! All right, well, that's pretty much it for the Sony Vaio PCV-MX2 from Japan. One of my favorite systems of the era, now that I've had a lot over the past month or so. Yeah, you know, despite in its current configuration, all that could be addressed, and I hope to do so at but I thought it was fun to show it in its pretty much original this retrospective, but it's got that MiniDisc drive, that's just awesome on once you get past that, it's 750 megahertz Pentium III, 64 megs of RAM, and a TNT2 by Nvidia. That's not bad, and obviously, it could only be improved, but yeah, I pretty much just want 'cause it's sort of a time capsule of Japanese personal computing So, yeah, I hope that you and if you did, check out my other videos on other old computers and other such things And as always, thank you