So, Joe, today we're going to visit some British Indian curry houses. There is a distinction there because these probably aren't going to be the most traditional Indian meals that you've ever had in your life, but they are specifically The way that we've identified these is places that have chicken Have you had that before? Joe: I think so, yeah. Harry: Although I think as to whether or not it's or whether or not some and it's just become really popular here. Man, you British. Can you guys just stop colonizing Let them have a thing! OK, well, regardless, I'm I am so jet-lagged. I'm, like, this close to crying. So I feel like some Indian Yeah, this could be an So, we're here at Tayyabs. This is an East London institution. It's been here for years. People love it. Celebrities come here. Jon Favreau absolutely loves this place, came here with Pedro Pascal. Love him. The standard things that like I said, probably and then probably a naan as well. We might slightly mix up or the topping of the naan, but I think those two are a good baseline. Does that sound good? They're kind of famous They do a really good so I think we should get some of those. You know they're good when Harry: Yes. That sounds good. It's not too much food, but I think we should pace ourselves. I've learned the hard way Oh, I know. That's your problem, pal. Harry: These are the papadams. Joe: Probably. Yeah, probably. Yeah, yeah. You get these, and they always And we're just, I'm just taking one? Yeah, you can kind of go for whatever. Some people just karate Joe: Did you want to do that for ... ? I mean, did you want to do Joe: Sure. Ready? Harry: Just go for it. Joe: Yah! Wait. But now it's all ... And then you just have nice kind of pick and dip. And these will probably because they've just ready to go in the kitchen. They'll bring these out, then the rest of the food So we've got a few dips here. This one, mango chutney. Getting any mango flavors from that? I am getting mango flavors, Yeah, this is probably my favorite one. Joe: Wow. It will vary slightly but normally, you're a yogurt, cream-based sauce, and then usually a spicy option as well. Haven't actually tried that one yet. How spicy are we looking? Not very spicy, but enough spice Harry: Uh-huh. I love this. This is if you came for a family your parents would be to not fill up on papadams. I was about to say, slow down. This is like in America after you order, chips Nice. We don't really get that here, but I see how that would be Because you're waiting and you're just hitting your food shows up and you're So, like, obviously, you guys have Indian food in the US. But am I right in culturally not as significant I think it's, no, I think I mean, I understand the India culture here in Great Britain, over the century or so versus in America. But, hey, America's a melting pot, baby. We got everyone. We got Ooh, here we go. Joe: Yes, sir. Oh, yes, all right. Joe: I'm losing my mind. I'm instinctually grabbing my head because I feel like This looks, oh, my God. It's pretty good, right? Joe: Oh, my God. This looks so good. Harry: I think the rest is on its way. Joe: Yeah, they're bringing it in. Yeah. Thank you. Harry: Thank you. Harry: Thanks very much. I have to say, everything here I am so excited. Harry: Me too, honestly. I'm just excited to eat. Joe: Yeah. I feel like, grab yourself a lamb chop. Yes, sir. Harry: Hear that sizzle. Oh, my goodness. And is that Juicy. Yeah. Looks amazing. A lot of people will refer Joe: Uh-huh. Harry: That's actually just because naan is just kind Joe: Do you want me to do the Harry: I feel like it's up to you, man. Go crazy. I think that's our curry journey today. it's what we're here for. We're so let me try it. Here we go. Mm. What are you getting there, Joe? Well, it's delicious. Harry: Mm-hmm. Good start. Joe: You really taste Sauce is incredible. What are some of the distinct Harry: It will vary slightly depending on the restaurant you're in. Generally speaking, they'll which is kind of the way to a blend of spices. Some common ones, ginger, cardamom, Joe: Flavor-wise, profile No notes on that. Harry: No. I'm going to try some of this These are some juicy lamb chops. Joe: Wow. Wow, wow, wow. Oh-ho. It's so juicy. Joe: OK, so the spice on this pairs with the lamb perfectly, right? Harry: Mm-hmm. The flavor's just jumping It's enough spice to know that it's there, but it really accents the It pairs with it incredibly, so I don't feel like I'm that was just covered in a spice. No. You can tell this has been marinated. Yeah. It's been cooked in the They're not just, like, and then kind of combining Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That flavor is in there. You might also see some variation with the type of chicken We're generally talking But I think this is good because you get quite So they've stayed really tender in the cooking process It's not really about the heat This is something that was kind of adapted for the British palate, But in terms of the it's really, really tasty. That's what I'm talking about, richness. Quite tomatoey. Do you get the tomato Joe: I absolutely do. This, to me, I just want and the rice and the naan, That's kind of the joy of Yeah. You can kind of just Often, if you come with a big group, you'd all get a few dishes, and you just kind of share them around, try lots of different things. If the camera wasn't here, I The sauce is just, mm. The camera's here, and I so go crazy. I'm not going to. I don't want that footage on the internet. So, they don't eat a ton It's not super common. Lamb doesn't seem to be as as it is here, certainly, but with the fact that the US, like, clearly, we're just like, cattle, Like, the two animals we're really just pushing on the population There certainly is lamb. It's just not as popular, yeah. Interesting. I will say, these are some of the best These are fantastic. Joe: Yeah. Harry: So, we took you to a elevated British Indian It's a pretty standard in the terms of, like, the decor. It's a little bit kitschy. They have some familiar like the tikka masala. But this is kind of an elevated The place we're going to go a much more authentic particularly when it comes to the masala. I think the color might surprise you. The flavors might surprise you a bit. It's going to be interesting. All right. This was fantastic, but how authentic is it? I don't know if you've but I'm actually not from to the authenticity of I can maybe talk to the experience but not that part. I have invited a friend along who's going to meet us at the next place who I think will be able to about what British Indian how it compares to actual Indian cuisine, and we'll kind of go from there. Joe: Sounds great. Harry: I've known Qayyah for many years. We've been at Insider together for, what, like, five years now? It's been over five years for me. We're kind of old. Yeah, we started out, started have kind of gone separate ways, and now rejoined again on the You might have had her voice That's how I know you. And there's also, I don't at least that I know, to talk about the definitely more so than I am. Qayyah: Well, I grew up in Liverpool, but my mom immigrated from I think she might have been about 1. And her mom was from Uttar Pradesh, which means that she's UPite. And Dad was from Sindh. So Sindhi and UPite. And because I've got obviously, we grew up at home making a lot of rotis on We cooked food at home And we did also go out which is quite a British phenomenon. Like, it's a very, it's very important. But in my mind, that's quite separate to sort of the food that we had at home. So I'll see how the I think two metrics are important here. So I'm going to be measuring this against different chicken tikka masalas but I'm also going to be measuring this against my mom's butter which, I'm going to say that it's kind of &quot;more authentic.&quot; Joe: OK. So we'll see. Great. I mean, if this beats your mom's curry, I feel like that could be a problem. She's going to see this video. I know she's in the comments. She's definitely a &quot;Food Tours&quot; head, so. Harry: Of course. Joe: Be careful what you say! So, you may be wondering why we're at this restaurant specifically. Very much so. There's a few reasons for it. Obviously, Brick Lane and Like, this is the place If you just Google, like, this is kind of where It's very iconic. There's so many of them. There's, like, 23 or 24 restaurants just on this one stretch But this one consistently just People have rated this really highly. It's very up there on Tripadvisor. I think it's the in the whole of London on Tripadvisor. Not just curry houses, just Fantastic. Harry: All those people That's correct. I totally agree. They should've that in the Maybe they do. I think they generally of the celebrities who've visited. Joe: I have noticed that, so thank you. One thing, so I live in Los Angeles, and what's really popular But another thing they'll do is, because everyone in Los is that they'll give Nice. Which makes sense. But then it'll be plastered with framed headshots, and you're like, &quot;I don't know Yeah, so. It could be a good way to, like, try and get a discount on your bill and be like, &quot;I'm actually kind of famous. Here's my headshot.&quot; Yeah, yeah, yeah. You just, you fold that like, there you go. Do the handshake where It's this big picture, like -- It's in the -- &quot;Hey, can I get a table near the window?&quot; Guy's like, &quot;What are you doing?&quot; A4-size picture. It's 8 1/2-by-11-inch. All right. I'm actually really I don't know that I've Harry: No? Harry: Look at the color That is bright! Joe: Wow. Joe: Thank you. Harry: Mm-hmm. Ketchup. Did we order ketchup? Yeah, but this is -- That's so much ketchup. Joe: Very generous with the ketchup. This is exactly like my mom Joe: With the ketchup? Yeah! Exactly like this! Harry: Thank you. We have a small feast. Qayyah: I'm really curious about this. That's almost like it Like, it's very bright. I don't think I've seen this bright before. Harry: Have you not? I feel like I have. Qayyah: No. and we had the chicken tikka masala, and it was much more like this color. Qayyah: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm going to try it. Yeah. We all are. I'm very excited. See, now, this is actually to have little bits of We often do, like, rainbow rice at home, which was always a novelty thing. That was my favorite Should we start dishing Grab yourself some rice. In my mind, tikka masala is this color. To be fair, this is, I an authentic British Indian curry, if is supposedly like a British take on an Indian, traditionally it makes sense that I think &quot;traditional&quot; is -- &quot;authentic&quot; is doing a lot Joe: Would you like some rice? Yes, I would. Thank you very much. But it's very, it's always tasty. Are you going to do it with the naan? I'm going to go for a It smells nice. Cheers, gang. Yeah, cheers. Mm-hmm. Joe: This one is sweeter Mm-hmm. And much more creamy, right? Yeah, a lot creamier. The chicken is cooked well. It is cooked well. Very tender. It's not chewy, which, I get really angry when people give me curry and and that's not OK. It's almost impressive to where you've been simmering it, right? Qayyah: It's happened. The one we had at Tayyabs It wasn't spicy. But I think because this is, again, from a classic British curry house. This kind of hits on the Pretty much. There's almost no heat to it. It's very sweet. It's very creamy. Joe: It's fantastic, though. I am very impressed with the flavor. Over here, we have? Harry: So, this is the lamb vindaloo. It's got an interesting story, vindaloo. It's, like, come from There's, like, Portuguese in there. Then it's kind of gone and then back to the UK. And every time, it's kind of Interesting. In the UK, if you order a one of the spiciest curries Joe: OK. I've ordered this one with lamb. This is the spicy guy. This is the spicy guy. This might be the thing that wakes me up. Harry: It may be. Qayyah: I've never tried Why not? I just wouldn't. Like, that I would -- is there potato in it? I mean, it is aloo in the OK, OK, I'm getting the spice. I'm getting that tingle. Is it only a tingle? Yeah, it's not overwhelming spice. Oh, another swallow, and I'm kind of feeling You got to watch out They creep up on you. Joe: This has a decent spice to it, but, ooh, the flavor's just mwah. The lamb, cooked perfectly. I feel like for me, I'm But there is flavor there, I'd probably have a but ah, I'm not, you know. If we had to nitpick. Eh. As mentioned before, Qayyah's made me cry with chilies before, and I'm not crying from Like you say, I do think yeah, that warmth, the richness. That lamb. The lamb's so good, man. It, like, falls apart in your mouth. So, I noticed that none of us have been tempted by the chips yet. I will just say, this is very Yeah, I did want to say chips, fries, as we call them in the States, do not normally come with Indian cuisine. No. And I'm not sure with British Indian cuisine. I do think it's very more the British But I think it's one where sort of, like, immigrant populations would open a restaurant, which, in Britain, there you're just going to serve on free money and free And therefore, chips are put on the menu. I do think, like, they go well with stuff. I mean, what I will do dunk it straight in that masala sauce. Can I also just weigh in these look to me more like french fries than they do traditional British chips. Hm. Like, a chunky chip is what Is this what I'm doing here, Harry: Go for it. And also, like, we do this at home. I'm British Pakistani Indian. Like, there's a whole mix going on there. Chicken and chips, man, it's a thing. It's really good. It's really good. I do think that's a good idea to finish off the sauce, in my many years of eating Indian food is that you eat the protein or the veggie that's whatever's in the sauce, and you usually have, And that's just kind of having Indian food. So to have something for Yeah. One of the founding says that when he goes out, he will order chips with Joe: All right. It's not just a British thing. Sounds legit. And what do we have here? So, this is a bhaji, and it's kind of like a I don't really like breaking them up because I just tend to but I'm going to split it up. Harry: Annoyingly, they've so just get stuck in. That's fine. You have a whole one They smell good too. Mm, crispy. Mm! That's really good. That's fantastic. Harry: Mm-hmm. Harry: I love ordering These are an excellent starter. These are a mainstay in my curry order. Joe: Sure. That's a good one. It was Mm-mm. This was fantastic. I loved everything. I think the chips thing is growing on me. Again, I'm probably be more than the chips, but I an inventive idea that I do stand behind. And then, Qayyah, final note from you. How does this kind of compare Is it better? Is it worse? I do still put them in two because they're just not And it's still a really nice but for me, like, it to my mom's cooking. Qayyah, thank you for joining us. I hope you had a nice time. Please take some leftovers because I'm not going to want Qayyah: Perfect. Thank you very much. So, what do you want to do next? I've probably got room for, Yeah, I can go for two more curries. Harry: All right, cool, So, this is Punjab Indian Restaurant. They've been here since the '40s. They used to be, actually, and then they moved here actually to be closer which is really cool, because the staff at the Indian embassy missed some traditional dishes from India. And they moved here to be closer to that, to supply that demand. So you know it's going Yes. And from what I've heard, very tasty, although I've not been here before. Oh, well, I'm very excited. Everything on the menu looks amazing. I love the vibe in here too. Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: Really digging it, so. Harry: Yeah, I love the Pictures on the wall. They're pretty proud of the heritage here. So, we're two in, about to do three. What are you expecting from this one that's different from the I think with this one, we should pay especially close because one thing that I don't think we've actually talked about much yet is that oftentimes with they will all start their So you'll get, basically, their masala, which is like their blend of spices. They'll kind of create is built upwards from Joe: Oh, OK. Harry: So I want to see if really shine through with, like, a couple of the different Joe: Yeah. Ooh, I can't wait. Something's sizzling. Something's sizzling Harry and Joe: OK. Whoo! Yo. Harry: Jesus, man. I mean, that's just great fun. That was fun, yeah. Harry: Thank you so much. Talk about a dish to get Harry: There we go. Yeah, we thought the Joe: Yeah. Wow, wow, wow. Man, look at that! So, this isn't the masala. This is just the chicken tikka. So you got these pieces of and then grilled over an open flame. So it lends itself to this really lovely charred And you've got a mint sauce Joe: Mm, really succulent. Fantastic cook to that. Harry: Mm. Nice little show with them I mean, you know. People in America love dinner and a show. Kind of our version of dinner and a show. Yeah, that heat knocked for about 30 seconds. And it's just settled back in. So, what we have here, samosas. You have had these before, right? Joe: Yes, I have had a samosa before. Harry: Yeah, these are fantastic. Joe: Yeah. Harry: A real staple. These are very spherical, as Sometimes you see them No, these are usually the Yeah, the place I go to Harry: I was going to cut them, but, like, what am I thinking? Oh, wow. Harry: With the sauce. Joe: I love these so much. Harry: Mm! These are definitely a go-to. Harry: Oh, man. Whoa. Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: The pastry, the crust, so savory. Fantastic, wow. This is another thing that's, It's kind of like, similarly to the bhaji, when it's kind of a risk that you'll just make it But you're getting none of that here. Just extremely, like, That filling's really good. I don't know what that sauce is, but that was lovely as Server: Chicken tikka masala. Joe: Thank you, sir. Joe: Ooh, yeah, all right. Harry: OK, start with the Initial impressions, not as, ah -- Joe: It's not as vibrant as the last one. Not as luminous. But I want to say also, the first one, again, was more like this. Harry: It was darker, yeah. It's really interesting to see, yeah, I guess what small that are kind of causing quite a big difference in the end product. Joe: Oh, man. That is fantastic. Harry: That might be we've had today. Yeah, this sauce. Ooh, wow. Right? Right? Joe: What is it about this one that stands out from the last two? I feel like it's, the sauce Like, it's thicker and creamier. Although the last one This one, I mean, the sauce, the flavor of the sauce is remarkable. Harry: There's a richness to it that I don't think we've had before. It's that concentrated flavor. Joe: Yeah. Ooh, wow. I love it so much. intense tomato flavor Yeah, there is a richness to this one that we have not had in the previous two. Not saying the previous but this one, as far as, like, that's the first one I've been like, yo. Yeah, that was the strongest reaction I've seen from you all day. What are you doing? Harry: I'm just giving you some rice. OK, thanks. Harry: I'm trying to -- Joe: What about today made you think I can't rice my own plate? Harry: I'm trying to be a gracious host. Joe: All right. Harry: I did just want to point out the description on the which says that, &quot;If you planned for after you leave us, perhaps you should resist I don't know if it's erotic, but after this, I'm meeting Yeah, I mean, maybe steer clear. You don't want to give Blah. That's my whole Dracula impression. Blah. Harry: Has Dracula ever Like I've read a Dracula book. I'm more going about the Harry: Oh, OK, not Bram Stoker. Blah! You know what? Maybe you but in, [laughs] in America -- Go on. I have noticed a lot of Dracula is from Great Britain. OK. Oi, mate, let me suck your blood. I think it works. What's all this then? When Van Helsing shows up, We've gone wildly off task. Oh. So, Indian food. Joe: Yeah. This is fantastic. Oh, I haven't even tried the naan yet. Harry: That is garlicky. I mean, if you actually look at it, I wasn't sure what these were, but I think this is, like, just straight on there. They're not playing with the garlic here. Harry: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Vampire-free zone. Yeah, forget about churches. If vampires are chasing, then go in here. I do like the amount of garlic on here. It's very garlicky. I think maybe the texture, A bit more thin and crispy than we've had at some A lot of the time, when I think of naan, it's a bit more pillowy and thick. Yeah. Well, I feel like I have room for maybe one more curry. That's great because we Joe: Fantastic. Let's do it. Just think of the sleep at the end of this. It will be restorative. Harry: It'll make it all worthwhile. All right. Let's do it. Let's go. All right, hey. To another great day. Cheers, my man. I don't believe I've had this before. This is mango lassi. This is another sort of Give it a try and see what you think. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I was about to ask what's and a smoothie, but, it's great. This is actually fantastic. It's really good. It's very thick. It's a yogurt-based drink. This one has mango kind It's funny, I was thinking I'm really thirsty. And nothing quenches my thirst quite like anything the The thickest liquid imaginable. I'm just imagining, like, and them handing me this, like, no! Slightly better. Look, we did a &quot;Food Wars&quot; and and you loved thick water. This is just kind of I will say, if anyone has this is it. Harry: Take one of these. So, Joe, here we are at We are at Spice Village. We're in Tooting. Have you been to Tooting before? No! What kind of question is that? Have you been to Tooting before? I have been to Tooting. My brother actually lives I haven't been to this OK. Harry: So, now we're in South London. We started off in East London. I think between maybe East, and some areas kind of those are the areas where some of the best South So this is kind of completing Joe: Fantastic. Compared to some of the other this place is slightly more modern. They only opened, I think, Been here about 20 years, but in that time have in the kind of South London curry game. They are known for which is, of course, why They were shortlisted at this year. Harry: The BCAs. Highlight of the calendar year They're taken seriously. Like, politicians go. When you purchase your yearly calendar, you flip right to it, like, got to make sure I don't accidentally ... get right to the, yeah. And the curry-themed calendar as well. So you flip it over and which curry you have for that month. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You flip to March and you're like, &quot;Oh, I can't wait to eat that one. Ooh, it looks good.&quot; Hey, we're kind of joking around, but, like, if I still had a still had a use for it, a curry-themed one would be really great. Harry: Yeah, curries of London. Curries of London calendar? We should make that. I think, we've been pitching I think &quot;Food Tours&quot; merch, that could be the first place to start. Joe: I'm rallying for this curry. Harry: Can you make one more? Harry: OK, cool, we'll do that. Joe: OK. I have to say, Harry: The food looks very tasty. You get to serve yourself. Last time, you didn't like it Joe: It's not that I don't It's just, it came out of Is this going to become I mean, the way you said Look, I was trying to do a nice thing, and it just felt like it but that's fine. We're going to be bickering by the end of this. Can I get the check, please? All right, I'm loving how this looks. Harry: OK, man. Joe: And go. Cheers, man. Dude. Dude. Whoa. That's really good. OK, we're hitting some areas there. I'm just going to free-associate. Harry: Spitball, go on. Perfect level. I'm feeling the heat. Nothing I can't handle. enough to really keep the tingle going as you savor the rest of Speaking of flavor, Again, thick enough to where you're really getting but not too thick where it's, like, pasty. It's not thin enough it's running around everywhere. Harry: Mm-hmm. I think you're right. You've the mouthfeel that you get there, the viscosity of that sauce. It really coats your whole mouth. Like, I'm still, just one bite, and I'm still holding on to the flavor. And the spice, it's not It's like a numbness It's almost like my mouth is Yeah, I feel that's taken us I bit into it, and I was, like, buttery. Like, smooth. Heat starts to rise. You get the tomato. You get the spices. That's fantastic. I'm going to try it Oh, yeah. Get a dip. Mm. The naan's really good too! Harry: Mm-hmm. It's that which I think is actually than the kind of thick, fluffy ones. Joe: Oh, is that right? Harry: Yeah. Joe: I adore that. That was very good. OK, pakoras? Yeah, so these are pakoras. Joe: No, I've had pakoras before. Harry: You have? I haven't seen pakoras shaped like this. They're usually more of a lump. Yeah, I'm used to these but I like this. I feel like you get a lot and therefore, they'll get crispier. This might be the best and I love my pakoras. Here we go. OK. Wow. I feel like the spice level of this dish is higher than probably any we've had today, right? Not in a bad way. The spicier one, but I it wasn't too spicy or overwhelming spicy. Enough heat to remind you where it's from. The heat is almost like, I could bring it. I'm choosing not to. Harry: Yeah. Just flexing on you a little bit, eh? Yeah, just like, &quot;Don't What's up, taste buds?&quot; Tikka masala, part of the I think, is because it's of the curry house because there's no two Everyone does it slightly differently. Even here, they have two recipes. We got the creamy one, or you can just get But I thought the creamy Yeah, well, you're out of your mind if you're getting one different from that. I mean, I guess I would but there's no way they have But, I mean, all the no two have been the same, have they? They've all been completely different. I just think that's really interesting. And again, I think it's a nice way to measure the quality of a place just as a baseline, kind Didn't Qayyah say that, like, Indian food will differ family to family? Yeah. Joe: So it's interesting it could be completely different. Yeah. I think there's no, like, Obviously, it will come But yeah, it's just really fascinating to see those little changes in the gravy, in the masala being so strongly reflected in the final product. I think we've got a decision to make. Yes, we do. So, first of all, thank you for taking me You're so welcome. If these four are any indication of the Indian food that in this country, wow, What I loved about it is I basically how they wanted So, Tayyabs I do have a soft spot for. I've been there before. Love it there. The lamb chops were fantastic. Joe: Oh, yeah, those lamb chops. Harry: Those lamb chops were excellent. Joe: This ain't a lamb chop video, though. Not a lamb chop video. But those lamb chops, world Harry: True. I think Brick Lane was good. It was educational, I think, for you. Joe: Yes. Maybe not in terms of but I will always have a soft spot for the British curry house experience. Joe: Yeah, and the chips Harry: Yeah, the little Joe: Yeah, they gave us That was a lot of ketchup. OK. And then between, I think, what we've seen really is I think the flavors on display And for me, I think it kind of But I want to hear what So, it was down to these this was the best one. Harry: This was the best. because I'm saying, like, everything about this was fantastic. The spice, the texture, the mouthfeel. The chicken was cooked perfectly. And these pakoras are I know we're also talking about the naan. This might also be my favorite naan. Harry: Interesting. So for me, this is the best one. What do you think? I do think this might have just nicked it. This was one of them. Although I don't think as you might think. Oh, really? Just pipped it to the post. But, I mean, the flavor of that is just unbelievable. Yeah, so I think we're in agreement. This is the best food Wave the little Spice Village flag. This also has the distinction of being the first &quot;Food Tours&quot; we've done where I kind of want to steal the cutlery. Sorry you can't see it, because, I mean, when their you know they're doing something right. Golden cutlery for a gold-star restaurant. This looks like if I knew I could just, like, Anyway, yeah, this place is fantastic. Worth coming down. The first, the only You're the first American First of many, I hope. Yeah, and the last. When I go back, they're I'm just like, &quot;Tooting, skip it.&quot; Harry: That's fine. Yeah, just gatekeep Tooting. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Harry: Boom.