- Allow me the honor of introducing your next and US Senator Lynelle Perry. (crowd cheers) - Well the open bar (crowd cheers) I can see it worked. (crowd laughs) We have a lot of work to do and a lot of work to undo. The question we all have to answer, the one that I will look to every day is, what will Montana look like in 100 years? Much of that is dictated by the Right now, we are seen as We are New York's novelty Not anymore. (crowd shouts) You've elected me to be of its land and its people, and that's exactly what I will be. (crowd cheers) You know, environmentalists, what's Montana's most valuable resource. Is it the water? Is it the wolves? Is it the trees? The answer is actually pretty simple. It's you. (crowd cheering) The farmers and ranchers who Protecting you now is how when none of us here (crowd cheers) Thank you. (crowd cheers) (zipper hissing) - Wanna whiskey, Daddy? - Why not? - Can I get one of those? - Go fuck yourself. (whiskey pours) - Make your brother a whiskey. - I will not. - Here, here. Make me another one. (whiskey pours) (ice clanks) - [Jamie] Hey, Dad? - Yeah. - You should think twice about canceling the airport funding. - (snickers) I've thought plenty about it. - Well, it's 5 million a year to the ranch for a ranch that loses three. Do the math. - You know there's other revenue streams for the ranch, Jamie. - Oh, name one. - Well, I'm getting a - Oh, you're charging the state $1 million for his inauguration party? - Actually, I'm charging his campaign. - Oh, is that it? Well, You can't benefit from campaign funding. That's how he gets impeached - He's not benefiting from it, Jamie. A Utah LLC is benefiting from it. - We're all going to prison. - You know, it is the you aren't already there. - Well, you two just shut the fuck up and let me enjoy the last hour of quiet I'm gonna experience This is all your fault. - That's right. - This was never supposed to be me, it was supposed to be you. - It could've been me, - [John] No. - I could've won. - Oh, of that I have, uh, I You know, it must break my and see what a mess I What an embarrassment we are to the sacrifice it took to give us a home. (intense music) I'll tell you what, sacrifice is exactly what we're gonna do. That's what you're gonna do, Jamie. You're gonna sacrifice your ambition. You're gonna sacrifice your fear, your weak self-loathing heart. You're gonna kill all that. You're gonna get strong, and or how much you disagree, what the fuck I tell you Exactly. Make no mistake, I love Montana, but I'm doing this for our ranch. We measure every decision against what is good for the ranch. The ranch comes first, you understand me? - I understand. - Always, Daddy. (intense music) - Freedom. Been thinking a lot about that lately. The word, what it means. The dictionary thinks that it means the power or right to think, without hindrance or restraint. As governor of this state, I'm Building a city in the middle of our strips you of that freedom. It eliminates your freedom and drink clean water. It strains the ability of our schools, our hospitals, and our police. That requires an increase in our taxes, which in turn strains our families. Forcing you to decide if in a place that you call home. That's not progress in my And the invasion is over today. I'm signing an executive order for the Paradise Valley the Airport Development Project, and the Paradise Valley Ski Resort. All state permits are revoked. (intense music) (intense music) Thank you for your time today. Enjoy the rest of it. (crowd chattering) They're right behind you. - John, what the hell was Governor Perry and your son pushed this thing down our - Well, you really want 30,000 people from the Bay Area running Ronnie, putting up a Starbucks where your fly shop is? - We're well past want, John. Do you understand the tax revenue that you just took from this county? The hotel tax alone is 100 million. Not to mention the airport - Where are you gonna Hm? You're gonna have to double the size of the Sheriff's department, - And where do you treat the Is there a treatment plant in the valley that I don't know about? - I'll increase your tax revenue without adding one structure Without one new road. - Doubling property tax on non-residents. - It'll never work, they'll - No, they won't. If they could have become Hey, New York and California, they do not give up 16% that easy. - You didn't need our permission to issue an executive order, - Deny the request to rezone. Without the state's support, - A lot of people in this valley - A lot of people from People with no vote. - They may not have a And they give it to the people - Take a drive down Main That's what they'll do - [Kyle] Our terms are This wound will still - Hell, the state will still - There will be no litigation, Ronnie. And you'll both still be in office. When was the last time a - Never. - Well, you have mine. - Andy will vote to approve, - And that's why Andy's not sitting here. I only need two votes. Do I have them? Hm? Once you deny their rezoning request, I'm revoking their lease on our land. I'm placing the ranch in There'll be nothing to litigate. - You should have just told We'll issue the denial tomorrow. - Dad? - Yeah? - If you put the land in we have no moves. We can't sell off a piece to We can't ever develop it, - Exactly. we could lose the whole thing. - But it'll be a whole, And that matters more We'll worry about who runs (solemn music) (solemn music) (footsteps ascending) (solemn music) You're up early. - Shrewd observers, the men in my family. Yes, I am up early. - Why are you up so early, honey? - Keeping my promise to you. Why are you up so early? - Reflecting. I can't, I can't reflect at the end of the day. Evenings are for forgetting, but in the morning I can remember. - Remember what? - There's some memories with their children. - I think we're way past I think I've told you about everything. Hell, I told you about my first threesome. - Your what? - Didn't I, I thought I, never mind. You want some more coffee? - God damn, Beth. - Well, I'm not the one sitting on a porch thinking about things - I was thinking about your mother. - What about her? - She was a magnificent woman. I wish she could have lived long enough for you to recognize that to know it. Know how much she loved you. - That's not what you were thinking. - That's what I'm thinking about now. (solemn music) - I'm late. You know, Dad, you can but it can't love you back. Find someone that you can love while you're still young enough to do it. You know, her memory (solemn music) - You have the Montana - Cancel it. - Governor, I think that - All right, who exactly attends the - Everyone. Senator Perry will be there, legislators, school superintendents, - Well, why do they call if there's no educators there? It's Thursday, Clara, all Tell you what, when the about teachers, I'll go. (advisors chattering) Who are they? - It's a policy advisors meeting. - Policy advisors for who? - For you. - How can my policy about policies without me? - Um. (footsteps ascending) - You're in my seat. So what policies are we discussing today? Nobody? Well, let's see. In accordance with the Montana is leasing 7,000 to Sun Energies. What is Sun Energies? - It's a solar farm company. - Hm, and you are? - Stanley Roberts. - And you are? - Your Chief Policy Advisor, Mr. Governor. - Well, nice to fuckin' meet you. - I tried to schedule a lunch, but you're a, she said - Where's your office, Stanley? - Just right down the hall. - You know what, so is mine. Ever dawn on you just to - My mistake. - I'd say. Well, let's see what other Suspend natural gas leases on state land in Powder River County to support the Sage Grouse - Um, there's been a precipitous drop in sage grouse numbers. And there's empirical evidence that gas exploration and on the sage grouse environment. - And what effect do you think 7,000 acres of solar panels are gonna - There's no evidence that solar panels would have any impact on - What do they do with the sagebrush when they put in the solar panels? - They, they, they, they would clear it before putting in the solar panels. - They remove the sagebrush? - Yes, sir. - Sage grouse live in the sagebrush. - They do. - And you don't think is gonna have an effect on the population? - I just said, there's no evidence. - You know what scares you're serious. You're looking at me I think tops of my agenda today is gonna be budget discipline. You're all fired. I'm very mindful of our taxpayers' money and you're all wasting it. I'll advise myself on policy, Clara. How much money did we just save? - I would say roughly $1.6 if you're serious. - Oh, I'm pretty serious. Look at that. What a great day for the state of Montana. Where to next? I know how you feel. I wished I didn't, but I do. I, I buried a son right over there. - I remember. - Blaming yourself, aren't you? Yeah, I did that too. Still do some days. I'll tell you something I had a brother for about 18 He was born early and his little Not much they could do back in those days. You know, not a lot they can do now. So they just gave him back to my mother. Doctors hoped, and we And it changed my mother and hardened her. She never, she never tried Years later, I was grown Both my parents are looking at him, taking turns holding him, and my father got white as and said, &quot;Peter lived a perfect life. All he saw of this planet was you. And all he knew was you loved him.&quot; That boy lived a perfect life, Monica, we're the only ones who knew it was brief. All he knew was you, that you loved him. (Monica crying) (solemn music) - Thank you. (solemn music) - You wanna come tomorrow? - Do I wanna sit on the back of an animal you broke into submission you plan to harass and imprison before you mutilate their bodies? No, I think I'll stay here. - (laughs), Summer, you You know the first thing that happened to you when you were born? A complete stranger cut away that part of your body that'd been feeding you for nine months. Then that stranger hands who held you upside down and slapped you on the until you scream, and then and immobilized you in a blanket before handing you back to your mother. And if you're a boy, later that day, another stranger comes runs all sorts of tests on you before cutting off the Never mind that all those things were done to save and improve your life. See my point? - Not really. - Not really? Well, I guess that's why I'm governor and you're under house arrest. - Do you get cell service up here? - God, I hope not. - Well, you should probably - Can you, uh, can you ride? - I can ride. - You carry the satellite. - I took the liberty, I need it. - You're doing what I came out here to do. Pour me one, would you? - Yeah. - My daughter. I, uh, commend you, Rip, it to sleep next to that woman. - You know the old saying, Well, that's never truer - I guess not. You know, the first Duttons fighting was all they knew. That's how they got here, how they kept the land once they did. But today it's, today it Cowards rule the world these days, Rip. With coward rules and coward customs. To succeed today all you and how to complain. I truly believe it's a survival You know, I always thought as she got older. But every year seems like - Yeah. What it must feel like to be that free. You know, I got one child I miss. One child I pity. One I regret. But that girl, that child I envy. Yeah. I'll see you in the kitchen about four. - Yes, sir. Goodnight. (solemn music) - Come on, you old bastard. Well, Emmett, I couldn't, couldn't have dreamed up a You sure earned it, old friend. (sad music) We're gonna need that - Oh my god. - Yeah, life ends, that's part of it. His ended good. I refuse to be sad about - All right. - Get him going, we'll catch up. - What happened, sir? - He didn't wake up, he Like every cowboy dreams it. (horse trotting) (solemn music) (horse trotting) - Hey guys, get this. Go, go, turn around. Go, go, go, go, go. (solemn music) - How? - Like a cowboy should. Head resting against the His eyes closed. - Oh. - He didn't open them. (Ella sobbing) - You don't like the band? - Hm? - The band? - No, it's good, just. - You look sad. - You know, I look at, This is dying. It's already dead where you're from. And now all the people where you're from are coming out here and - Have you tried? - Well, that's why I became governor. - You ran for governor to stop and you did that in one day. What I never understood about you guys is all you do is bitch moving to rural America ruin it. Change the culture. But I've lived all over the mountain west. Gunnison, Santa Fe, and not once, never once, did my neighbor bring me or the harvest, or whatever They just glared at my hiking shorts and my license plate and judged me. Same way I judged you. Don't get me wrong, I'm not ordering a steak But I understand now. I understand why you brand, and why you move them from 12 million tourists a year You might wanna think about so they understand who you really are and what you really do. 'Cause they have you pegged as who are ruining the environment. And that is not who you are. - You're a smart woman, Summer. Very, very, very smart woman. - I'm a smart person. - Well, women are smarter So I'm just judging - Thanks for kidnapping (John laughing) - I did not kidnap you, I commuted your sentence to house arrest. - At your house. - I, I, I guess in the narrowest of legal interpretations - Thanks for doing it. As your press advisor, I - You're my environmental advisor, my press advisor's behind me making out. - You have no intention of running for a second term, do you? - Absolutely zero. - What is it about sad songs and cowboys? - I don't care what they think. - You made that abundantly clear. - Well, there's no one in front of us. Very few to my right. And everyone to my left is with me. - That just leaves the 1500 behind us. - Well, yeah. Yeah, well, I think you're (crowd cheers)