[MUSIC PLAYING] Yeah, what's the matter, boy? Old man Brecker, huh? [GUNSHOTS] [HORSE NEIGHS] [KNOCKS] Who's there? JOHNNY: Johnny Rush. Johnny. Hi, Charley. Johnny. I heard you was coming. I'm glad you made it. How you been doing, Johnny? They burned me out, Charley. No, no. And whoever it was See who did it? Probably Becker. He knew you was coming. Fellow came down from the He said you was coming along. Not old man Brecker. Uh-uh. He's dead. It was young Hal. He claims all of He's got the papers to prove it. I was talking to the old just before I went south to He said then the Took in my place, Said he'd have it changed. Well, he died. That's how young Came up here and My old hound dog Mike Got killed for it. Old Brecker has a bunch He calls them deputies. They're making all but they ain't setting Don't like Indian lovers He never did Uh-uh. And him and me never Johnny, I've got me a dugout and there ain't nobody Only Gonaga. You mean you ain't going to Not on your life. I've had all the going to do when I was with I should think you'd had No, Johnny. I'm going to hole up be near my friends. Why don't you fetch along? No, Charley. I'm too young to be I guess I'll go over and going to do about it. Johnny, aren't you to eat before you go? No, I'll get Say, can I leave my pack Sure you can, son. Bring yourself back too. You ain't got no No, Charley. I'd better stay away. If Hal thought you'd burn this place to the ground. Well, let it burn. I'm fixed. I may be back. Do that, Johnny. Oh, please, Dan, [KNOCK] That must be Hal Hardly. He'd come on in. I'll get it, Mother. Johnny Rush. How are you, Pat? Fine, thanks. JOHNNY: Your father in? Oh, I'm sorry. Come in. Father, a stranger's here Johnny Rush. How are you there, scout? You remember Johnny, Mother? Yes. How do you do? Hello, ma'am. Hang up your hat. Could I get you Yes, get the man Well, thanks, if it Here, take the weight off. Your animal been fed yet? No, but I won't be Oh, Mother, have the men taken care of. Mother, tell them to come on in Well, when did you get back? Early this to see my place being burned. They burned your place? Mm-hmm. Took a shot at me. I think Hal Brecker had Now, wait a minute, fellow. Why would Hal want to do that? Charley told me that you and Crazy Charley told you that? Don't pay any attention to him. That old man's getting Thank you. I saw Brecker's name on It is a private Charley didn't steer you wrong. Hal's taking over. He had no opposition while you Hal's got complete control. Nothing we can do now. That's what Charley said. He's moving out. That leaves you and me, Dan. We can fight him. How about it, Dan? It's too late, Johnny. I've already made He's going to let us stay. Well, I guess that It's a lonesome trail, son. What do you expect to do alone? I don't know. But I'm going into Tyrone You'll find Harold a fine He's asked my Is this your deal, Dan? It's the only weapon we have. That right, Dan? I'm ashamed, Johnny. That's the way it's going to be. Thanks for the meal, Dan. Johnny. Excuse Mother. She doesn't know. Dad never tells her anything. And you, don't I know better, Marrying Hal is an excuse Now I-- I don't know Hal has never let on about You'd better stay away from him. He's dangerous. I could say the What else can I do? I have Mother and Fight. You've got men. Dad's been through all that. They'll ranch, but Maybe I can help. Not alone. No, not alone. But two alone are not lonely. Would you be willing What can I do to help? When I get back, would you Yes, but I can't let Dad know Hal's not so tough. I'm glad you're what Thanks. Johnny, if something happens-- I mean, if you can't you won't feel badly about It's all I've got left. What is it? An old Indian brooch. Belonged to my mother. She died when I was born. Well, I'll probably [SALOON MUSIC] This is no place Hal Brecker's men have been long waiting for you. Rye. You're burned out, Johnny. Shot at too. Give me a rye, Dandy. I guess I haven't got any That right? Well, there's some. Mighty scarce, though. Ramsey and Clark lives over near Charley, Act like I'm a stranger. It's nothing personal. You've changed a lot. Maybe they don't recognize you. Mack Ramsey. All right. Those fellows have all got I had a father to look but I went anyway. But that's all in the past. Best thing you could do is shove Nobody left here to I'm left. What's wrong, Larry? Just wait here a minute. I'll be right back. You're not from around That right? You better go back with your girlfriend, Baker. Get out of town, Rush. I didn't come to I came to see Hal Brecker. Hal Brecker's busy. What do you want? I said I came to see Brecker. I heard what you said. Now get out. DANDY: Watch it, Johnny. And don't come back, Baker. Sorry, Dandy. It's all right. The gentleman wants to Julie, you go back I'm not your guest. That right, mister? You better go out and Come on, Julie. Come on back over to Red Come on. See you later, good looking. What do you want? Is Hal here? What do you mean I've got something MAE: Well, he isn't here. BAKER: All right. Don't ever come up here If you see him, would you Yeah. I'll tell him. HAL: Who was that? What's the difference? Who was at the door, Mae? Larry Baker. You know I don't like those What did Larry want? Well, didn't you tell him. Oh, don't be mad, sweetie. It's just that I going around saying things. What did Larry want, Mae? Oh, something about Rush? Johnny Rush? Something like that. Oh, don't go, baby. Don't do that. I've told you 100 times when I've got someplace to go. Don't be mad at me, sweetie. It's just that I I'll be back. When? I told you to keep Wait over there and Johnny, it's none but why don't you You haven't got a chance. That's what I've [DOOR OPENS] Looks like it's too late. Hello, Rush. I understand you I got your message. What message? When I came in, my What's that got to do with me? I understand you've taken Well, that's Could be a fact. Well, let me put You don't own any of my land. I've got barbed wire What else do you want? I don't want anything you've I had a talk with your old He said it was all wrong, My dad's not running Anything else? Yeah. I suggest you give Bonesteel back their property. I'm going to give Get on your horse, ride over to I said I don't want Just my land. It may take time, but Now, don't cause Just get out, half-breed. Why, you yellow-bellied-- Don't start anything I've got a double barrel scatter and I'm not afraid to use it. There isn't going to I'll see you outside. Johnny, if you'd have would have been finished. He's got men all over the place. He never goes anyplace alone. I don't know what I What did I expect to do? Now, unless I clear out, I've got to think Well, I'll see you later. Stay here or go I'll back you up. Uh-uh. You better stay on I'm going out, and I'm [GUNFIRE] Hey, I got him. Baker, come on, get him! [GUNSHOT] I want to be important too. You don't have respect Hal, I've got to talk to you. I got Rush. What do you mean you got him? I killed him. He's dead. HAL: Where? Out in the valley. Anybody see you? No, I was out This is the guy, Harold. I told him not to You know, this Rush guy could I don't think so. Swear out a warrant That's what I'd do. Tell him not to I'm swearing out a warrant and battery. Assault with a deadly weapon I'll make up the posters. Look, I don't want to get affairs, but when he he said he was said he didn't want Now, do you have to You just take care and we don't need Dandy, you're very thoughtful. You just leave the Gonaga, white man, dead. Turn him over. White scout. He live. We make pallet, carry scout Whoa. Whoa, boy. Bring him on in, Gonaga. Easy now, easy. Help me take white Lay him on the cot, Gonaga. We rest him here. Take care. Take care. I told you to come You'll be safe here. They'll never find you. Brave, go back down trail. Make sure no one follow. After rest, bring me word Good. You know who this fellow is? You probably saved his life. GONAGA: He live. Yeah, he'll live. He'll live to chase you Apaches again. Apaches stay on reservation. Sometimes maybe Well, if you knew who he Gonaga make this. Oh. Make this for Morningstar. She leave Apaches, marry And the boy don't even know. I'll never tell. I go. Where are you going? You ain't even drunk [SPITS] White poison. Now it'll go to waste. My old dog Mike Another day, crazy one. We'll be here, Where did you get Bucks find him in hills. You find out who No. Come on in out of Oh, Gonaga. So you've come You darned idiot. I knew you'd wind up I told you to head for You was dry gulch, son. Smack dab dry gulch. Where did I get it? You got it right in You got something I can Yep. Gonaga, get up, give me that. Easy now. Oh, that is the damnedest thing. An Indian trying Here, let me help you, old one. You're worse than Johnny. Always getting into something Good. Now, what in tarnation to get yourself fixed Tried to win a medal. Well, you want And it's as big I don't know what [NON-ENGLISH] JOHNNY: What's that? It's an old Apache saying. It means the wild killing craze. That right, chief? Now, rest yourself. Gonaga, throw a few there and give her a quick stir. You're the crazy Oh, there you are, Dan. Where are the rest Oh, Mother's napping. Patricia's about someplace. I'm out looking for a fellow Rush? Oh, that's the young chap Was up at the Army for a while. Yeah, that's the one. You haven't seen him No, I don't remember You didn't see him last night? Well, I've been in the You know that, Hal. What are you getting at? Was Pat out of the No, not that I recall. Dan, you and I made and I don't like people I do What are you I heard that Johnny Rush Is that right, Dan? Well, where have you been? Oh, hello, Pat. I was just telling your from across the basin. He rode into town last night and started a row with me. I don't think he'll cause What happened to him? Well, we haven't Got a warrant out I doubt if he'll Now, there's a lot of but they all learn [HUMMING] Well, it's cold enough to out there. What are you doing I've got to get I met Gonaga on He said he found A fellow by the one of Brecker's deputies. I know all about him. I threw him in the mud Eye for an eye and Where'd you get this? Well, Gonaga found that when he picked you up. Where did that old I found it in the ashes Belonged to my mother. Oh. Is that right? Where are my things? What things? My saddle bag, my carbine. Well, when Gonaga brought there was no saddle bag on it. Wait a minute. There was a saddlebag Where are your guns? The Sharps up there. I ain't never had no other. That's like having I don't know what even if you did have one. Stiff. Just keep exercising it. Well, got me a couple We're going to eat again. What'd you hit No, with my bow. You're getting pretty at Robin Hood, ain't you? Here, you pull it. [LAUGHS] Hey, how do you pull Step back, son. Step back. It takes practice, and you've got to This here's the best teacher and he can't even hardly Loco one hard man to teach. Yes, sirree. I use my old bow and arch. It's quiet, too. That old Sharps Besides the old Sharps This way, they never You know, drawing this bow It'd either help I've got one here that I Try it. Oh, that looks nice, You and I will tomorrow, see if we can't of those muscles. How are you making Steal better meat in town. Gonaga went into Tyrone. He said that the Brecker but they've got a warrant just in case you ain't. Everybody think I'm dead? Some think you moved on. A dead man sure could raise couldn't he? Wait a minute. You get them there crazy You're better off to stay If I could just draw a gun. But I'd have to develop or they'd drop me before I Now, you forget them All you've got to do, son, Chief, know where Know the girl, Pat? She hide me one time. Well, next time you go and tell her that Johnny Rush Two alone no lonely? Yeah, just tell her that. This looks like a good spot. No, no, no. Like this. Now, look, Charley, I'm a gun man. I like to stink of off a .45 in my hand. Kick? Try that. Give you all a kick you need. Listen here, you dang fool. These here weapons has It ain't no toy, sonny. This is a mighty good You think them there longbow Well, by golly, they weren't. They show them what could be done Shot them clean before they could You've been reading I've never read And what's more, I once seen a through a buffalo, and it Now, you get down there and and give it a quick jerk. Oh, you think it's Watch that old stump over there. Now go pull it out. Yeah, let me do it. Hows that? Eight inches. Fooled you, didn't it? I didn't think they Smells kind of funny. It rubs in pretty good. Ow! I'm going to give up, Charley. I'll never be a bowman. How long did it take you Not long. You're a dang liar, or else I'll bet you it took before you could learn to shoot Yeah, I guess you're right. There you are. Now, you better before you catch cold, Johnny. Don't you worry about You looked right natural today. Right natural. How does the old It feels better than Good. Afternoon, ma'am. A bottle of Jameson's, please. I see you enjoy Charge that to Mr. Yes, ma'am. Have you seen Mr. Brecker? Let me see, he was in here I think he went out to He sure is bent on marrying What are you talking about? Oh, the first rule is to keep everything I'm afraid I spoke Well, who told you I'm sorry I missed it, ma'am. I thought it was Is he making a fool out of me? Ma'am, don't get upset. Here, have a drink on the house. Mr. Dayton, I'm drink in saloons unescorted. Are you sure he went out there? Now, ma'am, don't you go Hello, Gonaga. I haven't seen you How have you been? Good. Johnny Rush say two Where is he? Gonaga find Johnny by wash. He almost dead. Very good now. He come see you. Did he say when? Johnny say nothing. Gonaga say. Gonaga! Here. You good. [SNORING] Uh-oh. You good teacher. Indian eyes shoot like death. Indian eyes, huh? Looks like the old boy Give girl message. Big town boss marry girl quick. Time I was leaving, Charley. What for? You see, Pat, she doesn't But you'll run into I hope I do. Where do you keep the Only got two or three You see, I ain't done my Man die hard with the arrow. I didn't teach him Don't never use It's for animals. I won't, Charley You dang fool! You think I dragged you to life so as you'd go back It's a personal like you want to stay Oh, Patricia, come here. Sit down, will you, dear? You don't really want to You know the answer to that. You won't have to. But, Dad-- Mother and I will You kind of like this But I don't think we can We won't put him off. I'm going into I think I'm good Dad, you don't I don't have to do anything. Go tell Buck to Well, he'd better go with you. I'm doing this alone. Thanks for If you find a bad welcome We ought to go down there. Can't buck up against Anybody knows that. No. I ain't nursed that yearling I can't let him get killed You go back out on the Confound that boy. [GUNSHOT] [KNOCK] Oh. I thought you were my husband. Is Pat here? No, she's not. My husband's not but he got up and When he didn't come back, Does Dan have a gun around? He has all those and that little one You're not here to start That's just exactly Well, you-- you better He won't like that. You know, Hal has a lot of You know what I think of you? Fill it up. Excuse me, Mr. Dayton. Have you seen my No, I haven't, but I think-- Who are you, sister? Patricia Wells. Oh, yes. I know her, don't I, Dandy? Come on, Mae. Back over and sit down. Take your hands off. Now, Mae. Now, no trouble, huh? No trouble. Oh! Mae, get out of there. All right, go on. Get them out of here. Come on. All right, Mae. Where's my father? Your father? Well, he went home. I don't believe you. I would have passed Mae, go on home. Mae! I told you to get out of here. You can have him, sister. I think you stink. Hold it. Who's that? Johnny Rush. [GUNFIRE] Hey, come back here. Don't go away. Don't nobody move. Don't raise your arm, mister, as big as your head. What do you want, Charley? Johnny Rush. You won't find him here. Rush moved over to Globe. He's been gone for Don't give me none of Johnny Rush ain't He's right, Charley. Johnny hasn't been around Maybe Deputy Baker can Mr. Baker, I got word that Is that right? All right, Charley. Go on along home now. Oh, Dandy, I don't But I've got to ask Mr. Brecker, I'm asking you We've got some This old thing is but nobody knows where it'll go. It's bound to hit Move, Mr. Becker. Don't start anything. We'll get him later. Move. Now, get in there close. I'm going to give it to I came out here to talk the land of Lonesome Valley. I want to make a deal for and mine. You seen a copy of the I don't want to talk I'm talking about property. Now, if you make me nervous, of General Perkins I want the land, that's all. That'll take time. You've got to have papers. I've got the papers. It's all writ right in here. And there's a space here That's all I want. Now, sign this. All right. Stay where you stand. Don't move till I tell you. Take out your crayon. And sign right here on Move. Now back where you was. Stand now with I'll go now. Now, none of you move. Stay right where you are. Walt, follow that but don't shoot till you get [GUNFIRE] Who did it, Charley? One of Brecker's men. Name's Driscoll. He rides a pinto. Where's Brecker? Back in town somewheres. I made him sign He signed his name in my good Are you all right, old timer? I'm all right. I'm as crazy as you are They got Dan Wells too. Ambushed him off the trail. Charley. Pat, one of Brecker's Ambushed him up the trail. I took care of it. Stay with Charley, Pat. Son, remember what It's for animals. Yeah, for animals. Hal's going to get awful Let's go. I told you to take your and you can tell your Right, no more drinks, Dandy. Cut them off. As you say. Keep your hand where run this shaft You know me, Baker? Yeah, sure. Don't you forget me. Use your head, Baker. I don't know if you've but just in case. I don't know why And if you don't want maybe you'd better Try Globe. Driscoll. Who's there? Johnny Rush. Draw. [GUNSHOT] [GUNSHOT] Draw, Rush! Get back here! [KNOCKS] Johnny Rush, Brecker Rush? Johnny Rush? You better ride out, half-breed. I can get you from here, even for an Indian. If you're playing come out where I can see you. Come on, Brecker. Come on out and How are you feeling, old timer? Fine, just fine. Everything's solved, huh, boy? Just about, I guess. Yes, Pat. She's a mighty Tell her, son. Tell her? Tell her what? There ain't nothing wrong How did you know? The old chief here. He told me. He didn't think you knew. Yeah, I've known I've come to be happy It's lovely, Johnny. Two alone no lonely? [MUSIC PLAYING]