Hey, guys! How're you doin'? Me? - doin' great, just packing! Where am I going? Glad you asked! I'm setting off on a journey toward the nearest Yep, risky and brave, that's me! But don't worry - I'll keep you in the know So, make yourself comfortable and come travel Ok, so, let me introduce my spaceship: the and people won't create anything of the kind How did I get a hold of it? Well, I have my ways. The thing is that space distances are seriously That's why traveling there would take way road! For example, Voyager 1, a space probe launched at a speed of 40,000 miles per hour. If my spacecraft moved at the same speed, to the nearest star! I mean, really? It would also take me more than a billion But luckily, the Invincible is much faster Also, I almost forgot to introduce my companion You see, Liam is a robot with AI (you know, That's why I have high hopes for him: I'll and he can help me if things get really tough! And now, let the journey begin! Here we go!.....3,2,1, blast off! Wow, the Earth is growing smaller and smaller It seems like no time has passed, but the surface of our planet. Since it's daytime, I can clearly see the And oh boy, I've just spotted something moving Could it be?.. Right! It's the International Space Station! Did you know that the station is the most Huh, no wonder, with a price tag of $100 billion! This money would buy you 250 Boeing 747s or inside! From my spacecraft, the ISS looks pretty big, length of the station is over 350 feet, which But I don't have time to linger, a black hole Now, I'm about 1,300 miles over the surface here and there. I've read that among satellites, there are And while the lowest flying ones move approximately length of 4 and a half Grand Canyons), the almost equals the Earth's circumference, measuring By the way, few people know that satellites 18,000 miles per hour! Also, the higher a satellite is, the slower For example, the weather-tracking GOES system distance of 22,000 miles above your head and hour. Meanwhile, the ISS, in low earth orbit, zooms Well, the satellites are being left behind, me up toward the Moon, about 240,000 miles That's the same distance you would go if you From here, Earth looks like a small, bright And you know what else? From my spacecraft, I can clearly see that It's shaped more like... hmm... yeah, like Wow! Anyway, bye-bye, Moon, we're heading somewhere I see Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, and Neptune passing And look, there's Pluto, who used to be a From here, Earth looks like a small star that's further away. But wait, what's that? Some object is approaching me at a high speed, TESLA?! Whoa! That was close - the thing just avoided a happened too fast to see it clearly. But I'm pretty sure what I just saw was a Right now, I'm already really, really far The thing is that space distances are so vast, That's why scientists use the term &quot;astronomic distance from the sun to Earth. That means I'm 9.3 billion miles away from But w-w-what's happening? Why is my spaceship shaking and rocking so Ah, I see! We're entering the termination shock, the travel at a speed of 250 miles per second the galaxy's background. There! We made it through unscathed, but there's That means two things: first - we're on the - we'll have to get through a cloud of icy a 100,000 astronomic units! In other words, it's 1.87 light-years away Phew! It must be my lucky day since we got through on the spacecraft's skin. And voila! - we're heading out of the Solar By the way, if you were trying to reach this than 19 million years. And even if you piloted one of the fastest Horizons, you would still need 37,000 years Bring a big lunch. Alright, we've left the borders of the Solar cabin, watching comets and asteroids pass Time to think about my destination. In the center of pretty much every galaxy, For example, one is sitting right at the heart away from Earth. But even my ship wouldn't be able to get that That's why my destination is the stellar black size, but no less mysterious! It's V616 Monocerotis (aka V616 Mon), located as about 9 to 13 of our Suns! A black hole is an eerie place where those working. If a massive star runs out of its star fuel, own weight, collapsing inward and bringing As a result, the gravitational field of this escape it, not even light! Right now, we're approaching the black hole, from the inside! I won't go further than the horizon, aka the why, right? Once an object crosses this invisible line, mind. Anyway, Liam says he's ready to start his There he goes, bravely plunging toward the that's happening to him. He's accelerating; it looks like he's through a huge magnifying glass. Interestingly, the closer to the horizon he He's trying to send me encoded light messages, waves stretch to redder and lower frequencies, What's happening? Liam just froze, as if a gigantic finger has is stretching him thinner and thinner! Ah, I've read about this phenomenon - it's in a super-strong non-homogenous gravitational The black hole's gravity force is stronger getting stretched out like a piece of spaghetti! Also, the sensors inform me that Liam is getting nothing! He just disappeared, and I can't see him anymore. But since I did my research before the trip, now, and feels no more stretching, scalding Unfortunately, the connection is lost, and of the black hole. Hmm, this is a moment I didn't think through Anyway, I hope you're Ok out there, my friend! And I think I'll head home to get ready for What about you? Do you think I should go all the way and explore Let me know down in the comments! If you learned something new today, then give But - hey! - don't go getting spaghettified You need some sauce! Ha. We have over 2,000 cool videos for you to All you have to do is pick the left or right Stay on the Bright Side of life!