Adolf Hitler sits in his Berlin bunker, shaking From the other side of the reinforced door are gunned down by the bloodthirsty Soviet There is no way out, and he is unable to take were mistakenly left in the main room of the Hitler notices that the battle beyond the He puts his ear up to the cool metal and listens. He can just make out a series of voices that As he listens more closely, he hears a ticking It's as if there is a clock counting down His eyes open wide. He dives to the far side of the room and seeks A moment later, there is an explosion. The door lets out a groan as it falls to the The dust and smoke settle; dozens of armed They find Adolf Hitler cowering on the floor They have successfully captured the monster the world. The question is what to do with him now. There are three different scenarios that might World War II based on when this event occurred. It is important to note that there is no way Allies had captured Hitler, but based on historical time, we can make some educated guesses. Scenario 1: What if Hitler was captured by II? Adolf Hitler is now in the hands of Soviet Over the past several months, they have fought of their homeland and have now taken the fight They ravished the countryside as they slowly Entire towns were burnt to the ground, naval confiscated. But it is the stories of what the Red Army that instills fear in the region. After the siege of their homeland, the Soviets common occurrence. As this was happening, Hitler couldn't believe His forces were being defeated on all fronts. It seemed that there was no longer any hope men to continue fighting anyways. He would rather sacrifice every Aryan in Germany From his bunker, Hitler worked with his advisors But as the Soviets crashed through their defenses, Due to a series of unfortunate circumstances, soldiers. He is dragged from the bunker and greeted They hurl curses at the monster who started of millions. Soldiers spit on the former Fuhur as he walks These men have seen the worst of the worst As Nazi forces pushed into the Soviet Union atrocities. The Soviets fought back but lost more men Soviet lands are soaked with blood, and its The leader of the Nazis is marched to an open The Soviet men sign the songs of their nation them. Joseph Stalin gave clear instructions to his be sent back to Moscow to be tried for his Filled with rage, the soldiers can't control Adolf Hitler begs for mercy in the city square buildings that surround them. One of the soldiers who pulled Hitler out silently walks up to him. He looks Adolf Hitler in the eyes and says "This is for my fallen comrades," the He pulls his pistol from its side holster, in the head, instantly killing him. There is a roar of approval from the crowd. They will all be reprimanded by Stalin, but did. The demon that was Adolf Hitler was too dangerous got. Other members of the Red Army walk up to Hitler's By the end of the day, there is very little There is a chance in this scenario that the to their commanding officers, who might have In this case, Adolf Hitler is placed in restraints Soviet Union. His location is kept a secret as the Soviets their leader. Once in Moscow, Hitler is brought before Joseph The German Fuhrer is thrown in a heavily guarded Now that he is safely secured in prison, footage to news companies across the world. Every paper is given images taken by Soviet world now has video footage of the daring These films are broadcasted worldwide so everyone Hitler. Weeks later, Hitler is marched through Moscow rotten food at him. He is led past Lenin's tomb and into the The war has now reached its end as Nazi Germany Once he was captured, other Nazi leaders began been lost. There are still groups of Nazi youth and soldiers the Allied forces pushing across Europe on much of the eastern portion of the continent, Allied leaders meet during this time to decide It is decided that he must stand trial, but The trial lasts for months as witness after against the Nazi war criminal. He is held personally responsible for the countless other crimes against humanity. At the conclusion of the trial, Hitler is He is placed in chains and led to Red Square, the gallows. Hitler ascends the steps to the noose that Russian air. The rope is placed around his neck, Stalin Hitler struggles against the tightened rope, After a couple of minutes, his body stops corpse sways from side to side as the Russian be heard from miles away. Before we explore our next scenario, which one other alternate scenario that might have of World War II. This is not for the faint of heart as it may Hitler is captured by the Soviets and stands This, unfortunately, gives him a chance to venomous hate of the Jewish people. As he explains why he did what he did, he He uses the trial not to try and defend what Many don't give his words any credence. However, his rhetoric speaks to a small number In fact, even though Adolf Hitler is the reason now need someone new to blame for the state These extremists listen to Hitler's message They ban together with the Russian Liberation Soviet Union. Allied leaders were always afraid that giving was a mistake, but they never thought it could Uprisings begin forming across the Soviet The country falls into chaos. In the turmoil that is unfolding, Adolf Hitler He is smuggled out of the country and joins Allied forces and now reside in South America. A new Nazi nation is secretly being built With their leader freed from capture, the of South America. Hitler's time in captivity has only made him He writes a sequel to Mein Kampf about his From it comes a new agenda. Adolf Hitler no longer wants to wage a racial He will crush every democratic and communist No one will be spared except for his Nazi Adolf Hitler calls on all of his old and new From there he launches a savage campaign into This is an extreme scenario but one that might Allied leaders had about giving Hitler a chance Scenario 2: What if Hitler was captured by A small group of elite Allied soldiers hides The sound of an engine can be heard in the The Allies received intel that Adolf Hitler with only a small entourage of guards. The team was airdropped in the previous night the Fuhrer. The Nazi vehicle crests the hill. There are four men in it. Their target sits in the back. The Allied commander gives the signal, and As the jeep passes their position, they shoot The vehicle swerves out of control and slams The Allied soldiers spring out of the foliage jeep. Their bullets shatter the windshield and rip vehicle. The general who sits next to Hitler raises The Allied soldiers dive for cover. From one of the treetops, a sniper peers through He holds his breath and pulls the trigger. The head of the Nazi general explodes as the the German's skull. Adolf Hitler scrambles for his pistol. He pulls the Walther P38 out of its holster. Before he can turn to aim it, a Thompson machine "Drop it, or you die," the commander of Hitler lets go of the gun; it falls to the The Allied soldiers drag the Fuhrer from the The special forces unit carefully makes its They must move fast as it won't be long kidnapped. The band of soldiers and their prisoner make It is risky to try and steal a plane while along with them, but it is the only way out. The men wait for a shift change. When the time is right, they run to one of watchtower. The squad piles into the aircraft as they The commander uses the butt of his gun to the cockpit. They start the engines and move towards the In the confusion, the Nazis try to identify flight. It doesn't even cross their minds that Allied with Hitler aboard. The plane takes off, and the Nazis finally They open fire on the stolen Heinkel He 111, They fly across the North Sea and land in Adolf Hitler is put in prison, and the British World War II has now been captured. However, this does not necessarily lead to Nazi Germany is still dominating the war in And since their leader is now in an Ally prison, There are three men who could claim the Nazi Unfortunately for the Allies, all three of than Hitler. As it turns out, capturing Hitler is one of in the middle of World War II. With the former Fuhur awaiting trial in Britain, of Nazi Germany. Himmler already had control over the Schutzstaffel of the Nazi military. He quickly begins to undo certain missteps Himmler consolidates the Nazi military and Hitler had planned to invade the Soviet Union, see this as a mistake. Himmler uses his command over the SS and uses Although he is hell-bent on carrying out the Nazi officials, he sees that forces are needed By maintaining a strong defense along the is able to keep the Allies to the north at He sends a large force south to aid Italy Where Hitler failed, Himmler succeeds and for Germany. This allows the Nazis to continue to build than if they had invaded the Soviet Union. Hitler's capture in the middle of World War By focusing its forces on one front at a time, and move on to the next phase of the war. If Himmler didn't rise to power, then Joseph way into controlling the Nazi Party. Hitler had met with Goebbels just before he Public Enlightenment and Propaganda had in Goebbels' new campaign to recruit more soldiers into other countries in Europe. He seeks to unify people using scare tactics Jews. Goebbels recruits like-minded individuals including those who are part of the Allies He uses radio broadcasts while simultaneously over major cities. His main goal is to keep morale high and a ranks. He hands over the military aspect of the war make better decisions. Through Goebbles' mass propaganda campaign smarter than Hitler, Germany may have been while the Fuhrer rots in jail. Hermann Goring was Hitler's closest ally After Goring fell out of favor with the Fuhrer getting illusions of grandeur. He had been the Commander in Chief of the the picture, Goring is now ready to take Party as a whole. One of Goring's main obsessions is the Now that he is in charge of Germany, he ramps across Europe. It is a worst-case scenario for the Jews as on genocide as Adolf Hitler was. However, Goring gets distracted easily and than actually winning the war. He continues to make bad military decisions Others in the Nazi party become frustrated They assassinate him, and someone else fills None of these options would be good news for Each successor has his own quirks and may The capture of Adolf Hitler by the Allies been a bad thing. Regardless of who took over for Hitler, the the same. Adolf Hitler sits in his cell, staring at went wrong. The smell of a burning cigar fills the air A gruff cough and clearing of the throat causes Standing on the other side of the bars is He has a look of disgust on his face and fire Churchill hates Adolf Hitler maybe more than He has seen firsthand the destruction Germany The bombings of Britain still sit at the forefront He has brought with him a loaded pistol and it or not. Churchill and the other Allied leaders decided but deep down, Winston Churchill wants to The two men stare at each other. Churchill hacks up phlegm and spits on the "This will not be pleasant," he says. "This will not be merciful. Your trial will be swift. Your fate is already determined. I'll see you in hell." Churchill turns and leaves Adolf Hitler alone Later that day, he is escorted to the national Adolf Hitler's trial is a short one. He is convicted of war crimes and crimes against He is sentenced to death. Days after he is found guilty, Adolf Hitler Britain does not make a spectacle of it. His body is loaded on a Royal Navy vessel Sailors drop the weighted body into the frigid Winston Churchill stands on the deck, smoke body sink into the abyss. Scenario 3: What if Hitler was captured by II? The Nazi Party has risen to power. Adolf Hitler is now the Fuhur of Germany, committing mass genocide. Britain and France watch in disbelief as German They understand that there is no time to mess This new leader of Germany must be stopped Britain and France will not stand for the They immediately send forces into Poland to It is early 1939, and the German military on the combined might of France, Great Britain, The Allied forces push the Germans back. They warn Italy that if they get involved, their county. The United States has been keeping a close decided to take an isolationist policy, it pose too much of a threat to the stability The U.S. decides to aid the European Allied With decisive action, Hitler doesn't have Many of his tanks, aircraft, and naval vessels The Allied forces secure the borders surrounding outward. They then move in on all sides towards Berlin. Once the Allies reach the city, they place There is a puppet government put in place Any Nazi sympathizers are quickly rounded Poland. As Allied intelligence digs deeper into the a number of alarming discoveries. Adolf Hitler and the Nazis were already starting to concentration camps in the region. The Allies can't believe what the Nazis They immediately begin trying Hitler and others and sentencing them one by one. Originally the plan had been to exile the could hurt no one but themselves. This would have been similar to how Napolean tendencies of the Nazi Party, Allied leaders He still has supporters across Germany and If he ever escaped captivity, he could reclaim world would descend into chaos. It is decided that the war crimes committed to sentence Adolf Hitler to death. He is hung for almost throwing the entire His closest allies are also tried and hung, for the remainder of their lives. Capturing Hitler at the beginning of World In order to do so, Britain, France, and the back early on. By cutting off the serpent's head at the beginning kept under control and eventually dismantled After Hitler's capture and execution, the Others try to take Hitler's place, but it's There has been a shift in power, and now outside the German government. Pro-democracy candidates are put into office, France and Britain than its former dictatorship. This would have been the ideal outcome if II. The earlier he was put behind bars and tried to Europe and the rest of the world. There may have been repercussions to his capture with at the same time as the Fuhur, but if of lives could have been saved. That being said, there is no telling what stopped early on. Perhaps the Soviet Union would have amassed Or maybe an even worse dictator would have The only thing we can be sure of is that if been put on trial and most likely executed. Now watch "Last 24 Hours of Hitler's Life." Or check out "Hitler's Plans for the World