Good afternoon everybody. Today, we have Alex Schultz, probably the world expert on growth, the person I go to when I have Many people who work at Facebook, many of very early employees have said hiring successes of Facebook that You joined almost ten years ago, and I think at that point Facebook &gt;&gt; Yeah. Facebook now has 1.6 billion and of having a great product, maybe &gt;&gt; Having Naomi, &gt;&gt; And the team, anyway, thank you &gt;&gt; Thank you. I did not pay Sam for that introduction hi Havi. But no, Havi and Naomi, Danny, they are these people who've been in then people like Blake, and Martin, and And it's very nice, but I am a VP on So you've had an amazing lecture series. I just watched all of them yesterday to actually having seen And it was totally awesome. I loved what D'Angelo had to say, so didn't watch it, I strongly recommend you because I could not emphasize his And so what I'm going to try and do for the first half is go over some of emphasize what I think is most important what my take is and our take is on And then in the second half, try and tactics that have been The caveat that I think you should take Flickr said. Which is to some extent, you do have 100 and I am very, very lucky to be to get to work on a product like Facebook That has everyone in the world wanting I drove it or any of us drove it beyond is perhaps not true. I can't tell you what the AB test team at Facebook. So what matters most to growth? The single most important Adam commented on this in his talk, and he But here is a stylized cohort of The number of days from On the y axis is the percent of I care a lot about using monthly active, There are really good arguments for using Because it's about intensity of usage. But what really, really matters is people come back to your And then you build on top whatever your key metrics are which I believe monthly active is The second thing is how do So I've got a real graph for the first 250 days of our ads products, But the thing that's really, it's very easy to calculate this curve And what you do is you look at all after they signed up. Were they monthly active? Yes, clearly, right? The first 30 days everyone's I'd prefer if you defined a month as 28 seven is really, really good for But for the first 30 days, everyone on their second day, on their third whether they came back or not. And then what you do And obviously, only some of your users Everyone who signed up a day So what percentage of them what percentage of them And as you go further and further out in the number of people who have been Which means that your metric is as you get out to the far But that doesn't mean you can't get very early on with very The number one criticism people give me Or even when you look at what Adam you need lots and lots of users. So you need millions of users to We did it with thousands of users in the example. Or you need to have had all of those Look at Adam's graph it was multiple years No, you can do it day by day, and you can get to a really good place super, So what you're looking for You're looking for it to flat line above You want it to flat line at some line There are three types of The first type is where Like really, really close, You hear about a lot of those companies. You think about most games, How many people use FarmVille now versus absolute, please tell me [LAUGH] Yeah, okay, all right. How many people used farm, I had hair when I first did one of these. How many people use FarmVille now FarmVille was a smash hit, then there's where they stabilize out. So you think about Minecraft, These games that somehow have network a long time. The other version for this curve I've seen like they're going to hit the x-axis and There's a few different things that can this overwhelming thing that is driving somehow the numbers go up again. So things that drive that for you actually I think One, network effects, so when all your friends get on Facebook, When all your friends get on Twitter, you'll more likely use the Twitter, Whichever social service there are network effects Network effects also When you have enough sellers, When you have enough traffic, And so as marketplaces go, often what you resurrect and come back to the service. So network effects can drive the curve is heading towards zero. The second thing that can do this So think about it. A lot of people release I actually loved Diane's talk last week starting with Nokia, focusing on Android but in Silicon Valley we typically build And then when someone releases this was something I saw with But when you release people might have tried it on an iPhone an Android and People might've tried your then when you add an Android they So that's another thing that And then the third thing that I've seen again is adding categories, There was a really good discussion, Someone earlier in this talked about because there was this large But then they added in another category. And then they added in And imagine, there will be people who came two years down the line Amazon suddenly And they came back and they brought them more use cases This was true with eBay. We added motors. I remember being at eBay and gross merchandise volume with and And no one had ever believed that you And it created a whole new use case for customers, who now had one more So you want to curve the asymptotes You can do it with far more than most people think you can by using I'll show you a real world And there are three types Curves that asymptote like this, And how big will it get? We have another question. Curves to go straight to zero. That's okay, you could be in games and your job is to produce one hit EA doesn't expect whatever fee for 2012, they still have lots of users So it's okay, there are businesses But you need to know you're And then the third that I've And that can be driven by network effects. That can be driven by being That can be driven by adding categories From this falls out a brilliant this guy Danny Ferrante who was at Yahoo. Who was one of the first members of Facebook, he's totally awesome. He's really the brains behind Danny came up or brought this to Facebook, We were looking at growth as how many We looked at it on an absolute basis. And looking at it like we're signing up whatever we're growing by whatever it was Cool, we're churning 200,000 people. And we never actually When we change the way we look the net growth is 800,000 a week, But what is churn and resurrection? And what we actually found at the time, I can't remember the absolute numbers so But imagine you're churning 1.3 million. So not 200,000, 1.3 million. You're resurrecting 1.1 million. So plus 1 minus 1.3 plus 1.1, you've got net 800,000 in growth. But that 800,000 in I think I did the math wrong, but a different order of magnitude from churn And so that helps you focus on How do I get people to come back to my service right now? So once you have your retention curves, once you start to have You need to look at not just how many users are we acquiring. Make sense? Overall the number one thing and the one thing that we focus on for So what gets you retained Magic Moment. What is the moment when you used Airbnb? What is the moment when used Door Dash, when you used Facebook, Whatever the product, what is that Right, on Facebook it's friends. You see that first friend, that person who I've got completely from high school who you lost contact But you see that person and you go, wow. I haven't talked to them in years. Let's see what's going on in their life. And they've had a kid and lost their hair That is a magic moment on Facebook. So how quickly can you drive You look at Airbnb, right? They talked about the delight They talked about these different journey that they've created Getting that first person Staying at that first property, eBay, buying your first item Nowadays that doesn't seem crazy but that was revolutionary. And people really, their eyes lit In Germany they had this great ad, tights you are waiting for the auction to finish That was such an adrenaline But users loved it. Nowadays, it seems a long time ago. Those magic moments are what So how do you find them? Well you can find them in don't they just sound relatively obvious? You can actually think through what What do I want people to do? You can ask your first users, okay, Why are you keeping using my, what is the thing that makes What was that first moment? It's non scalable but it generally works. When you ask people what is The first thing they say is In all the research, It helps me connect to my friends and So you can do it the non-scalable way or Look for correlations. So Marcus talked at he said that we focused on getting It's a smooth curve, right? Number of friends on the x axis and It's not like there's a step change at If you get 11 you do and No, it's clearly a smooth curve and But there's a strong correlation between number of friends you've got in the first There's a correlation between number there are correlations for did you do a buy it now or Was the thing that was completely You can imagine, I don't know, I mean You could imagine for DoorDash. You've placed your first order and And whether you place an order or not and the first week, probably they are actually So you need to look for the magic moment then try and Makes sense? Cool, I love this. I put it in every presentation I could. So I'm lucky enough to have been trained And my favorite and my favorite lecture my favorite lecture series was in this And so it's easy for you need to get flat retention and That's not actually true that's If you're producing a social network and not going to long term have Or a messaging app like what use your friends actually used I mean it would be useless, right? And there's no way we could release 1 that was true for us. On the other hand, if you have And you have 5 or 10% retention but those people spend a lot of money And so the level of retention by the category that you're in. Obviously, the higher the better If you can have an Ebay Amazon type business You probably end up bigger than Amazon and But I think the point I like to make is, I love this as an inspirational story. So Geoffrey Taylor was he was on the edge of he wasn't in the corp, he ended up winning And the US and Russian governments were releasing these But they weren't releasing the actual state secret. And so what Geoffrey Taylor did he reasoning where you look at the units in So joules, right, for energy, it's joules. Kilograms times meters that's what joules decomposes into. In this case, kilograms, The volume of the air times the density So you've now got meters cubed times So meters [INAUDIBLE] over The time is on here, the diameter, You just plug the radius in as m, seconds, and you end up getting You get 10 to the 14, And it turns out the bomb was 21 kilotons He could take one photo and figure out the most closely guarded state You can figure out what retention you &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] here is what I promised, I presented a few different events, so I taken off the numbers because But this is from 2007 to 2008. I joined the week we started our self-service ad business by us. The pink speaks to the right-hand axis, What the blue is is how many advertisers two days, three days because the x-axis is number So the thing has only 0 people have been And when they turned 51st date and And then each of those pink data points is who had registered. Who was using the service their 31st day divided by how many Not how many were active, right? How many signed up. So total in the cohort, You divide the revenue they made in And that gives you that shape I stumbled over my words a bit there. I promise you if you look over I did this with Danny back in 2008. The really important things I want you to look how flat the pink line is. Like I've been talking about this is an actual curve flattening out. And look how quickly it's flattened out. By 100 days you can pretty much predict I've seen this over and over. I've seen this with engagement. So if you divide time spent I've seen it actually for sentiment. If you have large enough you divide it by that same denominator. I have seen it for posts. I have seen it for You can use the same techniques determining how much retention you have to figure out what is the lifetime If I was to acquire the total my business today, That's what this curve a allows you to do. You can predict it for posts. You can predict it for page views. Time spent, whatever you want. The same methodology works for And, actually, retention is often And we did this with very little data. Later on, there's a stat we are okay we had about 700,000 active advertisers. Beginning we had about And this was five years before that. So you can imagine there was a very small The last thing is I said things You can literally see that on this graph, The variance in the numbers the further So now, how do you operate for growth? Most important thing is have a clear goal. Brian, who is awesome on great guy, he always says, if you are a One of the most brilliant things I think Facebook was he aligned the entire company Now why does this matter? It matters for a bunch of reasons, most important reason is I When you have a company of more than a team of more than two or three people, You can't control what anyone does. I mean, you could probably then the other 199 would do So what do you want to do? You want to make sure everyone is that direction is generally right. So let's think back to Whether it's Facebook, whatever you want to look at. It would be completely reasonable You want your company to stay alive, company can still be viable, that you can So a reasonable person could say, At the same time, you could have a metric that was like, If you're Facebook, number of posts. If your DoorDash number of orders. I don't even know what this company's You could easily have a production You could have a time spent every one of those metrics would be a So you've got ten reasonable people, maybe five of them think you One is really focused on revenue, two are looking at number of posts. Everyone is pushing in a reasonable probably will have conflict. If you want to get ad in front of you may not necessarily want to put If you want to get them to post push down the ads. I don't know. be making. And if the whole team isn't clear what So having a clear goal that your really important, and having that goal be MAP in my opinion is Because it is that once that base level you can drive off of. If you're going to do But fundamentally, your team's product is a goal, Align the company around that goal and then you are going to The other thing I always say is If you're a small company, if you're Don't hire someone like me. The whole company's job should be growth. I'm very happy at Facebook, But the whole company's The purpose of a start up is to grow. So, what is the number you want to grow? And align the whole company Does that make sense? Now, Naomi is amazing and Naomi is out of Facebook, but she runs product and She's brilliant, So, when you say I'm original, She sits like three feet from me, Anyway, she has this approach that planning cycles, Understand, first of all Look at all the data you have, Ask your users what they think. Understand everything that is going possibly understand. What matters? Retention. Are you churning too many? Do you have the retention? Is the revenue going up What are the acquisition Which channel are people Are they resurrecting through email? Is it push notifications? What's going on? Understand what's going on for Have that all tracked. Then identify, look through all of those research you get in, and Where do you see big drop-offs? Do you have a lot of people with who are not receiving push notifications? Do you have a lot of people who are not clicking on them? Do you have loads and loads of social Are your email viral invites working but what is the difference between those? Go and look at the data and identify double down on fixing those Now to this day, this is still you can even see a a talk Naomi and I Eight or nine years ago, where we we have kept it going. Understand what's going on, identify understood, and then execute against it. Another really interesting thing I think you're going to regret it later. And your intuition is going then you're going to want data. In 2009, we actually shut down all of the work And we only spent the time logging, and making sure every critical Registration, at the time we So, click some emails, it seems Clicks on the emails, did you then actually log in or All of these different things, that we could understand And that was super critical because we had a massive growth slow down. And we would not have been able to done the logging in January. Because what went on was without that logging in place, Get the data logged so So speaking of data, I am very, I do growth marketing, I've run But I also run the analytics team for that's been a couple years now. When I talk about data I like to say these three points. There's a meme in the valley that you metrics. And I really want to bust that meme. Data when used in the right way One example I've talked about in Facebook that you may have seen No one has a big 42 inch monitor in here, That has on the right-hand side all the at the top it has this list of stories When you're on a small screen, that product used to collapse into push things down so that you could That product worked great for huge numbers of friends who are creating But if you went to the Philippines where people run narrow screens, the majority that amended up having And the majority of them were couldn't see people you And so, we actually lost friending amongst And we only figured out what was saying, why is this bad on small Why is it not so great for low engagement It was because we used the data to to us here in Silicon Valley. Now think about it, I'm seeing a lot of Apple products here. I have a Lenovo at the moment. But most of you probably have a iPhones. Who has a iPhone? Who has an Android? You're the best. Most people in the world But everyone in this room has an iPhone, You don't understand. I'm actually forgetting which actually is a problem in my job. But I've got an Android because a vast number of our users use Android, And I need to understand what But I can't understand Android and So, I used data to understand You need to gain empathy for your users. And research is great, and But if you listen to the Twitch guy, Emmit, talk to your users then go away and And look at the data, in my opinion, would be the next thing to validate If you're doing the right thing, if your research actually ties up with So, data gives you empathy. It's not a trade-off between metrics and If you build the right metrics, Two, data predicts the future. Over and over and over again, It's a science fiction outright thing. But like the future is here, So, those curves that When I said you can look at your say, if I sign them all up, Or you just look at who Let's say back in those days, we signed I could tell you how much hundred days out because of that curve. Now, also you're users So, a user who shops in one category then buys in a second category and a third category is clearly Shopping the shop, driving up same store Okay, so how many of your users are increasing the You see someone sign up. What likelihood is it that they're what is your revenue You can predict that with data. AB tests are another great thing. See all these people walking in And then when you apply the scientific run an AB test, they ship the thing because they didn't believe the AB test. I see that with all kinds AB tests tell you what's going to use them it works. Finally, and this is something Mark Data helps you make decisions faster. If you can not as the CEO, have to have could just run a test, your company because every decision People on the team, if they're clear on what that goal is, They can run the test, then only come to you when they know Decisions like that help you move faster. Knowing what your most important priority That helps you move faster. Make sense? Cool. So now you want me to push as much of as much as time as possible. So let's talk about tactics. First 100 users. Sam talked about this brilliantly. If you actually listen I thought was just fantastic. When she talked about getting 30 of her try Plangrid, and then asking them Like ask your friends first for Get people who will give I love the point about make them pay, Second, research and then reach out to Totally makes sense, right? Like, you can do how Oscar was Just email a bunch of people, Don't just auto generate emails or you'll But send personal emails, get introductions, I emphasize by the way, I have never start person to tell you about first 100 users, Third, social media and it can give you amazing bumps. Amazing bumps. And in the early days I think Later on, I think companies don't realize because they have these other metrics. But you can get these Just know you can't get them every single And finally, by ads. I am not as against ads as Sam is, I think that buying ads can I built my career buying ads, two of Google and Facebook make all their are actually a good thing. If you get the targeting right and we're If you're having a growth team, if you're talk about is growth hacking, This is a picture from a guy I did not tell him to hold his hand into If you pour lighter fluid onto dead And if there's one thing to you need to have product You need retention to drive growth. Otherwise, every growth tactic, every acquisition tactic you could But if you have a spark there. If you have a glowing ember you can pour that is what growth tactics does. So I look at things based on channel. Targeting creative and then conversion. So you think about channel, If ou look at SEO, you think, Which keywords do I want to show up for And make sure you have content You need to get links, If you're a Silicon Valley startup you value sites so you usually But then you need to Many people will tell you in my experience that's not true. I don't know why it's not true, but And then finally, there are a bunch you can look them up. There are a load of websites STO book, MOOs, there are a bunch of websites out Four page search. The biggest thing I see people do wrong They by page search and would I have got those customers anyway? So look really hard. If you're going to buy page search as in your line. Your marketing team, if you've reached the stage where you have that is flat and then they turn That's the same of any ads If your a big company incrementality professor Steve Tedelis whose done a deep I think he's really smart. Big companies, you have to be very, You're a small startup. Show me a step change. Do think about marginal not absolute ROI. So people always look at I spent How valuable is it? That's not what you want to look at. You want to look at How much did you get for that? Not overall does that make sense? Not as many knots. I'm going to blast through that. Look at margin ROI, look at diminishing And then again, So email and SMS push notifications. This is something every We always optimize for ourselves. Have you seen the Instagram thing on the an Instagram user with a million they have push notifications on. And the string just goes [SOUND] and all the notifications That's what we're like for For our products we are the power every start up I have gone and talked Has always optimized for the power user. And so by optimizing for Well, we shouldn't put down by default whole screen. Power users are smart. If you give them the options, It's your marginal users you should That person for whom they received the host that gets their Or the seller that gets the buyer who's just been That's the person that needs And needs to respond to it, and Marginal user is the number push, notifications, and even offline is still very important for People get wrong, Beyond that you need to make sure it There's so much more here and if I push through all of it I'm Do you want me to get to questions? &gt;&gt; This is pretty important. How about this and no questions. &gt;&gt; This and no questions, Everybody for next week. &gt;&gt; So think about on site merchandising. You own a lot of media. There's this idea of earned, Does that make sense? So if you post on Facebook and it gets loads of likes you've If you bought an ad on Facebook or google And then if they're on your own website, People underestimate If you have a lot of traffic on your site, Ask them to complete that Think about your on-site merchandising understand that on-site merchandising So how can you trigger the right thing? Someone has just bought an item for Trigger for them a set of suggestions the customers who bought this also What about creative? Creative is really important. It should be personalized, because they're Hey Alex, why don't you buy these items Performs way better than buy these other That's one simple personalization. But instead of just saying this you should do a prediction. This person, all the items they've them in a personalized way Look at Facebook and how often we say Social context, that's personalization. Use people's own profile picture. We have a great personalization example we show you what your ad would with a Buy This button underneath it. It could not be more personalized. On-site merchandising gives you so deeply personalize the creative. And finally, paid and organic social. I do work for Facebook, And I personally think that I am not the Facebook, because I'm the guy who buys ads But what I'll say is if I left I would be crazy not to use our custom So I highly, highly encourage you if you to look into those. It's a great way for Upload the list to Facebook. How do I find more customers like those? It works incredibly well for And the other thing across all social dealing with interesting squared. Because the click-through rate whatever on your thing will be also the distribution, whether it's being Twitter, or on Facebook, will be driven Make sense? Cool. Okay, targeting. Behavioral is most important. So what you did Is much more There are 50 year old, grandparents who don't need two And there are some who need 500. And there are teenagers who need and you're much better to figure out like Then say on a demographic basis, People who buying Nike's, Men's Nike people buy for their boyfriend, or And so if you just target women men with men's trainers What you should do is look at what the right content to the right Targeting matters. I've talked about this before. Okay, creative. Creative is important but it's nowhere near as important as the If you produce probably it's very very worth it but a piece of creative that Typically I find targeting comes before channel comes before that. Does that make sense? So creative is awesome and really but think about your channel first and If you have creative though, you should personalize it, On call to action, Where on every ad back in the day on that said advertise. We translated it wrong We found this with the data in French, Create an ad. And we had significantly more, actually 40% more acquisition was at the time our single most important We took the French translation and we reverse translated it and Instead of saying the kind of passive And we achieved a 40% bump in that advertiser acquisition. That is the call to action, So when I say creative doesn't targeting, it still matters a lot. And the words you use matter a lot. This is the example I said If you are on your own page, that say hey this is what your ad And you can see that by hour this advertiser acquisition for If you want to see more about this, Brian and it's online. And then the last thing, yes. The last thing is conversion. Conversion is really really important, but it's not important until you've thought So things to think about with conversion. The landing page people land on rate is going to be. If you can, don't have one button to go to the registration form. Put the registration It's important to know what your Back at eBay, what we had was this users, and a new metric activated And an activated confirmed registered bid on an item, listed an item. And a confirmed registered user was that was it. To get confirmed registered users we this was back in 2004 we were We wanted to pump all of our search To get activated confirmed registered on the search term that So if you were looking for a trampoline, show you the trampolines That change, and we changed all of our advertising confirmed registered users significantly But it increased activated It increased revenue and And it increased total revenue per day So although I think you can focus on Any commas, sometimes it's really, really important to land people on that they will activate and So it's not as simple as just put But we did do that on Facebook. So the final thing I like to And move fast is an absolute Like core, core, core value and we still of Facebook, But I think now people are seeing And that was a project that I was We're willing to move fast, we're willing plan violently executed on today is Data helps you move fast. These growth tactics help you move fast. Best of talks about making decisions with And I deeply believe in that. So move fast, focus on retention and have one key metric your company's growth. Thank you. &gt;&gt; Okay, apparently we have time for one question. I'm sorry. Go for it. &gt;&gt; So you mentioned that [INAUDIBLE]. How do you think that creating the. &gt;&gt; So the question was for the magic figure out went they happened and I mean honestly if you look at LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter every social What we do is, we immediately So once we know that friends is you, we focus on what is the way to If you look at the example I used with activating you was important to So we shifted the landing page and the So we got you to the item you wanted And that caused you to activate and So those are the kind of I actually think the tactics My boss Javi likes to say that common and I agree with him. But if you step back and just look okay, eBay should I land them on the search results page? You'd probably land them on that would get them to &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Thank you, okay. &gt;&gt; [APPLAUSE]