- [Reporter] Dozens of during three Jihadist attacks in Kuwait, Tunisia, and Lyon, France. - [Reporter] The situation in - [Reporter] Yemen was when al-Qaeda operatives attacked - [Reporter] A massive effort by the National Security and monitor email and Internet traffic of virtually everyone. - We've seen eight successive presidents increasingly ruled by executive order. Will Congress bite this Of course they won't. - Your class has an incredible to lead in shaping a new world order... - There also exists an to form, for the first time in history, a truly global society. - These global corporations, will be able to create boons for profit, depressions for profit, - [Man] We must guard of unwarranted influence, by the military industrial complex. - Large populations are That's why the future the will contain us, will constrain - Ordinary men and women are too small-minded to Order, progress, can only surrender their rights to - We have a fog that has the smoke screen of national security, used by government at every level to keep everything they do secret. - We have before us the for ourselves and for future when we are successful, and we will be. We have a real chance - Their strength is in secrecy, but our strength is to shed light on what they do in the dark (upbeat music) - [Senator] You have 10 minutes. - Thank you, Senator. - My name is Charles Grey. I'm a semi-retired businessman with interests both domestically The reason I'm here today is to take action to protect our country from its most imminent threat. (ominous music) - We don't need you to try - Your Congress commissioned a study that found that our nation is sustained by a vulnerable and woefully Your commission found that our enemies, and yes, even we, have developed weapons that are designed to bring down this grid. (door banging) Your peers determined that immediately after the detonation of we would lose all sources of power. Electricity would cease to exist. The internet would go down, and along with that, the banking system. (door banging) - All clear. Search the room. - Just who made you the expert on this? - You don't have to be an You just have to read According to your report, 90% will die in the first 12 months. - Enough, we're done. There are pressing matters - I want you to pass the Shield Act, which will harden the grid in our country. I came here to call you to action. (utensils clattering) - What you got? - Some small-caliber - Let's bag them up. - We don't have time for this. - You had time to pass the National to give the President the for any reason, to give him the power by simply accusing them of terrorism, imprisoning them and no legal counsel. - This was just a funding bill. You have your facts sorely misplaced. (soft music) - What's wrong with you? - This. This doesn't look Looks more like my apartment - You think too much, eh. - You got a shitty apartment, then. - This hearing is over. Who do you think you are, and making a mockery of our - I'm an American citizen who is fed up with an out-of-control, - Don't think, Mr. Grey, that we don't know what you're up to, stockpiling food, weapons, fuel. The National Defense Authorization Act is there to stop domestic terrorists, threats to this country, - I am an American. I am a patriot. You, sir, are nothing but a traitor. (cameras clicking) - I've never seen anything That man's a threat to this country. (soft music) - That little rant will be - This plays into our hands. The American news media has our narrative, and in that narrative, Charlie Grey is perfectly playing the role of right-wing extremist. The stigma of that label will stop up the ears faster than any propaganda - Lieutenant Lane. - Have your men clear There'll be a debriefing - Yes, sir. - But what if even a small were to awaken? - By that time, it'll be too late. Let's just get word out to the American brass who It seems our testing of We'll rig up a few of the and integrate them. That will be the perfect litmus test. (soft music) (ominous music) - Isn't that a good boy. Yes, you are. Yes, you are. You certainly are. (phone ringing) Can I answer the phone? Oh, hey, Charlie. How's it going? No, no, I'm just working with the horses. Sure. Oh, no, no, I've already Yeah, I thought we discussed that. Well, what time? Oh, that's perfect. Sure. (laughs) well, you know, Mama. I don't think we're gonna be able to pull the wool over her All right, then. All right, I'll see you later. Bye. (upbeat music) - When you suppose we're I'm tired of using porta-potties. - I don't know. When we're told. You'd think that the government would put a little extra effort into an architect or something. It's weird. - What more do we need? Got a couple tents, some tins, storage, vacant town down the way. Better than being at base. - Yeah, I guess so. I just really wanna know Our comm system sucks, and just sprouting through the roof. It doesn't make sense. - It's above my pay grade. - Yeah, well, I may have to take a peek. - All right, Sherlock. - Oh, this ain't a hobby. - Is that right? You see, private eyes can make some bank. Just follow around a cheating husband, take some pictures, set up some bugs. Some easy money. Well, if I ever need - That's really sweet, - Well, all that sounds great, but I could use a hot (soft music) (drone roaring) - You think they'd try - They want us to see it. - Yeah, well I'd like to take a potshot and clip the damn thing. - Sam, now what have you done? - Oh, you know me, can't I can take pretty much anyone, but it's gonna be my chemistry (phone ringing) Okay, boss, you're gonna I can't deal with a headache and a burn. I'll be in my cave. - How's my favorite liberal state rep? - Fine, Charlie. Just - Listen, Charlie, about the hearing, we need to talk damage control. - No damage on our end, Roger. - Charlie, this is serious. We need to talk face to face. Listen to me, this is important. - Fine, we're gonna have I'll have Sam send you over the details. It'll give you a chance some people from Washington sent over. - Drone? Why would they send Look, just have Sam send - Dad, why do you waste your time with that fascist conspiracy nut? - Well, Penny, you been you know a campaign costs money. I got this guy Harris by only Look, politics aside, Charlie He looks at things one way, I wouldn't go so far as Hey, Charlie's always been good to you. - Well, being good and being right are completely separate things. I mean, I've seen his it's disgusting. All those accusations about the president. I mean, a man as rich as Grey, and there's all these and he just hoards it to himself. A halfway decent man would - Well, he does. He's - We're doing a teach-in that is if your patron, Mr. Grey, doesn't mind that I choose - No, all right, all right. Can you pause your lecture long enough to give your old sell-out - Love you, Dad. (car door closing) - Hi, come to our protest (ominous music) - Feels good to hold the - There's a joke in there. - You know what I mean. Real bullets, not that paintball crap. - Gentlemen, let's do this on three, huh? - One, two. (guns firing) - Whoo! I win. Y'all cheated, and I - My little sister - Frankie? Yeah, she probably does. - Well, my guy's dancing - That's an excessive amount - Dead either way. (car engine roaring) (soft music) - That's not one of our vehicles. - UN logo on the side. - Yeah, but what the hell - There's gotta be some good reason. When we need to know, we'll know. - How about best two outta three? Huh? (car door closing) - On behalf of the President There are two attaches each for you on the outskirts of the camp. If you would, please. (upbeat music) - Hey, Mama. (ax chopping) Hey, Mama. I gotta tell you, there is something wrong with that girl out there. Seems like anything is a toy to her. - (chuckles) Probably 'cause - Mama, you were supposed to - I'm done. - Done with what? This isn't even open. - All the pills, the shots, the scans, the probes, everything. I still got cancer. - Mama. I feel great, just great. From now on, I'm living on - I know, Mama, but - Whoa, whoa, whoa. Now when did I ever gave up? Not me. - I'm done, Grandma. - Oh, Frankie, thank you, darling. Listen, you've done enough - Frankie, would you and explain to your grandmother that she needs to start - Girls, girls, listen Look around. Look at the world. In my dreams, I see it. I World's going to hell in a hand basket. Charlie sees it too. And when it comes, Frankie, and you just get over to Charlie's. He will be able to protect - Who's gonna protect Brandon? - God will protect Brandon. - Doesn't Pius have a job? - Listen up, domestic threats have now become the top Subsequently, we will be starting a series of training exercises, military operations in urban terrain. Lieutenant Lane, you have a question. - Yes, sir, Colonel, what domestic threats - There are a variety of scenarios. Not the least of which, mass At which time it will become necessary to protect the majority of the citizens against the minority of the extremists. - And who defines the term extremist, sir? That would be your Commander-in-Chief, Joint Chiefs of Staff. That fits with your approval, Lieutenant? - Perfectly, sir. - Very well. Local law enforcement will - Is that good, boss? - And unable to stop Every man, woman and child in America will be looking to each and everyone under your - Will you be ready? - Yes, sir. - [All] Yes, sir! - Hoorah! - Dismissed. (ominous music) - Malcolm, you have a lot on your mind. - A sustainable population of our planet is no more than 500 million. - And we're willing to kill seven billion. Well, most of those lives A mass of humanity in they live in squalor. They'd be better off dead. The world would be - And America will be first. - Yes, well, as our friend &quot;A strong America is the only thing standing in the way of a new world order.&quot; We have foreign troops on the ground now, under the UN banner. The country only needs a little chaos. - The American people are resilient. What's to come if the citizens rise up? - Yes, well, when parents families hauled away to FEMA camps for imprisonment or worse, then yes, yes, we expect But the vanity of nationalism The people will beg for help, any help. These are but the birth pangs of change. Birth pangs of a new world order. (ominous music) (soft music) - The sign says River Street. So how do we tell a - You heard the Colonel. - I don't know, Lieutenant, - In America, I know. Let me remind you, the Boston - Not so sure about that. (upbeat music) (camera buzzing) (door knocking) - Hey, there. How can - My name is Lieutenant Lane. Under martial law, we need to know if you have or on your possession. - Oh, no, not a gun guy. Never really understood that You and the police are the Feel free to come in and - All right, thank you, David. Just a random check, sir. - Do you know of anyone who may have weapons? - Well, I don't want to get involved, but my next-door neighbor, He's got NRA stickers and Quite frankly, I'm frightened of him. - We're good. - Thank you, sir. Sorry for the intrusion. - Oh, no problem, just happy - Well, that wasn't weird at all. - It was like, &quot;Stepford - Let's just knock this (soft music) - Perfect. &quot;Stay on mission.&quot; Who is this platoon leader? - Lieutenant Brandon Lane. Third in a line of good military men. Mother's a veterinarian. Shoot the eyes out of a Father was KIA in Iraq. - You can see he has If you have his, you have theirs. - If not- He's a wildcard, but he's tamable. (soft music) (door knocking) - United States Army. - [Man] What can I help you with? - Please just come to the door, sir. - You're on private property. - I understand that, sir. But under martial law, we need to know if you have any weapons inside your home or on your person. - Well, as a matter of fact, I do. All legal, all licensed. Just like the Second Amendment allows. - I understand that, sir, but martial law has been declared, and under the National I am going to send in my men to search for and confiscate - No, you're not. (upbeat music) - Don't do that again, sir. - Get the hell off of my property. - I'm gonna ask you one more time. Do you have any weapons - I already told you I do. Now I'll use them, too, if you don't get the - Sir, martial law has been declared. I don't give a spit - Get the hell off my property. - Go, go, go. - (groans) Got me in the nuts. Go. (camera buzzing) (upbeat music) - Who the hell are you? - I'm sorry, man, I'm just doing- - Who told you you could - I'm doing what they told me to do, man. I'm a crisis actor. - Ben. Go. - I'm a crisis actor, man. This is not my calling. This is not. I need another job. - Hey. - Hey! How'd the meeting with Professor Stern go? - Well, he's decided to publish - Oh, my God! Like your own manifesto. I know, I mean, I couldn't make up the &quot;Your generation finally has the chance to bury the God and guns culture,&quot; and I can't even remember what else. - So cool. - You know he's right. You're - I'm gonna change the world. (soft music) - Sir. - Stand at ease. - Do you wanna explain to me what that stunt was - Sorry, sir. Concerned - Losing control is not - Shit happens in exercises just like it does in the real world. - Now you wanna tell me just exactly what is - Sir? - I need to know you're on - Understood, sir. The last two weeks of our training has slowly turned into more of a- - I explained that. It's - Then why did I see a UN vehicle pull up and two non-Americans get out? You saluted them both. They - That is classified, Lieutenant. And if I hear you utter a single word about anything you may I will see to it that for the rest of your freaking Am I clear, soldier? - Yes, sir. - There will be a It will further clarify - Yes, sir. (soft music) (phone ringing) - Hello? - Brandon, how are you doing, son? - I'm- - What's wrong? - Well, it's just strange - Strange how? Well, I've seen a UN vehicle come and go, and there's rumors of - Really? And lately our training's - Have they mentioned domestic terrorism? - Yes, sir, they have. - Brandon, listen to me carefully. You may be having to make - I'm sorry, Mr. Grey, I gotta go. (bike engine roaring) - Nice ride, sir. - She's my pride and joy. Did you know this little lady right here has been to Iraq twice? - Colonel, is there a Mrs. Crane? - (laughs) Is there a Mrs. Crane? Oh, there was a Mrs. Crane, but I got the motorcycle anyway. Times are changing, Lieutenant. Better change with them. - I can see that, sir. (bike engine roaring) (soft music) - Hello, Mr. President. Operation You listen to me very, very You knew damn good and that this day was going to come. Well, the committee and I This was a courtesy call, When you sell your soul, There's no going back. (ominous music) - All right, all right, don't panic. Just keep the horse I got a horse in breach. Frankie, Sam's gonna pick you up and take you over to - Awesome, maybe Sam will - Good Lord, Frankie. - Listen, I'm gonna go ahead and go with Frankie to Look, I know about my Don't worry about me seeing it. I think it's great, just but Charlie and I have some talking to do. I got a mother that and my daughter wants to fight in one. This is why I became a veterinarian. Lord help me. - I love you. - We're gonna skadoot and skedaddle. - [Woman] All right. (soft music) - Be seated. By order of the Commander-in-Chief, we will be cooperating We'll be running joint - [Man] Colonel, if I may. - Floor is yours, Colonel. (soft music) - My name is Colonel Kashoid. I'm here with Colonel Our countries have found it beneficial on a number of different as friends under the United Nations banner to do joint exercises in the case of any type of (gun firing) - Can I get anything - No, thank you. This Charlie, could you sit down I'd like to talk to you. I recall very vividly and this man was testifying and he said, &quot;We shall whether we like it or not. The only question is, if world government will be accomplished by conquest or consent.&quot; - He made a bold and stupid statement. Unfortunately, it's true. - Well, look who I found lurking outside. - Lurking, lurking. What can you expect? The gentleman's a politician. - Oh, Mama. - Oh, Roger, I just and keep you humble. - Always good to see you, ma'am. - Pleasure's mine. - Charlie? - How is it every but I never vote for you? (all laughing) - Well, I aim to change that. - So, is that what's got you all dark and brooding, Lieutenant? - You have better eyes than you think. She dumped me when I joined. - Now you're sitting here wondering just what the hell it is you're doing. You sign up to defend a country, it's getting hard to - Yeah, something like that. - That's why I think you - What is it? - It's something I'm for when the fit hits the shan. If something happens to me, it's yours. - I ain't gonna let nothing happen to you. - I'm gonna go put this back. - Release the device. (phone cluttering) (ominous music) (satellite beeping) Happy birthday to you - Happy birthday, Mama. I love you. (ominous music) - One of these days I'm gonna learn how to (phone ringing) (missile firing) (upbeat music) (satellite exploding) (upbeat music) - All the lights are off. - Look, I'm sure it's - You're gonna stay with me, right? - Of course. I'm not going anywhere, okay? - It happened, didn't it? - I'm not sure, but we'll find out soon. - Something must've hit a transformer. (EMP roaring) (EMP exploding) - We just got hit by an EMP. - We should go help them. There's nothing we can do, Timmes. There's no trucks. Nothing works. - Then what's that? (truck engine roaring) - Truck's old school, pre-electronics. They must've had some protected somewhere. - That's awfully convenient. (soft music) - We deploy in one hour. We have support coming from - Hold up, Colonel. - Sir, what's the mission? - You do not tell me to hold up! - Sir, what is the mission? - Martial law has been - Martial law? Already? It just happened. - We're gonna have to restore order, so you tell your men to get - What is our mission? - Restore order. Disarm the population, subdue - There's no way martial law - Lieutenant, you will follow my orders or I will have you arrested. - Sir, I have sworn to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. I will not fire on - Then you will die. - Back off, guys. Stand down. That's an order. - Now, Colonel, what to do with him? - Lock him up, we'll deal with him later. - I'm not going anywhere. - Bad call, son. (gun firing) - Let's go, guys, come on. - You're dead, Lane. You You're dead! - Hey, boss. It was an EMP. Anyone coming down here won't Though I'd say everyone's laying low, probably riding this out tonight. - Tonight, but give it a day or two. We've got what they want. Well, Charlie, thank you again You should get out of here if you let Sam take you down to your house to get what you and your family need. - We could leave before sunup, we're good. - Okay. - Come on, guys, hurry up, hurry up. (soft music) (guns firing) (gun firing) - Come here to me. Come over You know, when I was your age, I was a tough son of a Go, your old grandmother's just fine. - Thanks, Grandma. (soft music) (ominous music) - [Soldier] Colonel, I (door exploding) (gun firing) - [Soldier] Don't let him get away. - Battery's dead and my - Excuse me, ladies. - Here you go. - Welcome. (upbeat music) (bike engine roaring) - Oh, shit. (door knocking) Hello? Anybody home? Hello? - Please, sir, I'm no trouble. Just a soldier trying to get home. - What's your name, boy? - Brandon Lane, Lieutenant. Well, I was. - Lieutenant, huh? - I reckon I got two options with you. One, I stick a bullet - Please, sir. - Or two, I figure out who Is that what you want? - Yes, sir. - [Kashoid] Your president has that gives the United Nations full control of your We have no constitution. - Dammit. I knew there was but these sons-of-bitches out of our constitution. - Yeah, for starters. - Now, your friend that had this- - Killed by those men. - I'm sorry. But how did this thing It was in his metal locker, - I don't believe in luck. - [Man] Your country's going There have been rumors of The beast has reared its ugly head. - It's only North America? - [Man] That's what the news is here. - I appreciate any news - [Man] Copy that. Be safe, Charlie. - You need to get me out of here. - Obviously, your car's dead. - Yes, it is. - You don't get it, do you? - I am a state representative. I need to get back to Austin - Figure what out? - What we need to do to fix the problem. - You were the problem. You can kiss your government goodbye. - What, you think a power outage has just erased our government? - There's a government, all right. Just not the one you're used to. - That's absurd. - The time to act was when - How? You tell me, Charlie, - The Congressional reports I sent you, all the recommendations of the panel? You didn't read a single one of them that I sent you, did you? - Charlie, do you know how much crap goes across my desk every day? - You've already blown this. And what you really need to (soft music) - Seems like the power - Yeah, but no power - Yeah, I'm getting kind of - Me too. I don't even - Look, I bet you the sun's I say we just ride it out. (car exploding) (gun firing) (soft music) (gun cocking) - [Kashoid] You thought (gun firing) - Nightmare. - Yes, sir. - Tough to shake. Took me years. - Coffee? - Yeah, thanks. - I know it ain't the best, but. - Not so bad. - You're a terrible liar, Lieutenant. It shows your character. (soft music) - Thank you. - Charlie? If that really - Half-a-million people And things are only gonna get worse. - How could it get worse? - No power. Everything shuts down. Hospitals, fuel, travel, food spoils. The average American family Hungry people do desperate - And all of this could've been prevented? - Yes. - I wish I had more fuel for you. - It'll be fine, it'll get me going. - Hey, I appreciate the (soft music) - Hey. I don't know what you're gonna I don't even know what And you're holding a powerful truth and what you decide to do with it is going to be very dangerous. Godspeed. (soft music) - Frankie, do you - No, all I know is the power went out. - You're a smart girl, Tooth-fairy version or the truth? - I want the truth. - Truth is, this is the time or they pull up their Man, woman, young or old. - I'll fight. - Kelly? (soft music) I'm just so afraid of the world that you're gonna have to grow up in. (soft music) I just want my family back together again. - Kelly, baby, come here. (upbeat music) - Roger, I need to show you something. But I can't show the to keep his big mouth shut. Yes, if it means getting You have my word. (soft music) - It's a Faraday cage. Military's been using them since the '50s. - I'm sorry, a Faraday cage? It's a building that protects Could be as simple as or well, this. That chopper, it's what to go get Penny. (ominous music) (bike engine roaring) - Hello? - Hey there, friend. - No power here either? - Nope, nada. - I could use some fuel, enough to fill the tank and the jug. - Might be a little tough. I need to keep it for the town. There's no telling when the power. - I hear you, no problem. - But maybe if you sweeten the pot. - What are you thinking? - No, don't let the I'm a pacifist. - It's gonna take a lot of money, then. - Maybe I got something better. One ounce of silver. Right now, it could be worth a grand. - Holy shit. - You can come out now. - Please don't hurt me. - You Toby? What is left of it. I'm not gonna hurt you. This big fella have - Hey, get him, get him! (men groaning) - Toby, can I please have some gas now? (ominous music) - Come on, let's keep (upbeat music) (helicopter engine roaring) - I say we stay low, avoid any stray pops coming at us. - Let's do this. (upbeat music) - There she is! Get her! (helicopter engine roaring) (man groaning) - Where's the politician's daughter? (helicopter engine roaring) - Charlie. - There she is. (helicopter engine roaring) - Shut up, or I'm gonna bash your face in. (girls screaming) (helicopter engine roaring) - Penny! Penny, get down! (gun firing) (upbeat music) - Penny, I've been looking - You left me. - I'm sorry. (students screaming) - Stay back! - Nice punch. (helicopter engine roaring) - I wish Mr. Green was here. - Your science teacher? - He used to be a farmer before all this GMO, - You know what? Overwhelming evidence indicates that GMOs posed any kind of You people, you all live in a bubble. What do you think the - Our government isn't supposed - Hey, Frankie. I don't think this is for this discussion. (upbeat music) - [Charlie] Come in, Lima Romeo. - Go ahead, we read you. - [Charlie] We just crossed And, Kelly, there's a soldier - Is it Brandon? - [Charlie] It sure looks like it. (upbeat music) - You're pretty tough for a (upbeat music) - You must have gone - Yes, sir. Actually, I've got something that's been burning a hole in my pocket. This belonged to a good friend - How'd the recording survive the EMP? - I've been told not to (recorder beeping) - [Kashoid] Colonel, you and your president getting your troops must be prepared whether armed or not. - Yeah, I get it. - I don't understand. I mean, how could- - Had you been willing, you would've known this It's not a left thing or a right thing. Every administration for the last 50 years has been working towards this, whoever's stamping the executive orders. - I mean, how could they have - Nothing happens by accident. - And I need to get back to the capital. - If you're really set on it, you could probably do some good in Austin. It's time to advise the - Do you know what that would take? I want you to come with There's something I want you to hear that'll help you make your decision. (soft music) - [Ian] In New York and L.A., FEMA camps have been set up. Chicago looks to be going down fast, with looters tearing up the city. Those that haven't been detained are going to be looking - Ian, stand by, please. - Play it. - [Kashoid] Your president has that gives the United Nations full control of your We have no constitution. - This is Lieutenant Brandon The recording you just heard was given to me by Sergeant William Hamm. He was killed by the - Yes, sir. There is only I will find Lane, I will bring him here, and he will publicly confess to this hoax. - I'm gonna rip his throat out. (engine roaring) - Alone again. - You're not alone. And your dad has the truth now. He may be our only chance. - Things are never gonna be - I don't think so. - I'm tired. - Hold on a sec. Please stay. - Please stay? That's To my mom. That's what I said to you. - Can I remind you, you're the one that - What was I supposed to - Yeah, you were. - Until when? Until you I couldn't face that. I loved you. I never will. (soft music) (fist thudding) - Sergeant Timmes, Lieutenant A domestic terrorist. Is he really worth all this suffering? Help me stop this. Tell me where he went. - How am I supposed to know? - You served with him for three years, you expect me to believe that? (fist thudding) (heaving) Go to hell. - Again. (fist thudding) - I think with just a few more people, we could button this place down. - I agree, we don't need How many are you thinking? - I'd say three more would work. In Afghanistan, one small than an entire company. - Sam? JD, he lives in town. He's But I'm not sure for how long. His wife and he both so they're good, she's a badass. - Yeah, I know JD and Sandra. - I volunteer. Sam already taught me how- - No. - Then what about Mr. Green? - You said he was a farmer. - Before that, he was a policeman. - That's a useful combination of skills. Sam, call on JD and his wife. Frankie, I'll find Mr. Green. We've got to harden our (upbeat music) (truck engines roaring) - Yeah, it'd be nice to but it's a lot of digging. - Yeah, it is. We can handle that. Positioned accurately, this I think I might have an idea on how we can get a little extra bang for our buck with the spider holes. - Still making killing machines out of dental floss and toothpicks? - Always. - Frankie? - Gus, how are ya? You've been good? (truck engines roaring) - JD? Really nice to meet you. - Thank you. Nice to meet you. - We're really glad you're here. - Thanks for having - We're stronger together. Okay, guys, there's two primary points. First of all is the compound The other one is a Faraday cage, which contains our (upbeat music) - Now we're talking. - The perimeter's secure, right? We have fencing all the way - Perimeter's secure. However, we've got to 'cause it is long, it can be (car engine roaring) (upbeat music) - That's good. (truck engine roaring) - Oh, hey. - All right. Mama? Mama? (all laughing) - Cheers! - America. (car engine roaring) - Here. Take mine. - Thank you. Wow. That's better. Charlie? Why us? Why are you taking us in? - I care about you, and I The world's a different place. Who knows what tomorrow is going to bring? (gas exploding) - Oh, that's hot! That's hot, that's hot! Oh, that's hot! Oh, that's hot! Oh! Oh! - Oh, my God! Are you okay? - What the heck was that? - That was a miscalculation. - A miscalculation? - Ah, the air pressure wasn't quite right. - What the- - Oh, it's a Molotov-cocktail launcher. I call it the &quot;Molotovenator.&quot; Just got a couple tweaks. Wanna come see? (soft music) - Let's get this garden finished. (upbeat music) (truck engine roaring) - [Sam] Uniform November at - Ten-four. Did you say Uniform November? - Affirmative, sector - How many? - I don't know, maybe I'm hauling ass to the gate! - United Nations, but I guarantee (truck engine roaring) Penny, take Betty to the radio room. - Where's Frankie? (fence shattering) (vehicle engines roaring) - Hey, guys? We're getting into position. - All right, what do you My vivacious personality? - Frankie? Gus, is Frankie with you? Gus! I can't find Frankie. - She's gonna be okay. JD's waiting for her at I need you. - Okay, okay. Okay. (vehicle engines roaring) - Stay here, okay? - Okay. - Keep an eye on Penny. - You know where the guns are. - You bet. We're gonna teach these bastards they can't mess with our country. (upbeat music) - [Charlie] Everyone, take your positions. (upbeat music) - My name is Colonel Kashoid, Commander of United I'm here to arrest Lieutenant Brandon Lane on charges of murder and desertion. You ought to hand him - I'm sorry, what did - Kashoid. - This is not a joke. It's just your name. Kashoid! Bad joke. - I assure you, I am not joking. - Yeah, okay, I got it, But I'm curious. Who or what gave you the and make these ridiculous demands? - The laws of your land by your president in declaration of martial law. - Okay, well, I'm not but it'll be a hot day in Siberia before we turn Brandon Lane over to you. - Apparently, you are not caught up on the laws your president has signed. The National Defense Authorization Act, Executive Order 13603, - And that's a mouthful of nonsense. Quite frankly, I just and I'm a part-time inventor. I kind of suck at it, but- - I am authorized to confiscate any items which may present a danger to the citizens of the United Nations. If you hand Lane over quietly, I will confiscate these items peacefully. - And if not? Then what? Burn the place to the ground? - Be ready. Shoot first if they move. - I should've killed you - You did have the chance, You failed. - Not this time. (vehicle door closing) - Is that the American? - Affirmative. He makes one (soft music) - You had what it takes, Lane. You could have been a good soldier. Instead, you turned into a coward. - I am a good soldier. You're - Bring him to me! - Timmes! - You know that I will not hesitate to paint this fence with body parts. He cried like a baby, he sang like a bird, and he brought me right to you. You now have five seconds. - Let him go. - Don't, Lieutenant! (gun firing) (guns firing) - Brandon! - What was that? (upbeat music) - I'm tired of these (upbeat music) - [Charlie] They're (gun firing) (bomb exploding) (guns firing) - Man the .50 cal. I want them dead! (guns firing) - Good, keep firing that gun! Bring them down! Kill them! (gun firing) (Kelly screaming) (house crashing) - (groans) Dammit! - [Charlie] Hon, are you okay? - Yeah, I'm okay. - .50 cals down. Now let's show (guns firing) (truck exploding) - Hey, you almost hit me! - Just keep firing that thing! (guns firing) (bomb exploding) (helicopter engine roaring) - Oh, crap. You gotta be kidding me. (upbeat music) (guns firing) (bomb exploding) - Lane! Go get him, go! - I've got to find Frankie. I'm gonna check the inner garden. - Kelly, no, please. - [Kelly] I'm gonna find my daughter. (upbeat music) - Y'all got me? I'm in spider hole four. It's me they want. Let them come get me. (arrows firing) (upbeat music) - Stay low, Frankie. (gun firing) (soft music) - Goodbye, little girl. You're dead. (gun firing) (plane engine roaring) - Here, land that thing! - Gus, I had no choice. I had no choice. - Oh, Frankie. - I had no choice. - Baby, baby, baby, baby. - Oh, honey. - I had no choice. (gun firing) (plane engine roaring) - Get this thing in the air. (plane engine roaring) - Get the chopper. - Go! Get this thing in the air now! (upbeat music) (plane engines roaring) - You got this? - Let's see what this thing can do. (upbeat music) - There he is. (plane engines roaring) - Catch him! (plane engines roaring) - We gotta stay out of missile lock. - They're on your six. - Fire that missile! (missile firing) (plane engines roaring) - Going left side. (gun firing) (plane engines roaring) - All right, I got eyes on them. (plane engines roaring) - Shoot that thing out of the air. - I can't manoeuvre like that. - Ah, shit. - That's all we got. Make it count. - All right, get me in position. (plane engines roaring) - Here we are, bank right, bank right. - He's coming over the top! - Direct hit. (plane engine roaring) (plane exploding) - Looks like we won the battle. - But the war has just begun. Our story may never be recorded And our history is now of a once-great nation. A nation founded by a legion of patriots with a scroll of simple principles. A nation fought and paid for by heroes that were willing to die for her. We are not willing to die run by demonic elite. Jefferson was right. &quot;The tree of liberty must be by the blood of tyrants and patriots.&quot; It may not have been our choice, but we are the new patriots. (upbeat music)