Roughly 50,000 years ago in what is now walked the Earth. Using the latest scientific and death, his childhood, his diet, his This is the life and death of a neanderthal. [Music] For all great apes, whether human or non-human, but also vulnerability. This was undoubtedly the are now obscured by the mists of time. For some time. Living life as nomadic hunter-gatherers than it is now was probably not easy. Food, lines in the teeth of this Neanderthal child periods of their childhood they were under a malnutrition. Possibly a result of having to The owner of that tooth was luckier than at least two adults, two teenagers and two child years ago. Sadly for these people it seems they is shattered, butchered, cut up clear signs of the East wall of the cave totally disarticulated, It's entirely possible all of these How common cannibalism was amongst neanderthals event for most, but did Nandy have to occasionally animals could be found, when the last horse Life was not all bad though. 80,000 years ago on family lived amongst the dunes, leaving behind and footprints. Of the 257 prints recovered the The youngest being probably around two. We just the sand. Did the children collect shells down? Did their older brothers and sisters yell to their mother's hand as they tentatively they think of the wolf following behind them? clues of family life preserved for 80,000 years. For our young Nandy at some point he must have had of his. He no doubt had to learn how to produce in the Paleolithic. Patiently learning how to how to process game and cook meat over the fire to of children's journeys into adulthood is hard 244 bird remains were recovered from mainly doves and choughs. Many of them does this show that neanderthals were adept marks on these bones could have been made were thrown a bird to practice on as their Unfortunately for our Nandy, he led a long contender for the most injured person ever found terrible debilitating injury to the right hand Did he chase a mountain goat too far and fall from the cause of this injury his right arm was became withered and small. He also completely lost can only speculate how. The pointed angle of the was he the world's first successful amputation. state does show that he survived for a long time himself from dying from blood loss? How did the Perhaps in the same incident a blow to the and deformed his eye socket. This almost certainly having some difficulties with that eye. He had leg and knees which probably caused him to walk was also struck on the head again hard enough to he was also partially deaf. Bony growths within loss. This could have been caused by the blow condition called DISH. We'll never know for in. What we can say for certain though is that on his own, especially the loss of his arm. Others him the care and time needed to recover. Nandy for a time with absolutely no painkillers. used local plants or mushrooms in some way Intriguingly, one Neanderthal from El Sidron in the plaque in their teeth. Poplar does naturally Aspirin so there is some tentative evidence that as natural medicines, as natural painkillers. that what is perhaps evidence of horrific violence and problems he had, is also the best evidence of caring for each other. In spite of all of these and the rest of his body is as robust and sturdy to his condition and lived a physically active knapping techniques. Considering when he lived he nothing else to do about it, however, he may When we picture neanderthals we often imagine them and mammoths and for sure some did live like were hunting straight tusked elephants each a huge amount of food, and an incredible display though he was probably not used to such Ice to reconstruct the environment around Shanidar climate was probably not wildly different to surrounding environment would be immediately made of less intimidating prey than mammoths, at majority of faunal remains from the cave are made the mountains of the region. How did Neanderthals well trodden paths or hurl spears and rocks at fact that goats make up such a large percentage into when Shanidar cave was occupied. Still today the Shanidar valley to overwinter before moving spring. It's interesting to think that the ebb winter at Shanidar, spring and summer higher Nearby in Syria in the El Kowm Basin, the tip of a wild ass has been found by archaeologists. that dot the area. Such a large animal would have it wouldn't have sustained them for too long. living extremely active lives, perhaps even humans. In challenging cold climates they may 10 neanderthals that would equal roughly three calorie requirements meant neanderthals could not fattiest richest parts of the body, the brains, but they probably didn't turn their nose up at covering their prey, found under logs, would The more we study neanderthals, the more we Another Neanderthal found in Shanidar cave, analyzed. Far from relying on goats and asses the date palms and wild seeds and grasses like consuming to gather and the process must have been It's easy to think of this extra calorie this increased need for calories would have had a Was it hard for Nandi's mother to gather her hungry baby? How did Neanderthal women picture their landscape and assess whether And is it possible that this increased need for Did leaner, more efficient bodies expanding [Music] The more we learn about neanderthals, the From turtles, to mussels, to hibernating bears variety of tools to get this food. Not only do we every now and again when conditions are right we Italy were using beeswax mixed with conifer warming the mixture over the fire before applying prehistoric chemistry and they no doubt helped One of the biggest gaps in the archaeological we're largely ignorant of all the wooden artifacts now and again we do find some. From Abric Romani a trowel-shaped impression in the dirt. Are these tool, or or a small shovel? From Poggetti Vecchi been found. Nandy and his group must have produced Foods they were eating, and most famously of all years ago. Probably made by very early of horses no doubt ambushed by these neanderthals. by some to be a throwing stick has also been and it's tools like this that probably allowed Most of what we know about neanderthals comes from stable not much really comes in and disturbs of these Rock shelters, just finding clues about in the world is so tricky. At La Folie, France, was a neanderthal Camp. A ring of small post like flint knapping, butchering and cooking. spaces and this shows that neanderthals they weren't just mindlessly bumbling around. We where the rubbish of daily life is organized evidence of Neanderthals burning their poo, they very house proud of them. At Abric Romani again of Neanderthals creating lean-tos and things like I'm sure if more wood survived to the present neanderthals were capable of and how they All of this clearly shows that neanderthals environment, they're very house proud. It Shanidar cave after a long goat hunting Was he relieved to be sat around the warm The ability of Neanderthals to inject meaning into entered the realm of art and symbolism. At Neanderthals walked 336 meters through the Here they constructed a ring of stalagmites on top of little piles of stalagmites. If the correct it undoubtedly forces us to question brain this is really incredible stuff and end there. From Krapina in Croatia and Grotte du jewellery made from talons and teeth. From two mixing pigments in seashells and Incredibly remains of Neanderthal painting. The faint red ocher staining the cave wall at Ardales and at La Pasiega. All of these paintings seemingly 20,000 years so neanderthals must have made them. sapiens may have even added to the Neanderthal What did these paintings mean? What happened into these caves? One hypothesis is that they were which we know neanderthals certainly did, and once reason. We'll never know for sure but it's certain those large Neanderthal eyes. The stereotype of permanently relegated to the past. We don't yet but they certainly displayed a level of symbolic As Nandy and his family were walking over they undoubtedly ran into other humans. Some would quite the same. At between 40 to 55,000 years old, that a group of homo sapiens left Africa at least know through genetics, when our ancestors came them had children with them. You have Neanderthal non-african people have this genetic legacy left Africa. It therefore almost certainly to be clear modern African people do also have In other words Nandy lived at close to the time merged for perhaps the last time. The Neanderthal or at least belong to other neanderthals are not our evolutionary cousins they In one sense it's easy to imagine that these two that it was unusual for them but more and more we Neanderthals was complex occurring many times we have Neanderthal DNA in our blood, Nandi through his. It really shows that homo sapiens and but rather points on a spectrum of humanity. The fact that we have Neanderthal DNA within us children with Homo sapiens and more importantly their communities to pass on their DNA too. So neanderthals and Homo sapiens were peaceful. At other times they may not have been. Shanidar in his teeth, had a vicious cut to one of his weapon may still have been lodged inside as unlike Nandy who survived for years with so lucky. They probably died within a few weeks this and who did it we'll never know, but it's groups of homo sapiens and Neanderthals that this the friendliest of neighbours, certainly the rest For Nandy, life seemingly came to an unfortunate injury, poor vision, deafness a missing arm there a cave-in. Crushed by the very rocks that have is still well known for Rock Falls today, it's may not quite end there. When Nandy was originally would bury their dead was highly controversial but neanderthals engaged in mortuary behavior, at Shanidar Cave are one of the best examples of had found the remains of one Neanderthal when of fetal position. As he prepared to remove of three other neanderthals were in the exact same The chances of four neanderthals dying unlikely, they were almost certainly placed there. 2017 archaeologists returned to Solecki's trench there was yet another burial in that spot that a bowl-shaped depression possibly even with their deliberate burial. The dirt surrounding the body decomposing material, part of this was undoubtedly that there are plant remains also mixed into this at Shanidar had flowers placed over them. This was it has been debated ever since. The discovery of a of organic matter placed around the bodies has burial. Did Neanderthals cover the dead with This new burial also seemingly had a flaked stone the ground. Was it a prized possession did the vague notion that they would possibly still need love to tell you more but at the time of recording surprise me one bit if our Nandy had been buried. in accidents just like we can but considering the for Nandy during his life, it would not surprise him in death too. Preserving him for tens of into the incredibly difficult but also rich