I Just wanted to show the legs cuz as I was telling you ahead of time You're gonna walk home with more than maybe just a trophy tonight. I think lots of men. I'm not gonna walk home with any men My friends and then I go home to the cats no men allowed men get me in trouble Sean Mendez your song patience is about a hook up with an older woman. What is the oldest lover? You have had a hot 20 20 25 How old were you at the time 19? Do not compare Nicki Minaj to Lady gaga, does that kind of Comparison offend you offend me no irks me yeah what are the similarities why don't I turn the cameras around and ask you just the wigs and the Wings every female in this game and every female in this game wears wings the over-the-top costuming over-the-top costumes eh try again If you could use makeup or your phone one last time which one would you pick? Your makeup or your phone this what you think girls have trouble choosing? Yeah. Yeah. Can you really go anywhere without your cell phone? Yes, how long can you go without looking at many hours are now Absolutely. I have to do it. You know when I'm at a dinner table. I like to be present and talking. I can't ladies learn Right now we have you seen the news and girls we can all learn. Yes Who has the biggest dick in the music industry I saw one penis for 10 years and that's all I'll say about that We got an email from Kim from Arizona who said if you were single and Drake was single Would you want to sleep with him his verse and only makes me think that he would be into it No No, you love him in a different way Things are clearly going brilliantly in your career. I just wondered if you are as happy in your private life And will we be seeing a certain? Mr. Ashton Kutcher, perhaps making a trip over here how disappointing was that question? Should we move on to another one? Absolutely. I think there was a question. we are going to move on to the next question I'm happy and i&quot;m single If that's what you're really asking Does that really coming up like sooner something? It's in a week. Oh shoot see this is --. see, I need to stay on the Internet more so you weren't invited? Why would you think I'm invited? I don't know! you met him! Okay, you met me you think you're gonna come in my wedding? maybe! Am I coming to yours? I mean you'll get the invite. Oh girl. Okay. Well then maybe I should feel away You play Margo the star character there, did you get a chance The book is taught I know what a lot of high schools and such if you get a chance to read it Or do even you have time to sit and read These days are so busy No, I never had the book all the script. Actually. I kind of winged it No, of course I read the book. I think the book's amazing You know, I'm wondering looking at as Marion was talking about how busy you are looking at your IMDB and all the projects It's like you were doing one thing after the next after the next Do you find that it's easier for you to focus because you're so busy if you had downtime Maybe it wouldn't be so easy for you. What do you think? No, I don't know where that comes from. No, I think uh-- It's not easier to focus. I think I mean, I love what I do. It's it's It's not crazy. You know, I mean, it's It's my passion all of these things, you know I've wanted to do this since I was young so it's not it's not too hard. Not too hard? All right Lasted how long nine years 180 episode you gave it up right? I did. They didn't cancel you. You canceled them You're not aware of this. No, I'm asking you think I got cancelled. Are you under the impression? So I've hurt you Jerry But given interviews you've done in the past your own sexuality seems a bit more ambiguous Do you find it hard for celebrities to talk to their section to talk to media about their sexuality? Well on earth you going on about? But what is your question? I was wondering if you find it difficult for celebrities to talk about their sexuality I don't find it difficult for celebrities to talk about their sexuality Are you asking me about my sexuality? Sure? Why? Thank you, okay Now were you able to wear undergarments You're like the fifth person that's asked me that Because--. what is going on? what-- since when did people start asking each other about an injuries about their underwear? this is not a-- Well, is it inappropriate to ask? I didn't ask you what kind you just asked me if I was wearing any. Oh Amazing hello oh wow Thank you so much. You just come off like an island or something. You're very tan. Very tropical. I mean, you know, I'm ethnic Me too, so Allowing yourself to just be a woman it was the whole process painful Physically for you to make this, you know because there's a lot of surgery involved a lot of drugs involved obviously Hormones, etc. Yeah, was it? Was it challenging in that way? And I've just I guess just I just did my nose I just got my breasts done just little things that I've always wanted to do the metagame You still your your your private parts are different now, aren't they? I don't want to talk about it because it's it's so it's really personal and um, I don't know I just never got to talk about my mom and stuff Talk about being a w and being a you know I'm happy and i&quot;m single