This video strives to be simply the most accurate twenty minutes. To achieve this, its script was written in by Jon Ostrower and his team of journalists are our own. They're some of the most respected names extremely busy and opportune time for aviation for their contributions. It wasn't always this bad. Long before a door plug rocked Boeing, and the iconic American aerospace giant to its literal variety. It was right about here, at 10:55 in the morning, sent shockwaves rolling across the Pacific of one of the region's most prized institutions, For a full minute, it shook nerves and structures locations, cracking runways, destabilizing building: 10-85, home to a host of engineers In this case, though, a ground shaking event opportunity for Boeing to be its best Boeing. Rather than move staff to office space farther Airplanes' leadership boldly innovated--they The company's Renton campus has been the By the '90s, the location had sprawled to been busier. Trying to keep up with the seemingly insatiable trying to match the A320's technological and assembly, Boeing launched the 737 Next On top of the now more efficient, higher capacity, sought to reinvent how they built planes in Visiting Toyota and other Japanese companies simplify the supply chain, adopting the 5S's as means to catch up on their back orders By 2000, such C-suite ideas had matriculated In Renton, Boeing had swept, simplified, sorted, clutter, that it now had acres of newly unspoken-for Rather than expand to meet demand, they shrank. Then, when the earthquake shook the region, took advantage of upheaval and slowdown by machinists to high-ranking engineers--into By effectively decluttering, Boeing moved three buildings running the floor's east By closing the distance between machinist, assembly, pain points, and slowdowns were By closing the distance between plane and transporting the plane from one station to the factory was clearing an output of more halved individual production time from 22 With the move to the lake complete, nearly twenty years, making this third generation then the best selling commercial aircraft Producing a safe, reliable product through ample room for collaboration, communication through engineers and on-the-floor machinists, Alongside the successful 777 launch in '95--which the world over, the 737 NG development, the and the sound maneuvering to maintain an upperhand increasingly dependable, Boeing was revered, were proud of. Of course, while reaching a peak is difficult, to slip is never too far off. At about the same time, the company also decided even bolder business model not so far up the 36 miles or 58 kilometers north on highway Everett factory--the single largest building And it's here where its troubles first appeared. Of course, when developing brand new planes be a few swings and misses. But it's less the miss and more the style how quick Boeing fell. In 2003, Boeing decided they were going to the 787 Dreamliner. But the board and CEO and ultimately investors to design a plane then spending years upon wanted returns faster. In fact, they said they'd do it for less a decade ago. And then, to cap off the challenge, they were including, most importantly, the first majority ever--a wholesale revolution in how jetliners But Boeing had a solution. A decade before, McDonnell Douglas was the that wasn't Boeing, yet like all others as the Cold War ended and Airbus strengthened, It needed a new aircraft to have any shot to design a new aircraft, so rather it aggregated risk themselves. They'd each pay to design their respective together, and they'd all profit based on Ultimately unable to turn around its fortunes, and the new, larger Boeing rebranded the beleaguered to market. This went... ok--there were some major hiccups hard to really tell because the aircraft was to sell the 737. Only 155 were sold meaning the risk that the Yet also now part of the new, larger Boeing When faced with the challenge of how to make had the solution: they'd do the 717 strategy. They'd collect together subcontractors--Japan's Vought Aircraft Industries--assign them parts, but to design them too. And most crucially, Boeing wouldn't pay to the extent they had previously. Once again, in order to win the contracts, upfront development costs and make it back paid for the parts, spares, and maintenance--or Clearly, this was a disadvantageous deal for out was that it did not matter. Boeing had enormous negotiating leverage. Holding half of the commercial aircraft market, contract so subcontractors agreed and Boeing's history at a fraction of previous development The utopian vision to speed up development with an increasingly transactional approach This went poorly. The plane was three years delayed. When rolling the first 787 out to reporters, on-hand noticed that if you looked up through cabin, if you looked through the cockpit's cabin. As suppliers and employees alike would later shell. Inside it had no floor, no wiring, no systems, photos, but certainly not flight. And it wouldn't be for another two and a Even once finally flying with airlines, the new technologies never fully came and it had series of thermal runaway incidents in its grounding in 2013. The 787, on the surface, has been an unabashed new orders and the delivery of its 1,100th come close, financially, to delivering on the inevitable outcome of an overly compartmentalized So they didn't do that again. Coming out of the global financial crisis, to boom again; and with the fresh memory of its new generation of fuel-efficient, re-engined Combined, that meant Boeing hardly had a choice--Airbus Boeing had to launch a corresponding fuel-efficient share of its most popular product--its core Yet, Boeing's top engineers and finances 787 flying, and they certainly were not going enough or try the outsourcing strategy again. That meant that practically they just couldn't get a fuel-efficient narrowbody to market resources they had was to make yet another 737 design. So, backed into a corner, that's what they Continuing their response to the 787 difficulties, development and manufacturing process. It's not that Boeing would do everything, out to a smaller selection of suppliers with Perhaps the most important relationship of For decades, this Wichita, Kansas factory them across the country by rail for final And there's a good reason Spirit was entrusted used to be Boeing. The company's Wichita division was an integral like the B-29, B-47, and B-52. But in the early 2000s, Boeing needed money appease investors, and appease its new management, sold plants in St Louis and Spokane and Corinth turn. Upon their sale, Boeing and its shareholders was born to do more or less what they always company. This went poorly. Again in response to the 787's incredible anachronistically named "Partnering for The way Boeing would describe this was that to look for opportunities to ultimately create The way that suppliers would describe this Boeing would go to each--say, UTC, who made 15% less for the same part. If the supplier didn't agree, they'd lose gear contract went to Heroux-Devtek--a comparatively be a major coup. These were suppliers that had demonstrated parts of an aircraft which was not theirs right thing for their mutual success who were doing enough for their mutual success and But no matter how Boeing might portray it, mutual--to the suppliers, Boeing was irreplaceable. As an aerospace supplier, there's Boeing, it for major commercial aircraft component If they want business, they have to work with rationally yet unfortunately, plenty agreed promise that it'll lead to greater mutual down the line. Boeing might've hoped that a bit of healthy and innovation, yet what at very least happened manufacturing issues. After all, the mutual success that Boeing Boeing's decision to iterate upon the 737 catastrophic. The larger size of the more fuel-efficient flight characteristics that likely would have requirements to get a pilot certified on previous So, Boeing implemented a software fix called of the pilots so that the aircraft would handle without the software, it wouldn't. It was a flaw in this system, tied to a single crashes of Lion Air Flight 610 in 2018 and in combination led to the 20-month grounding This led to the loss of hundreds upon hundreds more crucially, it meant that Boeing completely then restarted production at a much-slowed Still today, MAX production has not recovered This has been brutal for suppliers--they they lost plenty of their most experienced notable chunks. And today, it's no surprise that suppliers woes--the two companies have fought bitterly. Spirit Aerosystems, by itself, has been responsible QA. The relationship between Boeing and its former itself under new management and a new Boeing on its contribution on the 787 after losing Altogether, there's this sequence and sum with little commonality between them--some bugs, some are production issues, some are Perhaps the only commonality is that they're global, multi-company machine that builds That leads to one conclusion--the machine It's not the suppliers or the airlines or Boeing that's broken. They are now unable to reliably convert the product. Yet still, that leaves the question of why. These days, commercial aircraft are more or The 737 is more or less the same thing as thing as an a350--there are some differences, offering more or less the same thing quicker The two major aircraft manufacturers have slightly different ways. Both have focused intensively in their factories costly blunder with the A380, but Airbus never suppliers nor did it fight costly cultural It not only talked about its desire for supply-chain back parts of the process under its own roof. That stability has enabled Airbus to push airplane of all time. In the world's most entrenched duopoly, to get orders regardless, since it's a commodity success is going to be about the combination cheap they can build aircraft. Essentially, Boeing is just wholeheartedly fixating on the financial returns of free This isn't working. Manufacturing is hard. Manufacturing an aircraft is harder. Manufacturing an aircraft profitably is even Manufacturing an aircraft capable of flying three decades designed to be safer than walking forty below to 120 above during anything from while simultaneously engaged in a perpetual fight between its constituent parts has perhaps It's a process so starkly removed from, hardly be thought of as a similar process. It's perhaps the difference between assembling Michelin-starred kitchen. Assembling a hamburger can be systematized, are plenty of ways that an experienced business-person to cut yet still successfully create good scale and scale it to achieve yet greater But you don't see Michelin-starred franchises. That's because you don't get the best to make the best food in the world. It is not something that can be systematized, You don't just hand them a recipe and hope You get the best food in the world through possible, the cleanest working environment, the best talent, a sustainable working schedule, and on and on and on into smaller and smaller people, not processes, and only then, when succeed, holding them to the absolute highest Boeing is trying to be a Michelin-starred just not working. Boeing was that Michelin-starred kitchen--there otherworldly ability to shepherd an entire through the awe-inspiring machines it built. Yet as the days of today's bleaker era accumulate, weaker. Boeing's best people are leaving--they're company that stumbles, only to promise reform The company needs a new aircraft, yet the last one are growing scarce. Consequences are mounting. Cost-consciousness led to cost overruns that and so forth, so the very thing that the company The string of two-decades of issues has meant of building overwhelmingly-safe aircraft and actually financially succeed while selling is waning. With that, they have less cash and more debt they so desperately need, meaning they focus meaning more cost-consciousness, and the cycle Boeing is at the bottom of a deep, dark hole. Their competitor is not. There's not some crucial difference between fix the American manufacturer can make to way of doing things that simply is not working. That means the only way out of this hole is not conclude a video about it well of just from its leadership down to the factory floor. In an industry where a few missing bolts can tank a stock price, it's the small things misguided belief that it can cut and squeeze apart. While Boeing is the US' only commercial manufacturers--in fact, there's another Martin. Of course they specialize in military aircraft, very different way from commercial aircraft, focused on research and development it is. For example, the company's B-2 bomber cost, and only 21 were built, largely because of I think it's a fascinating aircraft which at Mustard put out a whole Nebula Original If you like videos about planes, you've know they have some of the most amazing production with the story of one of the most interesting video. If you want to give it a watch, just head The reason why creators like Mustard and myself is because they offer a funding model that into a single thing in a way that ad-supported So, that means there's loads more Original his Nebula-exclusive series Under Exposure deadliest air accident in history. Or we did an episode of our Nebula-exclusive works. In all, Nebula is the place to go if you enjoy put out and want to see what happens when into their work. You can also, of course, watch their normal So altogether, it's a better viewing experience versions of what you already enjoy, and it and all of this goes for far less than the site--when you sign up at Nebula.tv/Wendover, of an annual membership down to just $2.50 Signing up there will help support us at Wendover,