(water sloshing) - This may be the world's you've never thought of.. - Last year we made $850,000, and this year we're on - What? And this guy started it with a kayak working just - One million oysters Sales have more than - In this episode, he reveals - Because of how much very few people talk about it openly, but this is the business of the future. 400,000 market oysters, unsellable. Thinking to myself that my Steal this trick if you get - How to get a never ending stream of customers without and at last, River Karma, the mindset that changed everything. (slurping) It was stuck there. (gentle music) This must be the most bizarre So I'm excited to harvest and outs of the oyster business. But before we get into that, where all of this started. - So this started actually on a dock on the other side of the river. It was a restaurant that was under construction was looking to stimulate It was very new back in 2015, 2016 era. - Nine years almost. - And the owner of the restaurant, that he would be a good recipient to grow these oysters and sell them. Well, he passed it all along to me, and I just absolutely Went out from day one, I immediately knew that if this is what I was gonna of my life if I could. - What about it that you I mean, it seems like a very - So being out on the boat to be my own boss working for him. So he would just send me out on the boat. So I got that autonomy and that freedom of just being out on the water. I didn't grow up on the water, no commercial fishing experience. And from there I had decided that I was gonna start my own business. I needed a spot to start. So my mom, she's got a We built all these boats you're seeing and launched 'em from her dock. - [Paul] Can you give of oysters that you are moving? Give us maybe year one and then what you expect - Our first year of sails was in 2019, and we sold about 36,000 oysters, had about $18,000 in revenue. In 2023, we sold about 1.6 million. - [Paul] Whoa. - [Kyle] And then this year and hoping to bring 5 million to market. - I'm excited to get out on the water, check out the oyster farm. - Let's do it. - I'll follow you. You're the boss. - Sounds good. Yes, sir. All right, this way. (Paul grunting) - So where are we going now? - We are going to what - [Paul] Gotcha. - It is our closest lease, so this one is gonna be that should be ready for the market. - How much time are we actually Kyle, when it was just You had that job at the restaurant. - When I was starting out, I was basically putting And sometimes like starting on a kayak, you're really tide dependent. - So the oyster farming a very profitable, and I would think once that and you do an incredible, with everybody else. - It just really brought I mean, I swear, being out It helps me reset. And I think more people And you know, long-term, 30 to be cheaper than chicken. - Quite a lot to go. - I cannot do that by myself. I actually probably won't But if I can be like, help in the ladder of that process, getting there, I think sharing the information with everybody will help the Oysters have an incredible They are one of the most that you can grow. - Interesting. - So the more people that the more sustainable protein that we've got coming to market. - And what do they do to the Are they, obviously not What are they giving back? - So an oyster is a keystone species. That means that the whole river and prevalent in that. Some of our oyster cages, which you'll see, they provide space for small critters to live. It really allows like and the crabs to flourish in this area. Also, fun fact, an adult oyster can filter 50 gallons of water per day. - [Paul] No way. - And they also sequester I'm telling you, we can solve a lot of the problems right here And I'm betting my career on it. - Now that we're coming as someone who knows very can you help me understand when choosing the right lease? What it costs, let's start with that. - Okay. - [Paul] And anything else of just doing it the right way. - Okay, you're gonna have with the DMF, the Division That's gonna be a few hundred dollars, and that's gonna be a So you're probably gonna wanna reach out to whoever in charge of You get a 10 year lease and then you pay $10 per acre, of bottom, and then you can rent the water column, which is a hundred Let's say we have 20 that's gonna be $200 for the So our total rent- - [Paul] Per month or- - [Kyle] Per year. - [Paul] Per year. - Oh, it's nothing. It's very minimal. I believe the reason that it's so minimal is because of the environmental We're being subsidized in that way. Anything else that we need to look for? So you're gonna be looking for, you're gonna wanna walk your lease, understand the ground of Also, another thing very important for the logistics game is just look how close we are from I mean, you wanna make it where you are, and that will cut down on your time, cut down on your expenses, Look to see if there are That's a key thing. - All right, well, let's go What do we do there? - Yep. - Oysters ready to go to the restaurants? - Yep. So these are gonna be and these oysters are - Sweet, I can't wait to check it out. - Whether you're looking or have an established business, the UpFlip Academy has everything you need to get to the next level. So business owners there and world-class mentors there that you cannot find on Google. I highly recommend checking especially as the first, I'm not gonna ruin the surprise for you. Why don't you go check it out for yourself in the description below. (gentle music) - All right, let's harvest some cages. You're on drill. - Yes, sir. - [Kyle] Alrighty. - So you just hooked up a cage? These are ready to go. - [Kyle] Oh yeah, these will - I think I know what I'm doing. You tell me to slow down or not. - [Kyle] All the way. Crank it. - Crank it. Okay. Just press and hold. - [Kyle] Yes sir. - [Paul] We got some - [Kyle] Oh yeah. - Good? Yes sir, and I'll bring her right here. - [Paul] All right. - And ba-da-bing. - Sweet. Tell us about your first ever sale and how did that come about? - So the first ever oysters, we really didn't know much So we looked and we basically were trying to compete with wild prices. So it was about 50 cents an oyster. We sold 400 of 'em for $200. We cleaned 'em with toothbrushes. - Yep. - And we sold 'em to Blue Ocean Market. Told 'em, Hey, I got a product. They said, We'll give you a try. 'Cause at that time, farmed oysters were not Nobody had essentially heard of 'em or really grown them And it's only what, four years ago, and that's changed that much? - Yes. Yeah. You want one? - Right now? - I can. All that water, I drink, swallow it, soup, and then, you know. - Wow. So how often do you harvest them? - As far as harvesting, Every oyster that we - Oh wow. - So we have nothing Typically, our harvest Wednesday, when we get of our oysters out on a per cage basis. You can put 1200 oysters That's $600 a cage - Gonna say, yeah, per cage about six. - Just a more honest, like, because you won't, everything So let's say, I would I'd say $400 just to build in your budget. You know, like you can get, - Between $400 to $600. - So if you can do 10 cages $4,000 to $8,000, you know. - Dang. You saw how fast we got that up. - Yeah. - So essentially what we'll do, we'll pick the cages up, we'll This boat can actually hold 20. But then we'll bring it right to our processing and ba-da-bing, ba-da-boom, and we'll get 'em in the - Alright, well let's where basically everything starts, right? - Yep. I think we've got on that lease right now. - Wow. Alright, let's go. (upbeat music) So did you start with a boat like this, or what did that look like initially? Initially I started with a kayak. It's a very small kayak. I would actually come - How would you lift a basket - Only at low tides, at low tide, all of our bottom cages - I see. - So you can get out, you lift them up, and - What was your cost to Kayak, you know, not - So I had about 100,000 That was about $5,000 investment. - Talk to us about that moment you know what, this is actually What was going through your head? What did you see, the potential and so on? Help us understand. - So it really hit me when I went into my first fine dining to see the consumers eating the oyster. I was seeing that people were willing to pay the price for oysters. So once I saw that there was that were really interested this is probably something - Gotcha. What's one interesting customer base that if we heard about - One really interesting I've been working These oysters- - Thought they don't - Well, so when you find out that these oysters can that oysters do not have so they do not feel pain. - They don't feel pain. Eat 'em. - Yes, we have had a few to enjoy oysters. - Oh man. Come on. (tools clinking) - Creating content to grow but cracking the value of that content by turning audiences into customers, well, that's easier said than done. If you're an entrepreneur of your content, you need the right tools. That's why there's Kajabi. Kajabi is the all-in-one and entrepreneurs looking to launch, grow, and manage their business With Kajabi, you can whip up and sell online courses, host and manage your marketing And guess what? Kajabi doesn't take a cut of your revenue. Every shiny pearl you earn stays with you. Their user-friendly tools and resources are designed of your entrepreneurial for you to focus on and less time shucking. So don't be shellfish. Share your content with the world and let Kajabi help Right now Kajabi's offering to start your business if Kajabi.com/upflip, and join who have made over $7 billion. Blitz time with Kyle. Kyle, first question, do you of oysters grown in different - Absolutely. They call that merroir. So it's similar to wine's terroir. So the territory they're determines the flavor. So the water we're grown - Nice, what's your - Raw. - All right, what's the about oysters in general? - How fast they grow. The exponential growth is unbelievable. You have to see it to believe it. - What's the most challenging - There's none. It's freedom. You live and die by your own decisions, and I guess that's the toughest part. - Alright. - You have to be responsible - Did you ever imagine yourself for so much money in your youth? - Absolutely. I did. I didn't know what it was - Something. Okay. What motivates you to start your day? - There are oysters and - And then last one, if with any entrepreneur, dead or alive, who would it be and why? - Elon Musk, just 'cause he is - Cool. Awesome. - Yeah. So why have both the floating cages and then you have the bottom? - So there's different benefits and different pros and cons for each. So with the bottom gear, we'll start our babies on the bottom. This is basically just so As they go through that first to these floating bags. The reason that we move to see the wave action is So basically they're - Yeah. - From here, they will to put them back into the bottom Some of the reasons we are for security, also It's very hard to harvest 10,000 oysters out of floating bags. And just unclipping them, just makes it not great for harvesting, especially when we got time in the summer months. - Gotcha. What are some costly mistakes that you can go through in this industry? - Picking the wrong lease. Let's say you pick the you put all the labor into it and then summertime comes, like we had, you can lose everything that you've invested in that lease. - Alright, let's get outta here. It's getting a little gnarly. Let's go check out the oyster tumbler. I saw that big machine. I wanna see how it works, - Sounds good, man. (gentle upbeat music) - So tell us a little What's it called and what does it do? I'm totally new to all this. - Okay, so this is what This will sort them by size and it'll also clean So what we'll do is we'll take some of these dirty bags that we recently- - This is where the babies started. - Yep. - And then we'll pour 'em up into here onto the oyster tumbler. - And basically what you're cleaning them, and then in bigger baskets, where they can get more room to grow. - Yes. Yes. - So every time they move up in cycle, they'll go into a larger aperture hole. But so essentially you can here and it leads into larger holes and then it'll lead into that comes out. So we'll just kind of load em in like this and then it basically filters through, and here's what we got here, look at that. - So the smaller oysters that stick through those holes and these will go in back into a clean four millimeter bag, 'cause they aren't big enough yet. If we move over here, these are essentially a little bit larger. And these will go into our Ba-da-boom. - All right. You guys just got a brand new hotel room? - They did. - For the next, what, week or two or- - This is gonna be six until we see these guys again. We'll essentially tumble them up and they will sit on top of the - [Paul] Gotcha. - And that's the step - All right, so this is where by the way. - Yes. - So how many oysters do - So this is an estimated We got a million in the mail yesterday and I put aside a hundred to show you kind of what we got going on here. We get them at two millimeter and they actually come over-nighted to us. - That's crazy. And they Is that where it starts? - [Kyle] Basically a lab. It's a lab. It's an indoor facility. This is essentially probably - Wow. What did you pay for that delivery? - So 1 million oysters - $9,300? - But if we buy them at six millimeter, similar to the size that - [Paul] Yeah. - [Paul] Whoa. - And it takes us from - To get from there to that? - 10 days. - [Paul] To that. - Yeah. - So you're saving $15,000 by starting- - That's why when I was the exponential growth of this, you just see it when you're - I mean, why would somebody just to be able to this harvest quicker? Because they're so small they can be easily damaged. They're highly sensitive. So that's some reason- - Sensitive little critters. - Yeah, that's a reason why a lot of people go right into six. They think it's a much hardier oyster. And when we were started, But with experience, you just realize like that cost savings, you - This is a good trick. Steal this trick if you get Can you walk us through Start with year one and where - Okay, in year one, our revenue In 2024, we did about $850,000 in revenue. - [Paul] Quite the jump. Wow. - Yeah. Our margins are basically on those oysters. So essentially it costs to get an oyster to market. - And you're selling it, - Yes. Yes. Is that a good deal in this industry? - In terms of our pricing, in more restaurants at a lower price, which is also a good way to So typically you'll find to a $1.20. - Really? Wow. - And we are really trying to And if you can get it directly from us and you buy large enough scale, we can get it down there to 60 cents. - So you're not only being competitive, but you're offering the best value and the best quality. - Right, so it's our three Ps. It's the price which we're competitive on and we can beat anybody. Our product is the freshness. So we try and get it to And then the people. Working with us is super-easy. We stand by all of our product and we want everybody to make as much money on this as possible. - That's cool. Lemme go back 'cause you didn't mention the 2024 revenue. Where do you expect to be for '24? - So ideally it would be anywhere We've actually planted this year already. And we're kind of on track - You're aiming high this year? - Absolutely. Why not? - Did you ever have moments of doubt? Give us a specific experience scale this business - We had just discovered a new lease. The state had just given it to us. It was on a perfect beautiful sandbar. We basically had moved our whole And then we learned a Spat, wild spat, which is small oysters attached to our whole crop, which is basically like which makes your oysters unsellable 400,000 market oysters, I was actually out on the lease walking around this beautiful little that my whole business has failed. And really from that moment that this, I was gonna be going back to - No way. What got you through? - Yeah, I did some simple math in my head. I said, Hey, if I can afford to pay myself $15 an hour, don't give up. We lost the majority of the crop, so the profit for that But I really enjoyed what I was doing. - Yeah. - So I was like, look, a minimum wage from this, I did some funny math in my (overlapping discussion) Just to think, just to convince And at that point I was tested and I was like, look, you And that was such a valuable lesson. We've used that for spotting it turned out one of our into one of our biggest assets, now learning how to spot these leases. - Right, can you share a little bit about what that looks like? - You want to go out and really explore the lease space first. You wanna know what kind of Is it heavy mud? Is it heavy sand? Is it a mixture? Also study the environment. Walk around your area and See is there spat on these oysters? There's harmful types of fouling that you'll learn about in the future. And if you can see that you're typically gonna Also really key, have That's how you protect yourself from this. - If Kyle's story inspired you, then hit that Subscribe It not only shows us that you but it also helps us grow and bring on more incredible Can you give us a breakdown Do I need it to get going? Do I need it to get So you do not need this to be a small hobby farmer, maybe anywhere from 100,000 But anything over that, I would highly recommend The cost on this is about $18,000. - Whoa. - It's a significant investment, but the amount of efficiency that it provides, it's unmatched. - What's your advice to into oyster farming, who don't have a lot of capital. Is there financing options How would you go about - Oyster farming, so we are The USDA is a great source of funding for anything with food production. For any other entrepreneurs I borrowed $5,000 bucks from my grandpa. But if you are lucky enough the USDA has got great - You can get a loan on machines- - You can get a loan on machine- (overlapping discussion) - Yes, and they are really so they're much better - Right. for getting into this kind that would like some and if they have extra we allow farmers to start on - Get going. - As they're putting in the paperwork. And that is really probably the gonna want to go to - So we've just checked out the equipment you need to manage an oyster farm, right? - Yes. - Let's go show you guys to actually harvest oysters and get 'em into the restaurants. Let's go check it out. - Perfect. (upbeat music) What does this machine run for cost-wise, because that was, the - Yeah, so this machine right but this particular - Dang, show us how it works. - Okay, so we'll essentially take our oysters that we've harvested. I've got a small amount What we'll do, we'll take And then we'll take them, and you can even just have somebody sit here. - [Paul] You gotta do some repositioning. - Yes. It does a really good job of, it's getting that first - [Paul] Yeah. - [Kyle] So this is basically - You know, they're... - And right here, if I turn it'll count us out basically - [Paul] Now, honestly, they - They will. So you'll see how we finish But basically there's that every time it goes up it counts. And then when it gets to a hundred count, which this will actually it'll flip and it'll - Oh, I see. - So you can have a constant motion of oysters being counted. So essentially you got Boom, take it. There's one more process and we will, we will get right to that. - What's your monthly overhead right now? Like bare minimum to keep cover your costs before profits. - Okay, yeah, so our laborer to $5,000 a week, which is - You're paying them fair. - Oh yeah, so this is such to see a career potentially in this. - What other costs? Expenses? You got fuel, you got - So about $6,000 to keep this operating, just the property and and with gas and ropes and such. - Yeah. - So about $25,000 a month. - Gotcha. Okay. - So how in the world were you doing what we just saw without - So funny enough, our first sale, we actually washed 'em with toothbrushes. It was 400 oysters. Me and my buddy, Phil, washed We quickly realized that was not the case, that was not gonna be scalable. So we pivoted kind of All the oysters are clean Now if you were just to you'd have a tough time of them to clean them. This makes it a lot quicker on the backend for pressure washing. - All right, it's time to Let's go check it out. (gentle upbeat music) Alright, as Creighton thank you, Creighton, Chef. - You're welcome. - Let's dive into the What makes different ones more or less expensive if - There are many more species, but there are really only five species that are sold commercially - [Paul] Okay. - We specifically grow which is an eastern oyster. And it's funny, the oyster of wherever it is grown, if it's sandy bottom, muddy bottom. Also basically what kind of algae you've got growing in the area. The sea grass that we've got, yeah, that brings a flavor to it. An oyster can taste completely of the river to the mouth of the river. As far as more expensive, some oysters take a long time to grow. Our oyster will take about 12 months. They've got small little cushy oysters, it takes about four years. - Wow. What logistics are involved to restaurants, other customers, and specifically what to make sure that that happens well? - Okay, so with oysters, everything is time and temp-based. So in the summertime you've got five hours to get the oysters into the refrigerator. In the wintertime, you - Oh wow. - Typically, because it's you know, they'll stay healthy. So when they go into the cooler, we either directly to consumer, we'll sell them directly outta that cooler to the restaurant. It's mobile on wheels, having a mobile trailer was And then also, we have and pick it right up out of the driveway, and then they will take to the restaurants. - Gotcha. - And at every exchange of oysters, there is a stamp that to check the temperature of the cooler, and then the one it's going into. - So is that more of a state law? - It is. - All right, well let's try some oysters. I'm sure there's plenty of them in there. We'll show you here in a second. Give us the five perfect steps - So you're gonna get your Take it right here, hold it down. You're gonna come in and You're gonna wiggle, we Once you've got it locked in, boom-boom. The next is just the door, the key turn. You give it a little key turn And he is like, nah. The next thing you're gonna You're gonna wipe off any debris. You'll come in and then there's two muscles. One on this side, one on that side. Your first cut is gonna be the top one. So you're gonna scrape along the top. (overlapping discussion) Then you're gonna... - And then, all right, go eat it. - All right, well, let's give this a shot. Give a little explanation. - So this is scuttle sauce. It's a rice wine vinegar, - This looks amazing. He was like, oh, cheers buddy. I'm losing all the juice. What do you call the juice in there? - Liquor. Yes. All right, cheers. - Cheers bud. Oh wow. Did you ever think like when you started, that you'd ever be where you are today? - No, absolutely not. No. The plan is kind of - Right. - You know, what about any - I got lucky in one I accidentally picked a name based, I called ourselves Big Rock Oysters. We're from a town where there's a massive It's called Big Rock Fishing Tournament. So we did that to try to Well, we got the trademark registered and then six days later I got a call from Big Rock Oyster outta Massachusetts. Awesome guy, treated us very fairly. - He wasn't Big Rock at that time. - He was. He had been - Oh, interesting. He - Somehow. That was our first year to sell the name just for And just as when you're a you know, a little boost. That was one of our lucks. - That's cool. - Finding Phil was lucky, and then this house, those that I got. - [Paul] Alright, we got a version two of the oysters. What's going on here? - This is just pimento I got it from my boy Joe This is his recipe. - Cheers, man. Well. Earlier we looked at your and you've more than doubled It's crazy. Is that normal? Talk to us about some of the secrets that have caused you to go from 36 to 1.6 oysters sold and so on. - Okay, it's basically consistency. Having a consistent realizing that we don't wanna, you know, make the money off the first sale. We wanna make money with Also, we've started to treat and you know, just trying to from point A to point B. - So in 2019 you were starting - Yes. - What happened in 2020 and 19 to 1.6? - 2020 was a rough year for everybody. We kind of hunkered down and really focused on learning In 2021, the opportunity to rent this property came available and we quickly jumped on that. That helped our logistics immensely. And so in 2021 we were renting it. But in 2022, the opportunity came for us to purchase this home. And through the help of to get ownership of it. And that really allowed us to start investing in the infrastructure of this property knowing - What were some of the biggest challenges that you faced when you first started out? - Well, one thing we're trying to change is the barrier to information. So when we started this, there was absolutely - That's a good one. - And that was, you just had to go out there and you know, Also, some of the barriers that is gonna be hard. The physicality. I mean, your body has to get used to this. We'll start somebody and in two months they have got a completely different physique. - [Paul] Really? - Yeah, it is. Yeah, they don't go to gyms anymore. They don't go to the gym anymore. - Well, we're out here in North Carolina. It is freaking hot. - Oh yeah. And I cannot imagine doing five, six o'clock in the afternoon? - Yep. Nine to five. - This is hard labor you guys. How many employees do you have currently? - So four full-time and then me- (overlapping discussion) Yeah. Full time. - That's pretty lean for the production that you're pumping out. I mean, is that typical for a - So to be honest, this is So we really do not know. We have- - Three at work. - Yeah, we have three of come in on their availability, but as it really kind of depends You saw we have a third So as soon as that boat's done, we'll be six plus me full-time. - [Paul] Gotcha. - So we're kind of slowly (overlapping discussion) - So what are you paying to share like- - $20 bucks an hour to start. $20 bucks an hour to start. And if they last long it can go- - What's the potential? - $28, $30? If I can sell my 2 million they get a $10,000 bonus. - Wow. - And the math works. - Yeah. And you know, hopefully - Yeah, if this stuff is the kind of labor you're into, you can - Absolutely. - So earlier you mentioned like a powerful marketing strategy that Can you tell us more about that as you're taking these nets outta here? What are we talking about - So one of the most that came kind of as a surprise to us was lowering our price. - You call that marketing? - You know, it really was. When we lowered our other chefs found out and basically, like you were of customers just based on our price. - What about other competitors Aren't you obviously undercutting them? They're selling it for 80 to a buck. - Yeah. - They're doing 52 to 60 cents. - Yes. - Which is a wonderful - Yes. - Yes. Right now it's kind of, it's it's the bottom cages. And I'm more than happy to show them exactly how we're doing it. And it's just kind of, if you're not gonna sell 10 million - Wow. Okay. So what are we doing here? We're just checking these guys out. - Yeah, so this is gonna be, these have been sitting This is a floating bag. You can see how it's - [Paul] They look beautiful little guys. - They're beautiful. So we call these fat-belly oysters and you can kind of tell like that belly a little bit more. - So is everybody doing what you're doing, or is everybody start with the bottom? - Yeah, so most of the time you're all in bottom cages. If you're in floating, you're So what made you go this route? - We were in bottom cages and then we saw everybody So we went to floating. And then I saw all the and I said, ah, I wanna shaping them at small size. - Yeah. - And the reason that we is because you can see all the weight that it could create by having heavy. So if you put markets in here, this line is gonna be extremely heavy. And that could pull out your anchors. - Oh yeah. - That can cause a lot of problems of cutting the line. Yeah, so we keep a light bag and we shape 'em up to And then we'll put 'em and back into a cage. - Awesome. Well, they look beautiful and they definitely taste really good. - [Kyle] Yeah. - So you have a fairly large active base of followers on Instagram. - Yes. - Let's talk about what as far as business goes. - Okay. - What are you doing? - We do a Happy Tuesday And the reason that we do that is because the chefs are doing their And then fairly shortly after, I would start seeing messages from chefs. It was just a reminder that we were there. We try and use the shorts and the people following along with us during the day. - [Paul] And it's a with the community. - And it's free advertising. - What other platforms are you utilizing to get your brand out there? At the beginning of 2024, I made a goal to start a YouTube channel. We're looking to get more into to be able to explain the background. We had seen other farming channels, but no oyster channels yet. - All right, I'm just curious to ask, I've been waiting all day. What is this river karma So, river karma is basically, we're dealing with Mother Nature. So there's a lot of uncontrolled Basically you can use any and one that we've found is River Karma. It's basically just doing good in general, and you'll find the benefit in your cages, you'll find your oysters are healthier and we really subscribe to that. And that's how we've gotten here. - Cool. Thanks for sharing. - Who's given you the best advice or been a mentor to you who just incredibly impacted your growth and you as a person, an entrepreneur? - So that would be my grandpa, hands down. He is 96 years old and I talk to him every week. - What advice specifically, besides what you just shared, - Sales. He, he really taught me to understand what your customers want. He also told me, whenever teach them something every time - About what you're doing? - Yes, if you can teach them something, they will make time for if you're just there to sell them something and leave. But if you can provide them you show up, just a little piece of, they learn something new they're excited to see you the next time. - That's good, 'cause we can - A lot of customers are just getting more information, and being able to provide that - You seem to know most which I think is a great thing. The question that I have As competitor, as someone you collaborate with in this industry? - Yeah. - Absolutely. So collaboration is a great word. I think of the other oyster farmers, they're really friends. We get together a few Non-profits- - Shuck some oysters. - Shuck some oysters. Obviously with being such a new industry, there's all these little tips and stuff that we're learning, you know, like the small oysters. So I'll take that information and I'll very freely And then they'll notice something that I've got going on and it's really a give and take. - Okay. - And the opportunity to from being butting heads Cleveland, the Oklahomas, and And those are huge opportunities with our, so my competition, with a few farms right now, of us to go into Oklahoma City. You know, you can't do it all by yourself. - How do you manage and like, who in the world would wanna work in this environment? Like what kind of people are to hiring the right team? - Okay, so with managing and motivating, it's a lot of communication. I kind of really ask 'cause this is a very labor intensive job. And how we motivate them is I, we kind of do a profit sharing. And then also I tell them our goals. You know, I let them know the end mission so everybody can kind of work towards it. They get to see us They get to see us planting more oysters, and you know, they get to you know, is growing and is something new. And it's, it's kind of exciting. You don't have to be strong. You don't have to be just, - That's cool. - Because when you run into problems, - Pivot, shift, adapt. - Boom, that's what we do here. If I wanted to start an oyster farm today, I don't know anything about it, I've always wanted to be - Absolutely. - Give us a blueprint step-by-step process on going about it. - Okay, so you're gonna wanna that's hiring, or if you're go work for them for free See if you're worth the snuff, Everybody's looking for I would go there then go and start the process with just talking to the state about getting a lease. That is the first, - That takes a while. - Yes, because the lease that the gear that you use. So you don't even look at the So find a mentor, work on Talk to the DMF, the about getting a lease. - Awesome, thanks for - Yeah. - That's where you start. Over 50% of our viewers say is the reason they won't pursue a business or they just can't. What do you tell 'em? You started young, started - I tell 'em when you look back on it, the fear of not starting is way worse. When you get to the that is the real fear. That's the real fear. - So when you get to your you're saying you're gonna regret the fact that you didn't try more - That's a guaranteed failure right there. - Well said. Last, what kind of piece of advice, Kyle, would you like to leave with our audience? It could be really anything. - So I got some advice from five years ago, and he said, you get out exactly what you put in. And I found that to be true. So the more you put, the - Yeah, so not only, if not only do you watch these but actually put in the work. - Absolutely. - I think a lot of people and analyzing and not executing. - Yes. Yes. And even when you don't think that's when it is most important. - Keep going. - Yes. - Awesome. Wonderful advice. Do you enjoy farming but would rather do something on the ground? Well, you can't miss who started growing Make sure to check it and we'll see you next time.