I was looking online you have several, are they classical piano releases? Yeah, classical, uh, I had five of them, five records, what made you stop? No interest. say never, it might come back to him. he's busy running Musonia, too. Of course, yeah, it's seventy-five years. Incredible. What's your that roll when you're doing the school? Are you it runs through like a nine to five thing. No, start in the afternoon. Oh, perfect for musicians. I do um I teach drums and voice and we have other has a lot of people that come from everywhere that And he's excellent at that so if anybody wants too. Go ahead, sure. Okay, so give the number has been in existence for 75 years. One thing a uh an old school, I think Nick Menza's account, band in the '80s. Yes, I worked with him for 3 where it was like, &quot;Push shove&quot; was the song. and you guys were performing. But Nick was in the it looked like it was a TV performance that I think they shot video for a French TV show. Sure. And Nick, was he a student at the school or For a little while, he was the drum teacher. George Lynch taught there as well at your school? with Ozzy. Yeah, Rudy Sarzo taught there. And there or any stories? I wasn't there then. I involved in that. He lost some of the students, know, a lot of the.. Randy some female guitar lessons. They came to give Randy soup. I don't know. He had a lot of students. Yeah he just working... he was just working, yeah, full it around Quiet Riot performances, too, at you know, he kind of beat the Quiet Riot thing that they wanted. So, he got into the teaching teacher. He really was very dedicated. He was Even through Ozzy. Yeah, he never had been on his Ozzy, he probably was like 22 years old. Now, the UK and we didn't see him for longer periods. and then we'd see him once in a while and we'd around here. Of course, we'd all go with them, That was good times, I'll tell you. And so, why really by that time we weren't getting along to play drums in that band. Oh, okay. You and Yeah, we weren't getting along then. What was sibling stuff. Randy was kind of at a cocky stage Yeah. He had all these crazy friends then and I had mentioned something, like, how everybody but he said he was also really funny, and had of a smart-ass approach to. Well, he went on the grounded and focused and completely came back a stages like that when we're teenagers. So, anyway, was an excellent drummer. He doesn't give himself along with Kevin. Kevin's a character. I mean, I once Kevin was in a room, you always knew But Randy genuinely liked Kelvin, He's also responsible for a lot of the way that Because Randy almost looked kind of hippie. I early '70s, and how long his hair was at that growing it real long. Before that, it was just down the middle. But then once he started to the Alice Cooper concert that really turned for more glam. And what did you think of Kevin, right I I didn't have a problem with because of off limits for him he didn't bother me too much can that's all just remember that they actually at the same time but Kevin dated the same end towards the end of his life first it was with her and was his girlfriend until the end in touch with her absolutely not no no we saw I spoke to her actually the last um what was that event oh Frankie Benelli when at the whiskey and then at the funeral for him was they put the statue of Frankie Benelli at yeah the rainbow I'm sorry I said the whiskey I meant the rainbow that's the last time I saw times and you say and absolutely not do you let me let me just explain to you that Randy um were they did things after he left that that go with that oh I got you okay yeah yeah so they all did it together too so yeah okay and um at uh Capitol Records I came across something you 73 and I worked at Capitol Records for a while to ABC records what were you doing there I got to the point where I was in charge of what and I wanted to go into um you know like Margie Buffett Jimmy Buffett's first wife got me was uh uh in in the Departments that I liked publicity okay but then I would but then I was changed the uh publicity Department and they of got pink slipped what year was that would record companies later no I had a lot of trouble I'll just get back into performing that's at performing and the Violet Fox was like about a a year that was I've played drums in that band that you and Randy ever wrote together was back Fox era or was that after yeah after it was just and then it's on a Quiet Riot release right that uh in that scene starting back with Eddie Van Halen or Van Halen prior to them Park you know Pasadena is not far from Burbank proximity they played one concert together um not with one another no but Van Halen played and Civic Auditorium yeah I thought they did play a oh okay but not like in the same band bam oh of Dawkins he talked about I think being at that uh still did pretty good had you um at the whiskey I saw them of course yeah still there and so of course with that documentary I liked it I guess that's good again it was a stuff with Randy and they just um they just did footage that's already been out there yeah like release that was um something that came out with interviewed us for the for that project and they from 2008. yeah they're in the past some of them and other people it wasn't done for that project and then they licensed it or something maybe I I had released a clip of Kevin's uh interview Riot they said hey we'll pay you this amount that's fine and uh they sent me the release form their offer because I took a while to send it back pay me the original amount that's fine and and so it's in there and which was kind of cool huh he has I I watched it it was okay but it was Beginnings I know yeah I thought that was couldn't use anything else because they didn't didn't give them permission for the music rights footage the people that talk in it um it was uh different people and they interviewed him at yeah the music school can't remember the name the name and they used it so that's where those wow okay unbelievable of course that documentary of an old school Guitar World interview with so he he never liked being compared to him he Styles we're different Randy had more classical more flash so but but they got along I guess or anything but I think there was a mutual respect Randy copied him and I don't think that's true a couple of um magical records you know so you his plane I mean you can imagine now the classical I know that was a little later right when he into the classical music until he was touring Ozzy he's going between concerts get out a yellow look up people for the Yellow Pages and he'd find lessons oh yeah I always was uh fascinated by that not going to say he was an angel but no I mean if serious music yeah he was he was really wanted he wanted to get a degree from uh College my tour for a while and my mom was actually was in wow she was starting to sign him up yep you classical you know he wanted to get his master's to do when I interviewed Max Norman I had asked even want to talk about that part because it's his book had acknowledged kind of that speak of live record or nobody in the band did and they a complete train wreck at that time and really said Sharon was okay with it but Ozzy got quite um and Randy did agree they said finally because saying they bring in like I forgot Frank Zappo or of messing with them and So eventually he agreed the time that he's said I'm leaving I'll fulfill the Moon I'd like to do that record and and and when I was looking at your Instagram Kathy you era that was from or what time period rather that actually lived on the house with them for a short that they got along and Ozzy was trying to find losing Randy so he you know wanted Randy to stay friends uh there's a lot of misconception about was just not to tour anymore yeah he got sick back and uh join Ozzy in the studio yeah to make um the office management with the of the osbornes you anything if Randy was alive he would have been to even think about like Randy would have just that was what he thought yeah but there was no with that live album and they were still friends wasn't happy he wanted to leave Randy said I want buy your own University by the time you're done wanted to study you wanted to uh he just he wanted is he would have combined classical music and rock some something crazy unique do you think he would been in Quiet Riot when they exploded no way but I don't think he would have I I think that would have uh probably worked a little bit then he would have done something his own song or so with with the Quiet Riot you know like think he might have done something like that from 81 when he played a gig with Quiet Riot whiskey right yeah yeah yeah and then Sharon I actually didn't like it so don the beginning or was it Sharon's brother over to his son right he didn't do to Sharon and then we were around through um either of you but uh probably more Kelly if into Black Sabbath I was Randy wasn't Randy was America he didn't like playing Black Sabbath songs