Hello everyone, my name is Dasha and you are on the channel Dasha the technician and today I want to continue the story about the Army-2023 forum and this time I want to dedicate you to the topic of fighting drones. This is a fairly pressing problem that hangs over modern warfare, both on the part of the enemy and on our part. And they say that it is quite difficult to conduct combat operations in the daytime , since swarms of these aircraft fly on the contact line and, accordingly, the topic of fighting them was quite widely presented at the forum last year, so let's see what the enterprises showed in this topic. Go. The armored vehicle AMN-590911 &quot;Spartak&quot; is a development of the vehicle of the same name. It has the same cab, the main difference is the chassis. It became three-axle, and a loading platform appeared at the rear. It is, however, not intended for transporting goods. At the rear there is a 57-mm S-60 anti-aircraft automatic cannon. Moreover, the weapon, judging by its condition, is from long-term storage. Quite appropriate for an exhibition piece. It is worth recalling why so many old anti-aircraft guns were pulled out. The fighting in Syria showed that the S-60, of which there are many in the Syrian army, turned out to be the optimal system for use against ground targets. Therefore, all the warring parties very quickly began to mount them on truck chassis. The only thing left was to give the "guntruck" concept a factory look. &quot;Spartak&quot; with a 57-mm S-60 cannon clearly did not appear as a proactive solution. I wouldn't be too surprised if the car goes into production soon. A little about the S-60 automatic cannon. Currently, New Defense Technologies LLC offers three options for upgrading weapons with subsequent installation on the Spartak chassis. The gun even received a unique name - SAZP-57. In the simplest version, the cannon is removed from the cart, all electrical equipment is replaced, and the ammunition is placed next to the cannon. The calculation has been reduced from 8 to 4 people. The second option involves restoring the life of the gun, further reducing the crew to a commander, gunner and loader, as well as installing electric guidance drives, a range finder, night vision devices and consolidating the guidance mechanisms into one workplace. In the course of in-depth modernization, the S-60 acquires, in addition to the above, an automatic target tracking system, a thermal imager, a prototype of a fire control system and an automatic ammunition supply system. Up to the possibility of firing shells with programmable detonation. In this case, the cost of modifying the ancient S-60 is many times higher than the cost of the gun. But the idea is interesting and has all the rights to be implemented. Thus, Russian engineers gave the old Soviet gun a second life. ZAK-23E at the Army-2023 exhibition forum. The short-range self-propelled anti-aircraft gun mount, developed jointly by the Tulamashzavod and STC Elins companies, is based on the BTR-82A and is armed with two 23-mm ZU-23-2 cannons. As noted, the system, equipped with advanced optical-electronic detection means, is capable of autonomously destroying air threats such as drones, helicopters and cruise missiles operating in the near field. The use of the ZU-23-2, which has been proven for decades , provides an impressive rate of fire for the anti-aircraft gun, the mobile platform ensures its maneuverability, operational flexibility and the ability to move off-road, and the presence of its own optical-electronic system - independent target detection. the massive appearance of the ZAK-23 at the front would allow Russian troops to get rid of the practice of placing the ZU-23-2 on board unprotected trucks. Work on a promising anti-UAV complex began several years ago at the initiative of the Ministry of Defense. JSC Concern Kizlyar Electromechanical Plant (KEMZ) was chosen as the contractor. At the Army-2022 forum, KEMZ showed for the first time the results of the work carried out. It was a prototype in the form of the Typhoon-VDV armored vehicle with a newly developed combat module - a modernized 23-mm ZU-23-2 artillery mount. The promising combat module from the KEMZ Concern was developed on the basis of the serial ZU-23-2 anti-aircraft gun. The latter received a set of new instruments and devices that provide target search and guidance in remotely controlled mode. The resulting module is universal and can be mounted on different platforms. For the new module, KEMZ has developed the so-called. central computing system (CVS). It is a computer with special software made using elements of artificial intelligence. TsVS collects information from optical-electronic means, from a weather station, etc., processes them and generates data for aiming and firing. Of particular interest are the means and methods of controlling the module and firing. Thus, the shooter-operator has a traditional control panel and augmented reality glasses at his disposal. The remote control can be used outside the car. The cable provides operation at a distance of up to 100 m, the radio communication station - up to 2 km. According to known data, the anti-aircraft module project from KEMZ is moving forward successfully and confirms expectations. In the foreseeable future, the development of a new ammunition will be completed, which will further improve the capabilities of the module. Probably, after this, the Ministry of Defense will evaluate this development and determine its future. Several years ago, the Ruselectronics holding first showed the multifunctional complex "Rat", and recently presented its new version. Due to their characteristic appearance, both products are distinguished by high mobility and should show high performance and combat characteristics. The Rat product is a self-propelled complex with a set of various equipment designed to detect and track small-sized complex air targets. In addition, it has its own weapons to destroy the found object. At the same time, the development organization offers two weapon options at once, capable of effectively hitting unmanned targets or other objects. Both versions of the Rat complex are built on the basis of the SBA-70K4 armored vehicle. This vehicle has a voluminous armored body that protects the crew and equipment from small arms, shrapnel and explosive devices weighing several kilograms. A diesel engine with optimal power allows the car to accelerate on the highway to 90 km/h and travel over rough terrain. Target equipment and weapons are located inside and outside the armored car body. So, on the roofs of cars there are antenna devices for radars and other systems, weapons, etc. Inside the armored vehicle there are means of power supply to the systems, the necessary electronics and the operator's workplace. A lifting mast with a detection radar antenna is mounted in the rear part of the hull . The station monitors the airspace around the complex and looks for potential threats. Small UAVs, incl. popular models, are detected and taken for escort at a distance of about 4 km. An optical-electronic station is also used to track air targets . &quot;Rat&quot; regularly carries means of suppressing and destroying unmanned targets. Thus, the vehicle has its own electronic warfare system on board . The electronic warfare complex automatically monitors the airwaves and detects activity in the main ranges used by unmanned systems. When communication and control signals are detected, interference is generated. The effective impact range on a typical UAV is up to 1.5 km. To date, two versions of "Rati" have reached the stage of testing and display at open events. This may indicate progress has been made and the project will soon move to the next stages. Accordingly, it can be expected that in the near future Such anti-UAV systems will go into production and enter service with the troops. The Ministry of Defense and other structures have not yet commented on this issue, but information about adoption may appear at any time. The classic ZU-23-2 has received a number of updates and is now capable of fighting a number of drones, including small UAVs. A new model called ZU-23AE was presented at the Army-2023 exhibition. Thanks to improvements, the 23mm automatic cannon is now trained to work as a team, where a set of three cannons can work synchronously, helping the main &quot;command&quot; installation perform joint tasks. Moreover, to increase the survivability and efficiency of the entire complex, individual installations can be placed at a distance of up to 100 meters from each other. The main gun is equipped with an automatic target tracking device and an optical-electronic module with integrated television and thermal imaging cameras with a laser rangefinder function. Moreover, in accordance with modern requirements, the gun is equipped with an electric trigger, thereby allowing the operator to control the entire remote control system. In addition, an electric drive has been added to the gun itself. To save ammunition, the barrel was reconfigured to a slower rate of fire of 500 rounds per minute and received a new fire mode: single shots and two rounds. And the shells themselves had a programmable detonation time. The basic version of the ZU-23 was created in the late 1950s to combat low-flying air targets, but as it turned out, the anti-aircraft gun also works well against enemy ground equipment and personnel. Portable electronic countermeasures against unmanned aircraft ARGUMENT-2. This anti-drone gun was created specifically to interfere with unmanned aircraft in order to disrupt their flight mission, which, in turn, effectively counteracts unauthorized entry of drones into protected areas and prevents terrorist attacks in places of public events, closed facilities, etc. airports, train stations, military and critical infrastructure facilities, including nuclear power plants, hydroelectric power stations. ARGUMENT-2 operates by electronically suppressing signals from satellite navigation systems, control channels and data transmission channels of UAVs in the range from 300 to 5900 MHz. As a result of its operation, an emergency landing occurs, the drone returns to the launch site, or it falls. A distinctive feature of the ARGUMENT-2 anti-drone gun is the ability to suppress control and satellite navigation channels both simultaneously and separately. In addition, it is a portable electronic warfare (EW) weapon, weighing no more than 6 kg. This gun with overall dimensions of 200x320x800 mm does not require special operator training and is immediately ready for use. Radar station &quot;Scout Patrol&quot;. The Scout-Patrol radar station is designed for automatic detection and identification of small UAVs at ranges of up to 30 km. The radar has high capabilities for detecting small UAVs, tracking and recognizing airborne objects, and is distinguished by its relatively low weight and high ergonomics. Working in a circular mode, the radar is capable of detecting targets with an ESR of 1 sq. m at ranges of at least 15 km and targets with ESR from 0.01 sq. m. at ranges of at least 5 km. Didn't voice it. Portable anti-unmanned aerial vehicle ARGUMENT-3. The ARGUMENT-3 complex is designed to suppress the illegal penetration of UAVs into the protected space of an object by suppressing communication, control and navigation channels from unprepared positions in the security area. When turned on, a protective hemisphere impenetrable to UAVs is created simultaneously in 10 radio frequency ranges, which ensures effective electronic suppression UAV control systems; The complex is capable of suppressing communication channels, control and satellite navigation signals of UAVs of both vertical take-off and aircraft types; the operator can select electronic jamming modes (continuous or pulsed) and optimal frequency ranges of interference; the product does not require special operator training; ready for use in near real time; complies with international standards for human exposure to electromagnetic fields. The new modification of the GAZ-66, developed by the Nizhny Novgorod Aviation Society, is equipped with an armored cabin, which can be either single- or double-row. The cabin also has an air conditioning system and additional protection for the fuel tanks. One of the important features of the GAZ-66MB is the ability to install various weapons on a cargo platform with a carrying capacity of up to 2.5 tons. For example, the ZU-23M-1M combat module is capable of hitting targets at a distance of up to 2.5 kilometers and provides high accuracy during the day and night. A leopard with foreign roots, the explanatory note to the exhibit says that the car is intended to support the official activities of the command staff of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation. Why official activities cannot be performed on the original Russian Patriots and Tigers is not very clear. Apparently the Ulyanovsk Automobile Plant does not keep up with the needs of the army and the "Great Walls" come to the rescue. Previously, mobile anti-drone systems were placed on Japanese Toyotas, but now the very Russian Bars serves as the base for the Repellent Patrol installation. Within a radius of four to seven kilometers, "Repellent Patrol" creates an electronic dome that is insurmountable for drones of any type . Flying into this dome, the drones immediately lose contact with their control operators and, according to the program embedded in them, must return to restore the signal. The signal is restored, the drone flies into the dome and again loses contact. At this time, the Repellent Patrol operator determines the location of the enemy drone gunner and transmits its coordinates to the forces that must destroy it. The protection complex is mobile, capable of operating while the vehicle is moving, that is, it can cover columns in motion. Mounts on any chassis. Abroad, the Russian system for repelling drones drew attention several years ago. And now "Repellent Patrol" is being supplied to foreign customers, who are delighted with it. But it seems that "Repellents" have not yet reached the front line in Donbass. Although, if such drone repellers were used en masse in a special operation, the sky above the heads of Russian soldiers would long ago be clear of drones. And here is my overview of modern ideas for countering drones. Which exhibit do you remember most, write about it in the comments. If you liked the video, then you like and subscribe, and if you want to support my work with rubles, you can do this through the Boosty service, the link is in the description. Bye bye.