The Nobel prize in physics is typically awarded to scientists who make sense of nature; those whose discoveries render the But the 2022 Nobel has been awarded to three physicists who revealed that the universe is even stranger than we thought. This year's physics Nobel laureates are who together are responsible for a series the strangest prediction of It's the prediction that Einstein refused can be entangled - bound to each other such that they can influence each other instantaneously over any distance. This "spooky action at a distance" as of his own theory of relativity, which tells than light. Clauser and Aspect achieved the rarest of Zeilinger greatly advanced our understanding and practical application of the phenomenon of quantum entanglement. Of course, we've talked about quantum entanglement once or twice in the past, but today I want to tell you all about the series of brilliant Let's start with a simple thought experiment. You have two balls - one black, one white. You close your eyes, shuffle the balls, and You put the first box in a rocket and send box with you on Earth. While that box is closed, the ball on the white. You open your box and you instantly learn the color of the ball on the moon. Did you cause information to travel faster Of course not - the information about the - you just learned which was which. Now imagine these are quantum balls According to quantum mechanics, we not only is open, but the colors of the Each ball is in a superposition state of maybe black-maybe white until a measurement is made. Opening the box causes the observed ball to have to choose a color state, which then forces the ball on the moon to choose the opposite. Now you really do seem to have an effect that travels faster than light, with the ball on the moon switching from a superposition state to a defined state as soon as you make your observation. These "quantum balls" could be any particle from subatomic to molecular scale, and the entangled property could be spin, But why do we have to accept Is there any real difference in the result is defined at the beginning Why even propose this entanglement Well, because quantum mechanics Quantum systems are described by a mathematical object called the wavefunction, which evolves according to the Schrodinger equation. The joint wavefunction of two entangled objects only contains information about the correlation between those objects, not They only gain specific values when For our quantum balls to know their own color the whole time, there would need to be extra information not contained in their wavefunction. There are a few different interpretations information, and they're collectively known Einstein thought that such hidden information must exist, while others like Neils Bohr insisted that the wavefunction was the complete In almost every scientific debate, But not in this case. Quantum mechanics was just too successful, and Neils Bohr was aggressive in pushing his Copenhagen interpretation. It became dogma, and for a while it was career suicide to question the orthodoxy, for example by researching hidden variable theories. David Bohm got the worst of that with his another video. John Stuart Bell was another This Irish physicist didn't necessarily just accept the Copenhagen interpretation And he also realized that one could reveal actually measuring that information, or even testing a specific hidden variables theory. We've talked about these Bell tests previously, if you want to see exactly how this works. In short though, in 1964 Bell came up with be a particular statistical relationship between the measured properties of entangled particles if the particles themselves hold the information about their internal states, and a different statistical relationship if those properties In particular, the so-called Bell inequality contained in the particles, Finally there was a real test that we However, it wasn't until 1969 that the first our 2022 Nobel laureates, John Clauser. So why did it take 5 years? Well, Bell tests are really hard to perform. They require the production of entangled states, which have to be manipulated and measured without breaking the exceedingly delicate But also, to do a Bell test was to question for the significant effort required. Clauser talks about the time he proposed his idea for the experiment to Richard Feynman, who promptly kicked him out of his office. Apparently Feynman thought it was pointless because standard quantum mechanics was clearly correct. Clauser and his student, Stewart Jay They had figured out a brilliant It went like this. They blasted a beam of calcium atoms That light excited electrons in calcium atoms to higher energy level and they would then drop down again, with the lost One of the possible electron transitions was between two states that had zero quantum spin, and which also resulted in Spin is the quantum version of angular momentum. Because the atom's spin hadn't changed momentum the pair of photons needed to have a total spin of zero, which translates to them having opposite circular polarizations. Standard quantum mechanics says that those polarizations are undefined until measurement, when they will always turn out Hidden variable theories, on the other hand, the photons are created. By measuring these polarizations by passing both photons through polarizers, Clauser and Freedman could perform a Bell test. Bell inequality was convincingly violated in their experiments, which means quantum mechanics was working exactly as expected, implying Just as Feynman had told them. But the case wasn't quite closed. John Bell himself pointed out that hidden variables could still be a thing, even if the Bell test said otherwise. The result of a quantum measurement depends on how you make the measurement - in the case of this experiment, the orientation of the the experiment was sensitive to. Bell's theorem assumes the choice of measurement is completely free and independent of the particle creation process. But in Clauser's experiment, the polarizers were fixed in position through the whole experiment. Their orientation was already decided So what if that orientation has some influence on the polarization direction of the photons at the moment of their creation? Then the photons might carry hidden information about the eventual measurement direction the whole time and sort of conspire to look like standard quantum mechanics, even if they had real hidden variables. To close this loophole it would be necessary to somehow set the measurement direction after the photons were produced. That sounds incredibly difficult, because fast. But when you're a brilliant experimentalist, butter. And so we meet our second laureate, Alain Aspect's setup was very similar to Clauser's, with a beam of calcium atoms excited by light - this time a laser rather than an arc lamp. But the main difference was in the polarizers. In order to change the measurement direction of a polarizer you have to rotate it, but it's kinda hard to do that faster than a Aspect found a way to randomize measurement direction without moving the polarizers at all. In this case a chunk of quartz that bends on whether the quartz is vibrating, and that electric current. That means our entangled photons could be sent to different polarizers depending on an electrical switch - a switch that could in the tiny interval between the creation All of this means that the photons can't the moment of their creation, which if you and Freedman's experiment. The Bell inequalities were also violated in blow to hidden variable theories. So did Aspect close the final loophole? Not quite. There are two ways that the Bell inequalities could be violated without quantum entanglement being as spooky as Einstein feared. Well, these ways are actually still The first I already mentioned: what if the the creation of the entangled particles? Aspect's experiment seemed to eliminate the particles were produced. But what if the random number After all, signals could have travelled to generator from some common influence, causing them to conspire to violate Bell inequalities. This is the idea is called stating that the particles are not only correlated with each other, but also with the random the measurement direction, so ultimately the universe has no of hidden variables. Now we've discussed superdeterminism before, so you can decide for yourself whether that's a reasonable idea. But John Bell certainly did But even without superdeterminism there's Bell's theorem can be used to rule out the It can rule out that the secret information about the entangled particle states lives in the particles themselves - that's what But there could still be hidden variables entangled particles. Clauser and Aspect's experiments ruled out local hidden variables, but that may mean they ruled out locality rather Any violation of locality still means that light - the sort of spookiness that Einstein One way or another, our Nobel laureates have revealed a universe stranger than many are comfortable with. OK, what about our third Clauser and Aspect's work was all about testing the fundamentals of quantum mechanics - about getting closer to what its weirdness But their efforts also led to very practical They, and others like them, advanced our ability to create and manipulate entangled quantum states. He may be the most famous for This is a phenomenon in which a quantum state is transferred between two particles via an interrmediate particle that's entangled We'll save the awesome details for another time. The important thing to know right now is that quantum teleportation and the corresponding ability to move around quantum information is critical for quantum computers. Zeilinger is responsible for a number of advances in manipulating entanglement, and has applied these to quantum cryptography and to This is a rare episode of Space Time in Einstein because, one way or another, And Feynman was right in thinking that Clauser would never disprove standard quantum mechanics - but he was wrong in thinking Because science only moves forward when we try to push its theories to the breaking point. We learn something whether they break or not, and perhaps we find technologies that will be useful in ways no one could have predicted. In this case, our better understanding of to the age of quantum computing All because a few scientists were willing hidden secrets of space time. Before we get to comments two things: First it's that time of year again where we ask you to take the annual PBS The space time audience has always been amazing at filling out the survey and we'd love to continue the trend! By doing so you can help us pick out what topics you'd like new shows to cover! It'll only take a few minutes but it's The whole network really dives deep into the data and it helps give us tremendous insights into what you're thinking. There is a link in the As always, we like to thank but today I want to give a special shoutout Alek passed away at a young age, but by all accounts was a true scientist his entire life. Diving into astrophysics and the sciences when he entered college he emerged as a professional chemist and launched into a He was such a deep lover of the his hamster Sputnik and his fish was named Quark. So Alek, from all of us here at Space Time, brought to science and to your community. We hope you find peace among the stars. Today we're doing comments for the last There was the one about using the Sun's of distant planets. And then the one were were went through the entire Lagrangian equation of the standard model of particle physics. Let's start with the solar gravitational Antoine Micard brought up an important point: how do the spacecraft send their messages back home? After all, we're having a hard time keeping the gravitational lens focal range is This is a real technological we'll be trying to send actual images rather than simple numerical But by the time these things launch it'll so we'll have that much advancement in the technology of power source And also, it may be possible to the ones that propelled these craft to their position as antennae, which has got Vaka has two great questions. what is the range limit for this technique? What exoplanets should we do first? Well there's no real range limit in terms of the sun's gravitational focal range. In principle you could look at planets in The real limit is the amount of light you receive, and that would be too low beyond a certain distance. I couldn't find a direct calculation but canonical number, so I think the idea is that this works on the scales of hundreds of light years, but not many 1000s of which planets do we do first? The report talks about Earth-mass planets plenty. Maybe if we can find some that have other commonalities with Earth - element abundances, maybe gas But beyond that it may be a roll of the die. Several of you commented to say that you enjoyed seeing the Standard Model Lagrangian laid out in full, even though you couldn't Well, that is honestly a relief. Because that episode was a bit of an experiment. There's absolutely no way to explain an several years of coursework to get close to being able to use the standard model Lagrangian to do real calculations. The idea here was to give you a taste of its further investigation. So I'm delighted and relieved that A few of you wondered whether the ghosts in the standard model Lagrangian might be a hint at new physics beyond the standard model. Well perhaps, but I'm not sure. I think it's more likely that the ghosts could be eliminated with of the theory. Perhaps they're analogous to the spurious system whose dimensions extend For example, there are black hole coordinate systems that seem to imply alternate universes beyond the singularity - but more likely that's just an artifact of extending the math too far. On the other hand, I'm not a particle physicist, as is evident from my analogy which has nothing to do with particle physics. But in general a lot of problematic features be removed by hand - for example, various infinities that are The equations then work perfectly, which suggest that the infinities don't belong there However it would be nice if this stuff could be removed without these hacks. 05TE informs us that if you recite the full a mirror, the particle ghosts will appear. Well I tried and it works. As you finish the final Higgs kinetic term, breaks off from the rest of reality, slipping universes. Although, to be fair, each of the 3 readings face, so it could be I