Hello buddies! Today we make 8 types of balls, 8 different flavors. You can make half the measure, even a quarter, let's move on to the recipe. The first thing we do is make a base. Pour 600 ml of water into a large pot. And we add 600 g of sugar. We put it on fire. When the sugar has dissolved and the water starts to boil, add 600 g of margarine. We will leave it like this until the margarine melts. Give him a little help with the welder. When the margarine has melted, and everything boils together, remove from the heat. Add 500 g of lean biscuit to this mass and mix everything together. We then add another 300 g. Mix everything together again. We then add another 200 g, add the biscuits gradually and mix gently so that this mass is combined as well as possible. We used 1 kg of biscuits. Since we combined everything, there are no dry parts. We leave this mass to cool a little because we cannot work while it is still hot. And as it cools, it will tighten. The mass cooled down, I divided it into 2 parts so that everything would be much faster and I hate waiting. And now we will divide each of these parts into 4 parts. We take one part. Transfer to a bowl. You may or may not scale. To this part, I add 50 ml of squeezed orange juice, and orange peel. I mix everything together. Then I add 50 g of ground biscuits. Another 50 years. We added 50 ml of orange juice, grated zest, and 130 g of ground biscuits. Now the mass will be good for you. When you roll it, it does not lose its shape. And you immediately put it on the tray. And you can, like me, make cubes or some undefined shapes. We got 24 balls, let's move on. We took another quarter, that is, the second one. Add 100 g of walnuts and mix everything together. When you add the nuts you will judge whether you need to add 20 g to 30 g or not. I will add 30 g of ground biscuits to this mass. Because in my opinion it is soft. When everything is nicely combined, it remains to twist the balls. From this measure, we got 21. We separated the third part, and added 100 g of melted white chocolate. And 50 g of coconut. We mix it all together. While mixing, judge whether more coconut needs to be added or not. Of course, the same as with biscuits. We'll see now. These are still a little soft, so we will add another, 20 g. I measured 30 g here, but I will add 20 g. However, this is the easiest way. Another 10 years. I made a good judgement, but I didn't listen to myself. 100 g of white chocolate and 80 g of coconut. Now we are making balls. From this measurement, I got 22. When you fill the tray, take it to the fridge. Part 4 I just pulled the bowl towards me and added 100 g of melted white chocolate . This is white lean chocolate . I added 100 g of roasted and ground peanuts. Now I'm going to mix everything and see if a little more biscuits or peanuts are needed . I'm going to add 100 g of ground biscuits and now I'm going to mix it all, then knead it a little by hand. After kneading, of course, we make balls again. Feel free to write in the comments which flavors you like, and how you make them. Maybe you will give me some cool idea for the next video. We have done 4 types, we have 4 more left. In this part, we will add lean Eurocream, 1 full spoon. and 100 g of roasted ground hazelnuts, and now mix it all together . After combining, add 30 g of ground biscuits. And now we still have to make the balls. From this measure, we got 24. In the 6th part, we add 50 g of melted chocolate , 100 g of raisins and 1 spoon of rum extract. We mix. After mixing, add 50 g of mixed biscuits. We take a little of the mass and make balls. From this measure we got 23 1 teaspoon of nes coffee pour with 1 spoon of hot water Shake the nes coffee, and add 50 g of melted cocoa cream tablet Add 100 g of ground walnuts, hazelnuts or almonds to the mass. We add another 20 g of biscuits. We still have to make the balls. From this measure we got 28 balls. We heated 100 g of chives to soften them. And we will add a little more powdered sugar, I have 50 g here, so I will gradually add it. We'll mix it all up and mix it up. Knead until the mass is uniform and thick. We add a little more sugar. And we continue mixing again. I added the rest of the sugar and continue mixing by hand because it's much easier. I was stirring with a spoon because it was hot. After we mix and get a rubbery mass. We tear off pieces, and make small balls. And in this last mixture you can put whatever you want. Be creative, and you can put what you have left. That's what I'm going to do. I have Eurocream left, and I'm going to mix that first, and I have biscuits left, I have 100 g here, but I won't add it all, I'll add about 60 - 70 g and then I'll mix it. We take a little bit of this mass and spread it on the palm of our hands, and then we take one of these balls and close it. We got 27 full balls and one empty ball. We carry all the balls well so that they cool down. We melted the white chocolate, 100 g of white chocolate requires 2 spoons of oil and low heat to melt it, whether it is steamed or in the microwave. Now we will take these balls with coconut, and we will roll them in white chocolate, then in coconut. For the peanut balls, we do the same as for the coconut, only we roll them in peanuts. The third balls are walnuts, and we will just roll them in chocolate. And for the fourth, orange balls, we will add a little orange color to the white chocolate. The color did not turn out great for us, but it is important that it is different. We insert these balls with orange. On each of these balls, after they have set, I will put a little bit of this white chocolate and then a little bit of orange peel. Now we have melted the dark chocolate. You dissolve 100 g with 1-2 spoons of oil, it depends on the quality, and you can do it as you want, or you can do it like this, like me, it doesn't matter. Standard, dip, shake and leave the ball. We will roll all 3 types of these balls in chocolate. On these of coffee, I will put a granule, two of non-coffee. Add some roasted hazelnuts to the rest of the chocolate and mix everything. And now we will roll balls into this mass.