In today's chess video, we'll learn one of the I will also show you some match-winning tricks &amp; I would like to thank BetterHelp for sponsoring the most common response. And now we'll play not knight to c3. This is what we call the Vienna or this. These are by far 2 of the most at knight f6 first. Now here, we'll go for the You might find this risky, but its absolutely the deadly move, pawn to e5. Funnily enough, this go back. And now, we have to be careful about this and you're already in a great position. But the best &amp; the most obvious response is d6 - for the bishop. We'll go with d4 - adding another instead just check with the bishop. Blocking with back to c4. Black continues to take and we're down But still, we'll completely ignore this threat greedy &amp; takes the knight, then he is gone. Let it's a bishop sacrifice. If he takes, then he now find the winning move? If you're thinking of simply come in between. Therefore, the best move won't make sense as the king will be exposed. And in an immediate checkmate. So basically, taking you have this brilliant - knight e5 check. the queen due to this discovered check. So, king stunning - bishop g5 check. If the king moves you have this beautiful family fork &amp; again, you should also be able to checkmate him amazing trap. Sometimes, in this position, instead act a little oversmart by playing queen e7 &amp; not Yes, just play queen e2 &amp; unpin the pawn. The he cannot take with the queen. Therefore, he's care of this queen h4 check. So just develop the black's pieces are all cramped up, and the main the most popular responses you will see are d6 If d6, then you have the absolutely killer and also threatening this deadly check. So, in most cases, you'll see queen d7 or d8. It you have this discovered check lined up. But a this pawn. The rook is in danger so he takes with check &amp; again, the queen is out of the board. a thumbs up so, smash that like button below instead of d6, he plays knight c6? Well, then we pawn. You can pick it up if he doesn't defend. knight in the same way &amp; as we saw earlier, that's Now here, we just saw how black is completely declines &amp; defends with either d6 or knight c6? that great because after takes, takes, we attack knight, push it back as well. Develop &amp; stop queen we'll continue to develop. Don't worry about these the kingside. Make use of this open f file &amp; that was knight c6! Now what if he declines with out the knight, attack the center. If he gets the Then open up this diagonal, eliminate the knight, castle &amp; attack along the f file. Long-term, Alright, there is one move which actually keeps with d5. This move does not come naturally &amp; I can will never play this. Anyway, this is the main knight because it is defended by the pawn. From but an even better option would be queen to your opponent will exchange the knights. There the main idea is to get the bishops out, maybe along these open files. So, even if black plays Okay, so that was the Vienna gambit after black he plays knight c6? Well, I'll show you some before that, I would like to thank BetterHelp for largest therapy service &amp; it's 100% online. is being affected, it is very important to take 25,000 licensed and experienced therapists who started, just answer a few questions about your match you to a suitable professional therapist. time &amp; schedule live sessions over text, phone or required, you can even change your therapist at no more convenient and affordable than traditional you to start living a happier life right now! BetterHelp.com/ChessTalk , that's better-h-e-l-p description box below, so go and check it out. this knight, black plays knight c6. What do you this queen check is a threat right away. Even things start to get a little uncomfortable on in the earlier variation. Therefore, after knight move like bishop c4. You might be wondering why these variations, we might want to quickly advantage of the f file. So, its better to keep bring out the bishop &amp; now you can anytime play copy you with bishop c5. An extraordinary move you Most players here would respond with queen f6, If you're thinking of saving this pawn, just and that is knight to d5. Even if he takes, And yeah, this is not a checkmate - he just good way for him to follow up on this attack. pawns &amp; potentially both his rooks as well so, but then you can take on g7. You don't even need queen with your knight. If he takes it, attack we're just killing it. We'll go all in, just before we deliver a smashing checkmate. Okay, in he's still in deep trouble because of all these to avoid this capture, even if he plays something queen &amp; believe it or not, the queen has no safe in &amp; the queen is actually trapped in the middle up the queen. This knight c7 threat still remains here &amp; attack the king via f7. All in all, in this position, many players might also try but then you have this beautiful check &amp; again, now let's go all the way back. Bishop c4, bishop popular response, that is, queen to f6. Instead of need to be careful about. And that is the move its important you move the queen out of the firing that, you can continue by bringing out the knight this interesting line where after d3, d6, you you bring in another attacker &amp; basically, the variation where black mimics you with bishop knight f6 - because obviously everyone is taught here again f4 or any other random move isn't that knight takes on e4. The point is that after this going back, in this variation, before making any pawn to prevent this knight e4 idea. Therefore, d3 want, you can play f4. If he takes, you recapture. the center. In fact, there is a cool little trap queen &amp; rook, but we'll completely ignore that &amp; then we have the stunning move, queen h5 this check &amp; then we'll be pouncing on the king way &amp; white is completely winning from here. Going fork, if he castles &amp; goes for the safety first knight. And now if he tries the same thing, this both directions. H6 is almost forced, and then push f6. We have all these different kinds of captures, you can mate him from the top or even black is busted if he tries knight g4. the main move you need to remember here is knight if this knight jumps in, attack it with c3. Let because we'll castle on the queenside &amp; use this we end up with good central control &amp; a main variations of the Vienna. Alright, so it's turn &amp; you need to find the best move for white. many of you get this right. Guys, do Subscribe