At the base of the cyan mountains in managed to trap the reindeer at the Some 3,000 years ago the Samoyed tribes domesticated Today their descendants, the Tsaatan, still capture wild reindeer. The deep snow helps the hunters. It slows down the flight of the animals. The prey escapes, leaving the men empty-handed after days of a grueling hunt. Moving to another valley, the hunters will start to track the deer again. The Tsaatan are the centaurs of the snow, traveling on the backs of reindeer in a maze of mountains and valleys in northern Mongolia. The deer are part of their lives; they identify with an animal which is both gentle and yet part untamed and often attempts to return to the wild Without reindeer, the Tsattan couldn't live in this remote landscape which is not easily accessible by other means For Tsaaten herders, it is thus crucial to capture wild animals to introduce new blood into their herds, and also to replace animals that have fled. Man: How did you let it escape through your fingers? Man: My lasso hit his antlers; he got frightened and took off Man: I though he'd tear my arm off! Man: He could have. You have such small arms. Man: He had magnificent! Did you see? Man: Me too, I thought I'd caught mine. I threw it straight, perfectly, but that happens! The Tsaatan learn to use lassos almost as soon as they walk. Quizilol has an excellent aim...the boys take turns breaking in the young reindeer calves. Quizilol is amused he's seen all this before Quizilol is 18 his friend Solongo is 17 Solongo: Did you ask my father? Quizilol: Not yet... but I will. Quizilol and Solongo are For Tsaatan adolescents, life is filled with both the routine and the unexpected. At daybreak, they take the reindeer out to pature in the mountains... This is an opportunity to pass the time together, while the reindeer graze. The deer are herded together, but each family separates their own animals from the herd once they return from pasture. Gan Zorig, Quizilol's father, is a highly respected man. 'To feed a family, one needs a good herd', Ganzorig explains. He plans to give his son a young reindeer bull, to start his own stud. But be vigilant! The clan will soon be moving close to the Russian border where the wild reindeer still roam. If the animals break loose and run off to join the wild reindeer they will be lost. Quizilol: How do you catch reindeer when they have returned to the wild? Gan Zorig: Ooof! It's very difficult... You can attract them with salt, with females in heat... trap them in deep snow and reach them on skis... there's no sure way! The Tsaatan rely on fishing and hunting to gain a meager existence. The lakes in the taiga are shallow and the ice is as transparent as glass. Gan Zorig can easily spot the fish sleeping between the rocks. In early November, the ice on the lakes has already become 12 to 16 inches thick. The men first start by chopping holes in the ice... ...then they dangle shiny lures into the waters, attached to the end of a nylon line. Trout and greyling are plentiful in the mountain lakes. Gan Zorig is the tribe's best fisherman. Quizilol will not go home empty-handed. Meals provide a rare moment to discuss intimate matters. Quizilol admits that he is courting the lovely Solongo. Gan Zorig: Solongo's father is not an easy man. Knowing him, he's not likely to give you daughter. Quizilol: Then I'll kidnap her like you kidnapped mother. Gan Zorig: I was a bit older than you when I kidnapped your mother! Quizilol's mother: Wait... I organized the kidnapping. Gan Zorig: You're exaggerating! Quizilol's mother: Your father was a good-looking boy back then... Gan Zorig: She lived in the Steppe. They don't have reindeer there. I needed a horse for myself and one for your mother, but I didn't have them. I bought them, and one night went to ake her. Quizilol's mother: It had been raining for a week. Gan Zorig: The river was high, there was a strong current. Quizilol's mother: I fell in the water. Your father was thin, he couldn't get me out. I was scared. Gan Zorig: We don't kidnap women now! Quizilol's mother: No, not any more! Gan Zorig: I'll take it up with Solongo's father. Gan Zorig: I'll send Dak Tchak. He speaks well and he's friendly with Solongo's father. He'll know how to present your request. Dak Tchak and his wife can't refuse a favor for an old friend like Gan Zorig! The request for marriage must be made according to Tsaatan custom. The envoys from the suitor's side must bear gifts... Cheese, Alcohol, Reindeer milk, Fried dough biscuits. Dak Tchak and his wife put on their best clothes. And in keeping with tradition, they ride white reindeer. As he praises the suitor, Dak Tchak unfolds a blue silk scarf, symbolizing the purity and infinity of the sky. Dak Tchak: I know Quizilol well. I saw him as a baby, nursing at his mother's breast. Quizilol is a gentle, well-mannered boy; he will take care of your daughter. You'll see, you will thank me later. Solongo's father pretends to turn a deaf ear. Solongo's father: Quizilol is certainly a good boy. I wonder if he's mature enough to start a family. And we still need our daughter here; she helps us a lot. It will take more than this to discourage Dak Tchak. Dak Tchak: Quizilol also helps his parents. He is very good with the reindeer. Gan Zorig will help him form a good herd. He wants a hundred animals. His father gave him a young bull, that will be a fantastic stud. He will give him females to get going. Your daughter couldn't find a better husband in the whole region. Dak Tchak has returned, bearing a negative reply. Quizilol's plans are now frustrated, ... autumn is almost over and it's time to leave for new pastures. The clans will now travel far north, closer to the border with Russia. Quizilol, keeps his distance from the rest of the group... left alone to nurse his wounded pride. Solongo's father has doubted him. How to convince them that he'll make a good husband? The reindeer are taken the long way around the mountain, while the rest of the clan takes the direct route over the steep and dangerous slope. The passes belong to violent and capricious Genii feared by the Tsaatan. The wind is picking up. It's blowing hard at the top! Everyone who wants to cross the pass must leave an offering to the ovoo, a pile of stone set up to house the mountain Genii. Both man and animal have to walk around it as a sign of hommage. it's better to move quickly away from the the scent of humans and raise up an icy wind Dak Tchak who was trailing behind with everyone together again meanwhile the herds have made wide the camp is ready when the deer arrive Quizilol and Solongo help round up the animals. the reindeer have to be tied up in pairs at night if not they will run off to join the wild reindeer The Tsaatan are masters of ropes and knots. They don't use nails or screws: everything is tied and held together with ropes. The throat song lullaby was created in this region of Asia to echo the voice of nature... It's the wind in the trees, running water--the call of rutting deer. The Tsaatan sing to meditate, and to rock their infants into sleep. Some animals have snapped their tethers during the migration. They have escaped to the far side of the lake. Do you have all your reindeer? We're missing five! Night has fallen; it's too late to search for the runaways. In the winter, it gets darks around 4 pm. The tribe has a TV, and everyone gathers together in the afternoon to The satellite dish was made from recycled pieces of sheet metal. A solar panel recharges a car battery. The state channel is broadcasting the story of Sukh Baatar, the legendary Mongolian revolutionary hero. Scouts have gone out out to find the tracks of the runaway deer. when they return the men will organize an expedition to capture them. Quizilol and Solongo take advantage of the break to gather medicinal plants for themselves and the animals. this also gives them some time The Tsaatan know about modern medicine, but they still use traditional healing methods, which are far less expensive. Quizilol's grandmother is delighted with the plants. The old woman knows the traditional medicinal plants by heart. She hopes the tribe's youngsters will carry on her knowledge, which could otherwise be lost. Grandmother: You see, this one brings down fevers. You put a few twigs in the mortar and you crush them. That's good. Now the pestle. Harder! Quizilol: What's this one for? Grandmother: This is a good tonic. It will help your females. We'll give them some! The scouts have returned. They found the tracks of the reindeer and know which direction they have gone. Before leaving, Gan Zorig and Quizilol soften their moose-leather lassos. The hunt will be difficult. Quizilol drinks a last bowl of tea fortified with reindeer milk. Three days, one week... no one knows how long the expedition will take The runaway deer have headed into the Aggi Mountains towards the Russian border. This is what Gan Zorig feared all-along, but he can't give up. Winter has arrived, and the Tsaatan need all their animals for the calving season in spring. capturing the Runaways is cutting across the frozen river means the ice becomes extremely slippery even the reindeer have before crossing the river the the reindeer won't slip and possibly break a leg the hunter set up camp at dusk they only carry minimal provisions so they'll spend the night on a bed of The fire has burned all night long. After the morning tea, Quizilol makes a traditional pipe. He uses a stick to dig out the pith from branch softened in boiling water. Man with a wolf cap: Show me this great thing! Gan Zorig: Quizilol gave it to me. You like it. What do you think? Yadam: It's a bit too heavy. Watch your teeth! The hunt continues; it's exhausting. The hunters leave the river and climb toward the hills, cutting through the mountain. the border is just a few miles away. The mountains to the north are in Russia. Border guards patrol on the other side of the lake. If we can catch them on the lake, it's good... the reindeers will go around in circles. Man with wool hat: Look! There they are! That's them! The lake region is a huge dead-end at the base of the Aggi Mountains. They now have to get close enough to lasso the runaways. They're over there...That's good. We can get there. We'll block their path. Most of the reindeer have been captured, but the bull Gan Zorig gave to Quizilol escaped again. Gan Zorig: Tracks go off that way. Look in the forest upstream from the lake. Quizilol: This time, he headed into the deep snow. It's going to be complicated to get him! We can't keep running after this reindeer. The women are waiting for us; there's work to do! Yadam fashions the skis from a birch tree, which is the easiest wood to work. It takes a day to make a pair of rudimentary skiis. The wood is first heated, then worked over steam, heated again, and so on. the skis are tied to curve the tips They'll stay for an entire night. The cold helps hold the shape. Horsehide is then attached to the base of the skis. The hair holds the snow and keeps the skis from sliding backwards when climbing a hill. The bindings are a bit loose... But Quizilol is happy with the results. Gan Zorig: Tomorrow, you will enter the land of the Badak Chan gnomes... I've heard lots of stories about the Badak Chan. They are very hairy, small wild men. They live in the woods, in the rocks. ...they play tricks that aren't always funny. For example, they can turn reindeer's horns around backwards. These mountains are dangerous. I've also heard that a UFO landed in these mountains Hunter: Yes, they say the extraterrestrials caught elk and deer. Gan Zorig: Do you think? Quizilol will take two reindeer to capture the bull: one he will ride; the other will carry his gear. to attract the runaway come into heat. He delights them with a handful of salt before the journey. Gan Zorig invokes the ancestral spirits. They will protect his son and guide him in this remote and dangerous region haunted by spirits and the Badak Shan. Gan Zorig's whistling sounds imitate the wind, because the spirits of the ancestors travel on gusts of wind. The first ancestor-spirit arrives speaking through Gan Zorig's quavering voice. &quot;I have made a long trip, I am tired. I want to smoke a pipe. Give me something to smoke.&quot; another spirit arrives &quot;The road is tiring, I'm thirsty. Something to drink!&quot; Quizilol's ancestor spirits are now gathered around him. &quot;You will do as we say. Approach the sacred peaks from the right and wear your weapons on your left.&quot; &quot;Follow our advice and you will be safe!&quot; &quot;You are under our protection now.&quot; The spirits fly back to their dark heavens, riding on the wind. Tsaatan shamans directly enter trances. They do not need any psychotropic substances to trigger hallucinations and deliriums. They burn juniper in an incense burner. It delights the smell-eating spirits and purifies humans. it also protects animals it confers magical powers to the lasso Quizilol and the rest of the hunters part ways. The hunters return to the camp. Quizilol crosses the lakes in search of the runaway bull. the tracks are hard to follow in Quizilol: What are you doing here? Young girl: I'm hunting with my father. Quizilol: I'm looking for my reindeer. Young girl: We have a shelter over there. Come talk to my father. Maybe he saw your reindeer... Young girl's father: You met someone... Make tea, daughter. Sit down, come drink some tea. Quizilol: I'm looking for my reindeer, he ran off; have you seen him? This morning I saw the tracks of a large male, over there. The hunter and his daughter lead Quizilol to the spot where they last saw the bull. In the winter, the frozen streams and lakes are natural paths for these large animals. The bull has chosen to take a long detour along the lakes rather than climb the pass. Quizilol doesn't have that option. He has to climb over the mountain to catch up with him. The ascent is exhausting. Quizilol encourages himself. Gan Zorig was right to make skis. Quizilol still has a lot to learn. He doesn't go any faster, but at least the skis keep him from sinking in the powder snow. The Aggi Mountains, the land of the legendary Badak Chan. Quizilol is worried. If the Badak Chan demons spin the antlers of his bull around, what will he do? There he is. His antlers are magnificent. The Badak Chan have left him alone! The bull is wary. Will the squirrel-hunter's ruse work? catching the scent of the First try, a perfect toss! He's a strong male. He's not going to give in easily. Herders are sometimes injured as they struggle with a bull. the bull makes one last stand Finally, the bull gives up. he is back with his master! The ancestral spirits protected Quizilol from the evil spirits; they guided him through the mountains. The young man is now a true Tsaatan. It was a boy who left to capture the reindeer... But a man who now returns to camp. Gan Zorig can't believe his eyes. The bull is back! The entire clan greets Quizilol as a hero. I met a girl and her father who were hunting squirrels in the woods. Everyone gathers to listen to the story. It is a superb bull! Quizilol's dreams of building a new herd; may soon be realized, but will he also succeed in capturing the hand of the lovely Solongo?