Hey guys! Masaru here. Today, I'm in Asakusa. I'm here to get my knife fixed. So, I'm at a shop called Kaneso. I'm a little nervous Nice to meet you. My pleasure. They're going to fix the worn-out knife I've been filleting monstrous fish and my knife has been completely worn out so it needs some maintenance. So I travelled from Okinoerabu where the 150-year-old shop Kaneso is. Some areas are chipped The knife is rusty before sharpening it. What is that? It's called Sabitoru Sabitoru? That's right. Sometimes the rust won't come off This is a medium one. I'm using a rough one right now. If this doesn't work There's this powder called emery. This can scar the knife I won't bother with this part This part is ground metal Do you basically scrape it and make Yes. It's impossible otherwise. I can't just sharpen this area, right? This area is rusty too So you'll be making the knife Do you know what happens They sharpen the knife including the chipped area The shape will change too. This chip is quite big, right? No, this isn't too bad. It's been protected. Can you fix this? I need to push this in. Yeah. The angle is weird here. Yes. We'll fix the angle. They're going to fix Can we try to take the handle off? Did it come off? Yes! It's so rusty on the inside. This is normal. It's not that bad. Really? This is fine. Don't worry. I've banged this knife They took the handle off It's mostly gone. No marks, right? Amazing! Please wipe it off. Now that the shape is finally formed Do you guys know When you sharpen your knife The surface becomes bumpy The process to fix the surface That's right. A sharpening stone that's been used So he's resurfacing the sharpening stone Whether this has been done or not What's the grit number for this? Well, what can it be? I'd say 300. Yes. It's about 300. Younger bother fixes the shape. Older bother sharpens the blade. They help each other This is natural? Yes, it's natural. Oh yes. This costs about 70,000-80,000 yen. What? This!? That's pretty cheap. 70,000 yen is cheap? Yes, it's cheap. He kept sharpening the knife and then the time finally came. It's done. Thank you! It's ridiculously sharp! Is that vegetable oil? No, it's camellia oil. Sesame oil would make it rusty Yes. Light oil is OK. Can I use olive oil? Olive oil would be OK. Yes, it'll be OK. And then wrap it up in newspaper. The oil in the print works well. The oil in the print Interesting. Even if you dip this in water This is the same. This one has been used. So I'll give this to you. Really? Yes. I got a sharpening stone! Thank you so much! Please use it. Thank you for today! Now I'm back from Tokyo to Okinoerabu. Can everyone focus on my waist? I'm dead. I strained my back. I really thought I would die on the plane. I was sweating like crazy I can't stop sweating. But YouTubers don't quit So let's have a look at the new knife. Firstly, the sharpening stone Ogi might be surprised too. Isn't it crazy? They used it until it became this thin. It was about this thick I've never seen this. He gave it to me because he liked me. And here's the booty. This is something I've always wanted. Ta-da! Chopsticks. They're chopsticks for sushi. Chopsticks for picking up sashimi. The guys there taught me a lot of stuff. You know how they use chopsticks like this And I was wondering why they do that. I just use my fingers to move around sashimi You have to cool down the chopsticks like this Then, the flavour won't change. These are very easy to hold. These are good. These are a limited edition So you can't buy these. So I can't advertise them. Welcome back my sweet Deba knife. It's so clean! It's much cleaner! The big Deba knife was also fixed in time. So clean! You must be wondering what I'll do today. I've prepared I'm going to use this fish Let's take a closer look! But I can't hold the camera today. Maybe I'll do it like a news reporter. So let's take a closer look! This is a Black-saddled Coral Grouper. In the past, Okina...Okinawa's... I can't talk This fish had been mistaken There are black dots on its back It's completely different But the price is about the same In Okinawa, they sell it as the same fish. If you want to tell them apart and the dots on their bodies are not as detailed and they have black dots. But that depends on how fresh they are so some can't be distinguished It seems like So, let's start filleting. I'm going to stop the reporter style. First, I'm going to take off the scales but I'm going to use a different knife called a Yanagida knife. For this type of fish And for fish like Black-saddled Coral Grouper But the scales that come off so the garden gets dirty. My back pain is getting unbearable. Come on! I haven't even used the Deba knife yet. It hurts. It hurts. I use my back so much for this. Can you do it for me? No. You used to work Yes, I did. Then you can do it. I was watching TV the other day and her posture was this good. I don't watch TV often You're bending backwards. She was also like this. When I bend backwards Why did I have to get such a big fish? This one fish can make an entire video. A small fish was enough. You look like Cooking is like music. This is basically ASMR. There's a bit of fat on it! By the way, neither of the men They accepted to get filmed You can cut your hand horribly so please don't do it. I'm just doing this But if I cut my hand There was a blackout Isn't it because it's been days? It's really bad one way or the other. When you won it at an auction They thought I got a good fish? Yeah. With a full stomach. Does it have a full stomach? Now it's really shrunk. It was air. It was probably air. This is harder When you fillet fish in the grouper family please watch out for the thin skin You need to pay extra attention It cuts through so easily. I'd like to catch a fish like this myself. You almost caught one before. I could've gotten that one. Yeah. I wonder why you missed it. Because I'm bad at it. Deny it! You nearly caught No. That was impossible. It was too deep. I can't be a freediving fisherman anymore You've been suffering from it for so long, I'd probably die I'm filleting it but this fish would cost a lot in Tokyo. How much it would be? It's probably It's probably This is 9kg, so it's about 50,000 yen. It's more expensive Cutting this area hurts my back the most. Fish have an arching shape so I have to adjust Why didn't you film me You're the cameraman. You didn't take me with you! There's meat inside the head here And if you're going to eat the cheeks See? It came out. Oh, I peeled the skin off too. I've gone in one layer too deep. Now you can see the meat inside the cheek. It's annoying when there are scales inside your mouth so it's better to scrape it off like this. And then, it looks so tasty. That was done so well, right? Yes. I've managed to scale it This is the hardest part. It goes too deep so quickly. Come on! With the suki-biki technique, so I'm going to scrape off the edges like this. This fish looks tasty. Now I'm going to wash it I wonder what people They can't take days off work I stayed in bed for about 5 days straight. And even after that, it's still bad. Did the injection heal it? I was too scared to get the injection. You chickened out. If you get your back strained but I was too scared so I didn't. They say it's really painful. Now I'm done with the suki-biki scaling The Deba knife. It might be worse I'm going to open the stomach first. Open the stomach... Wait, what? Has it cut this well in the past? Isn't this crazy? Wait. I'm going to cut an A4 paper. I usually sharpen my knife up to #15,000 It's only been sharpened up to #3,000. What? What? This is crazy. They're pros. I don't want to damage the knife This part can be cut so easily? The organs are all messed up. There's nothing inside. Someone, please give me acupuncture! Seriously. I really want someone to come There might be something inside. There's nothing inside. This is a characteristic of a carnivorous fish, Because the gall bladder produces bile Herbivorous fish don't need the enzymes but carnivorous fish And it has a bit of fat. Slightly. What's wrong? I've made it this far OK! Let's do this. Black-saddled Coral Grouper! It cuts this well? I actually got I'll use that too. I actually had this new one made because I thought it might take a while It's the same. The shape is slightly different. Can I say something crazy? I want to show them to you side-by-side. Can I say something crazy? These were originally the same length. It shrunk so much. It's been used so much. Now, this is the new knife. Didn't the other one How does it cut better than a new one? Let's cut this off. OK. Break the spine... Come on! Now, I'll take off the dark red part. Did you see? It's peeing. I've never seen that before. Now that it's clean, This is the part I was most excited about. This is amazing. Crazy. It cuts this well? It feels amazing. I'm not putting any pressure on it at all. I'm just stroking it. Let's separate it from the spine. It's usually really hard Crazy. Ridiculous! Alright, everyone. This is a total overkill It's totally unnecessary This is insane. That was instant. There was something I wanted to test out. This knife is used to roughly chop. I don't want to cut the spine I want to hit this area. Amazing! I hope it doesn't chip. I'm scared. Black-saddled Coral Groupers so I'm going to make broth with the spine and kombu I'm going to remove the fin OK. I'm going to remove the rib bones. Is it supposed to cut so easily!? I thought this fish was really hard. The knife is really big, There are pin bones here It feels so good. I'll use this for the broth. I'm going to cut it into bite-size pieces. This feels so good. Bite-size pieces would be like this. It's so easy. There are so many, but this is only 1/8. I'm going to sprinkle some salt on them. OK. I've put the salt on Is sashimi going to taste good? This is way too big for sashimi. I'll cut it into this size. The flesh looks clean. Let's taste it a bit. Put some soy sauce... It's good. It's really good. Aging local Black-saddled Coral Grouper but there's a lot of umami in this one. But the flesh is really soft and watery. For fish that are watery like this you can use dehydrating paper Or you can sprinkle some salt OK. Now, I'm going to take a rest. My back is killing me! 30 minutes later I've taken a rest. I'm going to start boiling water. We have to remove the smell Let's set it up! It's ready! I almost forgot about it These white bits are the joints. Place the knife on the joint and whack it. And I'll put them in here. Now, I'm going to pour This takes away the smell. OK. The water is really dirty. This one extra step That steam was so smelly. Next, I'm going to add some Konbu. It's better to put more flavour in but I can't be bothered This will do. Now, I'll add the spine. The spine is so luxurious. Look at the surface. Can the camera catch the oil? This is amazing. I'm going to wait for this to boil I'll take out the scum now. It smells so good. So much scum. And I'll put these inside. So luxurious. Whatever. These will stick together I want to put Chinese cabbage or carrots in here This is a protein hot pot. You can get a one-day worth of protein. This is so luxurious. Two pieces of this would cost Just two pieces How much would this cost? Don't film this. My viewers will find out I'll put some sake in for the smell. Finally, I'm going to season it. Soy sauce... Chicken stock... Salt... And finally some sesame oil for the aroma and we're done! OK. The food is ready. It might seem like I made this quickly What should I name this? Everywhere-you-look Let's eat. This is definitely going to be good. Such a gentle flavour. Fish in the grouper family I made it but the fish itself is very delicate The meat is really soft It's amazing. I don't feel like eating something fried This is perfect. That was a great meal. I had my knife sharpened and it exceeded my expectations. It was great. After this YouTube channel started I've been using that knife but I can continue my journey together Thanks for watching until the end. Bye!