To become an FBI agent we must pass a total of For this first event we're testing the maximum number of continuous sit-ups in one minute. Saar here, my friend, will keep me on track. Hello there. Ready? So how do you pass the FBI fitness test? Based on your performance you get a score out of 10 for each event. Ten. And for the first four events, you need a total score of 12 in order to join the FBI. And the fifth event is a special test for the SWAT program. Twenty. Forty. How much time do we have? No resting. No resting. Hurry up. There's just a little bit. Oh! Done. That's it. What? I did 43. That's not bad. You made me laugh, bro. You made me lose focus. No no no no. I gave you focus. So 43 means you get three points. Three points? I recently recovered from COVID last week so my stamina is definitely below what it usually. Would have normally been four points. All right we actually have to take this seriously. The second event is the 300 meter sprint. This event takes place on a 400 meter oval track. So I'm going to start here and then we're going to end at the line over there. I'm not on track to pass so far and This is going to be one of the hardest things I do. Runners ready. Set. Go! I'm aiming to finish faster than But, if I'm slower than 52.5 seconds I am What did I get? 48:39. 48:39. Yeah. Okay, what's that? Let's see. At least I didn't get -2 points. 48 seconds to 49.4 seconds is That's not bad. Considering I have COVID. Had COVID, buddy. And I'm running in a suit. Come on. The third event is the push-up event. This is a continuous motion It's not timed but we need to reach 71 push-ups without stopping in My strength is very lacking right now. Especially after that run. And. Say it with me. After recovering with COVID. The exerciser will start in the front leaning With his elbows fully extended and away from his body. There's one secret I know And they will only count His toes on the ground. No more than three inches apart and his The exerciser will lower his body until the center axis of the elbow is in a straight line with the center axis of the shoulder parallel to the ground. We must reach a 90 degree. Ready? Let's go! A little lower. No resting. Twenty. No resting. No resting! Fourty. Your performance on the physical fitness test is an excellent measure of your character and tells us your desire to be a part of the FBI. 50 that's 50. 5 points! 5 points? 5 points! Let's go! A perfect score on these events is extremely hard. You need to be like a pro athlete or not have Excuses. The fourth event is the 1.5 mile run. Which is 2.4 kilometers. Which is six laps around this track and field. For a perfect score we need below nine minutes. Hopefully we can get a passing score. That's all we need. So somewhere between like 3 to 5. When training for the physical fitness test, don't aim for the minimum passing score. Hopefully we can get a passing score. This is not a sprint. I have to pace myself but not too slow. Ready, go. I actually have an extremely high chance to get disqualified in this event. I'm so tired at this point. Time? Because I did 3 events already and I have reduced stamina, running long distances like this is so much harder than normal. My pace is slowing down with each lap. You're at 1:37! 1:50. 1:59. If there's one thing I learned from the 24-hour military boot camp challenge, it's the fact that endurance is more about your mind rather than your body. You got to push through the pain. And I'm experiencing a lot of that right now. What's the time? 10:41. I would not recommend running in a suit. All right. What's the score? 10:41? Did I pass? Four points. Four points? It's the COVID. I would have gotten 10. Got one last event. The fifth event is the pull-up event. This is a continuous motion, untimed exercise. No stopping. And in order to get a perfect score we need 20. The pull-ups is actually not a part of the regular FBI test. Unless he or she is an applicant under the tactical program. Which is the SWAT team. The exerciser will grasp the bar with an overhand grip, palms facing out with hands at least shoulder-width apart and no further than 23 inches apart. One. Two. Three. Got to go lower! Little lower. Thirteen. Come on! Nineteen. Twenty! What is this? Last one for good luck. I passed the regular test which only needs 12 points and I'm joining the SWAT team because I aced the pull-up bar. So for the FBI test I got a total score of 25. So from now on you can call me Agent Go. If you want to see me attempt the world's most impossible exercises click here to watch that video. Give it a click. Or I'm coming to your house and I will find you.