HI! and welcome to a new video. We want to dedicate today's episode to visiting some wonderful places we have to visit in the area. Liguria is a narrow and long region, made up mainly of coasts and mountains and dotted with small villages of medieval or earlier origins. The villages often arose on steep slopes, ridges or at the bottom of valleys. Today we focus on Western Liguria, specifically we are talking about the province of Imperia, bordering lower Piedmont to the north, France to the west and washed by the Ligurian Sea to the south. Imperia (about 43 thousand inhabitants) was born in 1923 from the administrative merger of Oneglia and Porto Maurizio. In recent years, it has earned the reputation of &quot;the city with the best climate in Italy&quot; thanks to its mild climate and temperatures which in winter rarely fall below 10degC and in summer do not often exceed 30degC. Since so many of you have expressed the desire to visit our village, we decided to start today's visit right here. The village can be reached in a few minutes via a donkey path that connects it to the house. We are located at 450 m above sea level and only a few kilometers from the sea, and for this reason the climate is fantastic: in the same breath you can feel the sea breeze and the mountain air. this is also what made us fall in love with the village where we are! Unlike many other Ligurian villages that, if you have passed through Liguria, you will have happened to visit, the town where we are is still little known and fully retains its authenticity. In the town there is an anti-Barbaresque tower which was once two floors higher than how we see it now, and two churches! Or rather, a church and an oratory. The churchyard is made &quot;a risseu&quot;, a typical Ligurian paving technique made up of pebbles of different colors. In the main square, an exchange free library has been set up, where anyone passing by can stop and read a book. The economy of the area is mainly linked to the production of olive oil and the cultivation of lavender, but there are exceptions such as the artist who filled the alleys with works. He created paintings, sculptures in wood, ceramic or other materials. In the lower part of the village, we also find an old wash house, where women came to wash their clothes. But let's move on to another village! Among the villages we frequent, Castelvecchio di Rocca Barbena is beautiful: we followed a construction site for some clients there! It is located in the hinterland of Albenga, 17 km from the sea, in the Poggio Grande environmental system. It is part of the &quot;Most beautiful villages in Italy&quot; list, is located on the Wine and Oil Route and is included in the main ecotourism routes of the area. In the splendid Valle Argentina, within the Ligurian Alps Park, we find Triora which is also included in the list of the &quot;most beautiful villages in Italy&quot;. Located at 780 m above sea level, Triora owes its name to &quot;Tria-Ora&quot; (three mouths), with reference to the three main local products (wheat, vine and chestnut). But it is due to the tragic story that happened in the years 1587-89 that Triora is still known as the Town of Witches. At the time of the events, Triora was a fortified village at the center of an intense commercial traffic between Piedmont, the coast and France. Politically it depended on the Republic of Genoa, of which it was a subject. At that time, the inhabitants of the area were suffering from a terrible famine: it was then that the people identified some women from the village as scapegoats. 30 women were thus tried, imprisoned, tortured, sent elsewhere and, in some cases, burned at the stake. From Triora and this sad story we move a little more towards France! 5 km west of Ventimiglia (Italy) and 7 km east of Menton (France) we find the wonderful Villa Hanbury, a botanical acclimatization garden managed by the University of Genoa. The garden is also a Regional Protected Area, which includes the Capo Mortola Marine Protection Area. The Villa was built in the 11th century by the noble Lanteri family, probably on the ruins of an ancient Roman villa. In 1867, the property (gardens + ruined mansion) was purchased by the English businessman, gardener and philanthropist Thomas Hanbury. His brother Daniel Hanbury, a botanist and pharmacologist, contributed significantly to the creation of the Garden and provided the scientific basis for the installation of the acclimatization garden. Acclimatization means that exotic plants are introduced to be gradually adapted to live in our environmental conditions. The plants are grown respecting their life and reproductive cycles. For instance, watering these plants during the summer would mean keeping them artificially active, in contrast to the high seasonal temperatures. Thomas Hanbury often said, "Never go against nature." If we cross the border into France, we recommend you take a trip to Eze: a small medieval village located on the Cote d'Azur, 8.5 km north-east of Nice and 4.5 km from Monaco. The village has been described as an &quot;eagle's nest&quot; due to its location overlooking a cliff 427 meters above sea level. These are just some of the many splendid places to discover in the area! Which one did you like the most? Let us know in the comments and, if you liked this slightly different video, don't hesitate to let us know. For other travel tips and itineraries, check out our Instagram page and look for posts with #aroundmavi! Thanks for following us and see you soon!