- Oh, Oh, does a little dance. Did you see that? Security isn't something on Short Circuit or LTT for that matter, just because it's kind of a tricky subject to talk about without disclosing all of the security features Cameras aren't too useful if everybody knows where they are, but today we have something This is the most expensive camera that Ubiquiti has ever released at $1,800. I can't even imagine spending like $200 on a security camera, But supposedly it packs enough Let's get in the box. Wow. Holy Crap. I mean the first thing I is it's weigh is like probably 40 pounds with all the parts in, and this is definitely This is just the mount. (laughing) That's an expensive Mac Thanks for the sticker Ubiquiti. (laughing) Oh, wow. So you get two. Every portion is like safety Too bad they didn't ship Where does this even go into? Let me get (indistinct). So that's sort of goes- slides- slides in there. Okay. I guess this is to make it easier for you They even have a little lapel in there, I guess for your $1,800 they include a 10 cent So you mount your four screws or whatever. We're going to actually be in the front of the building, so- and then you slide the big mount, and put the camera under there. Now we'll get into more of the specs of the actual camera in a sec, but there's a cool I'm not really sure what but it's basically just that you stick your that way when it's in there, it's actually going to be waterproof because this is going outside of course. Actually, I don't know if we can get this through here. Yeah. I think the you put this through the cable and then terminate it after. You can't really get a pre So I guess we're just going Whatever, I tried. So assuming you have a hammer drill, you drill your hole, hammer these in, and then you can take these and drive them right into these. Jeez! I got some beefy Screws aside, let's get Oh wow. It comes in like its own bag. (laughing) I think there was another thing in the box that I just dropped. I missed one piece, but of this thing. But wow, it comes with It feels like a soccer ball. (speaking off the microphone) A big chocolate egg. I don't think it would be very tasty. The G4 PTZ. An $1,800 22X optical zoom Maybe we should just use Look at that lens. So like I just mentioned this is a 22X optical zoom, not digital. So there's actually a full lens in here that will physically to whatever you'd like. Unlike digital zoom where you're just sort of this is going to give you throughout the entire range. And since it's 4k, you can even punch in a little bit more digitally or 720p, or however much So you're still gonna have That some pretty insane distances. Moving inside. I don't think I want to take it apart because I think I'm going to break it. They don't have torque screws. Messing with camera lens so I think we'll just leave it. But it's a Sony 8 megapixel sensor that's gonna allow you to - [Jono] It's not 30? - I think you can put it But it's a security camera, a lot of people record security Because of the zoom, the You're looking at 64 degrees when you're fully zoomed in horizontally, and then 37 degrees when you're fully zoomed in. Hazza! Well, that's pretty sleek. It looks a little dilapidated right now because it's not on. Yeah. Or like outside of a bank Like you see him in a movie, and he'd do a little dance. It's like a &quot;Star Wars&quot;, character. - [Jono] G4. - Hey guys. So unlike the G3 series of cameras which use 10 100 ports, this one actually has a full gigabit. Just like the G4 pro over there. I guess it might be able to do over a hundred megabit bit. Right? Which is- That's pretty insane And it actually makes you so PoE++ which for some people might or you might just have as this bad boy can drop to 43 Watts when it's in full motion, And your standard PoE that's isn't going to cut it. Shall we plug it in? Right after I tell you about our sponsor. Honey is the free shopping tool that finds you the best promo codes whenever you shop online Honey works on over 30,000 stores, including Amazon, eBay, Newegg, Razor, Best Buy-Walmart and many more. It's free to use, and installs in just two clicks because from the sites where you shop Oh, Oh, it does a little dance. Did you see that? You didn't see the dance? - [Jono] No. - I think it's just finding home. All right. So we're in the unified protect dashboard. I've got the camera already set up. I'm going to switch it to 4k because by default that does 720p thing that like But we want to see like the best quality. We get the pan, tilt, zoom controls here. You can take a photo, full screen it. You can do wide dynamic range. What is that? You can like increase the - [Jono] You probably (indistinct) to- it just like it shoots flatter. - Yeah, it does shoot it flatter. Because usually on the other G4 cameras, they have just like an HDR switch. You can just turn it okay, this is kind of tripping out, just give me a second here. Let me just refresh the page. Oh wow. Look at that. So you can just click in the live feed and it will move and then focus. Oh, you can use arrow keys too. (Jono laughing) Whoa! Hi Jono. - And I just click on that and then we go big zoom. It's Kind of dark, not going to lie, but, focus. Yeah! (laughing) Wow. The detail's insane. It looks so good. And if we unzoom- it it's such a gentle unzoom. Oh no, no, right- Holy crap. You almost can't even see the I guess the only thing that's on the building and see what Well, it is another day it took me to install the camera. - He's lost it ladies and gentlemen. Got to put these- - Wasn't the easiest thing I've ever done but I'm also not a So, let's look at my car. See if we can see the stickers How do I zoom, hold still. Doo doo doo doo doo doo! Holy crap! (laughing) - [Jono] Can you see your racing gloves? (Jake laughing) - No. Look at that. Oh, there we go. It actually maintains the I've seen a lot of PDZ they just go completely out of focus. So that's pretty impressive. What about like- Okay. There's some dumpsters over there. I want to see if we can read Progressive Waste Services. Do not park. (laughing) That's like on the complete That's insane. This camera actually just into general availability, so it can be a little finicky still in terms of the controls. They're still working on that, but so far, I mean, it works pretty much as good as I could expect. That's the street. That's like hundreds of feet away. Oh, there's a train. Wow. Yeah. How dark is it outside right now? - [Brandon] It's like medium blue. - Medium blue. It looks like pretty much That's pretty impressive. What if we- maybe they'll turn on the IR mode? Oh yeah. It doesn't even care. It's so bright still for this camera. Well, I guess that pretty much sums it up. This thing is an absolute monster, and if you need a security maybe you're you have a data center and you got a big field outside you want to be able to surveil, or you want to spy on your neighbors. Not that we're going to advise this might be the camera for you. Or maybe you're just and you want to put a stupid camera on the front of your building So thanks for watching guys. If you're interested in camera stuff although it's not really security cameras, you can check out one of maybe on the Ursa mini 12K. Are we done? Bye.