55th day SV block/large block installation Our project has already reached its 50th day, and we have passed a major milestone. Summary of the previous work This project is planned in two main phases. In the first phase, we installed several hundred large blocks and demonstrated the process of each step. As a result, we were able to successfully complete the first phase of construction, a major milestone for the project. We are currently beginning the second phase of construction, and this new stage will show further progress in the recovery process in the disaster-stricken areas. Watch this video to see how our efforts are impacting the road to recovery. The blocks currently installed are called &quot;SV blocks&quot; and have different characteristics from conventional large blocks. In particular, this SV block is selectively used in the last 10 meters downstream where the influence of water flow is relatively low. SV blocks are easy to handle and reliably provide the necessary protection while reducing material costs, making them a cost-effective choice. Back frame placement Place a burial formwork to prevent backfilling crushed stone from entering. Backfill Crushed Stone Backfill crushed stone allows water to pass through it well, so moisture around the block can be efficiently drained. This will prevent water erosion and damage to the structure. Large block installation The large block used in the first phase will be placed upstream from the SV block. This large block weighs several times more than the block that collapsed due to the disaster. Therefore, it is very effective in improving the stability of seawalls. For large blocks, backfill crushed stone is laid in the same way. The crushed stone is compacted in layers of 30 cm each. Laying the final layer of backfill crushed stone The compaction work for the final layer is performed during the finishing process after the concrete is poured. Backfilling of crushed stone has been completed. Concrete pouring is done . By pouring concrete inside the placed blocks, the blocks are joined together and their load carrying capacity is strengthened. Reinforced concrete is added for each block placement, so reinforcing bars are added to increase the strength. As a finishing touch, backfilling and compaction of crushed stone will be performed. Repeat these steps to stack the blocks. One week has passed since the start of block installation in the second phase, and approximately half of the planned blocks have been installed. We will spend another week installing the remaining blocks. Day 75 Creation of formwork for adjusting the crown After all the blocks were installed, we created a formwork for adjusting the crown in order to adjust the uneven crown. This process was also carried out in Phase 1, and was used to pour concrete using formwork to make the top even. Formwork erection process Plastic cone installation Form tie installation Steel pipe installation Assemble the formwork in the same way for the front side, where the steel pipe is tightened using a wedge- type backing plate. Attaching wood for chamfering Attaching separators Use rebar to weld and firmly join the separators together. Concrete is poured into the completed formwork Vibration is used to evenly distribute the concrete and thoroughly fill every corner of the formwork. Level the concrete evenly. Once the rain curing concrete has hardened to a certain extent, the surface will be finished neatly. I completed the curing process again. The formwork dismantling disaster recovery project has reached its 78th day, and we were able to complete the core part of the construction, including the installation of blocks and a number of other steps. Compared to the first day of construction, the difference is clear and we can see great progress. The collapsed road has almost been completely repaired. The construction work will be completed soon. In the next video, we will be able to show you how the restoration is almost complete or completely restored. That's all for this video. Thank you for your viewing.