Alright! Thank you very much for a very kind introduction. As you're aware, the title of my talk is &quot;Clutching Uh, most of this information was just presented My name is Matt Parker, as advertised. I'm based at Queen Mary, University of London, and I'll put this up again at the end, if heckles and the like, you're welcome to email I should point out, though, and this was mentioned maths&quot;, there's only two real promises that One, I will be standing up, done, and maths, There is no guarantee of entertainment, although, will deliver, a joke. It's quite the joke. I'm looking forward to this. If you are on Twitter, if you include the attempt to do that during the lecture, or phone. Or, if any of them ring, I am totally qualified calls -I will - that come in. 'Cause I actually used to work... Uh, you guys having a little group discussion? See look, boom! There. See, I can detect people talking. It's like a teaching ninja. Wouldn't that be great? A maths ninja. Instead of sherkins I'd throw prime numbers. Anyway, that's not the joke - it gets better. I used to work as a maths teacher. Originally, I went to the University of Western all things, Mechanical Engineering, before employable at the end of it. So I switched into Physics, and then into That's when I thought, &quot;what can I do for So I became a Maths teacher. I moved to London, having taught in Australia I taught in London for a while, and then I So I'd work with universities and other organisations Maths. And, someone opened a can of drink... We've been through this, right, what is it? No, it's not television, I can see you. We're having a conversation now. It's a non-consensual conversation, I give What are you enjoying? Pepsi. Oh, you can keep that. Coke or better, you'd be in trouble right Okay, I'll be nice to you guys from now on, It's on. You and Group Theory Lad. Both of you. I'm watching. One false move from either of you... For those of you watching the DVD, that's I've only got a finite amount of time for Anyway, where was I up to? Oh yeah, so I worked for some universities I started, as the teachers here will appreciate, just recently. I went back for two terms. I thought, &quot;It's only gonna be six months, London Comprehensive School for two terms, I was like, &quot;I'm good with teaching now&quot;, I'm in the Maths Department, and because they Department, and it's my job to both work with and what-not, to help them communicate their I go into schools and do talks like this. I have the joy of doing a bit of media work, I can do to get more people more excited about And, just to see where the audience is at, If you- I'll state my definition first. If you are a maths teacher or a mathematician, gonna classify you as in the &quot;maths-friendly&quot; All the maths-friendly group give me a cheer -And one round of applause, who was that? Well, thank you very much. The trouble with applause, as you will notice, start. Everyone who is in the complement set - the -At the back, of course. Don't think I can't see you, we've established I like to check the people I'm talking to, do an informal survey, I have a very simple how any given maths talk is gonna go. And you guys have passed in flying colours, Sir, with the glasses, and very nice beard, I know a gig will go well if someone's made Can you give him a round of applause? That is a *good* sign. Anyway, my talk today- I'll explain more about before I even do that... You know it involves randomness, and it involves I thought I would just start by showing you I was on the tube, on the way to Queen Mary &quot;fine&quot; scientific journal known as The Daily on its own there, isn't it? - And I came across this article here. This is the picture that went with the article It was a retired marketing executive, who through and taken all the ancient, prehistoric, on a map, joined them up with some lines, it - form triangles. Not just any triangles! There were some equilateral triangles, there excited about these. He wrote to all sorts of- various publications, was that these triangles were so precise, He actually said, &quot;You cannot do that by chance&quot;. These triangles are so precise, the isoceles ones are so spot-on. His theory was that there was some form of navigating, so you would use these incredible next, and he figured that the ancients living for that purpose. He actually said - and I haven't put it up out extra-terrestrial help. So precise were these triangles. Some of you are shaking your head in a skeptical I thought, well, maybe he's onto something. I mean, these are- don't get me wrong, the So, I got to work, went up to my office in if I can use this same technique&quot;, and so Here is a map of the UK, centred around where up where a whole set of ancient sites were, Birmingham, and form an incredibly precise Within a percent accuracy. I thought, &quot;Well I've gotta step this up a on either side that give isoceles triangles another two sites which can extend a bigger- the two sides that should be the same length. Then, I took- extended the base of the equilateral through it, and formed this cross structure, Just to show you how accurate this is, the equilateral triangle. Up here is Conwy, down here is Luton. This line is 173.8 miles long. It is within 40 feet of the Conwy site. It is within 30 feet of the Luton site. These are mind-numblingly precise geometric The unfortunate thing was, I wasn't looking The ancient sites I was looking at are the They're there if you want a copy of these. I will email them to you later. These are where Woolworths stores used to triangles. I mean, we don't know what they used them Who knows how the ancient Woolworths civilisation How did they buy discount CDs and cheap kitchen We just don't know, but we can investigate At this point, I can't rule out extra-terrestrial How else could they offer the Ladybird clothing These are the real stores. They are that accurate. I wrote this up as a pseudo- any mathematicians I'm keen to do some more with this. But I put out a press release, which is a bits of media, and I got media coverage of that I was doing. A lot of archaelogical magazines wrote to done, because now we know this guy's a bit Be careful what I say here. So, we know that these triangles could have by accident with the Woolworths stores. In fact, if you look at all the Woolworths from. It's not hard to find triangles when you've I literally printed out the Google map of the ruler and just worked around until I found computer and crunched the actual numbers for then put it out. It's just a case of- I had enough data - admittedly, it, that I could just flick through, find and ignore the rest of them. And that is the whole point of the talk I data, you can find patterns that have no meaning They're only there because you've got enough But if you're prepared to ignore most of your and prove pretty much anything you want. One of the best things about doing this is I think it was Liverpool University. Someone sent me an email and said in their when people are selectively analysing data. It's called Pick-and-Mix data analysis. That's brilliant. The whole area of maths, it's called Ramsey The whole idea is, if you get enough data, But, more than that, if you have a sufficient you want, to any level of accuracy that you You just need enough data to start with.