Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of This time, we explore the city out of the Middle Ages Florence. 15th-century Florence and the birthplace of Within a few hundred yards you can enjoy much of created during And we'll do just that -- of Michelangelo's &quot;David,&quot; enjoy Botticelli's delve into the 3D wonders of Ghiberti's appreciate Fra Angelico's and climb the dome that And beyond the art, Florence knows We'll cross the Arno to where Florentine artisans live, and eat very well. Oh, beautiful. But first, After the fall Europe wallowed in centuries There was little learning, Then, in about 1400, there was a Renaissance. This exciting rebirth of the cultures of swept from here In architecture, to the balanced domes, columns, In painting, it revived Artists rediscovered and the human body. Portraying beautiful people they expressed the optimism of this new age. The suddenly perky made up for lost centuries with huge gains in science, Florence was the center This is where capitalism was Being the middleman of trade the city had money Wealthy merchant like the Medici, for generations, by commissioning and Florence, creative genius like unleashed an explosion The Renaissance was It was a time of confidence, business was respectable, The Church no longer put and the great like Plato and Aristotle, In about 1400, of the Renaissance, begins to stand on his own, of the church. This &quot;David,&quot; Florentine sculptor Donatello, freestanding male nudes sculpted It's art for art's sake, but a rich man's courtyard. While the formal subject is David slaying the giant, Goliath's severed head is truth be told, a celebration A generation before, But with the Renaissance, Florence was long Rather than its church, once the palace that towers over Michelangelo's &quot;David&quot; This is a copy. The original &quot;David&quot; is the nearby academia gallery, which feels like At its altar, The shepherd boy, David, Thoughtful and self-assured, he seems to be thinking, The statue was an apt symbol, inspiring Florentines When you look at &quot;David,&quot; you're looking at Artists now made their point and they did this by For instance, human corpses to This humanism was not Now people realized that was not to bow down but to recognize their talents Artists like Michelangelo even exaggerated realism Notice David's large This is symbolic It was God that powered and Florentines liked to think to rise above rival The nave-like hall is lined with Michelangelo's struggling to break out Michelangelo believed were divinely created He was simply chiseling Here we see the Renaissance as Michelangelo reveals While these statues are perhaps Michelangelo was and he moved on Now that the old is essentially traffic-free, the city itself is more Early in the morning, the service trucks Then the people happily The city is easy to navigate and its sights Everything in this episode And without the noise the architecture is The Renaissance lasted The High Renaissance, is well known for Michelangelo, and Raphael, but the first half the 1400s, While the main structure is medieval, and much of the art Baptistery, define this first century The Duomo -- for &quot;cathedral&quot; -- the largest anywhere when and still in the top 20. The church's claim the first of the Renaissance built in Europe in The church was built but rather than being it was left with a gaping hole, to catch up with In 1420, won the job that kicked off Brunelleschi's dome, that followed, the US Capitol, could be combined and today, it rewards those with a grand Florence view. While the Duomo's architecture the Baptistery, is centuries older. The Baptistery is separate you couldn't enter the church Its interior glitters with created in the 13th century, These vivid scenes, bringing countless inspired the medieval faithful. Jesus sits at Overlooking creation he gives the ultimate thumbs-up On his right, bringing good news And on Well, you don't want Some say the Renaissance over the excitement caused by to design and build Lorenzo Ghiberti won and spent decades These bronze panels, were revolutionary By utilizing the mathematical Ghiberti helped a whole new dimension -- depth. He pulled out all the stops to create maximum The tiles have lines which converge to The bench is fore-shortened Elements are added to distinct from the middle The effect? As viewers, While the panels, you see outside, the originals of the cathedral's are stored safely in the adjacent After nearly 150 years Brunelleschi's dome was up and the Cathedral Then they began decorating the finest art of the day. The Cathedral's showed a realism unprecedented in The work of Donatello was This balcony for the choir captures the exuberance Dancing and swirling oblivious to the columns, celebrate the freedom and motion Some say Donatello invented that Michelangelo would perfect He was an eccentric, innovative, who lit up his statues with Donatello's &quot;Mary Magdalene,&quot; is provocative, The prostitute, by Jesus, Her once-beautiful body by the fires of While her physical body and her eyes are hollow, The museum's most famous piece, is this &quot;Pieta&quot; The broken body of is tended by three mourners -- his mother Mary, and Nicodemus. Michelangelo sculpted Notice the zig-zag of his body. This accentuates its weight, of the statue clear -- Nicodemus is a self-portrait of After spending a lifetime Michelangelo reflects looking down thoughtfully one of his final creations. I'm meeting my at I Fratellini, much loved among locals for its sold by the glass. &quot;Grazie.&quot; And when you're done, Boy, it's intense in the city. Well, if you want to let's cross the river, and let's go to where the real Where's that? Steves: There's much more to as you'll quickly find in the characteristic back lanes Artisans, busy at work, to see traditional You're welcome to just drop in but remember, it's polite to Your key phrase is, &quot;Posso guardare?&quot; &quot;Certo. Here in this great there's no shortage of treasures This is beautiful. How old is this painting? This is From Florence? Mmm...we don't know. Maybe the area is Genova. Genova. Steves: Each shop with passion and expertise. Fine instruments Grand palaces thanks to the delicate of craftspeople like this. A satisfying way to wrap up is to enjoy which any Italian meat lover The quality is proudly Steaks are sold by weight The standard serving is meaning about a pound So, both of those for 4 people. Steves: The preparation is Good luck if you Oh, look at this. Oh, beautiful. [ laughs ] Chianina beef. Okay, perfect. So, the meat is That's its name, because it comes Oh, Chianti, okay. And tell me about this concept of the &quot;good marriage&quot; Well, when you have you want to have And they go together well, We say &quot;si sposano bene.&quot; &quot;Si sposano bene,&quot; The wine is from Tuscany Exactly, you don't want to have Steves: We're staying at Hotel This spiffed-up offers a good mix of From the understated elegance and breakfast room, stone stairways lead to Once the cells of monks, with air-conditioning, and mini-bars, by their original inhabitants. A block away is with simpler cells than The monastery of San Marco, is now a museum, to enjoy the greatest and paintings by Fra Angelico. Working in the mid-1400s, Fra Angelico, fused medieval spirituality with In this painting, set in what many consider the first great Christ is mourned and contemporary Florentines. The scene is holy, it's set on a lawn in Tuscany, among real trees and people. The monks lived above and greeting them at was Fra Angelico's The quiet beauty in these 500-year-old frescos in a peaceful The halls are lined each with a single Studying these religious scenes, we can see how Fra Angelico as a form of prayer he couldn't paint a crucifix This is the cell of Savonarola, the charismatic monk who, denouncing the decadence threw out the Medici turned Florence Ruling the city, he ordered in which his followers would fleshy paintings -- modern, or humanistic. Even the Florentine painter in this moralistic hysteria, &quot;decadent&quot; paintings Finally, when Florence decided to a church-sponsored Savonarola himself Today's Florence could for a Savonarola rant, but if you want to enjoy or just appreciate of Italian Florence can fill the bill. For shoppers, and top fashions. Wandering through while being tempted of fine fashion can make for The Ponte Vecchio, has been busy with shoppers Jewelry is The bridge is lined with a tradition that Nearby, from this grand palace, Their offices, or &quot;uffizi,&quot; were next door. Now these offices hold of Italian paintings anywhere -- Each day here frustrated tourists who don't waste precious hours in museum lines. Meanwhile, travelers who made or purchased as we did, The Uffizi's collection, displayed on takes you on a sweep through from the 12th through Gilded Gothic altarpieces, by the Sienese master must have dazzled The stars of the Florentine Leonardo da Vinci's Michelangelo's he can do more than And Raphael, of the power of Michelangelo captures a delicate moment in And the collection follows art with masterpieces slippery &quot;Lady with the Long Neck.&quot; For me, the Uffizi, is all about the thrilling leap as happened when Europe moved These altarpieces are Gothic. Being pre-Renaissance, they simply tell their story through symbolism The gold-leaf sky but it implies a rich The angels are stacked Flanking this cross, tell the story but with little sense of depth. Yet, artists were trying. To show Jesus' it actually does. Giotto, while still Gothic, is often considered Notice the progress. His more realistic setting on a throne occupying The kneeling angels in front create an illusion of depth. If the Renaissance was a foundation of a foundation of the Renaissance Sculptors, painters, turned to ancient work 2,000-year-old Roman decorated gardens This ancient art was considered Kings made copies of it. Napoleon stole his In the 19th century, on the grand tour During the Renaissance, people saw the glory of God and harmony of the human body, Classical statues clearly For me, his &quot;Birth of Venus&quot; of Renaissance beauty. The goddess of love, is just waking up. Botticelli combines the beauty The hands, wings, With Venus' flyaway hair, of the distant horizon, caught at the peak tumbling in slow motion, is fresh and newborn. Botticelli's &quot;Primavera,&quot; shows the Renaissance The warm winds blow in, causing flora to sprout Meanwhile, the figure of Spring the Three Graces dance, a blindfolded cupid happily and in the center the classical Visiting Florence and good living And while much of the great art the influence of the Florentine Renaissance, reverberates throughout and for that, I hope you've enjoyed our look at the artistic Let's explore more of and more of Europe Until then, Keep on travelin'. &quot;Ciao.&quot; This time, we look at the city out of the Middle Ages and into Florence. Florence. That's Superman coming. The suddenly perk-- [ man speaking indistinctly ] [ music playing Man: This is after only Imagine what happens It's the world with