I'm Hartmut, I lead Google Quantum AI. I have been working And let me tell you Today's computers, like your laptop operate on the binary logic A quantum computer like this one with the laws of quantum physics allowing it to perform certain So where does this superpower come from? Quantum computing is the first technology that takes the idea serious It can be seen as farming out Let me explain. In quantum physics, the key mathematical object to describe many worlds To understand what it is, You just need three bits to describe it. Each coin is a two-state system. Heads or tails, zero or one. We look at a start state. If I were to know which forces then I can predict its trajectory This is how we reason in classical physics But if you were to treat then it can branch into many And we have to keep track interfere them to make of what states we are going So the equations of quantum mechanics tell us that at any time, any object, myself or the world at large, exists in a superposition Intriguingly, look around in this room. We are forming a configuration too. And the equations of quantum that we sit in different This superpower Picture a search task. By envisioning a very tall closet I place an item in one of the drawers. How many drawers do you have In average it will be half a million, but if you had access it would only be 1,000 steps How in the world can this be? Indeed, it cannot be in a single world. So here you see a good example of how quantum computing by performing computations Let me show you how to use So here you see a program in Cirq, or Python-based programming language It looks like sheet music. Each line represents a qubit, and each box represents an operation. When I hit return, then it gets transmitted in Santa Barbara. Here you actually see Actually, our most powerful quantum There, the operations electrical pulses that control the qubits. You see how the waveforms change So this is a simple two-qubit circuit For the programmers among you, please note how I find one item by only doing a single call This is something you could not do So what can you do We have prepared and studied their properties. This has led to dozens of publications in high-impact journals Actually, I like to think of it For example, one state we prepared can be thought of as spawning We can use it to learn We can throw a qubit in and see how it reappears We made time crystals. That's a cool word, isn't it? Like, who doesn't want to have Time crystals have amazing They change periodically in time with the environment. That's the closest to a perpetual mobile that the laws of physics allow you to get. Or a final example, non-abelian anyons. This is a mouthful, but these are systems when exchanging two identical parts, something humans have never seen before. Because envision a little house and envision swapping In everyday life, but quantum physicists had predicted that exchange or change their properties when you exchange two identical parts. To date, nobody has performed a practical application that can only Despite what you may But today, I'm excited to tell you of an algorithm that may lead This quantum algorithm to enable new ways to detect using nuclear electronic In time, this may lead to exciting Envision a device akin in your phone or smart watch. Wouldn't it be awesome that you step into a room Or if your smart watch could detect and tell you it's time or warn you of allergens in food or many other truly helpful use cases. To unlock more applications, you will need to build a large Here you see our road map. How to build a computer It consists of six milestones. and we achieved already the first two. Prior to 2019, nobody had shown a beyond classical We were the first to demonstrate it. Our chip could perform a computation that the then-fastest supercomputer But recently, we repeated this experiment. And now, Frontier, would need one billion years This dramatic growth in compute power which says that the power at a double exponential rate. In 2023, we achieved the second milestone. We demonstrated again for the first time that quantum error correction Error correction sounds boring, Today, our two-qubit operations That means that in every the quantum computer will crash. To improve this, we combine many physical qubits to reduce the error rate We are about halfway through our road map, and we are optimistic before the end of this decade. We have done analytical to predict which algorithms on such a large quantum computer. A class of applications we like is the simulation of systems This is relevant for designing more targeted medicines. Specifically, we have worked on algorithms to describe cytochrome P450. This group of enzymes metabolizes Or the design of lighter, that can hold a larger charge or even electric airplanes. Or to hasten the design of fusion reactors arguably humanity's most urgent challenge. A recent result is a novel algorithm that delivers significant speed up This is a big deal because optimization in engineering, finance A way to think about this when an AI will play chess the quantum AI will win. This result shows that quantum computers will become a must-have capability to serve foundational computational tasks. I'm also very interested and neurobiology. Quantum information science may enable us to answer What creates conscious experience? An attractive conjecture is how we experience the emergence of a single classical world out of the many With academic collaborators, I have started a program using methods of quantum neurobiology. If our conjecture is correct, this would allow us to expand time and complexity. In conclusion, we are making steady progress towards building the world's first and applying its enormous power A quantum computer will be giving them a new tool to solve problems Thank you. (Applause)