- In this video, I'm gonna show you the to you embodying either so that you can attract the masculine, or the masculine energy the true feminine energy that you desire. This is what changed everything for me. And this is the missing especially people that of awakening. Now, the first thing I'll say about this is that intention, intention, when you are intending to attract love, you're intending to attract a feminine or a masculine partner. I want you to look at that word intention, because intention has the and there lies the secret The answer is tension, it's tension. When you see, let's say you is attractive to you, it creates tension inside of your body. Imagine somebody that is assertive, someone that's really in should be leading. That person should be directional. Imagine they go up to somebody. Normally the masculine and will maybe ask the feminine out or maybe show desire for the If that is the case, what happens is that creates At the same time, it may create and it may have the masculine feel a level of tension to even go do that. And that is because that tension shows and reveals vulnerability. It reveals desire. Now lemme share with you a little bit of where I was to where I am now and how that completely changed and why tension completely of being in my own masculinity, and why I think also that this or challenge within spiritual community. So first off, the way that I for me to set boundaries. I was very hard for me to that I was dating, because I So what I would do is I would like, I'd like someone I'd hang And there were many times I can look back and see that there were like why isn't this guy making a move on me? Why isn't this guy showing Sometimes they would then think that maybe I just wasn't interested. And it was because I was of wanting to get to know And because I wasn't showing that, it would then put me into what is called the friend zone. This is a very common of or nice guys. They get put into the friend zone because they aren't being vulnerable. They wanna be nice and they wanna be nice means It's I'm gonna be nice to you and you're gonna gimme validation approval or you're gonna feel good. You're not gonna feel any And what happens is there's no sexual attraction. Tension is when you give the how they feel about you. When you put yourself that creates tension because However, when you put and you are vulnerable, it opens up something inside other people. So I went from it being very challenging for me to express myself in that way. For me also, it was hard for me to express Cause I tuned my own frame So when it comes to going &quot;Well, what do they wanna do?&quot; I only wanna do what they wanna do. I don't even know who I am or what I want. And then it was very hard or challenging for me to lead the feminine because I was so much tuning to them. And what this would lead to me being with people would not feel safe. The feminine would not still safe because I was not leading. I was not in my own masculine energy. I was not providing that tension. That healthy tension that It's funny, there's a I dunno if you've seen this He's all over YouTube, but he has this. I wanted to eventually break down this video where he's A lot of his perspectives are super toxic, but there's some level of he says, lemme say that again. There's a little bit of truth. And some of the things he says, I'm not, cause he is very toxic, but he's like the feminine He's like, &quot;Woman, they need drama. You have to constantly You have to constantly because what she's gonna do, and she's gonna watch just so she can relax so All right. He has this bit where he says that. And basically what this guy's stick is by the way is he says that triggers so many people and then everyone shares his content. So that's how he gets views. But one of the things that's interesting about that is in a weird way. If women do not find that is a toxic perspective your woman drama in order Which is the toxic part as well that's where the woman or the feminine may have had toxic energy when she was a kid, when she was a child and that feels familiar, So then she'll stick around So that plays on a very different node of what I'm talking about here. But in general, some where people will find They will find things in their life that either feel familiar from childhood. So a lot of this is becoming but also if they find sometimes that they find a very feminine person, they may try to create So, well, what is a healthy Well, when you are embodying the energy that you came here to embody. So for me as a masculine that means that means directionality. That means I'm going And I am focused on that. Normally masculine as well as focused on one thing at a time, whereas the feminine could but one of the parts of for something I'm creating in my life. I'm going in that direction. My purpose is very important to me. And because I'm on that to the feminine. Now at the same time, there is energy that has which means being solid, being solid where my on the feminine, the feminine, what some people But it's the feminine energy because the feminine energy So it kind of changes It feels, now if the let's say every time, the feminine would maybe I would then tune. So let's say this is This is the way my shadow Masculine energy is Feminine energy is orbiting the masculine. All right. And what happens is if a little bit, maybe feel in And then the masculine comes up like this. It's then changing the orbit and then it causes the feminine because the feminine wants to feel safe. And the way it feels safe is through consistency and integrity. And then it can move away a little bit. And the masculine doesn't go chase. The masculine stays so that it's okay. So then it allows it to come closer. Now neediness, codependency is constantly changing and what you wanna do. And one of the most powerful about tension is to have to be focused on your purpose, to be focused on your to showing your own vulnerability, because then you don't waiver as much. You're not dependent as much. You're not codependent on what someone else is thinking or doing. Now one of the biggest and people pleasers, they have an identity I am a people pleaser. I must please other people. This normally by the way, Because as a child, you your love, the love And you had to constantly prove yourself, to prove you're good enough, And in order that, you would attract people that or didn't give you that so that you could fight for it because you're trying to Really what this is by the way is as a kid you decided it's not safe I'm not worthy the way I am. So I'm gonna abandon my myself So then you moved your and you started trying to The challenge is that then You're not living to your own integrity and you're chasing And the challenge with you're avoiding tension. Tension is you being the real you, tension is you expressing and not holding back Tension is when you set boundaries with somebody else when there's something that you don't wanna do but somebody else wants you to do it. It may require tension to express that you don't wanna do it. But when you understand and your true sense of worthiness, you won't do shit you don't want to do, because you will value yourself more than the older version of you. You will value yourself more And it is attractive for you to be in your It is attractive for you to love yourself. It is attractive for because it literally is showing the world that you value you. And when you aren't abandoning yourself, I promise you, other people It's not a guarantee, but that when you're not abandoning yourself, they won't abandon you and you won't be dependent And that makes it even more powerful. You can't really... Someone else can't really unless you agree and you You can't really like rejection unless you internalize it. There's power that comes with going and leading in detention. And one of the biggest challenges I see with spiritual people They avoid tension. They don't want other people They don't want wrestle but that leads them, not That leads to them not because I wanna avoid tension. I wanna avoid being but success in dating, success it will require you to lean into tension. When you become comfortable you will feel way more confident. There was a part of me, recently I had to send that I was kind of avoiding, something I had to express. And the old version of me would've waited a long time to do that because I didn't I didn't want them to feel disapproved. I didn't want them to feel bad. But then I said, you know what? Screw it. Now I'm in a pattern to I don't wanna do. I just do it. I said a voice note immediately. And it was in my mind, I was like, &quot;Oh, this person's gonna feel this way.&quot; They were super, they were super happy that I actually said that. And people will respect you more. You talking about attraction People do not respect people People do not respect people That aren't being vulnerable. You being real, you being vulnerable you think is gonna cause you rejection. It's gonna cause people not to like you or it's gonna cause people's disapproval. When you approve of yourself, that's when you don't need That's when you're not seeking it. When you don't seek it, you get it. It's fricking crazy. When you don't seek someone you will naturally get approval and validation because you don't need it. You're not needing that energy. You're giving it to yourself. You're more so being Present moment energy is That is attractive. When you want to try to to give you what you want. You want people to think of You want people to respect you. You want all these things. That's outcome focused. I'm going to be this instead be you, live according validate yourself by does not come from outside sources. You validate yourself by being yourself, by making the choice to be vulnerable, by setting boundaries with other people, by saying yes to what by saying no to what you don't wanna do. And by not abandoning yourself any longer, these are always that completely and the gender that you are preferring. But in order to attract a feminine person or a masculine person, you have to be in the opposite So feminine energy, that means more so be You don't have to have You can focus more on being in your body, on feeling, on being in your emotions. And as you do that you are more likely to attract masculine energy. You need to be carefree. The masculine needs to be Clear, needs to express If you have someone listen, I'm attracted to you. You don't have to say it like that. Say, &quot;Hey girl, what's your sign?&quot; Whatever the hell you say, but what you wanna do I remember when I'd started doing this, I'm telling you it changed everything. And I've seen this in my in my 21 day challenges. When people start living it changes everything. Lean into tension, get into the unknown and watch how much magic begins Now, if you wanna get if you wanna get into and create polarity from the inside out, there is something that is called the Magnetic Mastery Membership, which is a monthly community I go live with 100s of live accountability groups, live meditations to completely from the inside out so in our own frame to create our dream life without falling back to the old patterns. If you wanna join this exclusive community and you want to become of you to raise your and to really rewire and understand, there's other people like the now is the best time to join, click the link below, go Join the highest vibrational And I hope to see you on the inside there, also if you want one of for the five secrets to letting go that make you magnetic af, it's one of my most powerful videos. If you haven't seen it already, maybe if you've already it'll wire all these ideas In this video, I wanna to letting go that will and that will completely And when you start applying Because you start realizing and you start letting go of...