The First World War put an end to three mighty Austro-Hungarian Empire. Ukrainian people had the latter two. Just like many other nations this period of great dislocation might give them Russian Empire, also known as the Soviet Union, the horrific Holodomor, a genocidal famine caused Ukrainians in the 1930s. Welcome to our latest video, we discussed how the Ukrainian language and Tsarist Regime. In this video, we will explore the end of World War 1, the Soviet takeover UKRAINE DURING WW1. INDEPENDENCE ATTEMPTS 3-century-old Romanov dynasty from power and put and the atmosphere of liberty was blowing in had rejected seeing Ukrainians as a separate and suppressed Ukrainian national self-expression. there was hope among the intelligentsia of the the revolution would allow them to reclaim some in March of 1917, Ukrainian political parties, and intelligentsia came together to create the centred in Kyiv. Mykhailo Hrushevsky, a Ukrainian the chairman of this new Ukrainian body politic. involving more groups, and by April, they started different peoples populating the Russian Empire soldiers were not an exception, advocating for the the military insignia of the Cossack era. The in Ukraine appealed to soldiers. Still, they the Bolsheviks, who were quite popular among end the still-ongoing First World War immediately. Russian Empire incredibly precarious, the Central demands of self-rule for Ukraine. In June where the Central Rada proclaimed that "from now that Ukraine was not separating from Russia, themselves from then on. This proclamation caused but at the time, it was dealing with significant on the eastern front. Hence, they were not they struck a compromise with the Central Rada. of Russia recognized the Central Rada and other creation of all Ukrainian units within the Russian agreed not to proceed with autonomy without the that Ukraine was well on the path to freedom, but to power in Russia in October 1917. In response, Republic on November 20 without formally cutting only being in control of a handful of urban Bolshevik threat. In late December, the Bolsheviks Then, in January 1918, the Bolshevik army invaded Ukraine's independence in its 4th Universal. Ukrainian army to capture Poltava, Yekaterinoslav, after 11 days of shelling. This was followed perceived to be counter-revolutionaries. According troops shot anyone in Kyiv who spoke Ukrainian all this was done not by communists, but by leadership of officers trained in the old school, who, in his siege of Kyiv, took special 'separatist' Hrushevs'kyi with heavy artillery, However, in this dark hour, the German Ukrainian People's Republic, sending in their Kyiv together with the Ukrainian army under Symon out of Ukraine. The Brest-Litovsk treaty signed by Ukraine as an independent country. However, the managers, and they had no intention of seeing With the First World War having been raging and desperately needed grain from Ukraine, the German and 250,000 Austrian troops were deployed of the Central Rada, which they saw as too radical the grain they demanded from Ukraine. Thus, the loyal regime. Pavlo Skoropadskyi was Germany's family which, at one point, ruled over Ukraine. A general of the Russian imperial army and a class. On 29 April 1918, the gears began turning; was proclaimed the hetman of Ukraine. only eight months, most of which Ukraine was he tried to improve the situation in Ukraine including a budget law. He tried to carry out a the German government did not universally his support of science and education in of Sciences, the National Library and other By late 1918, the Central Powers were on the entering a period of turmoil. The Bolsheviks were a wildcard Ukrainian revolutionary, had risen On November 11th, 1918, the First World War came forever. The defeat of Germany and Austria meant forces were ready to act, such as the Directorate leaders of the Ukrainian People's Republic. against the Hetmanate and forced Skoropadskyi to time, the West Ukrainian People's Republic was at the time when the Austro-Hungarian Empire was However, this fledgling nation faced issues ashes of the war, which also claimed that area the region around Lviv, it was also populated by In November 1918, Poland took Lviv, which began a rock and a hard place, simultaneously facing a from inside the country. Needless to say, the After the defeat in Lviv, a Ukrainian army led they were not as successful against the Soviet control of most of Left Bank Ukraine, forcing the January 1919, the Ukrainian republics merged by their fortunes much. In February of 1919, the took control of the Black Sea shore, capturing the withdrawing Allied troops. By April, the Soviets the Bolshevik army had overwhelmed entirely EARLY SOVIET UKRAINE the Ukrainian people were tired. After fighting they were not in a position to resist the Soviet government was declared. By 1920, the Bolsheviks the White Army. In 1921, several groups which had launched guerilla attacks on the Soviet the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic became what the revisionist pseudo-historians claim, it and the creation of a short-lived Ukrainian annex Ukraine as a separate political unit the 1924 Soviet Constitution recognized the right from the Soviet Union, albeit only on paper. to the same policies which were enacted elsewhere Communism of the Civil War era, with the forcible This was exacerbated by the drought of 1921-23, thousands. Understanding that they could not Soviet Republics in line, Lenin adopted the New The former allowed private enterprise to a certain which boosted the Soviet economy and improved including Ukrainians. The latter was a policy to Soviet context by promoting native languages in national cadres and national cultures. The purpose a prison of nations, as Lenin used to say, but within the Soviet Union until they reached the these liberal policies were soon rolled back. As a nativization was substituted with centralization At the same time, the adoption of the first of the New Economic Policy. Even worse for a collectivization of agriculture, which REPRESSIONS. HOLODOMOR started witnessing the first signs of things Autocephalous Orthodox Church were accused from engaging in religious services. However, started repressing the Ukrainian intelligentsia by of the Liberation of Ukraine and conducting the existence of this Union is still mostly Soviet authorities accused the phantasmal the Soviet government in Ukraine. The trial that former leaders of the independent Ukrainian state, thousands more arrests had been made. The systematically eliminated, be they scientists, purpose of defeating any dissent to Stalinist as the next target of the Soviet regime was the In 1927, the Communist Party declared an effort. Initially, this was to be attempted of Ukraine were already struggling due to a despite the usually effective Soviet propaganda, were collectivized. Hence, in 1929, Stalin called the Soviet government was going to implement this of party activists were trained to facilitate spring of 1932 was set as a deadline for Ukraine. Still, overzealous national communist complete the collectivization by 1930 produced in Ukraine was taken out of the country, problems. Ukrainian Peasants often refused to see their animals before the authorities could sentiment grew, many spontaneous peasant the Soviet regime reacted in its usual peasants were accused of being kulaks, meaning to Siberia and Central Asia. Overall, more than with over 300,000 dying in or on the way to prison the Soviet government set an unattainable in 1931. In order to meet the quota and escape utmost to reach this goal at the expense of to force the peasants to give up their grain, and deported. On top of that, a significant amount bad as a result of grave mismanagement by the Even as starvation began to reap a bloody harvest for agricultural output from Ukraine was set Soviet leadership to dissuade Stalin from this "anti-Bolshevik" and stated that "There will be no fulfillment of the task set by the party and the Stalin complained of the perceived weakness down on the importance of fulfilling the in the Ukrainian countryside. He believed in Ukraine immediately, we will lose Ukraine." quota no matter the cost. Thus, even though Stalin for the Ukrainian peasants, he did not budge from fulfill their quotas were ordered to confiscate their homes. Problems with maintenance and proper as a significant amount of grain was lost or Ukrainian food was being exported out of the dying of malnutrition. The only way for many to collectivized farmers. Stalin tackled this problem State Property Decree, which declared that are to be considered enemies of the people, and imprisoned for not less than ten years, with 125,000 starving people were punished under leader of Ukraine, Stanislaw Kosior, perhaps best towards peasants and their resistance with the the Soviet government with the scrawny hand of Many peasants tried to flee the famine in the the cities. According to the Italian consul in people are gathered in Kharkiv. It has been which are used for baked goods later sold in the the mass exodus of peasants. On 27 December 1932, prevented peasants from leaving their places of stated that "the mass exodus of peasants is by counter-revolutionaries and Polish agents." "the mass movement of the peasantry from with all available means." The Red Army was while thousands of Ukrainians died in railway Thousands of orphans of dead Ukrainian peasants and sent to specialized camps or executed. Union continued exporting Ukrainian grain. State refused to use them to alleviate the suffering. "the warehouses in the Poltava Province were estimate that at the peak of the famine in June starvation in Ukraine. To the Ukrainian people, which in Ukrainian means "murder from starvation." to send some food to Ukraine, but only to purpose was to maintain agricultural output work for the Soviet state. Ralph Barnes, the wrote in August 1933 that since the beginning from starvation. Some claim that as many as determine the exact number of casualties that the really keen on reporting deaths caused by their whatever the final body count, the consequences By the summer of 1933, the Ukrainian countryside to raise crops in this chernozem fertile soil. Russian peasants there. Along with helping with also meant the settlement of a politically more this decision still has an impact on Ukraine to more than just a demographic catastrophe for of a Ukrainian peasant-centered cultural ecosystem uncharted, urban Soviet world. This total war to brutal attacks on the Ukrainian intelligentsia, and the republic's Communist Party. By the end the dekulakization and collectivization campaigns of Soviet Ukrainian civil society, already to resist amalgamation into the Stalinist order." Holodomor was a genocide. This is a discussion but one thing is clear. The policies of Stalin of millions of deaths. Moreover, Stalin refused aware of the catastrophe happening in Ukraine. the collectivization, as a similarly disastrous and Kazakhstan as well. However, statements from was a special case for them. As the Proletarskaya "The destruction of the social basis of Ukrainian was one of the main goals of collectivization collectivization in Ukraine pursued the goal of class with the most potential in the country. Throughout the first quarter of the 20th gain its independence, caught in between Russia just like many fellow nations subjugated by Ukraine once again was annexed into Russia, The costly fight for independence gave way to The destruction of its national elite through by Stalin has left an indelible mark on In our next episode on the history of Ukraine, the latter half of the 20th century, through World make sure you are subscribed and have pressed subscribing, commenting, and sharing - it releasing weekly patron and YouTube member ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals