(bright music) - Hey, folks, today is As usual, my name is Jake Baldino, here to talk about all the video game news that has been going on this week. There's quite a bit to jump into. So, the first thing, Xbox Yes, Phil Spencer went head of Xbox guy, with Bloomberg talking a lot And he once again alluded In this interview, he did say that they are He said it is something and he said that even though he confirmed that they have a plan they said it's still which actually surprises me. I actually thought they would be a little but if you pay attention, this Phil Spencer did go on record also talking about their He's also been on the record like Steam Deck and and how Microsoft has actually supported So, yeah, that's a thing. Microsoft actually has a lot this week, of their new marketing ad campaign, which a lot of people were memeing. The whole thing is this is an Xbox and essentially it was and highlighting how you can like depending on what you have access to streaming services, smart TV, a handheld on your phone of So, the whole thing was All these things are technically Xboxes. So, leaving some fans that but also worry about in terms of them actually and sticking to the console business. Of course a lot of people to maybe possibly stray in terms of them not really selling as many as probably they hoped. And of course with Xbox on being a giant publisher and having Xbox everywhere this is Xbox marketing campaign suggests. But Phil Spencer did and did acknowledge this and said that there will I don't doubt that. We've seen leaked plans that they do seem like they want to stick in the console market. But I will also say that Google, Microsoft and stuff, and they do change their mind But I know Xbox is very much changing, we're feeling the winds of change, but as of right now, it seems like they're sticking But again, this is just And actions really so we'll see where things end up. I think the most interesting part of this conversation Is that something that interests you or is it the fact that Xbox stuff is available to stream on Do you feel like you even need Phil Spencer in this interview did suggest that playing So, it might not be a but either way, I just If you're an Xbox fan or maybe like a Game Pass on PC fan, I just wanna know where your head's at. But also speaking of Xbox &quot;Avowed&quot; got this new It's dropping February 18th, 2025. Interestingly enough, on PC, they're releasing it on Battle.net. Of course Blizzard's classic launcher. That's an interesting move, something I honestly did not expect. What does that mean? You think they're just putting it on there to really appeal to that type of crowd? Maybe like a hardcore RPG type crowd? I don't know. But in terms of the whole Xbox-Activision it's still interesting, because things like this and remind me, oh yeah, that's a thing. Next up, we do have a about Naughty Dog's next game. Yes, they went on record There was an interview from Naughty Dog, like as well as classic famous just talking about their The interview, I but people caught the quotes from it. And what we did get from this that Neil Druckmann is the Whether you like him or not, apparently he has full creative control, but he did also confess that he doesn't have control over when the game will be revealed and how it will be revealed. He also, interestingly enough, confirmed that this game has So, it's been some time. That being said, game development is So, is this something I have no idea. And we didn't really get any information about anything like that. And in terms of what this But at this point for the last year or so, I have seen every rumor, third-person, sci-fi, I'm gonna be that guy. I'm gonna be that old guy that just hopes that they go back to I just want another &quot;Jak and Daxter&quot;. But hey, what are you gonna do? Along with that, in PlayStation news, Video Games Chronicle is reporting that PS5 Pro scalpers are selling the thing just tracking prices and stuff like that. And the fact that you can still fairly easily buy a PS5 Pro Some people can look at that and say, well, maybe there in the console or maybe it was But either way, it's nice to see that maybe some scalpers and now they can't move them. Look, man, I try to make a buck as much as the next But I think after the hell that scalpers personally put all of us through from the launch of Xbox Series X and PS5 and shit like that, I think Can you tell I'm trying to be very nice? I'm trying to be very polite There are a couple of things in terms of trailers and The first two are Xbox The first is an &quot;Indiana Jones and the Great Circle&quot; deep dive. I personally skipped this, because I'm actually really I am a casual &quot;Indiana Jones&quot; liker and I just want more adventures from him in the video game world, 'cause I used to love so hoping for the best for this one. Hey, now, before we keep this episode is brought to you by our long time sponsor, Raycon. If you're looking for high quality earbuds with great features and sound quality, but at half the price versus the other premium they've got you covered. As you can see here, I have the newest version and they have a lot of great features. A redesigned charging carrying case. Of course it has wireless sweat resistance, a quick charge function as well as these little protective covers you can get for a little customization. Color-wise, I always like the blue ones. I go with them, they fit comfortably, they stay in your ear, and they've just been solid I keep them in my bag, I'm always ready to go exercise, they work. And again, one of the and probably why you've on the internet is that they come in at just half the price They're already a really great deal, but now, you gotta factor By using our link, clicking it down there, or going to buyraycon.com/gameranx, you can get up to 30% off sitewide. Raycon has a bunch of cool stuff, so it's worth checking out. But this Black Friday Cyber because like I've said for a while, these also just make great gifts. So, again, click the link or head to buyraycon.com/gameranx to get up to 30% off sitewide. Big thanks to them for and now let's get back to the news. Also, a documentary on Compulsion Games is This is from the studio of course who did &quot;Contrast&quot;, So, they always do weird different things. This one, I don't know about yet. The previews that are out, I don't know. But I will say the art Also, I love this, this kind of little mini documentary, and just showing all the RTX tech and lighting and all that stuff, how it's implemented and how the RTX remix stuff works. I also just like that because November 16th is the 20th anniversary of Half-Life 2. God, we are getting old, but yeah, it's just cool to hear some developers speak about why that game was so significant. Because playing at the time, as someone who's generally it was mind-blowing. Also, check out this new This is from Rebellion, the people behind a lot of cool stuff like the &quot;Sniper Elite&quot; games. This is their game that to me, has looked like &quot;BioShock&quot; Or like &quot;Atomic Heart&quot; in I don't know exactly what's going on here, but it seems cool and now It's dropping March 27th, 2025. Yes, we're getting to those Also along with that, we did do a &quot;Before You really just quick first impressions. We didn't get a review unit of it, so we just, I bought one, we made a video. If you want, check that out. But I will say keep your and on my YouTube channel, because once we really we're probably gonna be Along with that, Rockstar just updated the &quot;Grand Theft Auto: Trilogy, Substantially, most of the stuff from that disastrous launch and visually, they added classic lighting. So, now, just atmospherically, the games look like the We did a quick little Just took a look at how and it is substantially fixed. I know some people are just burned, so I'm still glad the I still probably would but at the very least, I'm glad this thing is Speaking of fighting shape, does anyone else care about that? Who you got? Anyway. Also, check this out. This kind of flew under they've been really good in the past, but now they announced this This is the GOG Preservation Program. Essentially, it's them working to keep some classic PC games playable and compatible with modern systems and systems in the future. As of right now, they have like a hundred And in their words, the ensures classic games remain playable on modern systems even after their developers By maintaining these iconic and relive the memories and with dedicated tech support. They have a Q&amp;A if you And this is very cool. They are still a store and they exist to make money and I think they are but it's in a way where they will earn my Also, in terms of game preservation stuff and game history, do check out this tweet that suggests that Unreal can now just be downloaded for free. You can just go get it, because Epic gave fan sites permission to host installers on sites. So, essentially, you can This is very cool. So, check out that tweet thread I linked because in there, there are links to download And also in terms of old school PC stuff, we're keeping it older this week. &quot;Warcraft I and II: Remastered&quot; Blizzard just put them out, got quality of life improvements, some slightly updated visuals It doesn't seem like it's like a disaster, like how &quot;Warcraft III&quot; originally was when it was first launched. People were not happy with that. This seems fine so far and I'm looking forward because these were my first Do they hold up? I don't know, but I'm looking Now, ending on some entertainment This one is potentially a downer, but it seems like the that was in the works for many years with Tom Hardy involved is canceled. This was actually I totally forgot about this, but apparently, Tom Hardy Weird choice, but okay. However, according to the direct and they interviewed a producer signed on, he said it's not happening. The quote is this, &quot;That Just couldn't get it right but it was going to be great. We had a million different versions of it, but it was going to be That's one of the ones that That's how a lot of these projects go. You hear 'em announce and then So many things over time. The amount of times they tried to make a &quot;Halo&quot; These things just come up, they prop up, and then they fizzle away. Like that &quot;Metal Gear&quot; movie, I don't know, but at the very least, the Netflix &quot;Splinter Cell&quot; animated thing seems like it could And we do know that Ubisoft is remaking the original So, at least there's something But we're starving and we're probably gonna Still, those original &quot;Splinter Cells&quot; aren't going away and I love 'em. So, yeah. Tom Hardy's just too busy being the weirdest version of Anyway, that's the gaming news this week. I wanna know what you about everything we talk about. Xbox as handheld, is that something you'd &quot;Avowed&quot; releasing early And what do you expect from You've seen the rumors, the suggestions. What do you think it's gonna be? Hell, what do you want it to be? Let's talk about all the I'd love to hear from you. And of course, there's gonna be a pinned where we're saying, hey, Let us know in that thread for research, for our videos, so we It helps to know what But that's it. Let me know what you think but clicking the like button does help us. We appreciate that. We're here every Friday to I never miss. So, yeah, You can find me on Twitter, Instagram, and Bluesky, I guess. Just look up Jake Baldino But thank you guys for being Be safe. Pizza's on me.