Thank you to Squarespace for Supporting PBS. Half of the universe is filled with expansionist of time before they'll reach us. OK, that sounded a little sensationalist. But it's also the claim of a recent Let's see how they came to that conclusion we should take it seriously. We humans have been around for only a blink since the big bang. But even the current age of the universe is of time yet to come. Stars will continue burning for another hundred universe is a googol years in the future, From this point of view, we're living pretty At the same time, when we look at the sky Galaxies. But not a galactic empire in view. We see no evidence of other life out there. Which may mean that humanity is super early Which I guess that's pretty cool - if you But it's also weird. See, we have this thing called the Copernican expect to find ourselves in a particularly Named for Nikolaus Copernicus, who showed as previously thought. We are in fact on a typical planet, orbiting But in principle you can extend this principle If life can appear for trillions of years, in the first billions. Of course the Copernican principle has to states that we can only find ourselves in and supporting observers. That's why it's not surprising that we're a more typical environment: the freezing void So perhaps there's also an anthropic reason of time". Maybe the future history of the universe isn't This may sound like a lot of speculation. I mean, how can we know what the future history Well, believe it or not, it IS possible to and the future of life just based on our arrival And today we're going to talk about a study To hear more about the anthropic and copernican other surprising things about our universe, on the Doomsday argument. But today we're looking at the paper by and Jonathan Paulson. First these researchers ask the question: They try to answer it building a simple model life in our universe. And then they use the answer to propose something its name: the grabby aliens model. But you'll have to wait to hear what the First up, how do you determine our "earliness". You start with a function called the appearance civilizations are evolving from primordial Using the appearance rate along with our current birth rank: of all civilisations that will If most of have already appeared then we are most are still to come then we're early, To figure out the appearance rate function, when habitable worlds formed in the past or It turns out that most habitable stars are history. In the first couple billion years, the universe rocky planets to form. And around 20 billion years in the future, left to form new stars. Habitable star formation will peak at around current date. There are a bunch of other factors that cause on galactic habitable zones. Once a habitable star along with its habitable And it needs lot of time. We humans only appeared 4 and a bit billion But how long does this take on average throughout To answer this, the researchers use the hard-steps To get from primordial goop to intelligent On Earth that involved the first formation complex Eukariot cells, then multi-cellular developing giant brains, and various civilization These events are all possible "hard steps" happen after waiting a very long time. The number of hard steps is a big deciding factor in how fast the universe can spawn If there are few hard steps, then civilizations If there are many hard steps, it takes If we assume that humanity was not particularly through many more hard steps than chance would crudely estimate the number of hard steps life, like us. The authors' best guess is between 4 and It should also be noted that the hard steps may be easy, but take a long time anyway, biological complexity. Still, the hard steps model lets us write rate of life that depends on a simple parameter It also lets us say something about humanity's steps. The more steps there are in the typical evolutionary Another important part of the story is: what's How long do these habitable planets remain It's estimated that the Earth will only after which the sun will be too hot for liquid So Earth will have 5 billion habitable years If all habitable planets only last this long, 5 billion years after the peak of habitable 20 billion years away. In this case, it seems like we're a little However, there's one big consideration that There might be other habitable planets that M-type stars, also known as red dwarfs, can sun, meaning they could have planets that If it's possible for life to evolve on these to emerge for trillions of years into the In this case, we are very early. The experts are split on whether red dwarfs Since they're very dim, orbiting planets to have liquid water, which may be necessary But planets closer to their star are more This can cause erratic climates and make any flares. The authors of this paper argue that life After all, why should all life have the same But this isn't the scientific consensus, scientists nor astrobiologists. So there are two main deciding factors of the maximum lifetime of habitable planets. By throwing many combinations of these two generated this diagram. Let's talk through it. Each point represents a choice of hard-step-number of that point tells you our birth rank. Cold colours mean we're typical, and hot If only short-lived planets like Earth are we were born at a pretty typical period of born before us. If red dwarfs are habitable but it's easy the first 0.1% or even first thousandth of Finally, if there are both long-lived habitable all civilization will result from very drawn-out in the future. There will be a billion billion times more OK, now we get to the wild proposal of the The researchers ask the question: if red dwarfs is there any other way to explain our apparent The idea is to come up with some plausible future civilizations, even in the case that we should worlds and the hard steps model. The so-called grabby aliens model hypothesises birth of new civilisations: some catastrophic that prevents any new intelligent life from But what could cause this deadline? Well, we could. And by we I mean all civilizations that emerge The model claims that at some point in the by rapidly expanding alien civilizations. No new life has the chance to evolve, because advanced life. To reach this conclusion: the model assumes chance of becoming a grabby civilisation: a civilisation at close to the speed of light, making visible around for a long time. When we look at life on Earth, it seems that expand into new territories and niches. When thinking about our own society today, to be able to expand through the cosmos close But even if it takes us a million years to million to cross the galaxy at 10% light speed, cosmological timescales. The authors needed to tune the parameters of future births of new civilisations to give If grabby civilizations aren't common enough, to make us typical rather than early. But if they're too common, then we couldn't have already been colonised. That actually allows us to estimate the number to make sure that humanity isn't too special But for that we also need to estimate the We do that with surprisingly useful bit of seen any evidence of aliens through our telescopes. Counterintuitively, this fact implies that a third of the speed of light. How does this follow? Basically, if we could see grabby aliens in since they are in our neighborhood but haven't Instead, if we assume they move very fast, arrive on Earth. The emptiness of our skies and the constraint determine all of the parameters of this model. The researchers then use the model to run civilizations over time, in which some civilizations ending with a universe totally full of life. The simulation tells us all sorts of weird At least, given the assumptions of this model. It tells us that the colonization of the universe the volume of the universe is currently colonised. It predicts that only around one in a thousand space-faring and spread through the cosmos. This could be because most civilisations destroy choose not to take to the skies. Finally: it tells us roughly when we should It gives us a best-guess waiting time of around Don't expect to meet any aliens any time I guess they're not in the Milky Way just I'm not going to say whether the conclusions Remember, this is a model, and it's conclusions the model. But this paper is a nice example of how we this case, given literally nothing, at least of other civilizations. But if these authors are right - and that's sky is one piece of evidence for a universe rare remaining patch of empty space time. Thank you to Squarespace for Supporting PBS. Squarespace is a website building and hosting With Squarespace, you can connect with your members-only content. Users can manage members, send email communications platform. But one of their most popular features is will help you run a business. Whether selling merchandise, booking appointments, Squarespace has a suite of tools that will great on desktop or mobile. Go to Squarespace.com for a free trial. There are a few ways to support this show, One is to check out our merch store where tend to say on this show. And because we only ever say profound, witty Another way to support us is on Patreon. Even signing up for a couple of dollars a Links to Patreon and the merch store in the Now today I want to give an extra special supporting us at the big bang level. Gautam, if the paper we just discussed is then humanity is early and this universe has countless trillions of years of life and civilization While it's daunting to think about producing it more possible that we'll eventually be On behalf of both our present and our far-future Today's comment responses are for the episode scientists for their work on quantum entanglement. Let's get into it. Maltava, Yavor Tch and zomgthisisawesomelol collapse when he said &quot;spooky action at a claimed. Well, yes and no. Einstein was referring to general wavefunction to change everywhere at the instant a measurement and the speed of light limit on causal influence. Einstein then got together with Boris Podolsky Nathan Rosen and basically discovered quantum entanglement in an effort to disprove wavefunction He showed that instant collapse of entangle and so thought it couldn't be real. Of course we now know these effects to be So, "spooky action at a distance" does to the wavefunction collapse of entangled Benjamin Shropshire asks if anyone has ruled back in time to the creation of the entangled Well not only has no one ruled that out, it's It's call transactional quantum mechanics. John Wheeler and Richard Feynman were the They imagined waves traveling from both cause If there are multiple possible effects, then from the time traveling signals. However it turns out that the mathematical is equivalent to standard quantum field theory, to negative frequency waves. Sabine Hossenfelder has a recent video going It's the one on retrocausality. Jose Martinez asks if there's a problem measurement direction, considering that true Well there is potentially a problem, yes. In a super deterministic universe, the not-actually-random produced the photons, leading to the violation never existed in a superposition of states. But that really appears to require a pretty every measurement device with every potential measurement of how the details work. Radar they plan to dress as a Quantum Entangled lots of spooky action at a distance. This really got me thinking about other physics-themed I considered the ghost particles from our Schrodinger's half-dead cat, phantom energy, Maxwell's And then I figured it out - for my costume going and not-going to all of the parties. This branch of my wavefunction only remembers other guy had a really great time.