This is Dr. Tom Biernacki And today I'm talking about osteoporosis. This is something I see all the time. And statistically, one in three adults are going to have osteoporosis Unbelievably common in the United States. Over 35 million It's something that's searched per month in the United States on Google. So we're going to be talking the best supplements We're going over all the new research was contacted by a new supplement They published some new studies So essentially they wanted me So that got me thinking, I don't really dispense the medications, Osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, They're all related. I have a video where I go over the exact How common is it? All the tests. Osteoporosis versus osteopenia. All that kind of stuff. If you want to watch that video, But right here, we're going to focus mostly on the new and the best home treatments In society Today, we're eating more We're not moving as much. We're not standing as much. And you could see as you get to age our bone mass goes over a cliff, We get weaker, our bones aren't as strong. This leads to increased arthritis, hip fractures, vertebrae, And if we don't turn this around, Because once you reach a certain age, It decreased mobility When I think of osteoporosis, strong joints, and bones are perceived But the reality is they are living. Dynamic tissues throughout our lives Regenerating old bone is resolving There's two types of cells. There's osteoblasts and osteoblasts. What happens is osteoblasts, They build new bones, whereas osteoclasts So if we need calcium and minerals our body will cannibalize our bones There are hormones in our body. Specifically are parathyroid hormones that we're going to talk about The balance shifts with age Our bone Most people watching here are over 25, our bone starts a steady decline And specifically, where this is Menopausal women specifically At that point, 25% of post-menopausal women On the left In grams, you can see The female is on average about 1200 grams, but he could see age 50, 60, 70. It dramatically declines, especially is a huge drop in bone mass and 35 plus million people in The spine I see a lot of broken ankles and a lot of 20% of people with hip within one year of the incident, That's a huge danger. It's said that about one in 3 to 1 in five people will fracture their bones And the scary part is for people One fifth of them will not survive The most common drugs. There's a lot of drugs out there. Bisphosphonates are the most common. They impair osteoclasts, rather than stimulating Some studies show because it throws off the natural balance of osteoblasts Historically, So vitamin D, magnesium, vitamin those for I go over these specifically all very important Vitamin D, very, I have a ton of videos about that. Huge mistakes, If you look at the composition of bone, like calcium and potassium, made of organic compounds, So now what's college in college, at first you see the hard bone, that make up the bone These collagen and this is the base element that adds This has to be nourished as well we're going to talk about is that 25% of the bone framework Here's where the new studies come in. Bone is made up of collagen about 25%, consisting of calcium phosphate, magnesium That makes up about 75%. And we have those living cells such as I think about it and creates a scaffold The collagen adds that flexible, So our bones do have some bend and that rigid cement like quality, and they regenerate and break down Traditionally, we're going to talk about All of the supplements the calcium matrix, When we talk about vitamin when we talk about those things, they Historically, there haven't been really and most of them focus on getting calcium, But you could see a large portion of it KoACT. These are some newer studies. This is a newer compound. I've not heard much about it. So this is a pretty early loss. This is said to be one of the first supplements and the studies look pretty good, The study is I was sent This is a patented chelating compound of This was initially patented Collect results were significantly better or even calcium This is basically a complex of college in that is better used by our body. And so study number one is an animal study So this study check collects and mineral density Collect is a collagen product The study looked at 26 animals, and it broke them up into four groups The first one got no supplement, and this increased bone density the third one got ten times the collect, 10% roughly, whereas the fourth group and collagen supplementation but not the same structure. And it went up by maybe a percent or so. Collect focuses on providing nutrition And essentially in that mouse study, It did provide about ten times the benefit The collect did a lot better than none. Now, is this a huge study? It's not a huge study, I think the data could definitely be higher level, and study. A second study was performed and this looked at 52 and this was a blinded 52 It's a decent number. It's not a huge number. They basically blinded and randomized One took calcium and one took the calcium They checked at four time intervals. They initially at three months, And they looked at five bone When they build bone that can be high So if you're building bone, you want And KoACT So with KoACT, the osteoblasts activity was lower. So we can conclude that essentially These are very promising. It is a mouse model. It's It definitely needs more publications. And one important application can prevent cancer patients from losing bone I kind of noticed there is five or six The reviews are pretty good. The price is not that bad. What I do in these cases, You can see how it goes. This is one that might be worth trying. Some of the reviews are pretty good. Realistically, they do need more studies Magnesium over 60% Deficiency So not only are we vitamin D deficient, And you need both of these for it to work. Magnesium works on calcium and vitamin Number one, magnesium is important in the parathyroid gland. So the parathyroid gland releases hormones that essentially That's the parathyroid hormone. And magnesium deficiency bone health potentially. Magnesium is also involved in Specifically, magnesium to convert vitamin to its active form, and is required Magnesium is needed Many of them have to do with vitamin potentially impair the conversion process, And here's where they work cooperatively. Vitamin D and magnesium are both essential for bone and balance between these nutrients and preventing osteoporosis, And vitamin Whereas vitamin D puts calcium Vitamin K2 takes that calcium So very important. This is one where there's no real government Vitamin K is different than potassium, which is actually an electrolyte K2, K1 and K3 are all vitamins, K2 is different which you might get in your Gatorade type there's three different types of vitamin Quinn on vitamin K2 is main equation and then vitamin K three, I promise, will give you But you want K2 to come in the MK But the beauty is that vitamin D You don't have to go crazy We're going to give you a simple, Benefits of vitamin K2, Bone Health. Vitamin K2 is essential called OsteoCalcin This is critical for bone density Essentially, vitamin and vitamin K2 takes that calcium and puts it into your bone It's important for your cardiovascular So it takes that calcium out of your where it should be. And there's a lot of great studies calcification, Calcification of arteries It is one of the major Take a look at this C.T. angiogram. This is someone with calcified It stiffens them so they're not flexible. It decreases the blood flow. You get cold toes, blood flow. As a foot and ankle specialist. I checked the posterior tibial artery This sets a good guideline. If those feel great, And the way you feel And we also check the capillary full time. That means when you squeeze the toe, If it doesn't, if it's more than 3 seconds, We could perform So that's basically comparing your arms Are there potential blockages somewhere? And if there are blockages, if one ankle is much worse, flow then we might want to do more testing. You can check the toes You can get what's called a CT angiogram. But what I do is So I work with great vascular surgeons They can do a test, which is an angiogram, They can essentially check if anything's narrowed or blocked So this is one of the images where you Is there a plaque? Is there calcification? But one of the things that can really help You want to get that calcium So studies show with patients and a couple other studies, too, Now, we won't reverse and make you like a baby again, And especially the earlier Studies are coming out every day and taking that calcium So very important. I highly recommend The World Health Organization &amp; FOA only get 5 to 25% of their daily There's two types MK-4 and MK-7. MK-7 lasts a lot longer natto, soy, sauerkraut, cheese. It is also made by GI tract fermentation. and calcium supplementation. There is some breakthrough studies Highly recommended before you go all Watch the new studies that have completely changed This is such an exciting topic. Calcium. I have a whole video about calcium. What the big dangerous. What the big mistakes There's really bad forms of calcium But essentially, studies now show taking too much calcium, It builds up in your arteries, So you don't want to go crazy and being vitamin D deficient. That's a huge secret. Vitamin D is really what regulates So drinking a glass of milk, or potentially even just eating vegetables probably can get you enough calcium So most people don't Really, even women post menopause, the people who really need it Maybe then maybe for malnourished, make sure you're getting enough vitamin D3 takes up the calcium from your gut, So between those two, you're going to get a lot more effect if it were me, focus more on the vitamin I got to get the magnesium to pop up here. What an exciting topic. If you have any osteoporosis or bone problems, Calcium deficiencies can be anxiety, stomach pain, increased urination, dry But calcium is controlled by This creates parathyroid hormone. More parathyroid hormone creates Less parathyroid hormone creates Parathyroid hormone also controls and both together And together both can function. Inputting that calcium level All these minerals address That's the minerals. If you have osteoporosis, And I go over this in my home Number one, the single most important If I had to assign a most important value number one is strength strength train We have a strength training guide But number one, before you start strength If you have a slipped disc or don't start doing strength training. Get evaluated by your doctor. That's something I do all the time. And seeing a physical therapist, seeing a specialist like your primary care Because with osteoporosis even doing basic stuff, doing wall pushups, doing air squats The more you move, if there's stress applied to bone, That's the single most important thing your bones, your joints, Most states, compressive force, that bone will develop, more fibrous to string, So the more stress and the more strength your bones will be. I could recommend one to get physical training class, Pilates, strength It's all a great start, I guess. Some links on that below, The single easiest thing you can do get the right shoes, That's the single most important thing. I have a guide on We link that down below. Number three Sleeping. This is more important than diet and supplements, 35% of people are not getting enough sleep You're not healing your muscles. Get enough sleep can help. I have sleep guides, best sleep positions, If you're having a hard time sleeping, how to fall asleep fast That's probably the most important one. Check out those videos below. And then you have diet. So obviously losing weight helps. Those other things are more important. And then you have supplements. I have video guides on vitamin all the big mistakes with all these omega everything you'll need for strong bone If I missed anything, let me know. And also check out her for osteoporosis The best medications, the best home We rank them in a countdown Click on it.