Reviewer: Queenie Lee Cool! Hi, my name is Stephen Tonti, and I'm a director, a writer, an actor, a drummer, a scuba diver, a soccer player, a camera operator, an airbrush artist, a snowboarder, a model maker, a PA, a DJ, a club president, a magician, and for a brief stint in May 2012, I was called upon to repair (Laughter) Who am I, you ask? My name is Stephen Tonti, and I have ADHD. (Laughter) ADHD stands for attention and I was first diagnosed with ADHD not by a diagnostician, but by a second-grade teacher who was interviewing me for a spot My family had just moved from New Orleans, Louisiana, and I was in a search During this particular interview, this particular teacher from my first grade teacher to check me for any signs of ADHD. Just as she reached devised to evaluate whether a child Wham! I fell out of my chair. (Laughter) No, I didn't slip. And no, the chair didn't Behind the teacher's desk and through that window was a giant field, and on that field were what appeared to me at the time my age. They were all playing with a great, and as they moved all around the field, So I leaned a little bit to the left, a little bit more to the left, before the disaster. I still maintain today (Laughter) So I was rejected from Middle School because I was an eight-year-old boy There was this complex between myself and some I ended up at the Over the next 11 years, When I say everything, I mean everything. Extracurriculars: I tried computing, rock climbing, poetry club, logic club, I went camping at least And the band - oh my god. I tried trumpet, saxophone, electric bass, Did I mention I played sports? It was Texas. We played sports. And the drums. I even took a short-lived I played seven different instruments - (Laughter) When all of a sudden my theater - and I thought, why not? So I started the shop building sets, Then my teacher asked me to act, I said, &quot;Can I direct?&quot; So I directed &quot;12 Angry Jurors&quot; - because this is high school, people, with a drama school for the people doing math at home, that's seven drama students (Laughter) Before I knew it, I was auditioning and interviewing and that's when Carnegie Mellon found me. And I love it here. I really do. But moving on. So what?! I have ADHD, and ADHD but it's much stranger than that. It's not a lack of focus - period. It's that I have a hard time selecting something Something has to grab my attention, peak my curiosity, This is a good thing and a bad thing. It's a bad thing because I have a hard time We live in a world where you have to read And yes, big textbooks And no one likes handling taxes - (Laughter) But the upside is, when something does peak my curiosity, I spend a lot of time with film. I can spend upwards of 12 hours in a row editing clips, sometimes In the theater, I'll pull 15 hour days for weeks on end, I can read a 500-page novel that I love much faster than a one-page article It's easier for me to see the big picture. As a director, I have to track 20 people with very different jobs and I find handling that much easier which I'm still working on. (Laughter) David Neeleman, the founder and CEO of JetBlue, says, &quot;I have a hard time I have an easier time planning than I do paying my light bill.&quot; Yeah. So, another good thing about ADHD is because I felt I was able to explore all the possible and might not have discovered So many teens and young adults are expected to focus and one or two hobbies, and hope and pray or that've been chosen for them. My job is to tell other people stories, and I find it's easier time doing that when I can draw It's easier for me to see the world because I've tried that. It's easier for me to see the world because I've tried that too. ADHD is a difference in cognition, We're attention different, But because it's treated it's treated at something So the idea seems to be that: we need to get rid of my ADHD, There's just sedating it. I was lucky. My high school teachers who were delighted to give me extra time, and the overall freedom to express myself So many other kids with ADHD For example, my roommate. Adam has been my roommate for four years. He is an excellent actor in the school We both grew up in Dallas, Texas, Adam's high school was different. Now even though he grew up Adam's high school had harsher penalties When you're a kid diagnosed with ADHD, your doctor administers and everybody waits. Because no one has a clue You might get more calm. You might become depressed. You might lash out The difference between Adam and me is when a new medication my teachers immediately advise my doctors However, when Adam tried a new medication, his teachers wrote this in his report, &quot;Adam is less motivated, less animated, but at least, he's quiet now.&quot; We need a healthier understanding and it starts at home. I had mother and father I distinctly recall &quot;Son, you're only 14. what could you possibly want (Laughter) To which I responded, &quot;I want to airbrush t-shirts and shorts (Exhale) Alright then. And we would go out and get it. I would play with it During the summers, and my body was wrecked my mother sat by my side, With their support, I was able to explore, and I was able to maintain my sanity. Schools need to develop a better attitude There's plenty of examples out there. For instance, the Eagle Hill School, The Eagle Hill School believes That learning differently And that we must educate to learn about learning in order to form new beliefs Professors who act more as mentors, When teachers level with me, that there's a dialog and approaching a problem, We have to create and develop I think that Ritalin, Adderall, Concerta should only be prescribed to someone who can physically handle the effects 12 is far too young. There are so many Studies have shown that for some it's just an added weight And these things exist. There are weighted pads so they can complete tasks on time. For some people, so give them rubber coated pencils. We have to teach kids to teach themselves; it's the best thing And lastly, our society For example, Specialisterne, is a Danish organization as consultants in I.T. and other We have to turn this joke around on those who believe that my disorder Besides, who here at Carnegie Mellon (Laughter) (Applause) (Cheers) A great author, a masterful playwright Any guesses to who I speak of? (Audience) Shakespeare! Thou art correct! (Laughter) Shakespeare sonnet 121. 'Tis better to be vile than vile esteemed When not to be receives And the just pleasure lost, Not by our feeling but by others' seeing. For why should others' Give salutation to my sportive blood? Or on my frailties why are frailer spies, Which in their wills Nae, I am that I am, and they that level At my abuses reckon up their own: I may be straight, By their rank thoughts Unless this general evil All men are bad, In sonnet 121 Shakespeare He implores us not to let condemn us for something He begs you not to let the selfish, hinder the just pleasures owed to you. A hierarchy of frailer spies have asked me to conform I purpose the opposite. I purpose let society conform to me. And I implore you to do the same. I'll leave you with something that Robin Williams, a poster child for us (Laughter) once said, &quot;We are all only given You mustn't lose it.&quot; Thank you! (Applause) (Cheers)