This is your complete guide to the city of Rome. avoid those stupidly long queues, advice on where the best time of your life in the most interesting Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Eternal City. city of Italy, and was once the epicentre of the the smallest country in the world. This is the of people make the pilgrimage to Rome every single matter what street you go down in Rome, there's pretty massive city with a lot of historical Well let's start by looking at a map of Rome. As My advice to you is to split up your trip This ensures that you see everything traversing the city many times over. come across one of either two airports; and Ciampino which is the smaller of the two. get to the centre of Rome from these But with both airports you'll most likely end station that services Rome. From Termini station The best way to do this is to go to one of the travel pass. This works on the Rome Metro, the So it's definitely the easiest way of getting of the video on how to actually use this pass, So now that you've arrived, let's focus on this most visited attraction in all of Rome. Possibly the most famous amphitheatre in It's about 2,000 years old and in its heyday gladiatorial fights. It's a very interesting and and videos on the internet or on TV, nothing And I've got to admit, I was absolutely can't believe that they've built this place two If you want my advice; pay for access to all areas which is where I am now, and the underground down all about the Coliseum. Bear in mind that this is can get quite crowded with tourists and the like, it's definitely a bucket list attraction that Right outside the Coliseum you'll find the photo or video or two, and then you'll come This is the epicentre of the ancient Roman you'd expect. But walking around these ruins how the ancient Romans used to live two thousand standing is pretty impressive. Be sure to climb these Roman ruins that you'll ever see. If you want a more detailed explanation, I've actually worth watching because there's a lot that you One of the cool things about this particular area go. For example, this place Circo Massimo. But to around here. Literally with every street that you ruined. Do if you're a bit of a history buff this If you go east of the Coliseum you'll First of all; the Basilica This believe it or not, is the second largest of the bishop of Rome aka the Pope. It it looks like a very fancy building with it. But when you go inside, you will be Not only the amount of marble statues that are on and it's not even the most famous one! it's usually quieter than the other famous Church Up the street is the Piazza Vittorio with this rather interesting Roman ruin in Termini station you'll find one of the The Basilica Papale de Santa Maria Maggiore. it looks like Buckingham Palace on steroids! If gold, errr yeah! They actually mix real gold in reserved for the pope, yep you better believe an amazing church to look at. But pay close that you probably won't see this anywhere else Pope in a box on display. Yippee (!?) Don't let All of this area will take you at least a day to area in blue where you'll find most of the famous not have heard of this place though; the Borghese Perfect if you want to get away from the city. that we have here in England, albeit a little bit a very interesting art gallery. And if you're an South of the Borghese Gardens you'll It's technically another Art Gallery you can go inside. But the reason why I want the building, but because it's right next The Piazza del Popolo. Rome. Complete with its ancient Egyptian obelisk where you can take nice photos and videos. And you can visit off this square. I tried to go into walked straight into the middle of a funeral. So But if churches isn't your thing there's a corner devoted to Leonardo da Vinci. If you're you'll be enthralled at this exhibit. But room of mirrors. Round and round and round and If anything, this exhibit definitely highlights da Vinci made to the world. Whether it was church right next to it that's definitely worth churches; Rome famously has over 900 churches. I certainly didn't. But if there is an interesting a quick nosy around, as most of them in fact This is especially true here at Trinita Di Monti. most amazing church you'll find But it is attached to this; the Spanish Steps. Monti with the Piazza di Spagna, and videos films. And it's easily possibly the Personally, I don't see what the big fuss is all but maybe you can see something a bit more special and only a few streets away from The Trevi Fountain. fountain in all of Europe. Millions of people the superstition being that if you toss a coin I assume that quite a lot of people but each their own I guess. It's possibly the most it's not without its problems. As you can see from It's also full of wannabe influencers and I never understood why people did that? to target you. So be aware at all times Whilst you're here next to the Trevi Fountain, in all of Rome. It's here that you'll find high-end boutiques, everything in between. This is even a place It's definitely a nice street to walk along. and find lots of interesting shops. It definitely Avenue in New York, albeit with an Italian twist. which we visited before ... Another Public Square full of impressive colonial The Altar of the Fatherland. country, and everywhere you look it is impressive. The best time to visit this place is and you can watch the sunset and turn all of Inside you'll find this cool photographic gallery, altar of the Fatherland you'll find the famous Forum, which we visited earlier in the video. particular area is to visit the Capuchin Crypt. there's also up to 3,600 dead Capuchin monks format, in this rather creepy underground And as night falls, Rome becomes an even If you go to some of the attractions that we've fall in love with the architecture, and scenery, Speaking of which let's visit the where believe it or not you'll find The Pantheon. hang on a minute Ninh, isn't that the place with did this to basically save weight on the roof AKA also it acts as a ventilation system, particularly of the hole in the roof. It's a working Church place for some very important people. Such Literally one street away you'll Complete with its iconic fountains, Egyptian one of the nicest domed roofs I've ever seen. And Even if you're all churched out it definitely is the Museum of Rome. So if you want to learn A lot of travel guides will tell you an iconic Italian marketplace. But when I went; full of rubbish and definitely not worth visiting, But rather interestingly go south of the largest synagogue in the entire country. which famously splits the city into two. There's a River Tiber upstream and we'll show you that later and you'll come across this yellow area. Immediately you can tell it looks completely will tell you that this is a true representation As far as they're aware this is authentic Rome. Life is definitely a lot more laid back here, This is also where you'll find the most authentic this area so much. Because you get some you are exploring Trastevere, bring money for lots The main church in the area, the Santa Maria is you're trying to burn off all that food. And to some of the best views across the city of Rome. Believe it or not, this area will take Because this is the area that Officially the world's smallest country, you can is famously the home of the Catholic church, Catholics worldwide. But there's no border passport to enter. You can walk freely in things to see and do here in Vatican Citym The easiest to access is Saint Peter's Square. from all around the world will congregate to, services. But when he's not here, this is actually You'll be amazed at the architecture, handcarved statues that overlook the square. But the jewel in the crown of Vatican City Saint Peter's Basilica. world, I honestly wasn't joking. Because inside, how big this place actually is! And my video Everything from the statues, the paintings, dead Popes, yeah they're pretty massive too. And colourful, most amazing church that you'll ever in this video so far but nothing, absolutely they hold various services throughout the day, and of them. Because remember this is still a working This altar which is 10 stories high is The third thing that you'll need to visit Now you'll need to access the museum via the north Peter's Square. Inside you'll find the collection the Catholic church. And there's thousands you'll ever come across, and it's very doubtful thing. Because there are literally thousands The most interesting one for me was probably Van But right at the end of the museum, you'll Completely decorated with Michelangelo's and videography is strictly forbidden here in the ordered by security to delete any footage that has The fourth thing to do here in Vatican City if right to the top of Saint Peter's Basilica. This you can manage it you'll get this iconic view It's definitely hard work but the views at the please check out my separate video about visiting to know especially if you're here visiting the without the hassle of crowds or drawing the ire sure to check out this video guide here. But let's you walk away from Saint Peter's Square down the Castel Sant'Angelo. Movie buffs will instantly recognize this place And when you get here in real life, it does come castle, originally built as a mausoleum. And see. But it's definitely a long climb up, and this But when you do get to the top, historical artefacts and educational models for Have a look at the original throne from One of the best things about Castel Sant'Angelo From here you can see Sant'Angelo bridge and So when I mentioned before that there's a much now you see why. Because this is the place! can sit and have your dinner, while staring Climb up a few stairs more to the roof where entire city of Rome. And you'll get to see the the most famous angel statue in the world. walk along Sant'Angelo Bridge. Where you'll which will also recognize from Angels and sunset or at night you will be disappointed Believe it or not that pretty much covers most of much see everything that Rome has to offer within travel a little bit outside of Rome and especially to visit there's a short bus ride away. The venue for the 1960 Olympic Games is now National Football and Rugby teams. But is SS Lazio and AS Roma. These two arch rival get tickets for any of their games, it does come can actually do a stadium tour of the place. I'm because I made a separate video right here, so There's a few other places that I and if you do come across them they're probably so far in this video are the must see and do And if you manage to touch on all of these during Overall guys I think you'll agree that Rome you'll ever come across. Whether it's the the things to do or the atmosphere, you will if you are still umming and ahhing about Book your trip now, and I Okay Ninh, I'm sold. What do I need to do? in the beginning of the video, you'll probably fly If you're flying internationally, it's dead Simply buy a ticket for the direct train, known there directly without stopping. You could reach If you're flying into Ciampino, Before you exit the airport, you'll need to Once you exit the airport you'll need to find the all over it. You'll need to get on this bus, where you'll then transfer directly onto a train From start to finish it's about 40 minutes. To buy simply go to one of the ticket booths, select literally pay with it with cash or a contactless please validate the ticket by sticking it of the platforms. Because otherwise they might Alternatively from each airport, you could centre of Rome. But it's certainly not easier so bear that in mind if you use alternative When you're in the centre of Rome, either at I highly recommend that you buy an all-inclusive go to one of the ticket booths, select your in my case it was a 72 hour ticket. Pay for and then it'll spit you out your ticket. To use your ticket hologram side up. Wait for it to spit through the turnstile. It's literally that easy. trams and local trains. The Metro system is different to any other mass transit system that That said, when you're in the centre of Rome If you're looking for a place to stay Rome has a If you want my advice, try and get a hotel next out of the city fairly easily. If it's right On my trip to Rome I stayed in a serviced And I found this to be a happy compromise between you look at where your hotel is located on Google come to Rome. Because sometimes the entrances The cost of Rome, well as you can imagine especially if you want to do absolutely everything anything with a guided tour as is usually cheaper And the food prices vary wildly as well. The rule the more expensive the food and drink will be. If you'll notice a significant drop in prices. Yes quite a lot actually. The best way of avoiding City is to visit the attraction as soon as Peter's Basilica, they're open from 7:00 am. So if to these attractions as they open, you'll thank without standing in a mile long queue, and be Wear the most comfortable clothing and shoes a lot of walking. If you can be fashionable But definitely pack a pair of trainers or Speaking of clothing, various places will Vatican City. And the general rule of thumb They don't care how long you will be turned away if you're not dressed The spoken language here is Italian and words and phrases. But you can easily get by if You'll find most attractions in Rome are more than some places that's the only way you can pay. So with you, but otherwise bring a plethora of cash. out for in Rome. The first is pickpockets. Rome is specifically in crowded touristy areas such as the So always be on your guard when you're visiting reach. The other thing that you have to watch crossings everywhere in Rome, that you're freely they don't exactly slow down. So you have to Drones are prohibited in most of Rome, Everywhere is guarded with local police, security, of Rome's most famous attractions is a one-way in prison. So unless you're working commercially definitely don't fly your drone if And finally most hotels here in Rome I recommend keeping at least two copies you know where you're going and you can easily If you have enjoyed this Rome City guide, please be sure to like, share and subscribe. have any comments or questions. Be sure to check have any other suggestions; tweet them at me. And video about it. But guys, thanks very much for Ninh Ly - www.ninh.co.uk - @NinhLyUK