I want to speak to you this morning on the topic: prayer, I want this year to be a year of prayer and we go back into small groups. Small and I won't highlight that this morning. is the importance of coming back to prayer. as Christians, we know there is power in prayer. Jesus Christ. He prayed on earth. He prayed in when He was facing a very large decision, which when His cousin got beheaded, and He went to that Jesus was, He went to prayer. Jesus prayed prayed on the cross. He prayed in heaven, when He Spirit. And guess what Jesus does as a full-time He is also able to save to the uttermost since He always... somebody say, always, come lives to make intercession for them. as a noble full-time job in heaven. If thinks prayer is so important that He always me Jesus wouldn't be involved in something that What is prayer? Prayer is three things. and it's a confrontation. A cry means, you're have a relationship with God, and you take authority. In prayer, you speak to the and you begin to see a shift in your life. 'Ask, and it shall be given to you; seek, opened to you,' which tells us three types we can seek, and we can knock. When you ask, my business. Bless this appointment I'm about to heal this person; deliver this person.' into the presence of God, and you're soaking in in your life; you're devoting yourself to Him. And standing in the gap, and you're interceding. and you're saying, 'I'm going to take back my them to be saved. I'm believing for them am knocking on heaven's doors so that God Which tells me that these three types of prayers likely to just cry, petition. We have a list of and say, 'Lord, bless ABCD,' we're done. Some of we just say, 'Come, we turn on worship, and anything; we're like, 'Lord, you know my problems, so I'm just going to love on you, Jesus. I I'm not even sure you want to help me with And there's some of us; we're just intercessors. prayer, we're like, 'Father God, in the name person to be saved.' And we have a list of people; and it's good. But I want us to understand that There will be seasons when you spend more time spend more time asking, there will be seasons not neglect neither of them at the expense The first thing I want to highlight is this: Matthew chapter 6, verse 6, it says, &quot;But you, have shut your door, pray to your Father who is secret will...&quot; Now, I find it interesting what What should it say? Since you're praying, prayer openly.&quot; But it doesn't say that. The the ultimate goal of prayer is not always to get the results you're praying for, but God still will In Genesis 15:1, after these things, the word &quot;Do not be afraid, Abraham. I am your shield, your results as it is about a reward. God's presence like brother Jose mentioned. When we pray, God moment. But I want you to not think of prayer as God says to us in Matthew 6:6, &quot;If you pray, I the Lord says, &quot;Abraham, I know you want a son. son, I want to give you Myself. Do not limit your where God wants to give Himself to you. He When it comes to prayer, I want to highlight God will say no. If your timing is wrong, God will say grow. And if everything is right, God the time. What we pray for does not get granted us. The reason why is because the ultimate it's getting a reward. And that reward is Charles Spurgeon said, 'We shall not grow weary how graciously He once waited for us.' Secondly, a reward in the sense that we experience a revival. It revives our spiritual life. baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also was opened, and the Holy Spirit descended in bodily heaven saying, 'You are My beloved Son; in You, I prayed. Say this with me: while He prayed. While He prayed, we see that something else happened: a voice came from heaven. Another instance, His face was altered, His robe became white and see the first time, while He prayed, God opens the His face begins to change. So, prayer is not also when God is transforming me and changing before He changes my circumstances. Prayer is revival. Revival for you, where your spiritual where your mood is altered, where your thoughts While He prayed, the heavens were opened. While prayed, God spoke. Something happens when There was a guy named Dave--Dave Robertson. Some the Power and Walking in the Holy Spirit.&quot; His in and out of jails, and would beat him. while the grandfather taught him work ethic, never amount to anything. You're worthless, At 16 years of age, Dave got saved in the not have a follow-up, two weeks later, joined the Navy for a term and, after holiness church where he found his wife. he got baptized in the Holy Spirit, and after lumber mill, working with wood and all of that morning, and he has a vision. In the vision his eyes were opened, but instead of seeing in wheelchairs on the platform. He was seated he knew this was the meeting that was supposed announce the speaker and looked right at Dave. which teaches about speaking in tongues. Dave started to stand up, but suddenly, an and there came a blonde woman who moved mightily People got out of wheelchairs, and then the woman who looked at him and said, &quot;I don't know you failed.&quot; He wakes up from the vision at the God, and it messes with him so bad that for the himself. He quits his job. And instead of working he would find a closet in his church, go and whistle at the local place where he worked for a so he would end the prayer 4 hours into it, go go back to work, and he would go back to prayer. Now, of course, the first few days, he ran English ran out in 15 minutes. And then he in the Holy Ghost. As he would pray in the Holy treated it like work. He says, &quot;If I worked at He would build the spirit man.&quot; One day, somebody and he was so glad to go so he can get out of the preacher was boring, the service was dead. Lazarus just dead, and he sat there just bored been praying instead of sitting at this dead he sees an x-ray of her knees, and in this image of what is wrong with her knees. So, he scoots over to her, and says, &quot;Hey, do you &quot;I've never had this happen before to me, but &quot;In fact, yes, I do,&quot; and she pointed to some can I just pray for you?&quot; So, he prays for creates a commotion in the service, prays for and it literally launches his ministry that into different nations of the world of --Healing also a large church. But one thing he attributes to him because he chose to build himself up in to his prayer and eventually had seen a Healing What this tells me is that prayer is a experience Him. Prayer is also a revival. it cannot happen without you praying. And I'm &quot;Father God, please help me because I didn't I'm not just talking about when you are driving, officer on your tail, pulling you over. He's income to the poor. Just please don't let this not talking about a prayer when you came to you found somebody that you like, your heart just look at me once? And that would be a sign, forsake me.&quot; Not that kind of prayer. I'm talking like Jesus did. He went into the water and prayed and His face was changed. God wants to If you dedicate yourself to continuous prayer There are people who want revival, and time to move away from just wanting revival, to live in a spiritual revival. And that secret Number three: Prayer brings a release. but prayer also brings a release. In fact, let me prayer brings revival, prayerlessness will bring Jesus said, &quot;Then He came to His disciples and could you not watch with me for one hour? Pray, The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh a man cease from sin, or sin will entice a man is like an apostle on prayer--if you want to read 'No man can do a great and enduring work for God man of prayer who does not give much time to the secondary place is to make God secondary in but it's a sin to neglect such an opportunity. is dangerous to remain in such a condition.' Number three: Prayer brings a release. When He came to a place, He said to them, 'Pray withdrawn from them about a stone's throw, and He it says, 'Then the angel appeared to Now I want to address that for some people. is falling on deaf ears right now because or a stronghold is this: 'I did that, that you're but my mom still died. I prayed, where was this situation only got worse.' This week, we had and as I was meeting with them, I was just asking one of the young men mentioned, he said, last year, and he said literally knocked my mom died. And I hoped for a breakthrough. I What's the point of praying? Why press in? Where it could be when you experience tragedy. When I of his skull gushed out in front of my eyes. It's born with something that damaged my optical nerve. teenager. You know how many prayers I prayed for you're looking at it still. And it was a struggle for this, and it's not happening? And I mentioned today. I don't think any believer could ever walk having an experience of disappointment where some we want them to be answered. The strong Christians it's those who walked through them and found my Savior, your Savior had an unanswered prayer. His prayer: 'Father, may this cup pass over from never granted because if Jesus's prayer in have been doomed to the lake of fire. I am not in absolutely not. What I'm saying is I have a high And Jesus did not give up on prayer just because still prayed to His Father on the cross. And Father to send the Holy Spirit. And guess what He with this experience where some prayers were not proof that it was God's will? You can take it I'm at fault,' and you start beating yourself. This week, the Lord gave me a scripture that and I want to share that with you. It comes from 11. It says this: 'And they cried with a loud until you judge and avenge our blood on those who to each of them, and it was said to them that the number of their fellow servants and their completed.' What an irony. These people cry out God doesn't grant them their request. He still do it right now.' God says, 'Puts a robe on them &quot;Rest a little while because more killings are and then I will step in as the Righteous and judge even death itself.&quot; When it comes to going to share today, I want you to, for the of your ears wide. You cannot approach the topic The gospel tells us: Good God, bad people. us from the grip of sin. God gives us the and God gave us mercy. We live in a broken dominates. Things don't work out like God wanted and because of Satan. And one day, God will make curses will be thrown into the lake of fire. And we are in between that season not get answered here on earth, we have on earth. Don't box God into this thing. if my physical body doesn't get healed, if God, I quit on you. Because if you have you are a rebel to God. The world is under the and there is more to life than 70 miserable And we also forget that God is not bullied by our coming where God promises to judge sin, to judge on this earth, and God will make everything of my prayers did not get answered, especially, How do I deal with them? I just turn them over I will have a perfect face. Until that day, I'm trusting, and I'm not going to stop walking getting everything I want from God; sometimes the struggles I experience. I go to God with God with my disappointments, like my Savior did. this cup to run pass Me by?' God didn't grant the When God doesn't remove the struggle, He God does not always fix every single thing, He 'Son, I am with you. I will walk with you I will walk with you through the fire. I I will be with you in the flood, in I want to encourage you with that today. When the with the robe of His comfort. There was this Soviet prison camp. One day, he was praying with him and said with ridicule, 'Prayer won't help you Ivan answered, 'I do not pray to get out Don't turn prayer into a vending machine everything I want will come out. God and God is not a law of attraction. God and my Father. And He asks us to ask Him, and we things we don't get sometimes on this side. And this should strengthen our faith to bring If you stopped praying because you've had a very maybe God didn't answer the prayers, and you that mystery of why it did not happen and to step answer in your life. If I would stop praying, 'Well, look, God didn't answer this prayer,' when children, saying, 'Look, where is your So what? Our God is a good God, and He answers I'm going to still love Him, seek Him, press my sins have been forgiven. I've been And if God doesn't answer one prayer for the why? Because of what He did on the cross and He converted this rebel into His son and deal. This life on earth, whatever I get, to an end. And whether you're rich, poor, all of our bones and skeletons will be the to one dash. But what happens in that And I want, on that side, to be with this God we need to remember is the gospel, eternity, His when we experience prayers that don't seem to just a little bit later. But in that moment, look what happened to you. This person died.' hoping you will stop whining and actually trust I remember when Sid Roth, you know, when he got sisters got saved, his mom got saved. And there life to the Jewish Messiah, Jesus, and that was he would come to his father and say, 'Dad, you Messiah. You need to believe in Yeshua as the Orthodox Jew, like, 'No, I'm not going to do it.' 'Dad, everybody's going to heaven. We're all Dad. For crying out loud, get saved so we can that just broke his heart that he's going to be be without him, him in heaven. And right there, he shouted that he wanted to get saved. 'You need to shout louder that you want to be with an exclamation mark, that we will be with heaven without my whole family being in heaven.' That's what the most important is: our blessings. Now, now, with that said, the fourth records 650 prayers, 450 answers to prayer. ministry. Paul mentions prayer 21 times in 'One of the greatest tragedies of prayerlessness 'Prayer is the earthly license for heavenly prophecies; they are the best predictors of your by how you pray. Ultimately, the transcript of Abraham prayed for Abimelech, and God answered it. Solomon asked for wisdom, and God granted it to her. Jabez prayed for protection and blessing, and and he prayed for repentance. God granted Hezekiah prayed, God added 15 years postponed destruction. Zacharias prayed, and God prayer will not change God, but it will change God promised, it settles it. I don't need to came to rescue Israel from Egypt, He didn't say, to rescue.&quot; The Bible says God says, &quot;I heard but he loves to answer your prayer. Just because save your kids, don't sit and fold your hand and chill about it.&quot; No, you need to pray through our prayers. We see that God the Father promised asked the Father to send the Holy Spirit. Why? it's you partnering with God so God begins to There was this Baptist preacher. He was on the way was Don Piper. He died; his car smashed to pieces. shattered, and he died on the scene. He remained impaled me in the chest, and then the car's roof you could survive this accident. He said that declared him dead. He was without a pulse for 90 was Dick Onerecker, and he decided to go and climb guy was dead for 90 minutes and pray for him. prays for him, and God specifically instructed for him that he will not have internal injuries, After 90 minutes of being dead, medically verified you're gone--90 minutes, a guy that's praying for in heaven, seeing his family, everything. But and Don comes back to his body. God didn't just to intercede and to pray. Interestingly, every part of his body was damaged, except Supernaturally, God protected his brain, and he holding the hand of this dead guy who just came &quot;Guys, I think he has a pulse.&quot; Of course, the he can have a pulse. It's been 90 minutes,&quot; and on the floor on the road and tells the paramedics, leaving until you go check on him.&quot; So, of course, check on him. When they come to check on him, they two years of like 30-something surgeries, he lived and still testifies to the glory of somebody from the dead, what can your prayer you start to pray? Not only you'll experience of His presence, not only you'll experience some that only God can do. Can somebody say, &quot;Amen&quot;? South Korea. Steve Kong, at the age of six, he of nine, he moved to the United States. He started confusion, anger, rebellion, depression, sadness. year of college, he ended up living in a dealer's selling drugs. In 1998, during the summer, he got and they didn't help him. So, he smoked what is and PCP combined. He stayed awake for 10 straight grandpa would show up to Steve and tell him if he hell and go to heaven. He's on such heavy drugs crazy. He's seeing this grandpa, and then finally, kill himself, points to a kitchen knife, and says, was in the house at that time, and so Steve himself. And as he's cutting himself, what begins knife out. The grandpa shows up to Steve and says, hindering your salvation.&quot; The moment he dies, and instead, he ends up in hell. Now, his mom, the mother of the drug dealer's house that this the pastors come, and they begin to intercede for He gets rescued from that hell, comes back to his tell Steve, &quot;Say, do you want to get saved?&quot; He times, just in case, and it saved his life, the but God rescued him. Today, Steve is a pastor Christ. Moms, dads, never give up praying for results that God will do when you begin to pray. Joshua; they call him the &quot;Naked General.&quot; There Actually, I had the privilege of interviewing his reception was really bad. His father was in But because his father was rich, this deity, he was chosen. At 11 years of age, he becomes a years before he becomes a priest, so 11 minus 4, 7 for high priesthood. This process involved being hunting animals as a 7-year-old blindfolded, heart out from an animal blindfolded, and eating disgusting, nasty; that's what demons cause high priest. At 11, he becomes the high priest, is now not kill animals but children and eat their years, this happens every year. He has 3,000 12 year old because he's so demonically possessed. control. He went from being a witch doctor to army and started killing people. In fact, about Now, I didn't think a lot of it was true until I can interview him, and they flagged him at the killed by him. Now, he received forgiveness. still in Europe. He can't go anywhere because guy is completely crazy, started to intercede for wasn't for his salvation but for his immediate They didn't even dare to pray for his salvation. in case somebody finds out, they'll never be will not have repercussions for their prayers. of intercessors and says, 'Don't pray for his kills children. He's a warlock. 30,000 people hell. He's on the level of Hitler. But God had salvation. And if that was not enough, they were and evangelize to him. This is the funny part, detect Christians. They would pass through his an encounter with them every day. He would always But because they kept praying for him and God didn't kill the Christians. Until one day he said, he had an open vision at the altar. And God Interesting part, he goes to Nigeria to share his testimony, God starts delivering him. The very there was a particular demonic object he had to country, during deliverance, the same objects set him free. And today, he rescues child for them. And we have people in our church who something I read off of the internet, and they and crazily changed. The power of prayer! in some sinful things and you say there is no because our God does miracles. Because nothing is the supernatural miracles in your family. May this in your finances. May this be the year where in Jesus' mighty name. Can somebody say Amen? I don't want to just inspire you. I want properly. Our prayer is to the Father, through say, 'Our prayer is to the Father, through the we don't pray to saints, and we don't pray in the name of Jesus, by the Holy Spirit. can pray privately, you can pray publicly. Men people prayed in the temple. Jesus prayed in the garden, or any solitary place. We are told to gather together as a church and pray. of prayer. The heart is more important than any people prayed standing, people prayed they prayed with hands lifted up, they prayed the head between your knees (probably not a best that if you really want to go biblical). And want to do that when if you come to the morning home and this really helps you, you can pound your but they were sinners and they pounded their The biggest question that people have is, 'What very simple: pray TACOS prayer. Tuesday Thursday TACOS, and Friday TACOS. What does T - Thanksgiving (thank God for what He did and who He is, His righteousness, His holiness, His your sins, confess your wrongdoings, confess who life, confess prophetic words over your life, intercede for your family members, intercede members, for your friends). Pray for others for yourself, pray for your So, next time you get into prayer, you're like, Thanksgiving, adoration, confession, others, and lift your prayer, and you will see God will Next 21 days, starting tomorrow, we want to embark but fasting without prayer could just be physical. not just physical. Instead of eating, replace your getting up a little bit earlier, do that. If the church, come to church to pray. Let's make with our team, and I want to invite you to be a and if you have a Telegram chat, I want you to part of this prayer with us, you don't have I want you to join this Telegram chat. This is we will put some prayer requests that we're going we're going to tell you who we are praying for also pray for specific things. Each day we have and then when you join that and that morning, when you started. When you finish, you can say about that. This is to hold us accountable and We invite you to come to pray at church, but and he said, the Lord touched my heart, my life. I rest of the four times, I pray at home. So, I can so I can build prayer in church, and I can something some of you can do. Come two, three pray at home. Our goal is not to get everybody to praying strategically, specifically targeting prayer this year. And if you add fasting to that, things this year. May this year be different year differently than you approached it before. you're not encouraged to fast. In fact, you're healthy. If you're on heavy medication, before you talk to your doctor. Don't just kind of go in and if you are healthy and you're not on any meds and will be okay. The Lord will sustain you. The first your body has about over 30 lbs or something like that, that you have extra stuff. Now, most of average, you can go on about 68 days for your body when you stop eating, your body actually goes into all the extra stuff in there. That's why you get headache. All of that detoxing begins to take it has enough to store. So, the craving is here, fall a victim, 'Oh my gosh, I'm going to die.' it's right here. The body has enough fuel for many, many days. And in fact, there are studies beneficial for your health. But again, we're get healed physically. We're doing it to draw near needs to do a water fast. It just simply every does the Lord have them do for the next 21 days. Absolutely not. Our love for the Lord is it's determined by the cross. God doesn't nearer or further from Him during the season