[MUSIC PLAYING] "Everybody has a [LAUGHS] Hi, I'm Melissa Clark. I'm a food reporter for 'The Cooking,' and I'm here to give As much as we love our family we've been making every year some of the food can be on so a lot of browns, And a lot of flavors that Well, this year I'm I want to make Thanksgiving wise. And I have a lot of tips [MUSIC PLAYING] "My first tip is By choosing serving bowls and unto themselves, it's such pop. So for turkey, you just to hold all of the turkey. Don't make a big because you're not going to Cranberry sauce -- so I like with a little bit of height, most colorful So you want to raise it above. And use glass so that you can Don't use white for They are white enough. And then this is going to It's not a metal pan. This looks better And look at that shape. That shape is really adding to the whole thing. In a perfect world, you are days ahead, or at least very it's done. And then you can take and put them out of the way. Another advantage to planning if, say, you don't have for your turkey you can ask someone And now label This is very important, When people come to your you want to greet them You should have something non-alcoholic so has something to drink. My favorite cocktail and pretty much any I love a rye Manhattan. And for this batched version, teensy bit of absinthe, which everybody sees rainbows. Will it? Will it? Will it? Yes, all six. So you want to have your And then for each do a little twist And then the lemon oil and then you drop this in. So just have your strips And for a cherry garnish, the Manhattan, Luxardo cherries. Or I make my own Every summer I get I put them in maraschino or And then by Thanksgiving, People tend to think of individually -- the the green bean casserole. I say, take all of roast them on big sheet on a platter. There's so much You'll have the the different colors, and it's also easier. Did you know that it's not really delicious You can do it with any And delicatas, they get super and put them in the oven. So save your seeds and make Don't think I'm not going [MUSIC PLAYING] "You just want sprinkle them with [MUSIC PLAYING] "So you want to pull however long it takes. And what you're looking for but not golden brown all over. Because you really want to So here's the thing. When you have a platter that is do you even need But the reason that we're is for flavor. So this is just a We're going to do a little honey. Cumin seeds -- these, you're but they add so much flavor. If you have time put them in a dry start to smell delicious. Sesame seeds, think of it Parsley, and because I can't get [MUSIC PLAYING] "I have another tip for you your family recipes These are the recipes Here's how to Gravy -- can you guess as a special secret Anchovies. Just hear me out. Anchovies are not but they have an that works so well with It just rounds it out. And you don't taste fishiness. And you don't even You just taste yum. What is that? I don't bother because we don't care But this is a time-honored Nothing wrong with a Cranberry sauce -- cranberry I mean, it is the one at the table every year. But I like to add to its by cooking the You can use any kind of You can also use port. If you happen to have that works really well, too. Just cut the sugar a little We're not a mac But I know that it is a very out there, and Instead of topping it with try something new like crushed or crackers, or Anything crunchy I don't know. What do you guys think?" "Cheeze-its." "Cheez-its?" "Yeah." "Cheez-its." "Cheez -- is it unanimous?" "Yeah." "Whoa, unanimous. O.K., we are doing Cheez-its. So I'm just going to So the trick here is you don't as your breadcrumbs. You want them to be a That way, it'll As you can see, I'm You don't have to measure You just want it to So you just add [MUSIC PLAYING] "O.K., here's a crazy idea for so hear me out. Cheese -- a little in your stuffing and on top is stuffing mash up. So for people who don't on the table, if you want add it to the stuffing. It's really good. This recipe here is Stuffing is where you play The base of the stuffing is so and what you have. My mother used bagels. She'd put them in the I love cornbread, because Brioche is amazing. Challah is another great one. Rye bread, crusty sourdough your choice. The only trick is you want to the bread mix. And then you want some on top, is actually the best part. Because that's the part and a little crunchy [MUSIC PLAYING] "And the butter Let your green beans be green. Instead of making a makes them kind of in their beautiful Cook them lightly and I have a really great Garnish, garnish, garnish. I mean, could there be a more I don't think so. But it's going to be even more with this array of stunning What I like to do is I like to I like to buy herbs, and then little grapes, and Lady and I'll char some lemons. I'll have all of that ready. And when I'm plating things, will just garnish and add a of that. I don't worry But even just half of a on the Platter with a turkey One thing I want notice how the turkey is This is how you serve So if you've never made turkey your first Thanksgiving I would say instead of trying which is really heavy, it's hard to get start with turkey parts. Buy a bone-in turkey breast, and roast them on a It's so much easier. You won't have to And then when you carve it the difference. All right, and now You just put things where This guy here?" "Yeah, that's nice." "No, that's too symmetrical. Here?" "Hm." "No. Nope, maybe --" "Need one more pear here." [MUSIC PLAYING] "And for your mashed potatoes, I like to let the After you've throw some herbs some sage or some other herbs. Get them fried and can go on top of your And then you can add pools -- these pools of on top of your It's beautiful, and For dessert, there's nothing pies. They're fantastic, but they Have your pies, but have because it's really pretty. I suggest a cranberry cake and then sugared So I have whole You can use either Fresh is better, but if use what you've got. I'm just going to coat And basically, the simple glue and it's going to allow the cranberries. See how this syrup At the end of this, which is going to taste and use the syrup for And now you just want to Another good thing if you don't mind them eating Even if you just want to do of your pies, it'll beautiful magenta color. And of course, one of the there is. If you see a flaw, a hide it with a garnish. If you're making Thanksgiving establish your own This is on you now. You're the host. These are your traditions to to your friends. So think of things that and then do them every year. Some of our favorites Thanksgiving Special' And while we do that, we Another one that we start a we collect leaves beautiful autumnal We press them in and then we use those And we have so much fun as the leaves, pressing them. And then taking them out a few weeks later, They're so vibrant. These I love. I love these. These are Cherry. Look how pretty The most special of all. When Dahlia was 5, she made our Thanksgiving His name is Marshmallow. He's really special He's held together The most important part of is your friends, your people. You want to just hang That's why you're there. Then it's the sides And then Turkey Thanksgiving is a lot of And hopefully these tips and you'll just have a lovely Cheers." [MUSIC PLAYING]