I think I've never seen such a gigantic crocodile before. I can easily imagine that I jump in for a swim and [Music] Friends, what else? Pura Vida, one more day in the central Pacific in the province of Puntarenas and we will sail in search of crocodiles. I am told that there is a great possibility of seeing crocodiles. Maybe a 90% chance, come on let's go out on an adventure and see here, I don't know I imagined we were going on little boat, even as a rowing like my brother's, so I said there I'm going to be there, that's how we're going to be...no no no, how wrong. Look this is our boat, They gave us binoculars and we are very happy about it. We are a crew of four and this is our boat. This is our boat then I don't know... I think they thought that Luisillo is coming, he must come with a whole production crew, worth of Discovery Channel. No dude, Luisito is recording myself with the help of Arisita or whomever that accompanies him, it's not a big crew. Well let's go, let's go for it! in search of limpets, crocodiles whatever comes our way. [Music] OMG see that, a crocodile. This is an american crocodile. Wow quite adult size, look how far it's tail we can appreciate, well not really. Look at that! OMG this is a female, we can appreciate that it is a female by its hue the hue of its head is a little more white, if it were a male it would be much darker green swampy green, wow I don't know, it weirdly looks tender, doesn't it? hehehe I kind of have a hard time imagining that it could tear my arm off with the mouth closed. it looks even cute, like the toxic mother in law or else the girlfriend that suddenly it can become, that you say: she looks tender, my mother in law, very cute, she made me coffee... boom! she put laxative in your coffee, dude. It's kinda like that with that female crocodile. Wow look how cute evidently it's blue like a blue-gray, I appreciate it from here. A curious fact of those birds, that wow how beautiful they are, is that many of them are migratory, they can come from the United States or from Canada, here. It is very crazy that, you never know how much somebody has travel. We see that heron and we say how cute , but maybe she's really tired because they migrate, they are in constant movement, nature. Wow see how crazy, a crocodile there look it's a &quot;Martinete Cabeza de Pinto&quot; How funny alligator is joking all the time, like: I'll eat you! just kidding, like I peck you with my tooth, naah, im just chilling it's not true, but one day the crocodile will get hungry and will end up eating him. What you think? are they friends or is it stalking him? It might look like he is too. let's also consider baby, a little baby so maybe it still doesn't like what happened to you and your best friend, that you thought you were just friends and out of nowhere one day he talked to you to try to get you into a pyramid scheme in which you end up losing out and he was winning, something like that I sense that is going to happen between that crocodile and that little birdie the things aren't going to end well. Wow wow please pay attention, we are looking at Osama, Osama is a famous crocodile from the region, I am told, for being one of the biggest Wow yeah it is but massive it is estimated that Osama here our we can see evidently how his green color it's darker, it's more swampy and look at him there he is Wow his tail, look it's very massive of how big he is and look there he is, chilling in the mud so that it doesn't hit him the heat to my dude, we are very close, it this safe, captain? oh no no no no. Osama said don't get to close. No no no no, sorry Osama, excuse us. Wow she just ate, shee said: these foreign humans don't attract me majestic how she moves and look at her standing there in the rain as if nothing chilling. This dude could easily eat a cow. person, easily so in one bite it swallowed me whole. Surely you are wondering why Osama was given that name, why Osama? I liked it very well Capi very well so well this Look we have already seen three crocodiles of which one of which was Osama , the unfindable. that I don't know why it looks kind of cute, you see that is big, scary but it's common kind of like your friend the tattooed biker who knows all the songs of RBD kind of like that is the good Osama, it's scary but maybe he is tender on the inside. It's impressive how it looks with the binoculars, I'm trying with the phone to make some little videos and I do have telephoto lenses but they are so heavy that I didn't bring them because im a fool, okay? I'm not going to justify myself but here with Osama before my eyes I say Wow how come I did not bring one of my lenses. Here I share with you as I can, A round of applause to Osama for being so beautiful a little kiss for being so great, a little kiss I think not, but yes indeed it is an imposing species, I think I've ever seen a crocodile before, so gigantic. In case you are wondering 600 kilos, it's an estimate it's not like but just imagine if he weighs 600 kilos how much does he need to eat to fill up, it's something amazing, what a majestic species. I am really amazed [Music]. a very cool fact about Costa Rica and that in fact seen so many crocodiles is that about 25% of the country's total territory is taken care of by national parks. I know that Costa Rica very impressive fact, this has been worked very hard, I have been told that since around the years of the 70s that even properties that were already of a private have been recovered to be able to take care of them, I'm only talking about this river zone that we are traveling through it is estimated that there are more than 800 crocodiles. This is a very impressive number and I tell you this with confidence because if you are a long time ago we were in the Amazon, not even in the Amazon I saw so many crocodiles and so easily, because in that particular area the one that we were in does not take care of them. And you saw them yourselves, it was the most common thing to eat them, the most common thing. Im told that before the 70s the crocodile was eaten very much This does not mean that nowadays they are eaten, but the fact that they are so protected has reduced the impact tremendously, I'm not saying that eating the crocodiles is all wrong. example Florida territories in the United States I think there is a big difference between eating a species that is a farmed species that's being bred specifically for consumption and eating a species that's hunted for consumption that are already scarce in the wild. very careful to the point that hunting practically any animal is punishable with jail, if you're seen grabbing a small animal from out there, taking it, with your rifle out there in the woods, you will most likely go to jail pigeons in the farms that are considered a plague because they in fact even eat the cultivation, also deers in many parts of the protected, deserve it? I believe that What a hopeful fact. Oh Wow check it out, just when we thought that seeing Osama had been something incredible which in fact it was, it was it was, now we're so close to Tyson. OMG we're too close! Easy Tyson we're coming in peace. Tyson but from the size of its head we do sense that it is huge, even the locals say that it can be bigger than Osama. Why Tyson? I imagine because he bites ears, isn't it? Yes! of course of course, here my local dudes, we don't find it easy, Tyson because it bites ears. Aye look! there's a little baby this smaller. Maybe it's Tyson's girlfriend or Tyson's little boy, but I'm telling you again that's very impressive how easily we are seeing crocodiles. I've been over a week in the Amazon and I didn't see a single crocodile other than in natural reserves but like this in the wild no and here look how many we are seeing very quickly, very accessibly I am astounded. One of the reasons why the guides know for example we don't see Osama close to Tyson is in fact Osama's territory is further back. 12 females and further back there is the territory of territory is an island, like that so as if it were Cuba is one more over there and he does not leave his island. I am told that not long ago some tourists fight between Fidel and Tyson and OMG it's a very good video, great moment that they captured they flipped over each other, in the end Tyson won. He took a chunk out of Fidel tail and Fidel he had to leave to his island, back with his tail between his legs and with his tail incomplete. So they are very territorial and that's why we see a male and many females around him. [Music] Well my friends, the rain have been too much, we must return now to mainland. This has been a great adventure, I did not expect to see so many crocodiles, and it was something very magical, just one of the many magical things that we have seen in Costa Rica. See you in a few days with a new video. Good bye. Pura Vida.