Everyone knows mixing Peter Parker's discarded Eddie Brock creates the beastly Venom. But, just how has Let's go through venom's appearances in TV and Film to find out...animated! Venom first appeared on screen in the 1994 Spider-man animated series. He has visible pupils, luscious lips, a creased head, large spider emblem, and white hand patches that shoot his webbing. Plus, constant red and blue highlights, odd veins on his forearms, and his signature long tongue. In the follow-up series, Venom is much more monstrous. He no longer has red highlights, he has a protruding spine, animal-like feet, and lacks any sort of pupil. In addition, this is the first on-screen appearance He's also seen turning into a gooey puddle allowing him to merge with his buddy, Carnage. Venom slims down for his live-action debut, he has a spider suit like texture, no hand patches, a gray emblem and tiny sharp teeth. This version of him mostly shrieks and when trapped by vibrating poles, he's taken out with an exploding pumpkin bomb. In this Spectacular Spider-Man, Venom and his stomach can apparently open up like a mouth for, uh, some plausible reason. In Ultimate Spider-Man, Doc Ock creates the Venom symbiote from a sample of Spider-Man's DNA. It's used by Harry Osborne to become black suit Spider-Man, before its more brutish Venom form unleashes. Later on, the symbiote attaches to reformed bully Flash Thompson, turning him into the tactical superhero, Agent Venom. The symbiote also infects a slew of other characters, but that's a whole can of goo, so let's keep moving. In the Phineas and Ferb Marvel crossover, Venom makes a comic-book accurate appearance, with his usual hunger for mischief. In Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. the symbiote attaches to Scar, She-Hulk. A-Bomb, Red Hulk, and regular Hulk, Before absorbing most of them to become the gigantic and unwieldy gamma venom. The anime Marvel Disk Wars, features another infected Hulk, but this version matches closer to Venom's usual form. Although his skin is lighter and he has added veins. In the 2017 Spider-man Cartoon, Flash Thompson, Eddie Brock, and Max Modell all become their own respective Venom. This version of Venom has pointy elbows and upper thighs, his spider emblem extends beyond his shoulders, and he has sharp white nails. The Eddie Brock version has a more squished face, While the Max Modell variation has more spiky protrusions and a longer emblem. Once Max gains control of the symbiote his stomach mouth also makes a reappearance. Additionally, the symbiote briefly merges with Dr. Curt Connors, and can even survive without a host. During the Guardians of the Galaxy crossover, the Venom symbiote attaches to Spider-Man, Although this Venom is less stocky, and his emblem and eyes occasionally glow bright red. In Avengers Assemble, Dracula is infected by the symbiote, which retains his armored suit, long hair, and red vampiric eyes. In his stand-alone live-action film, Venom is bulky, lacks any suit texture, and has no emblem. He's strangely veiny and has two layers of teeth. This Venom also attaches to Eddie Brock's ex-girlfriend, Anne, becoming She-Venom. In this film Venom faces off against evil businessman Carlton Drake, who becomes the skilled symbiote, Riot. In the sequel, Venom ditches Eddie to hit the party scene. Then attaches to convenience store owner Mrs. Chen, before finding his way back to his main man. This time Eddie is bitten by serial killer Cletus Cassidy, turning Cletus into the deranged symbiote, Carnage, and despite being much more powerful, he's still taken down by the reunited Eddie and Venom. But the strongest iteration of Venom is probably his lego version... Ooo... &quot;Ouch!&quot; Uh, so which version of venom is your favorite? And let us know what other Spidey-Villains you want to see get their own evolutions. Thank you for watching, commenting, and pressing like on the video. And shout out to the lovely Patrons for all their support. Check out the other comic-book evolutions on the channel, as well as the other animations and be sure to subscribe and hit that little bell to turn on all notifications, so you never miss a video! Bark! Bark!