In 1929, a massive ushered in a nearly decade-long, that would prove to be the in recent history. The rise of refrigeration, chain, and the increased led to a drastic change Getting food on the And sometimes using led to some rather Today, we're looking people eat to get through But before we get started, be History channel and let us other historical era foods OK, get your bowl for some First Lady Eleanor going to let the Depression down. As an early supporter of she planned inexpensive from Cornell's Home Although FDR was a both the first lady practiced leaner eating habits According to their A Culinary History of the Great Ziegelman and Andrew Coe noted to send a message to to eat during troubling times. Instead of foie gras FDR had to eat simple meals, at were around. Denture-friendly fare, and tomato sauce or bean in tomato stew, were Sounds like something you'd Flavor and spices Dessert came in the form of based around everyone's Prunes and other dried fruit for fresh fruit So prune pudding was sort of baked pies or other desserts. It's easy to make, too. All you need is some sugar, egg Whip it all together, a real, um, regular [MUSIC PLAYING] Everyone loves peanut butter and Both items were during the Depression. And someone decided This resulted in a from the Great peanut butter stuffed Promoted by the Bureau the recipe for peanut saw publication in several of the period. The Bureau's professional encouraged American homemakers to their families. Food historians Andrew decided to try making the Coe said, it was not a popular Ziegelman put it noting that peanut to say to a baked onion. The Bureau of Home Economics there was no literally when they [MUSIC PLAYING] Ritz Crackers, they're But they are great for a light Um, good cracker. But they have an unlikely for apple pie filling. Ritz mock apple what it sounds like, a pie as its filling. The traditional ingredients with lemon juice and the created a taste intended to Considered a Depression-era this pastry imposter in the 1880s, when for pie-filling substitutes. Soda crackers were to America's favorite fruit. And mock apple pies were At some point, Nabisco on the back of where it would remain After 1,500 requests for the company restored the recipe It remains one of Ritz's If an apple-free apple you could try Just substitute 36 slightly for the apples in And you'll be baking a mock [MUSIC PLAYING] Eleanor Roosevelt did her throughout the Depression. That didn't mean some genuinely bizarre Take the case of an made from spaghetti, boiled Unlike traditional this recipe required for a full 25 minutes. Once the pasta turned you were supposed to mix it carrots. A bland white sauce made from topped off this Roosevelt called it a vehicle But you'd probably prefer to Vinegar-based desserts were but made a comeback Known more commonly these treats mix like eggs, butter, and sugar In this case, takes the place of fresh apples. It's the fantastic acidic without any pesky fruit. Cooks can whip the eggs and to top the acidic Apparently, it tastes like And it leaves the roof Um. If you find yourself with a don't despair. In 2015, award-winning began serving the dish in helping vinegar cobbler make [MUSIC PLAYING] In a recipe straight from Mulligan stew was not to be confused with of the same name-- Our two families became one in Hawaii. --Mulligan stew was a by whatever foods they could In his book Riding the Rails-- Teenagers on the Move Errol Lincoln Uys as a mix of just People predominantly with stolen onions, corn, and occasional meat bits. Enterprising hobo chefs might or whatever else may add But the real secret a bit of Bull Durham tobacco enhancer, lint. Um. That's a meal I may [MUSIC PLAYING] Dining at the White House wasn't exactly fancy. Take the case of Milkorno. On one presumably dark several mad scientists invented a gruel It's alive! Scientists intended for skim milk, cornmeal, families stretch food budgets. Milkorno came with this of enabling meals for a And, of course, served it at the White House. But Milkorno wasn't the and salt-based food supplement. There was also Milkwheato were purchased in bulk The government even of dystopian dust to use in And although all of them turn the Bureau of Home suggested that Milkorno for the noodles in chop suey. Well, at least there is much [MUSIC PLAYING] Despite some of people had to eat during the staple arose in the midst of it Macaroni and Cheese dinner. According to the Smithsonian, served macaroni and cheese after falling in love with the It wasn't an entirely But the idea of boxing as an inexpensive meal was. In 1937, a rogue salesman for Macaroni Company began with packets of Kraft Kraft soon hired the to promote the meal to The dinner caught selling for 19 cents Its speed was a selling ad featuring a happy, asking, how the deuce did and cheese so fast? Why, we just got home. Kraft Dinner, as it's known went on to become a staple and has a special place Food historians typically agree during the Great Depression. Food loaves were made and cheaper stretch the entire thing out. A Depression-era menu might as a liver loaf, lima Authentic meatloaf was a luxury, by padding it with like crackers or bread. And much like today, delivered more flavor at Food historian some soy in lima bean loaf. Maintaining it tastes but should be served with Some historians believe made a mistake by overlooking and creativity to during the Great Depression. Italian immigrants known for making nutritious, and inexpensive Yet the government chose as a source of hunger One delicious and foraged by Italian immigrant came in the form of Straight from the front dandelion greens sauteed or cooked with an essentially free meal. [MUSIC PLAYING] If you needed a cheap source gelatin was likely Many Depression-era cook as a base for such as corned beef luncheon salad Um, bright, crisp vegetables There's a salad for you. Congealed Salads may sound from the '90s. But they were authentic dishes Corned beef luncheon salad with its unholy mix of its canned peas, vinegar, A few reports from to try today describe possible, just from the the texture, the They may look, tastes like canned cat food. But one simply cannot in cooking. Have you made a Well do, this week. Hey. There is always room [MUSIC PLAYING] Got milk? The people struggling to survive certainly did. Milk also peaked who placed tremendous importance Cow's milk was a bit of a Packed with vitamins, it served nutritional needs during the period. Milk was also used in tons from flavorless white sauces, to fortified foods Of course, the sheer amount of was quite impressive. As the government advised, School lunches almost always to go along with the day's meal. [MUSIC PLAYING] Chipped or frizzled beef in some parts of the United eventually finding its way into Manual for Military Cooks. Since then, the cream has been an Army staple with on a Shingle, or SOS. The old frontier favorite during the Depression. Per culinary historians, this era's version of canned corn beef, plain and lemon juice, and wrong That doesn't mean some folks SOS was often served during And even the TV show Mash You forgot your shingle, doctor! [YELL] Nothing says America Everyone's favorite was a surprisingly during times of scarcity. Although many that incorporate hot like Poor Man's they made for surprisingly good with cooked macaroni, and canned corn or Modern cooks are hard at these days, occasionally fancier ingredients for Bon appetit. So what do you think? What Great Depression Let us know in the And while you're at it, check from our Weird History.