We're on this beautiful but extremely a baffling archaeological mystery. We're have remained hidden since the Dark Ages our site is over there, on that it's got to be one of the most dangerous and Oh what! That is stunning. Oh yes, it's lovely, faster. All in the name of archaeology. I'm fantastic. Incredibly, Gateholm seems to have Celts or Vikings or Druids, no one knows. [Music] To get over there, we've got to use this zipwire. It could be the toughest Time Team we've [Music] Okay, we're going to go now. Will the archaeology when you're ready Tony, leap off and [Music] Well, I'm still alive, but something tells me way of getting home. So well done! Thank thought it was going to be, but having said Gateholm's so difficult to access we've had to send in an advanced team of climbers Every archaeologist and every piece of kit will hazardous process. Excavating this precipitous and you've already started digging. Well, Tony, I well, gone noon. Yeah, on day one. On day one. And completely shot isn't it? It's taking forever I mean there's an awful lot of archaeology getting a tiny bit panicky about it. Gateholm The National Trust though there's not a stately the Trust have invited us here to the far west We've surveyed the island from land and air. landscape archaeologist Alex Langlands, are wider landscape of the area, and I've got the the plane, it shoots points to the ground so we some bits and pieces, isn't it? And I've actually over you can actually see the structures. That is lumps and bumps, these are actually rectangular that this does bring out is that this island structures. And if they're all of the same period, at some point in history, human activity left that Gateholm could be a forgotten sacred isle, an could be the site of an early Christian monastery. fairly likely Tony, yes I do. But I suspect like a a bit of landscape that had been sort of important So not only have we got a mysterious and perhaps a mile away is another significant monument. With sheer cliff on the other, it looks like a classic tough enough already, we're going to excavate John and his geophysics team are busy surveying results to come in, Phil organises a field walking unexpected results. Oh what! That is stunning. something like that, and you have got a very, to be proven that we're into the Mesolithic, that this site could have first been inhabited up Over on the island of Gateholm, Francis is You've got this trench that Alex is in, and then the far one where Ian is, but they do a third of the way across the island. Oh, they're arbitrary. If you look, they're in a straight I think might be a road. You can see this from the the road like that. Now why do you think that that rooms of houses, or monk cells, or something a space which I think is a roadway. Where is going to be this roundhouse here. We'll put pretty sure that's going to be Iron Age. If we here on the island and on the mainland fort, we earlier digs on the island in 1910 and 1930 didn't were some great finds. Our other new team member, really remarkable objects here. Alan, tell it's probably a cloak pin, almost certainly Irish number from Scotland - and they belong within that from the 5th, maybe as late as the 8th century. Look at this. This is absolutely fantastic isn't discovered on the island. What's the significance We don't know for certain, but it could represent of ritual significance as well, some religious with this quite extraordinary stone phallus. This excavating and it was actually placed upright, good luck. We know that the Romans quite often range of artefacts, it's quite incredible, isn't all coming from this very small area. There's some Based on these finds, we can tell that the island 200 to 410AD, into the very early Christian times signs of earlier or later occupation. I mean, it's mainland fort completed- Phil to Francis- Phil's geophysics spot over here we want you to come I'll be over there in a couple of ticks, okay? While our site director heads back to the Raksha thinks she may have hit the jackpot. How it's been brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. If you all the same pot. Right. That is fantastic. I'm a site in Cornwall, and we were finding pottery that site was a bit of a centre for imports, and some of it was coming as far away as Byzantium. that is that. That is fantastic actually. Raksha's while earlier finds like the stag and the phallus may have been a ritual site in Roman and even is recreating the context in which the phallus rammed in upright, into the earth. It's not around it to make sure it stays upright. What's Well the phallus clearly is a fertility symbol. more symbolic than that, can you, with the sort arising from that. So it's actually quite a think that the phallus here is possibly mirroring shape could have been an enormous phallic behind our penile island for the moment, Francis where have you been?- where he's hoping John's We've surveyed the plateau- Yeah- and to be what would you expect in that area? Well behind pits, houses, that sort of thing. Could this of a domestic settlement? I'd say let's put a and a trench across one of these possible pits are very important for no other reason I think they will date the site. Francis approves inside the entrance, and the other at the centre an important find and now thinks the site could of field walking with one or two of them over here before the Iron Age. We've actually got some hammer. They're a bit dodgy to date but there sites. So we've got occupation here at least, that everything that John sees there is Iron Age. know, it's going back in my pocket. Well let's Two trenches, yes. You can go away again now. With the trench strategy approved, Phil calls in the heavy mob to Hard down there. Over on the island, Alex has been looking got on and off their rock. If you look over and I have done a little bit of research it's a rather crude copy though of a done is they've depicted - see the stack there stack. It's higher than where we are now isn't it's much lower down, so we've lost a lot of was a land bridge connecting the stack, okay, sure there's a good chance a thousand years you could simply wander back to the mainland As day one draws to a close, the island You know one thing I hadn't factored in as it does to go there, so we're actually aren't we? Well we are Tony, but I'm actually very she's got a really large red bag there. of finds. That's the scary bit, isn't Hang on, I'll get Dani over. Dani! Hello have Tell me about it. This is like Christmas isn't mainly because I think it might be imported. Oh that's not prehistoric. It's not is it? Not orange colour isn't it? So it's definitely I mean it'd be nice to get this cleaned up and This morning, we thought we had an early increasingly likely to be Romano-British. So on the fort and we've had some great finds that island. The question is, are the two sites If you'd like to see more episodes like this reach 15,000 worldwide supporters on Patreon by expanding the Time Team world. Enjoy front row It's the beginning of day two here in and we're trying to work out why for thousands clifftop and the highly inaccessible you look like you're surveying the scene, strategy for today is to go pretty hard because going to extend that trench over there by the surface which I think could be roadway, but it to this trench, extend that where I think So that could be an Iron Age settlement then? It And then over there where this natural cliff path people's feet have started to cut a trench so do you think that bank is some kind of wall? Yes up here. Now this is a very substantial bank, there and another beyond and then signs of another the fort. We're sure it's Iron Age, as much as 700 of domestic life are now beginning to emerge. What floor is about all you can say at the moment, see anything quite that good actually, to be this much so far but it definitely runs up to this The fort's inhabitants built high banks to protect defences in the event of an all out assault? We've but we haven't really said anything at all about defending themselves against. Well it'd probably was fairly endemic. Rather than trying to so it's not only cattle that they're probably the Roman period. But the layout of the defences outer bank there and you can see it's actually is also bending round. The whole idea is to trying to channel people down one single route these invaders charging towards us- Yep- what we get a load of pebbles and this is what we can just use bigger ones and just hurl rocks at be great. Come on then. So are we going to use option. We come back here and launch. What I like got two innocent archaeologists in the foreground but I guess that's just war isn't it? Right come not bad. Found it much more difficult to... Oh got I think it's a battle we might we don't want your castle we don't want your... Before I fall victim to further tribal assaults, I'm making a break for the [Music] It kind of doesn't feel quite so bad the second time but then you get a bit I'm glad that harness is released from in We've got a unique opportunity highly inaccessible truly mysterious island. But if we're to solve the riddle in the short time trench has cleaned up really nicely. I know actually see something for once. And what can you the wall line is it... have you got one sort of obviously there. Yeah, that's right. But do you pottery? Yeah. Well I'm actually standing inside from. Well that's strange though, isn't it, square with what Francis was saying yesterday. that this would probably be early Christian, a Christian though. What I'm wondering is whether traded into this island. But if that's the case which would be really exciting. Well exactly. other side of the road and it's over one of those all the finds he's getting are prehistoric. They and it's like only, what, four metres away. It's Time Team I'm getting really nervous because there I kind of like the fact that it's so mysterious. upon generation set up home on this exposed rocky link between the people living here and the trench can give us at least one of the answers. so this is Iron Age? Well that's the idea yes. and if you look very carefully you can see it small only about 4 or 5 metres across, and on coming here. Any finds? Yes, just a few minutes spindle whorl or I think that, actually, might can see it's like amber or something, the light at the other... Oh there's some little marks on quite sure if they're a pattern on it. Or just turns out to be of amber it'll be an important like the phallus and the stag, could be evidence more mysterious, but there's still no sign thought might be here. Halfway through day Join a thriving worldwide community of Time reach 15,000 worldwide supporters on Patreon continue expanding the Time Team world with We're off the Pembrokeshire coast on the the least of the mysteries is the fact that we got a trench open on either side. On the western Raksha's found Roman pottery. But on the eastern prehistoric finds. What's even doubly curious is this was neither Roman nor prehistoric, site. So what on earth's going on do you but I think we're about to crack it. but we have a ditch. Now this ditch that Ian is think it's probably Bronze or Iron Age and it here yesterday. Okay. Now what's interesting about quantities of rock, deliberately filled in. Now do that if you're a farmer building, you know, like either a Roman settlement or a monastic before other structures can be erected. So of it - could it still be a sacred isle? Yes early Christian material to be sure of its so we still could have a monastic settlement. Christian, so 5th to 7th Century, but it seems Civilisations have come and gone, but has endured the brunt of the weather today's threatening skies, we're working we've dug down half a metre, but Excavating the defences in the outer trench, we're the centre of the fort is emerging more of what we Even in summer, this coast can be a hostile up home here may have been the abundant supply Andrew, on a day like today it's not the most be honest, that's what the ancestors had to do. that's true enough, but you don't come to back in the Iron Age you couldn't have just sat and of course you'd have had to be out looking you know, just doing things to stay alive really. We've got this one, it's silverweed. colour of the underside of the leaf there. You exciting - but the useful part, particularly is the roots. It's a good starch Oh, it's like french fries. Oh really? this is where you get limpets, mussels, cockles. a type of snail basically and then when the suctioning themselves to the rock, sucking all they're not as risky of an endeavour to that sort of thing, which can concentrate toxins really good food source. Oh look at that. That limpets, and seaweed with a leg of local lamb, for us. Certainly nutritious but I'll reserve it's time to check in on progress at the fort. almost the end of the day, how have you got got three trenches open and they're really, really actually all telling us something about different What do you mean by that? Well this is our first you've literally just come through it, they've put through, they disperse across this hard standing trench one. The second aspect of the fort which people that lived here. So here we're actually here? Absolutely. What have you got? Well, the up when the trench was a lot smaller so we've but there are some people that like to think it's going to be in the central part of a the trench far enough in that direction so if and that would then confirm that we are actually What about trench three? Well trench three is all fort and that is the defences themselves. And what the ramparts, and you can actually see that right really big stones actually strengthening the front that, see whether we can see any finds underneath up. Does that mean you haven't got any finds at probably relate to the Mesolithic people that not really surprising. The soil is so acidic, the pottery. Now the Iron Age people would probably we've had neither pot nor bone is significant. the island? Roman. Exactly. The Romans were on people that were here were undoubtedly the people While most of the team head for the pub, a few her Iron Age picnic. Your food smells good. eat it before you got... Doesn't seem like too a bit of foraging in the local area. We've got little starter. A little starter? That is a Delicious. I tell you what, this samphire, the stuff that I've eaten before. No it's a it's much more aromatic, quite crunchy, You just eat it? Yeah. A bit peppery Phil. Oh God he's got that face again. I've always had. And a lovely bit of lamb. the rain is going so hard my soup's splashing all seaweed. Will we make it through tomorrow? If you'd like to see more episodes like this reach 15,000 worldwide supporters on Patreon by expanding the Time Team world. Enjoy front row It's the beginning of day three here in on the island, amongst all the mysteries, we've quite proved it yet. It looks as though we Phil's been digging, although again, although confirm it. But if during the course of the day we then we'll be well on the way to establishing in the Iron Age and what was happening over things have been getting more and more got some really sophisticated defences and all Tony. We're right in the heart of the defences we've got at least three sets of ramparts and path leading to the main entrance coming along link up with that enormous bit of hard standing standing means roadway, I think, in that case. And this bank, we'll come across more of that road. a sort of 100 yard snake of road leading right be fantastic. Absolutely fantastic. The thing is aren't just about sort of military operations, visit whoever was living in there. It completely been going on in Wales during the Iron Age. I'd sitting on the cliff eating winkles and limpets. right. On the final day of this dig, a picture of Not only do we have evidence of a large, outer bank reveal that it once followed the cliff one wants to take a tumble into the sea on a dark with distant lands, the sea played an integral Alex and Miranda are heading to the sheltered Some pretty windy, twisty lanes there Miranda. and you'd get around by sea, you wouldn't bother be so much faster, wouldn't it? Much faster, and throw from our fort as well, so it's highly used by the people that live there. Well the fort so happens we've got a boat waiting for It just reinforces, doesn't it, this islands everywhere you look. We've Yeah look at it. It's amazing seeing it incredible feeling of the connection of the to these people. Yes. It just brings it really whole of the Irish sea is busy with boats all the culture. This is a central hub for Ireland for rest of west Wales, so you know, really you're One of our key archaeological aims is to establish promising signs of Iron Age buildings on both Phil, yesterday you said this was the trench where still happy with that? I am absolutely over the in the where I thought the house was has moved. that was going to be a central hearth? Yeah. It is is a four-sided stone box of which we've only got lined with clay and filled up with water. They're people use them for cooking, some people think you can use them for brewing which is right up isn't it, that the people were sitting around and having a sauna, although presumably but unlike us having our fish stew on the these people had a roundhouse. You have Absolutely because we've actually got the see where that pin in there with number 16 on it, the doorway is pointing directly at the entrance mind, you can actually trace it coming around here it gets a bit fuzzy in here, but you can see it of about 8 or 9 metres which is a classic size the existence of an Iron Age roundhouse but the frequent torrential downpours are The bad weather hasn't deterred Cassie who's still mainland fort. Cassie, I thought we were meant to it is bedrock. You're dead straight on this. more rounded stones on the top and you know it's it's far more angular. It's where the they're using the bedrock as their metal it does look very much like a footpath, you know. Excellent. Two and a half thousand would have led past a series of stone-faced to a pair of high wooden gates. Nestled inside the quite a substantial and important settlement. last visit to Gateholm. We've got to get possible and we just don't know whether we're particularly as the weather forecast isn't I'm a little less worried about that than I am [Music] You'd think it would get easier, wouldn't you? We're still trying to date the buildings on this and can we prove a connection with the mainland Matt's roundhouse is Iron Age. Matt, is this we've nearly finished the recording, that's it. bit, hadn't you? Yeah we extended out this way so we took it another - what - nearly a metre. around here but there's no doorway. So whatever yes. Francis, you put this trench in because we've got an Iron Age roundhouse, what can we quite a substantial one with large, turf-built of dating but what we've got I think supports Iron or corn grinding stone and that's the sort of house. If it is an Iron Age roundhouse, and you it relates to our Iron Age settlement over there? Tony, were probably first or second cousins of of the puzzle. During the Iron Age, the island those cell-like structures we originally thought was wrong. We certainly know that this building what we found this morning. Go on. We found an holes down there for timbers and in one of them, wow. It's very light and very gritty. Yes and in it. I'm in little doubt, Tony, that that is there were people here 3,000 years ago. This is a were living here far earlier than we expected, Age. So perhaps Gateholm was a sacred isle after so finds this dig has thrown up, the bead found in So what did you get from the island? We've got little amber bead, it probably, you know, it looks the nicest objects and perhaps most mysterious. originally in the Baltic. To have amber turning it - this actually might only be a small thing that's traveled for miles and miles and miles. the worship of the sun and was believed to have the stone phallus, our amber bead could have been sacred objects, but nothing Christian. Francis, picture which apparently was of an early Christian roadway here and lots of little monk cells. Well too much off that aerial photograph, we've said the sea - got to be monks.&quot; No, we're completely got Tony, is a substantial settlement. It runs right down to the headland over there. There have well laid out and well organised. As you've got settlement. So we now know that Gateholm wasn't a busy settlement for possibly thousands of years. were half a dozen farms. By the time of the Iron or more roundhouses. And finally, by Roman times, buildings. Well, like all the best sleuths we've story, so shall we get off this island quickly you staying to backfill? What the trench? [Music] Francis, when we came here we wanted to try settlement was built in such an out of the think we have Tony. I think the basic answer is this was a densely populated landscape seaways on the western approaches to the of this place? We scotched the idea that there does that mean it was an ordinary prosaic bronze stag? I mean they are ritual, they are it's a magical location. It protrudes you even today whether or not we think it's a sacred Join Time Team on Patreon to master classes, and behind the scenes insights.