He is Mr. Abe, the owner of the shop. He is also a popular YouTuber with 590,000 subscribers. His channel name is &quot;Makanai Challenge.&quot; This time, we closely followed the tempura restaurant he runs. DIGEST Tempura restaurant &quot;Kawarano Abe&quot; in Sumida Ward, Tokyo Q: Do you do the same thing every morning? Every day, I make the broth and cook the rice while pickling the pickles. I work alone, so I do everything myself I do everything from cooking rice to pickling pickles Part-timer will come around 10:30 am Q: How long has it been since you opened your shop? The year before the Great East Japan Earthquake Around the fall of 2010 I've been doing it in a style that doesn't use people, even on YouTube, I'm all alone Basically it's nice to be alone Q: It's been 13 years since you opened,right? I wonder if it will be about that? I'm not the type to worry about such things 10 years or more I don't remember the opening date of the store. I'm not the type to worry about such things Q: You update your channel almost daily, but are you out of ideas? To be honest, it doesn't matter what the story is. There are various ingredients for cooking all over the world, right? If I arrange it little by little, I can create as much as I want There aren't many things in the world that are completely original, are they? So, if I arrange it little by little, I can create as much as I want. Menu 1 (Illustration by him) making kelp and dried bonito flakes broth (dashi) Miso soup made with akadashi miso I do everything from the miso soup on my own Q: About 10 roles for one person,right? That's right I don't know if it's good or bad. making pickles &quot;Nuka Paste for pickling used since the store opened&quot; It's warm at this time of year, so it's about 5 hours. Q: Why is the sponge included? because it absorbs water water comes out of vegetables Q: Where are you from? I was born and raised in Mukojima, Sumida Ward. If I don't do this work, the tail will turn black. in a moment If I don't clean the tail, it will turn black. become pitch black Q: There are many traditional Japanese restaurants in Mukojima. Why? Karyukai is such a place. Since long ago, there have been many geisha and traditional restaurants. Karyukai is a town of geisha Gion in Kyoto Kagurazaka in Tokyo Asakusa in Tokyo Mukojima area feels the same way. There have been many traditional restaurants since long ago. This is the place where you come to play in a car with a driver. someone a little big It's that kind of town That's why it's more like this isolated island on land It has gotten pretty lonely There was a big traditional restaurant, right? When I was a child, there were quite a few black-painted hires parked here and there. It was an image that have a long line of hires. It was during the bubble economy, so when I was a kid It's all quiet now It's that kind of town Q: Did you first train at a fugu restaurant? At first, I was a assistant cook at fugu restaurant in Asakusa. I didn't become a chef because I wanted to. not that type I was forcibly thrown into a fugu restaurant. At an acquaintance's shop Q: But your talent blossomed from there. maybe so, i don't know I'm good at doing it for a long time I feel like I'm doing it in that flow nothing to be proud of Q: Why did you decide to open a tempura restaurant? I thought it would be better to sell single items as much as possible. Specialty store narrowing down the genre If I offer everything like a kappo restaurant It's hard to have a lot of food loss, right? Tempura for tempura, sushi for sushi, curry for curry, ramen for ramen I thought it would be better to go to a specialty store, so if I want to do business Menu 2 (Illustration by him) I have a lot to do This is Shrimp Shinjo Shrimp minced meat Crush the shrimp mix with egg mixture i think this is delicious I'm doing such a troublesome thing, because This will please the customer I usually attach this to anything This seems so easy, but it's so hard If this is not done properly Shrimp will bend when fried It doesn't fry straight seems easy Even the depth of a kitchen knife If the cut I made earlier was shallow looks bad when fried this is a decoration It looks completely different It's different if I don't do it easy to eat It's a hassle but this is beautiful If I fry this, the striped pattern is beautiful Because it looks like I'm doing my job well These things are unexpectedly important. This way you can easily loosen you can't loosen it by hand Cute like a bee's butt Because I'm alone, I can't do anything if I lose things along the way I have to be fully prepared, working alone Fried corn is delicious If an amateur does this, there is a high possibility that the hand will be cut off. because it is hard If you do it like this, Surprisingly, you can remove the fruit Now there are machines that can get them all at once. Chashu pork with chicken for small bowl Q: Not only the tempura bowl, but also the surrounding miso soup and small bowls were excellent. All handmade From pickles to anything That's my commitment I don't do complicated things like that. Everything is in my own hands It takes a lot of time It's for a small bowl, and I'll have the part-timer serve it later. I put the salad in the laundry net and spin it around outside. then the water will run out This method will end in one shot Ok finished Everyone usually use a machine that spins around This would take one, so it's fast This is a small bowl set I do this every day I&quot;ll have her fill it up later completion this position is important (The oil is fresh.The oil used is sesame oil, which is amber in color from the time it is opened new) All handwritten by him I'm nervous Good morning conger eel [Metal Plaque] proof of popular youtuber Small bowls please put some ice Opening we're open welcome please [Tempura set meal] rice please [tempura rice bowl] [half tempura rice bowl] Yes, please Yes, thank you welcome welcome Three rice please [tempura rice bowl] Two rice please thank you very much Please put the soba into the pot [Zaru soba (Zaru soba half tempura bowl set)] [Conger eel tempura bowl] The handle fell out of the pot under repair Q: Do you repair motorcycles as your hobby? I'm not going to open the engine lubricate or replace chain I'll do something like replace the brake pads I like it