- Today I want to share for making medicinal herbal (upbeat music) Hi, sweet friends. I'm Mary, and welcome to Mary's Nest, where I teach traditional cooking dense foods like bone broth, So if you enjoy learning consider subscribing to my channel, and don't forget to click on the little notification bell below that'll let you know every Well, today I'm continuing where I'm sharing with you master recipes for how to make medicinal herbal remedies. First, we're going to use a master recipe to make a medicinal herbal oil. Then we're going to use that for making a medicinal herbal salve. Now, before we even get started, I just want to talk about pronunciation, because I know the word 'salve' by different people. And I've heard from my friends, my British friends from across the pond, that in British English you say salve for the medicinal ointment that we're going to make today. And American English says salve, I think. But to be honest with I'm an American and I my parents always said salve. So that's something that I'm very used to. So whether you say salve or salve, having a medicinal herbal that you want to have in As I've shared in my other videos where I discuss herbal remedies, I just want to mention if you're nursing, if you're thinking of using any herbal remedies with children, if you're taking medication or over the counter, or especially those related you really want to talk to to find out if the herbal of using are appropriate. Well, let's get started. Now, first of all, what I want to mention is of a master recipe for there are three ways that you can do this, and I'm going to cover all three. Now when it comes to making I really like to use This is a California olive oil. You can use any olive oil that you like, but I do recommend using And the reason is I'm a firm ingest it or we're going we really want something that that we can get, the best Now some of you may be and generally when people that are used more for cosmetic purposes, they may not use olive that it's a little heavy fragrance comes through. So you may see people using But nut oils have a shorter So I tend to shy away from those when I'm making a medicinal since I generally do want and then just refresh it after one year and make another batch. Now, what type of medicinal You really can use any herb that you want for whatever purpose from that particular oil. For example, today we're because this is wonderful for the skin, and wonderful if you have a a little bruise, eczema, things like that. So that's what we're going to make. It's a very useful oil, as well as a very useful oil So we're going to go with calendula today, but you can use all kinds of herbs, specifically medicinal herbs. And in essence, pretty much is a medicinal herb. But you can use arnica if you which is wonderful for bruises and sprains and things like that. You can use a lavender, to use for a headache or to help you if you're having a tough night sleeping. There are all different definitely use to make And if you want more detailed information on all the different herbs there are, and all the different oils I highly recommend any She's a wonderful herbalist and her books are highly informative. And if you're new to all of this, you'll definitely want to This is what it looks like. This is her beginner's guide. It's Rosemary Gladstar's Medicinal Herbs, A Beginner's Guide. It teaches you how to know your herbs, how to recognize them, how to And she has all kinds of recipes in here for various medicinal remedies, not just for oils, not just for salves, but for teas and cough I highly recommend this book. Now, as I shared earlier, there are three methods under for making medicinal herbal oils. And if you want to do the first method, which we're just about to go over, you will need some type of jar. Now what I like to use is a small jar. This is an eight ounce canning jar, and this is perfect for me. But you can certainly use a larger jar to make a larger amount of oil. But think about how much oil you may use over the course of the year and if you want to have a and if you're going to be and how many salves you might be making, because you don't want to over make oils. Because as I had mentioned, this is probably going to stay fresh for just about one year. So I find this is about But definitely if you want you definitely can do that if you want to make a larger Now this is my favorite way but it does require time. You're going to need about two weeks. So keep that in mind if you choose to make your All you want to do is and put them into your jar. And they don't need to be packed tightly. You can just fill it of the way full. It's relatively flexible. Definitely don't smash it down, give them some room to move and just be very gentle in terms of when you're putting them into your jar. Now if you want to use you definitely can. And you'll just want to go But then if you have like a little muddler or you could even just you just want to break up to help start releasing or essential oils. I think this is about a As you see, I've just gone just and I've not pressed on I do want to give them room Next is the very easy part. All you have to do is with your olive oil. So just continue pouring until you can cover all of your herbs and make sure that Now once everything is covered, you're just going to put your lid on. And now you're going to want to put this in a warm place for about two weeks. Can you put this on a I tend to just put it in a is so strong here in Central Texas, I almost feel it's a little However, that said, I want to share something about what herbalists say when it comes to making herbal oils in this way, where you're leaving them in a warm place or a sunny window sill, or Many people say but rancid being kept warm and in the jar in the sun, in the heat, And what herbalists share of the antioxidant properties in the herbs that are in the olive oil, it does keep the olive Now when you strain out the herbs and you have your medicinal and just separated from then herbalists say that's in terms of what the shelf life should be for your medicinal herbal oil. And generally when using an olive oil, herbalists will say that may have a shelf life So that's method one for Now I'm going to put this one aside, and this is one that I made previously. Now with your medicinal herbal oil that's been steeping for two weeks, what you'll want to do is and some type of vessel to catch it. And I'm just using a metal... I mean, a glass measuring cup here, and all you're going to Now do you want to line or a coffee filter? You can, but those tend to start So I feel you'll lose a little bit of it. The secrets so that you down into the medicinal herb is to not squeeze or press on the flowers. Or in this case, I'm but not press on whatever You're just going to want to Give it plenty of time as much of the oil as you can. Then on a separate vessel, if you want, you can start squeezing your herbs to extract even more oil. But as I said, you're going to want to be collecting that in a separate vessel from this one. And the reason is that is going to start to get of the dried herbs. And if you're going to want to use as pure an oil as possible, and one that you're going to use to maybe even go on to make a salve, which we're going to make in a minute, you're not going to want But that oil can still be very you're not thinking in terms If the herbs that you're using is an edible herb, then you can save that oil and pieces in it to use for cooking or for making salad dressings. Once you think you've you can just set this aside and then just get a bottle or jar, whatever way you want to store your oil. I might be able to do Let's see if I can be neat about it. And then just go ahead medicinal herbal oil. Next, once you get it all decanted in, you can put your lid on. Make sure your bottle is clean, and this is the perfect for your calendula medicinal herb oil. So making a medicinal herb oil this way is basically the sun method, and you're going to So that's method number one. Now method number two and type of electrical or Now these type of medicinal in a lot shorter period of time, basically anywhere from one to two hours. Now to do this on the stovetop, what you're going to need that you can create as a double boiler. Now if you've seen my video kitchen treasures, as I you may recognize my Revere Ware pot and my stainless steel bowl. These both came from junk shops and cost practically nothing. The Revere Ware a part but I cleaned it up. And I like to have pots like for when I am working with and so on and so forth. But if you enjoy hunting at junk shops, I'll be in the i-cards and in But in any event, I like Revere Ware because it so it helps keep the And when we're making a medicinal it's very important and low, very low heat. So how I like to do this is take my pot, put some water in it and like what I've got here, You may actually have which is fine as well. And then I'll just go ahead and I'll put my bowl right And then I'm going to put just to meet the lowest possible setting, which on this little cooktop is minimum. And so set it to your lowest setting. Now what if you don't have a double boiler or you don't have any setup like this where you can kind of Can you do this directly on the stovetop? Yes, but again, you're very careful about that. And depending on what you may even have one of those top that are called some of the heat. You want to make sure letting this get very hot. You want your herbs and oil to steep somewhere between maybe to about 110 degrees Fahrenheit. And if you don't have a basically that's the So you really are looking for something that's more warm than hot. Now for the stovetop method, all you need to do is put of your double boiler. And if I use this method, generally what I do is do with the sun method. I just measure out about three of the herbs that I want to use and put those down into the But regardless of how much you're making or what herbs you're using, you're just going to want and you're just going to want many ways as you did when you were... If you were using the sun method. You just want to make sure Now once you pour your in the top part of your double boiler and you've got all of what you're going to do is go ahead and take this double boiler, my makeshift double boiler, and you're going to put that of very low simmering water. Now what if you don't have a double boiler or you don't have any double boiler like this? Then you'll be putting your directly into your pot. You'll be making sure that with the olive oil. And then again, very, very low simmer. Watch it carefully. And you're really looking for something that doesn't get hot, but just gets warm. Now there are differences this should simmer on the stovetop or in a double boiler. Herbalists will vary and say Some herbalists will even recommend when doing the double boiler approach, maybe going as long as one to two hours. But I think about 60 minutes And you will definitely to being ready, because the aroma of the herbs, the volatile oils, the essential oils are really And the oil you're going to That's a good sign that is getting close to being ready. And whether you're using you can use the stovetop method. Just like whether you're you can also use the sun method. And whenever you're using or for the stovetop method, it is a good idea just to give before you proceed with covering And the reason is that of the volatile and essential oils. It's not as important or the dried herbs. They tend to release their But with the fresh, definitely The most important thing to keep in mind when you do the stovetop method, is that you're really looking not hot, no boiling, nothing like that. Because you don't want those volatile or essential oils. Well, we'll go ahead and let that steep. And then the next method the third method is the oven method. Now I'm not a huge fan of the oven method, but I wanted to share it with that is used by herbalists And so I wanted you to know and I wanted you to know how to do it. The oven method is best reserved herbal oils using dry herbs. Now all you need to do is just get a shallow baking dish, put in the amount of and then cover them with olive oil. And make sure everything's saturated. Then you're going to go ahead setting your oven at its lowest setting, which depending on what may be somewhere between to as high as 200 degrees Fahrenheit. And to a certain extent, this is why I'm not a huge because I do feel that because most ovens can't go much below 150 degrees Fahrenheit. Now if you have an oven maybe the temperature is somewhere in the 110 degree Fahrenheit range, that may be an option. Maybe if you have an oven and it too maintains with the light on, both ovens are off, you're just going on the pilot and they maintain a temperature around 110 degrees Fahrenheit, that may be very useful as well. It's really one of these things to experiment if you want And then that also that involves experimentation. Herbalists vary on their you should keep your dried in your oven to extract and essential oils that you'll need. So it can be as little as 30 minutes, it can be as long as six hours. There's really a wide But if you decide that And again, very similar it's really a matter of when of those essential oils, really being released And it is recommended that you do start checking your herbs in that 30 to 60-minute timeframe, and maybe move them around see how the fragrance is, the aroma, what exactly is going on with them. So that's the oven method. So you may need a little more time than the stovetop method. But again, that's the third with you because it is about it and hear about it. But know that it's really My first choice is the sun method. And my second choice is when is the stovetop method. Well, this is becoming very fragrant, so I'm going to turn my Yeah, it's just warm. I And then we're just going to strain out our medicinal herbal oil. And now we've got another of our medicinal herbal oil. We can just go ahead and Now I just want to talk that you may run into. And so this way we'll cover them here. And that way, if you're making this oil, and then over the next couple of weeks as you're storing this, you see some things happening in your jar or in your bottle. And I want to give you some What's most likely to happen, especially if you've used fresh herbs, is that you may find that there is some moisture in your oil, and that moisture, when with a lid, may cause some condensation, and then that condensation And that can create a a problem for the development of mold. A way to prevent that problem between the bottle or jar and the lid that will absorb any moisture. You could use a little You could use a little bit that I'm very fond of using when I strain my bone You can cut little square Or you can use some something as simple as just a plain old coffee filter. And you can even double this over if you think that you might have... Or even what would that be, quadrupling, if you think that moisture And then just put your lid on, and now you're all set. You've got something that's And this is really going to help cut down on any potential spoilage Now you can go ahead and store Preferably in a dark cool pantry. Now I am using a clear bottle exactly what we were doing. However, if you have any dark bottles like what I share for you that but whenever you might that are throwing away dark bottles, either dark green or dark brown, and they're just putting them in their recycling bin and whatnot, you could ask them if you could have them, because dark bottles are to store away any medicinal So store this away in your cool pantry, and it should stay fresh And I want to share one more tip with you regarding medicinal herbal oils. When you smell your oil, it should smell very fresh, If you ever go to smell your herbal oil and you really find it very off-putting, some people may immediately but if it is very off-putting, chances are it has gone rancid. And do not use it. Even used externally, to ever use rancid oil, whether to ingest it or Another question you may is can you mix herbs to make And yes, you can definitely do that. What you'll want to do is, Rosemary Gladstar's books on herbs, or really any herbalists that you like, read about the combinations By complimentary I mean because they have similar with particular ailments that you need for whatever your herbal oil for. For example, herbs that are camomile and calendula and lavender. They're all very good for the And then they also have additional camomile and lavender So sometimes if you're having maybe you've got a and you want to put something a mixture of an herbal oil that also has herb in it but also help with sleep and can work very nicely together. And this is the type of thing time by reading more books properties of herbs and which Now let's move on and use specifically our calendula to make a medicinal herbal salve. Now for the master recipe for making a medicinal herbal salve, you want to have one cup of and one quarter cup of beeswax. Now when it comes to the beeswax, you can have little beeswax or if you have a solid piece of beeswax, you can just grate that. Now, as I said, the master recipe is one cup and a quarter cup of beeswax. However, I'm going to cut that in half because I want to make a smaller portion. So I'm going to use a half and an eighth of a cup of bees wax. Now this is generally and generally it's best And like we did with the oil, I've just got my makeshift which is going to work perfectly. But if you want to do on your stove, again, just You can put your medicinal You can put your bees wax in here, and you're just going You're going to want to keep everything on its lowest setting. Now I'm just going to go ahead and measure out my half cup And I'm just going to right into the top of my double boiler. Now I'm going to go ahead of my beeswax pellets. I'm going to add those And once I get all those in, I'm going to put my burner And I'm just going to watch this, and I'm going to give it a little stir and I'm going to keep my eye on it. And once all the bees wax is melted, I'll remove it from the heat. Well, I've just let that bees and periodically I've It's pretty much all melted. Now just a few little pieces. I've already turned the heat off because the water And I'm just going to continue bits and bobs of beeswax that are leftover will continue to melt. Well, all the beeswax is melted, and now what we need to do is our test. Now don't skip this step, because this is what's going to guarantee that you're going to have a perfect salve. You're going to want to get a plate. And then you're going to want of your medicinal herbal And you're going to want Just pour it right down onto your plate. And then what we're going to for about a minute. Well, I just took this out of the freezer, and the reason that we do this see what the consistency once it cools. If when you do this test, your salve seems a little You can just start adding a If you find that your salve is really hard and almost too thick to spread, then you can just add a and then do the test again. And chances are on that second pass you're going to have the perfect salve. Now the consistency of I can get some on my and it rubs in beautifully. It spreads beautifully on my skin. Since I'm happy with the I'm going to go ahead back into my warm salve here, because I don't want to waste anything. Now just so that you I'm going to pour this into a clear jar. This is just a little But what I recommend is if you have a dark glass jar, all the better. And some people also like stainless steel tins. If you've got one of Always being able to protects the essential oils that are in our medicinal herb oil, as well as our medicinal herbal salves. So the more that we can and from heat, the better. So if you have a dark colored jar or a little stainless steel tin, and then you go ahead and you're all set. Now what if you want to so to speak, of your salve? Can you go ahead and add to this salve? Yes, you can certainly do that. And again, you just want to be aware of what essential oils to the medicinal herbal and that you're now turning into a salve. So for example, if you wanted to put you could definitely do that. And I would really start on the small side as opposed to the larger side. And when I say small side, I mean, in terms of drops. With just a half a cup of I would probably start of an essential oil of my choice. If I had done the full cup, then maybe I would have done But it's often best to than the higher end, because Well, this is definitely just warm, definitely easy enough to We never want to get these things too hot. And then what I'm going to do do this without a funnel, and I'm going to let this I'll put the cap on and then in my medicinal herb cabinet. Now if you'd like more master recipes for making herbal remedies, be sure to click on this video over here where I have a playlist easy-to-make herbal remedies And I'll see you over there in my Texas Hill Country Kitchen. Love, and God bless. (bright music)