At least you know what I think before we go carts. Okay, guys, we're ready. Upward and. Onward. I'm the original coupon queen, and field of couponing. I plan to beat my record that I set in 1980 I actually bought three of my four sons with groceries to get. My mom's mission is to save the most money and beat her previous record, and there's no Well, we're heading over to the first aisle. All right. So this we have the largest We have 40 of these. The retail price of the big cup is $0.66 They're on sale for $0.50 each. I have a quarter off my final cost, $0.25. And this is a great winter snack. My kids tummies will be warm all winter What about cookies? Any cookies? Well, that. And I have coupons. When I go shopping with my sons, I like to Let's get two of these or the regular ones, Wait a second. I don't know if Mark. And but they're not gonna eat them. Yeah well no let's get well there's only. I was also thinking of. Those. Let's get a double stuff and let's get I get the vanilla, you get a vanilla. So can I get these double chocolate cookies, I hate to disappoint you, but today we're Next time I'm going to make the list in. So listen, we have five different cake mixes. So I'm going to let you pick out whatever Blueberry. No, no I like chocolate. Really? Double chocolate. Let's get one. Chocolate. Everything you get You're going to get this carrot. Okay, okay. I don't want carrot today. It was pretty standard. My brothers and I are It's just normal for us. You got what you want. You got the dark I'm going to get my carrot. Angel food, you Him have his pick. He hasn't had a chance to Doesn't always choose the best thing. All Which one do you want? I'm getting the super moist. All right. That's good. My mom is the best mom in the whole entire Okay, so I think we're done. But what I want to check with all of you is, So I think that we are ready to head over to Hi. Hi. How are you? I have a lot of groceries. Princess, I'm actually going to take out my I won't, I won't. And I'm going to step out until I can see Well, thank you so much. Gonna be the single largest check out you I've never seen this much stuff in my life. Definitely taking that carrot cake so I'll I actually switched the carrot cake. Oh, you weren't looking. And I actually surprised about later. Final total 714. Almost $200 more than the biggest one I ever If it doesn't work, do you have $714? I have some well, I was a little surprised at I wasn't quite expecting that. Actually, today is a discount day and you So now your total is 642 92. So I got $69 off just for reaching my Yes. Do you have any coupons today? I sure do. Now let's see what we can save. Is this the longest you've ever been in the This is the longest I've ever been anywhere. See these coupons? Have any expiration Most of these do not have any expiration When I first started this 40 years ago. You mean to tell me you held out for 40 Just. I'm down to my last five coupons. I have the last coupon in my hand. And this is the moment of truth. In total after your coupons is $39.61. Thank you very much. Thank you. For $39, it'll be my treat. How's that? My total retail today was I got that total down to $39.61, for a total anniversary. At this Indiana supermarket, extreme couponer largest shopping trip ever. But he was unaware of his store's strict ten of the same variety of a certain There's a limit of ten like items redeemed in Okay, you can't have more than ten like items We're going to have to go change out first. These pastas, we're going to make sure all We will be back in a second. I'll be right here. This is awful. It is the worst feeling ever having to put it for free. Six. After rearranging and restocking his cart so same type of item, Tyler is once again ready He will now have to do multiple transactions planned. We will be doing six total transactions, with with the most coupons. Okay, are you ready for round two, candy? I'm ready. Okay, let's start it off. Your total is 2878. And do you have your plus card? Yes I do. Thank you. And your coupons. There you go. This is your last coupon. Your new total is 838. What's going on right now? I'm ready to get through the next four which should be a pretty large total. And then hopefully I'll get it down real Total on this order is $10. I need your card and your coupons. $2.80. That total is $10. $10 is your total. There's my coupons. Thank you. $1.80. With only one transaction to go. Tyler has purchased almost $70 worth of his need to impress his mom with this haul. Tyler still wants to spend as little of his If anything goes wrong with this final Usually, I know down to the exact dollar what the air and. It's nerve wracking sitting The total will go up and up and up. Your total's getting high. Do you have the money to pay for this? I definitely don't have that much money right Your total today is $224.45. I don't have that much money in my wallet, so Could I have your store card? Yes you can. All right. This is terrifying me. Start dropping. Dropping. It's dropping. Dropping, dropping. Coupons. Your total after coupons is 3753. Whoop whoop whoop. Yeah that's right, that's Your total today was $293.23. You've paid only $53.11. That's great. Yeah. Thank you so much. So excited. I know my. Mom is going to be so happy too, when she At this North Carolina supermarket. Couponing sister Siobhan and Mandy are to rebuild Mandy's stockpile. They now need to get cereal. Siobhan chooses the least expensive in 19 one free sale with coupons, she gets the I'm going to. Use 276 coupons, which are going to double to them $0.20 a box. While Mandy separates the boxes of cereal sister has made another mistake. Why do you have many weights? Because they're on sale. But the price is too It's buy one, get one free. You got to look at the price of the buy one. Get one free. Honey, it's 439. It's not going to make it $0.20. You don't want that. Pay attention to the price up here. Oh, yeah. That's way too much. You didn't say all that? Yes I did. No you didn't. Before they check out Mandy and Siobhan have Normally $1 nine a carton. They are on sale for a dollar, and with We're going to get 30 dozen eggs. We do not need the eggs since we have a So we are going to donate them to our local After over six hours of shopping, Siobhan and 21 transactions. How are you. Today? I'm good. How are you? I'm good, thank you. Good. This one is 5090. You have your coupons today? Sure did. All right. Today your total is $0.86. $0.86. Good deal. One 1095. So for this serial we're actually going to I ran nice and smooth. No complications. Doubled right off like they should. She would be proud. And your toilet is $0.47. All right. Very good. After four transactions, Siobhan and Mandy have only paid $2.30, and. Your total is one 3791. Your total is one 1937 $0.77 with the We are now on transaction number nine. You don't owe anything on this one. $0.50 or less, but free is the best. So now we're on transaction 1919. And your total is 5082. Okay. There's at least about 400 coupons that We're going to put you to work, baby girl. This is just a warm up. Containing all of the high value coupons that The final order is bigger than all the rest. Siobhan and Manny are calling this Ready for Big Mama? I'm ready for Big Momma. Are you sure? So I think this transaction is We hope to get it down below $5. Keeping our fingers crossed. Here we go. So we're over 300 porcupines. It's three 3380. Coupons. I don't have $300, so keep that for Just as the cashier begins scanning the trouble at the register. The register is frozen. Oh, no. Not good. I think everyone else's is too. My heart dropped to my stomach. There. Because it's not a good thing when it right. Back up and running. Okay, we're down to 140. Your total is $0.41. Granny would be so proud. Yes, she'd be happy. Today your total is $1,461. And you spent $21.23. Ha ha. Very good. Ha ha! Yes. At a Concord, North Carolina supermarket. Extreme Couponer Michelle is loaded multiple team and the town's after school program, I'd rather be sleeping instead of couponing. It's stressful and a waste of time. After close to five hours of shopping, be an extremely complicated checkout. The coupon policy states that they will only only use four of the same coupon per So I have to split it up into 32 I'm starting to get very nervous now. I wasn't so nervous before, but now I am. 2609. There's my coupons. Thank you. $0.85 O. $0.85 is good. One down, 30. One more to go. Ah, your total is $22.03. 2252 is your total. Your new total is $1.21. Your new total is 158. Your total for the 24th order is $21.43. There's my coupons. Your new total is $1.58. I'm going to need a bigger envelope. After 29 transactions, Michelle has only The most we've ever done is two cards. And this is like, what, ten? Yeah. Not having anticipated the checkout to last leave before the entire hall is rung up. I'm sorry, but I have to go. I have to go get ready for my graduation. But Michael's going to help you with the Okay, great. Thank you, thank you. Hey, Michael. Hello. How are you? Good. How are you? Your total is $24.33. A total of $0.75. The total is 2416, and with coupons it's I am so tired that my ankles are hurting. How much longer? Maybe another 30 minutes. After 39 separate transactions, already seven Michelle's total retail cost is $963.08, but She still has one final transaction to go, The last transaction, I'm ready for it and it right. The $193.35. Okay. There you go. Okay, Kayla, this is the Don't you want to come see it? Come on. Your total is 231 and you're getting $5 back It's awesome. Totally awesome. That's my receipt. It's about as tall as I You guys ready for this? I guess today I'm going to do my biggest Both my sisters and my mom and my dad are I'm going to get $900 worth of stuff and I'm Let's go shopping. Okay. The first thing we're going to get is We're going to get two of these. Only two getting two things is very extreme. Here. Oh, whoops. There goes one. Well, Brodeur just. Dropped an entire bottle of vinegar, and now And now it stinks like vinegar. He's getting a little ambitious. Way to go, Ron. They shouldn't put glass bottles this high Oh, my goodness gracious. Jim, you guys see why Brodeur coupons doesn't Okay, next thing razors. They're right here. Well, we're going to These razors retail at $1.55, and I have a We're going to get a $1.45 overage on each And I'm going to apply that money towards Okay. We have a really good deal on soda. So let's go get some of that. We're going to get 612 packs and they're all Okay, on to the next item. Oh, we missed it. We missed it. Missed the aisle. I've run back up. Don't tell. Can we get some apples? I'm gonna have to do some math here. Remember 63, 93. Okay. Many times I have been told that I cannot buy not have a coupon for it. So 66, 63. Okay. Yeah. We should have enough money to All right. I like being able to tell them And something. Okay. Let's go. You got there? Hey, who put these pickles in here? Okay, well, lucky for you, we have overage. But I'm only going to let you guys do this So go put that back. You're so bossy. If I wouldn't have noticed the pickles, then It could have messed up my entire shopping Roderick's definitely the boss when it comes It's just easier for us to let him be in Okay, I have everything on my list and let's All right. How are you today? Good. Ready for checkout? Ready? Um, it's over $300. We're just under $800, and so we have a Still getting really nervous now. Your total today is $989.98. That's a lot. I'm nervous about it. That's a lot of money. Yeah. I looked over at my parents, and I because they would have had to pay for right. I have a feeling you have some The total is at $735.23. I'm nervous. Yeah, I'm not sure how this is So I'm nervous to see how it works out. This is the last stack of coupons. Your total today is $5.23. Yeah. Thank you. This one's on me. My shopping trip was great. I was able to get $989.98 worth of stuff. Down to $5.23. That is a 99.5% savings. We did it. I can't believe we just did that.