Everyone knows that a giant rock from outer and wiped out the dinosaurs. Now with advanced technology, researchers showing what really happened. And not only this, they think they know where Is Earth the target for another huge space You'll be surprised, and probably shocked So now get ready to experience the disaster The giant asteroid's impact into shallow ago was bad enough. But then an amalgam of additional disasters ignited and tsunamis inundated distant shorelines. The researchers found that the first day of and released a new record of this day of chaos Sciences. Their timeline was developed using high-resolution imaging and magnetic measurements of hundreds from Chicxulub, one of the largest impact Imagine you were somewhere in North America ruled the Earth, and you were looking up at You would have probably seen what appeared But if you watched this peculiar light for in brightness, but barely move. What you would be looking at is not a star, 80 kilometers wide [7 - 50 miles] on a direct kilometers per hour [45,000 mph]. Hours later, the asteroid plows through Earth's Yucatan peninsula is today. At impacts of that speed, Earth's atmosphere Smaller space rocks, called meteors, hit the and decelerate rapidly at high altitudes, while some bigger pieces of rock survive and But the mountain-sized Chicxulub asteroid into a puddle. It maintained its velocity and plunged through three seconds. The asteroid shrieks over Central America, would shatter eardrums across all the continents. The dinosaurs were likely terrified and running just about to happen, but if any animal was have been instantly vaporized within minutes. In fact, except for sea turtles and crocodiles, would survive... The mountain-sized space rock falls so quickly Under intense compression, the air heats to Before the asteroid even hits, compressed sea that covers the Yucatan. Milliseconds later, the rock plunges through In that moment, a chain reaction of events The impacting asteroid exerts so much pressure fluids. The flowing up and down movement of the earth a cannonball in a swimming pool. The initial splash in all directions is followed created by the asteroid rebounds to the surface. The first wall of earth gouged outward at high [20 miles]. The impact hole nearly breaches Earth's the delayed vertical splash, the Earth rises to heights taller than Mount Everest. Within minutes this mountain of debris almost explosions, leaving behind a smaller mound At the same moment the asteroid strikes the it converts the kinetic energy of a 7.5 billion [10 miles per second] into searing heat in The Chicxulub impactor delivers approximately of energy [1,300,000,000,000,000,000,000,000] bombs. The kinetic energy transferred by the asteroid to temperatures far hotter than the surface The heat rips electrons from atoms, ionizing in excess of 10,000 degrees turbocharged with speeds. The heated, rapidly expanding air and near-instantaneous impact shockwave itself forms a massive blast than 1,600 kilometers per hour [1,000 mph]. If this asteroid hit the same spot today, deafen you in New York, and blow out glass The Chicxulub impactor rings Earth like a Waves in Earth's crust radiate away from [2.5 miles per second]. These waves then trigger fault-slipping earthquakes If you were on the other side of the world, after impact. The impact triggers tsunamis as high as skyscrapers. The first of them hit gulf coastlines within Waves ranging from 600 feet to perhaps as Mexico and the southern United States and The waves temporarily reverse the flow of tidal bores. Tsunamis smash into the eastern coast of the max out at 600-foot-high walls of water that coasts. Within 15 hours of impact, waves arrive on Depending on local topography, the ocean sweeps to the sea when the waters finally retreat. It already sounds like Armageddon, but even When the big rock strikes, its splash accounts on ballistic trajectories, some at speeds These rocks exited Earth's gravitational this material probably reached the moon. But the majority of ejected debris returned These glass-like chunks, called tektites; of marbles, pelt the earth at speeds ranging 200 mph] in lethal quantities. Regardless of where any remaining dinosaurs hailstorm. But these glass bullets didn't need to hit As these tektites fall, their friction with to set fires across the planet. By some estimates, the combined heat of the of an oven set to broil. Most of the world's trees burn, which is the impact are those that nest on the ground. Of the few larger land animals to avoid extinction, heat. They either could burrow like small mammals, like crocodiles or turtles. Even if the poor dinosaurs were on the other to find protection from the initial heat blast. In a final piece of terrible luck for the area rich in oil and sulfur. The impact ejects 100 billion tons of vaporized into the atmosphere, which then condenses torrents of acid rain that acidified the oceans. In the higher latitudes, continental-wide day. But the global deluge doesn't last long, and explosively ejects 150 football stadiums This oil condenses in the stratosphere as a coat of black paint. Unlike the sulfur and wildfire smoke, the stopping it from raining back down. And that becomes another big problem. The soot layer remains in the atmosphere, Earth's surface by 90 percent for at least The initial ovenlike heat brought on by the long-lasting freeze. Global temperatures drop by an average of The only places on Earth to avoid this deep which were tropical islands during this time. In the global chill, evaporation almost ceases Nearly every spot on earth outside of these Where did this giant rock come from, and is Researchers using a supercomputer studied The two-member team of Avi Loeb and Amir Siraj, originated from the Oort cloud; a sphere of It could have been a much larger comet that field and sent close to the sun where it broke These fragments can cross the Earth's orbit years. Judging from this study, it's not a matter from outer space, but when. On Saturday, December, 11, 2021, NASA revealed Nereus screamed past Earth around 3.8 million of 6.5 kilometers per second [14,719 mph] any slight deviation in its orbit could put the Earth in the future. Astronomers are tracking this potentially 1.1 million kilometers [745,000 miles] of Buy your flowers and get those proposals done Keep in mind the asteroid that caused the just 20 meters in size. The bad thing is that we don't have any space rock. However, NASA's DART mission, or double if a spacecraft can autonomously navigate with it, causing an kinetic impact that could the earth. DART's target is Dimorphos; an asteroid Didymos. The spacecraft is set to arrive in late September kilometers [7 million miles] from Earth. However, it is estimated that the collision fraction of 1% Stopping a 10 kilometer wide or bigger asteroid kilometers per second will take a lot more the world would need to try nuclear weapons Maybe you have an idea how we could stop a famous! Let us know what you think, and make sure happening in our universe. Thanks for watching. Congratulations! Our channel has reached over a million subscribers! We thank you, friends, and we are very happy Thanks!