You said on the call today without AI, asked me. the market in the stock price. you talked about the new expectations, of your customers, customers like And so I'm wondering if you could give your resetting expectations was related some of the large customers that I Yeah. things and I think the first thing we opportunity for the industry. short term. couple of years, has created a lot of And like all our peers in the industry, tremendous opportunity for this So that's the first thing we have said. to build up a really strong opportunity Now, in the short term, I think you're Not everyone is surfing yet on the AI I think some companies have been doing comes to mind TSMC because they are the second one, the process that is So they're very strong, I think you see weeks to come, a very, very strong Now what we also said is that not every in AI. traditional application, mobile, PC And that part of the market is not, you Right. So we see progress and people are But it's slower maybe than a lot of us And I would say that concerned quite a few all the companies, in fact, that today the AI boost. market we see today at least. a full recovery until 2026? say because, you know, it is something You know, last week people were maybe a more heads up. watching. for example, we have seen that people we When do they start to push the We don't know, because, you know, when bit of time before you look at the the But, you know, long term, we see growth. means that at some point of time this By the way, we still see as a growth For ASML. the growth is not as high as then, but still growth here. year. quantify that in in very high accuracy Got it. At one stage, they accounted for almost What you shared with the market was that historical perspective, where it total revenue for you as a company. much of that changing viewpoint on China versus limits on what Chinese controls? So maybe first a step back. talked about II. manufacturing, very advanced chips. what we call mainstream semiconductor. Iot, you know, all those chips that you Making those products smarter. basically manufacturing today. course, the restriction that have been prevented China to move to a very So the focus of China is on mainstream The demand for that as boomed in 2021, The demand we had in China in 2021/22 time. extremely high and ASML was struggling Therefore, we couldn't deliver a large Backlog in China grew. markets. we got tools we could ship to China. So the level of business we had with the non-delivery capacity in 20 to 21 And we have always explained that, you in China, almost 50%. This was a peak resulting from from Right. 20, 25%. mainstream semiconductor. those number all the time. the way we think about China as a as a the sense that that many countries principally have it have have been Export controls on the country. more stringent, for example? advanced machines. could extend to the duty level, which is products? If you go back to the the root cause or export control, it was to prevent China EUV is not in China by not having you in We pretty much stop the ability of China nanometer nodes. may see some of that in the press very carefully. have placed China. say 10 to 15 years behind when it comes We always talk about China. that while those restrictions have has been done with other player in most advanced EUV technology as we know So there's been a lot of work done every want this technology gap. advanced technology. the ward a few years ago that without That's also true for China. there, based on your interaction with with the foreign ministry. restrictions will become even more machinery like Asml's? landscape, I think it's clear that the pressure on their allies for more Now, the question, the discussion we had would say the European the day, we are a European technology Right? this discussion with. the Netherlands? And as a result, what is right for ASML? comes to national security, which has And where does it stop? Because like I say, a lot of the focus semiconductor. know, AI. So that's the discussion we have The pressure will continue to be there landscape, that's what it is. more sophisticated over time. And I think that a country like the we belong to. discuss what makes sense for us. Union to be to work in such close in in in making it difficult for China At what stage and do you find yourself maybe the EU government would push back the U.S. Well, I think, you know, as a European I would say resident, not citizen, as I like to know that they do what is Netherlands. things. we don't make the law. I don't know half of what they know, of And there may be good reason to And if there is a good reason to do so would go with it, of course. the discussion with them so that they understand the industry a bit better and decide what is good again overall for the Netherlands. customers in China and globally. motivations for export controls interests and regional security In other words, how much do you think becoming economically more competitive are legitimate security threats? So, Tom, I could almost turn your back referee question. happening is more and more people are And if you look at the press, I think That's one of the debate. We know that there is, of course, a know, the US, Europe, China. People question how much of that has a play The other debate you start to to to see it help us or does it hurt us? the US that start to also question is And I think that's the key debate to end of the day we need our governments And I think those debate are far more they were two years ago. I think it's very good because most probably this more rational discussion and a more So I think we can only welcome debate in Thank you. Let's bring things a little bit more discussed with the Dutch cabinet it country. the Netherlands shuts down and we cannot fine, you should accept the Now, the Dutch government, to its will spend billions of euros in the My question is, is that enough? coalition led by a far right lawmaker strictest ever anti-immigration to restrict labour migration. just domestic, but around the world. at work bringing this anti-immigrant? The Dutch government. So here also maybe you should take a bit I think that this is almost an issue for What you describe as it's happening in countries as we speak. happening in the U.S. discussion with our government, every ASML in Europe, in the Netherlands, Everyone wants that. But to be able to have company like You need to have access to capital, You need to have a place to build your All those conditions have to be there. country, China, the US, whatever, not but those conditions should be as good competitive because this industry is ever take any success for granted. Of course, the story of ASML is great, very hard work. have to to to preserve. there. also a good way to summarize what the And our government has to walk that. of topic of the day because that's that's a And I think what we have said is we have than 100 nationalities. been an absolute condition for success. Now, the good news is, as you say, and I when, you know, you get down to that maybe when they run a campaign or Does it make sense for ASML to consider outside of the Netherlands as at least a have access to those ingredients that made ASML a great company. high for us because we are developing Technology, in fact, is a combination of bring together. Italy and Germany and Italy and France. Our engineer, our R&amp;D is now, of course, We have R&amp;D center also in the US. in the Netherlands and one very of our tools, we want to keep our manufacturing center, because what you make a new step on our machines, so we years, like our customer. build a new machine and we have to teach be able to build a new machine. in ASML that we want to keep R&amp;D And we would like to do that in the So the threshold to change that I think And I would say new things like stay in the Netherlands so that we can the Dutch government, with the European support of this government in our So it's not really being considered now elsewhere. we will only grow those operation based countries, but we don't at all consider outside of the Netherlands. European Union has a multi tens of manufacturing capacity with the goal of of the global market by 2030. expectation and what are some of the overcome? region's capacity to be a bigger global market. So I think it's very simple. of target, you have to build capacity. ship our system today, are still being shipped to Asia. years. place for semiconductor to get to 50% You have to take more than 50% of the We don't see that yet. not as fast as some people hope. some some major delay, right, in some of So this is pointing to more superbly a But, you know, you only can start to when the capacity build is exceeding 30% is not the case yet. us that we have an election in the U.S. You might have heard about it. Do you? Would you expect conditions for the under one candidate versus the other in Well, you know, there's a lot of fear. You know, I follow the election in the polarization, I think, in the debates. say, shared by both sides. That's one. So we don't expect major changes there. on China to remain. out. To be honest, I think. Do you think that pressure will be you Do you expect it to be ratcheted up? pressure will be there after I don't It's speculation. to do more than the other, I don't know. that most probably would not come And I think that, you know, this is what months. At Bloomberg Tech, we like to talk about You've got a new one coming out high NA EUV. We showed an image of it earlier, $380 One of our sizes of the scopes. size of a small Amsterdam flat. raised concerns about the price tag. like the high NA EUV's capability. What's your what? could affect demand for it? about 100% market share in this. No. many times in the last few months, and I We never build a product in a small with more expensive than the previous one. price of all our product has been higher And the reason for that is that the So I think the reason why we make a look at new design. at the ability to go down another two, industry at the end of the day is the You know, someone a customer told me, have this three nanometer node. because this would have been too energy consumption. all application like we all dream of, three nodes to make sure that the cost consumption goes down a NA is going to You know what we dream of in ASML contribute to that. to enable Moore's Law to go with, of Now there's a bunch of other technology, You know, I was also discussing with it came, you know, like it's a big bang, And we know that as long as we continue another big bang at some point which no But this has been the story of going to contribute to, right? value of it is right and they will lithography product. My last question for you before I let We saw during the pandemic the the what supply chain. necessary for ASML to to somehow use its over the supply chain. making whether that would be making one of. Yeah. way, because, you know, we said the expected in 25. build the capability we were missing in So that part estimate has not stopped And we have, of course, had those our suppliers, our partners. They understand our industry as much as We call a relationship with Zeiss two I mean, the business is the same and we do things. of our supplier, we have a very strong the supply chain end of the industry. acquiring some of the suppliers. cannot scale fast enough, if they cannot invest. that. just too much too quickly. brought them in. the exception. separated because this allows us even to agile on our product and with our So the model is very powerful, we Christophe, thanks for being with us Please join me in thanking ASML CEO