On April 26, 1986 the Soviet Union's Chernobyl The explosion was caused by major fundamental disregard for protocol by some of the higher reservations from more junior members of the But before we get into all of that, let's Nuclear energy is created by splitting apart isotopes. Isotopes are variations of an element that are more stable than others. A fissile isotope breaks apart when a neutron When it breaks apart, that's called nuclear trying to become more stable. When it does, kinetic energy that's converted And that energy is ultimately what powers So, why would we use nuclear energy and not Well, the energy released from one fission than the energy released when one fossil fuel Now back to Chernobyl. There were many reasons Chernobyl exploded. To understand them let's first take a look The Chernobyl RBMK-1000 reactor is a model never been used anywhere else. Nuclear power is considered safe--as long are used, and the reactor is designed to keep All reactors in operation today have this didn't. Like all modern reactors, Chernobyl used uranium isotope of uranium that's really prone to When uranium-235 is hit by a neutron it splits One of the atoms sometimes produced by uranium-235's role in the accident, so I'll get back to Those 2-3 neutrons released are important continuing the chain reaction and continuing The RBMK-1000 reactor used large graphite slowing them down by reducing their energy. Although it may sound counterintuitive, fast-moving apart uranium-235, they simply whizz by too By slowing them down it increased the chance cause it to undergo fission, keeping the reaction water in the reactor. And that water is essential. The whole point of uranium-235 fission is reactor into steam. That steam is what spins the turbines that the electrical grid. Ok, so now we have a good idea of how we can about if we want to slow it down or even stop The general way to slow down a reactor is apart uranium-235. And the way to do that is by having neutron So, in addition to being used to create steam, as a neutron absorber. Every element absorbs neutrons to some degree, While each individual hydrogen and oxygen there is so much water in the reactor that If that water were to disappear, it would Another absorber is xenon-135, the uranium-235 Xenon-135 is a very good absorber - one of Just a tiny bit can completely stop a nuclear And finally, boron carbide control rods. Boron carbide absorbs neutrons extremely well, The RBMK-1000 reactor had over 200 of them, and increase the rate of fission. So, all of these things work together to keep Let's, very briefly, turn to physics to from the ones in operation today. Today's nuclear reactors are designed to sound very complicated, but here's the basic If the water in a reactor starts to run low get out of control. That was NOT the case with Chernobyl. To cut costs, the RBMK reactors were the only with a positive void coefficient, which is So, unlike other reactors, as water boiled created, instead of power decreasing, it increased, to form, and the cycle to continue. Ok, so, I'll admit that there are a lot bring them all together. What exactly happened the night of April 26, Well the irony of that night was that they reactor 4. They wanted to see if, in the event that the safety systems running until the backup generator That safety test was, as you'd imagine, The safety test required that the nuclear by lowering the control rods--but it was turned allowed. Turning it down so low was an issue because neutrons. Some Xenon-135 is unavoidable -- but you don't power too low. And that's what happened on the night of That night, the power was way too low, and But because of all the xenon built up they power was to start removing control rods, and keep uranium-235 fission from happening Under orders from shift supervisor and deputy made the disastrous mistake of removing all violation of safety procedures. What they should have done was raise the power days, to get it to a place where the things again balanced and there wasn't a danger With the control rods out the power went up, And xenon continued to build, keeping reactor The next step in the safety test was to shut water through the reactor. Without that water, uranium fission increased, no stopping the next series of events. Power began to increase, and with that, water turned to steam. With the water pumps shut down for the safety That positive void coefficient that I mentioned And steam pressure was building in the reactor. Fast. As power shot up, at least one of the workers to--they hit the emergency shutdown button, to stop the reaction. But they were past the point of no return--too On top of that, when those control rods started flaw. The tips of the control rods were made of So before the control rods could help, that And, just moments later, the crazy amount to explode. As it did, atmospheric oxygen rushed in and Graphite was now the fuel in a combustion The damage of the immediate explosion was The world became aware of the events at Chernobyl reactor in Sweden--much of eastern Europe The night of the explosion only two plant whom were firefighters who eventually put syndrome. Within 2 weeks, 28 of them were dead. Chernobyl serves as a reminder of what can In the words of the late Dr. Valery Legasov, commission investigating the Chernobyl disaster, and sound man-machine interaction. This is a lesson that Chernobyl taught us". The ruins of the Chernobyl reactor now sit isotopes under that shell and in the surrounding of years, which means they'll exist long us, are gone.