In late 1944, the Allied forces were islands. While Germany was months away American troops were closing in on Japan, The Japanese had lost several major battles, struggling to compete with the Allied industrial they were unwilling to surrender. In the later stages of the Second World War in the naval power. Increasingly unable to make effective forces turned to suicide attacks, using pilots missiles, in the hope of destroying Allied ships The suicide attackers were known as the kamikaze. Their name comes from two Japanese words, and usually referred to the old gods 'Kaze' meanwhile means wind or air, and so wind'. The term was first used in connection in the late 13th century, when Mongol In 1944, a Special Attack Force was formed, kamikaze's significant action took place during The kamikaze's first significant action which took place at sea around the Philippines attempted to prevent Allied forces precipitating one of the largest During the battle, five kamikaze A6M Zeros their targets or were destroyed by anti-aircraft they aimed instead for USS St Lo, diving into the first major battleship sunk by a kamikaze attack. were made. In total, five ships were sunk and After the Battle of Leyte Gulf, the Japanese But before we look at that, a quick World of Warships. This is strategy-based game The ships are designed from historical blueprints, - including the Pacific Theatre in WW2, and Most of the aircraft used for kamikaze strikes among them is the Mitsubishi Zero fighter. of the skies through 1941 and 1942, but by the outclassed by more powerful American fighters. Pacific and was abandoned on the island of Taroa as a wreck, in the 1990s and later passed During the kamikaze campaign, around more than any other type, but the campaign even including wooden biplane trainer planes. Alongside the use of Zeros and other aircraft in develop an aircraft specifically designed for Work begins on the design of the Oka in 1943, made. The idea comes from a Japanese transport go nowhere, but in 1944 he's summoned to From June 1944, following heavy Japanese aircraft development transfers to the Japanese naval October 1944, with a successful test flight The IWM's Ohka is a model 11 - The Ohka is rocket-powered glider carrying It's about 6 metres long and 5 metres wide. and in its final dive its speed The Ohka's rockets had limited range, and so aircraft, typically a twin-engine Mitsubishi G4M the Ohka pilot would detach himself and aim for an enemy vessel. Once the rockets were ignited, the pilot would reach incredible speeds, making it difficult the Ohka pilot to control. Updated versions of the aircraft's flaws, but these were not developed The Allied troops who encountered these a Japanese word meaning foolish. The idea of the West. But for the Japanese, their culture under certain circumstances, was honourable and suicide in order to avoid the shame of defeat. mission as one of suicide. Instead, they saw it a ruler widely believed to be divine. The cherry blossom is a popular symbol in Japanese beauty is short-lived, and soon the petals fall For the Japanese, the cherry blossom has become What did you think of the kamikaze? The whole tactic...? Bloody idiots. For the a few that succeeded. Certainly did a hell of a against. But the majority of them just crashed down, or they ran out of petrol, or they missed trained. They were only taught to fly a plane from so many guns on the ship. Incredible. Not all sorts of things. But if you've got that's it, nothing's going to stop him, doesn't The Japanese ramped up their kamikaze campaign, during the battle of Leyte Gulf and had The Allies had a number of defences against the key defence was combat air patrol by naval aircraft before they reached Allied ships. to suppress Japanese airfields, attacking and attacking aircraft on the ground. these were small warships fitted with radar. these ships provided early warning of incoming these ships were very exposed, and were often Aboard ship, the key defence was A large fleet aircraft carrier like the anti-aircraft guns, as well as dozens of such as proximity fuzes and radar gun-laying, Finally, there was damage control. By 1944 the damage control procedures. It was rare for and so a critical factor in a vessel's a ship's crew could extinguish fires, a ship's systems. These measures reduced the loss amount of time that damaged ships would need In October 1944, a special attack Squadron was the Japanese 721st Naval Air Squadron, known as the Jinrai Butai, which translates as I think inevitably different pilots had typically thought of as being fanatical zealots, It's likely that some really did feel that and acted more out of a sense of obligation were volunteers; after the volunteers ran out By late 1944, soon after the first successful reach of the home islands. The Ohka went into By the spring of 1945, the Japanese strategic captured the Marshall and Palau islands. By are bases for US heavy bombers able to strike devastating air raids, including against Tokyo At sea, US submarines were sinking Japanese vital raw materials. On land, Japanese manpower as well as in New Guinea and the south Pacific. Pacific island, it's actually part of Japan political and psychological significance too. 1 April 1945 - the largest amphibious became the bloodiest of the battles in the For the invasion of Okinawa, the Allies assemble carriers, 18 battleships, two dozen cruisers escorts. The Allied invasion fleet has enormous At first American troops make rapid progress, the initial landings. Instead the Japanese particularly in Okinawa's mountainsides. These In addition, tens of thousands of Okinawan At the Battle of Okinawa, Kamikaze naval defence strategy. And it was here Around 850 Ohka were built in total, In March 1945, the Ohka flew their first One of Ohka's biggest weaknesses was its limited a larger bomber plane. Its parent aircraft first combat sortie, the Japanese attacked 30 Zero fighters. They were intercepted by the loss of every single bomber and their Ohka. of Okinawa, six G4Ms carried Ohkas into battle. targets, but the USS West Virginia was damaged. nine G4Ms and Ohkas went into battle again. USS Mannert L. Abele. Over April, May and Ohkas and G4MS against the US fleet off Okinawa, of the G4Ms were destroyed, and many likely falling victim to anti-aircraft fire. to fly Kamikaze missions with Zero fighters and a Between April and June the Japanese flew The British Pacific Fleet also came under Significant damage was done to the Task Force, decks of the British carriers meant they faired carriers' with flight decks made of wood. significant role in the Battle of Okinawa, but it Around 350 vessels were hit by kamikaze. ships sunk, none were strategically Among the damaged ships were thirty-one aircraft for instance to Bunker Hill, the damage was severe But the kamikaze could never inflict enough Nonetheless, their human toll was appalling. attacks, and with them the lives of 4000 Allied naval personnel, and wounded many more. I think a big one is faulty assumptions. would be able to evade Allied They overestimated the likelihood and overestimated how much damage a crashing also overestimated how much impact the kamikaze they thought the psychological effect of their reduce the Americans' will to fight the