The weeds and stones in front of the house The two farmhouses are about 50 square meters. Probably built before the 1980s It is where the villagers store their farm tools . The house is a bit shabby Fortunately, it doesn't leak rain of the house is relatively simple I just want to spend a little money to renovate it Make a tea stone Build a stove or something. The house faces south The yard is about 100 square meters. fence around it. The fence is covered with roses and wire curtains Plant hydrangeas at the corners Then lay the red bricks The kind of winding road There is half an acre of fertile land to the east of the house. Spring ploughing is coming soon What to plant? I'm an amateur at growing vegetables I'll listen to everyone's suggestions then . Yes , if conditions permit. I also want to raise a flock of white geese Kill two chickens that lay eggs. Many wishes No more words I 'd better go to work. My wife is a spendthrift and I dare not say No woman can do it. I don't like bags or cars . I love tea, flowers and poetry . To death wave after wave It's a table once the tea set is changed . Start laying outdoor decking Floor and keel length 4 meters Including shipping cost , total 1,000 rice The land to be paved is 5 meters long 1.8 meters wide . Because the floor was bought a little early. Always keep it outdoors deformed by wind and rain So it is somewhat difficult to lay it out. My husband won't let me use the cutting machine. Each piece of wood is sawn by hand . The nails were hammered down. So the progress is a bit slow Plus loss 24 planks were used up in a flash. There is still one square that has not been paved. to the market tomorrow . This is the look of no money yet Let me show you how I built it. First I went to a nearby lumber mill and spent 300 yuan to select 6 fir trees. After transporting home Use a sickle to peel off the skin bit by bit I spent half a day peeling the wood Four 50 cm deep bases were dug. I inserted the four pillars into the dug bases. Then pour the concrete My husband is very busy these days. These days, I rely on my sister-in-law to help me Wait until the pillars and cement are completely solidified. Only then can you get on the crossbar I'm going to start by drilling a hole at each end of the beam. be based on the diameter of each pillar When putting up the beam Thanks to the villagers passing by Help us to put the beam firmly I also used climbing nails for reinforcement I painted the wood with a layer of wood wax. Wait until the next day I spent 220 yuan Bought 10 meters of reed mat put it on the bottom layer. Looking up from the bottom of the shed, isn't it flatter and more beautiful? For waterproofing I spent another 200 yuan to buy 7 resin tiles Each resin tile should be covered with thatch The thatch is fixed with wire on both sides On resin tiles A total of 21 pieces of straw were used It cost 130 yuan Before the waving also necessary to fix the keel on the reed mat then Put the thatched branches and tiles on the reed mat Just cover and fix it like this See the finished effect from the inside Look at him in the storm . Here's another picture of me not working I'll work hard for a few more years. I won't do it. I'll go to the countryside and build a few small houses. This is leftover from someone else's home. This time I invited a big guy Attacked my true self An excavator is an excavator The ditch was cleaned in less than an hour . Then we pulled two more carts of stones. of the ditch need to be reinforced and decorated Maybe I didn't communicate well with the master. The master accidentally stacked the stones neatly. , yes, yes One click and you're done say it and you will understand The drainage ditch has been completed We are now planting flowers on the ridges on both sides of the field . The soil for growing flowers is not the same as the soil for growing vegetables Still need to improve This is dead farm chaff This is dead farm chaff Now mix it in the soil Let the soil breathe better You can also add some fertilizer to the soil. Sprinkle it with a layer of wood ash The villagers in the village said that there are many But mine is Pu'er I planted it there first . The ladies all say I'm strong. I moved this out by moving bricks Everyone asks me what purple flower is. Most of them are mainly Ma Ying Dan Dutch chrysanthemum Because they are cold and heat resistant And the flowering period is long The creek has been dug. The gurgling stream flows down Tonight I can also sleep on the gurgling spring water Have a good dream Put wood grain on the house Let the beans climb all over the wall I was lying in the yard watching the sunset Don't drink at Mount Tai Just walking in the village have all kinds of vegetables in our fields. Whatever you want to eat is easy I don't even look at the Tianshan Snow Lotus Just for daily necessities Wait until the dead of night Lie there and watch Let's see if they are aligned . stepping on frogs at night Inside and outside the window Do whatever you want I'll build a clay stove for you to see in a few days. A week ago I was going to build a wood stove myself. But my mother-in-law is worried that I won't be able to do it well. I feel like I'm working too hard. also said he would pay for me to buy a ready-made one Buy it But what can you buy that tastes better than your own? is not it Bring your own fun Yeah I do what I say I soon got all the accessories. Chimney stove door refractory mud Everything comes back to life after spring It's time to start tossing again Sandworms, soil turning, fertilization, pruning None of the standard actions can be Then I planted the tulip bulbs I bought last year. is later than yours But it won't affect the flowers. I have been planting flowers for so many years. I still like rapeseed flowers. In early spring, the golden It 's so beautiful I just got the house in February I can't wait to repair and plant flowers I am in Lin'an , Hangzhou, the hometown of bamboo. Local materials Use bamboo to surround the courtyard A 35- meter -long bamboo fence also planted European roses and clematis under the fence . This is what it looked like when it bloomed in May last year They look a lot like Ah Zhen Fall in love with Aqiang February of this year Continue to plant the potted clematis in the ground Nanny -level soil preparation for planting is here Don't blink See you next month If you make a mistake , come back When the March wind meets the blooming flowers So I am in these fleeting years It's spring It is because of this encounter Let me feel the beauty in my heart Take a walk in the fields Pick some wild vegetables There is a rooster in the backyard Three hens Feed the whole family well . Then clean the chicken coop . Cleaned up They live comfortably too. I'm hoping to get more eggs . I plan to build a watermelon shed in the morning. When I was halfway through Today I bought 6 ducks online The furry little guy is so cute I plan to plant it in the lotus pond in front of my house. Build a duck tree Cut the purchased bamboo into short and long pieces Flame Carbonization Ready to install The villagers helped by banging it with a big hammer. So awesome 50- centimeter overhead Wait until the pond has water. You won't feel high anymore. The outer layer is wrapped with two layers of reed mats Then use the leftover resin tiles to make the roof Covered with artificial thatch Cover with bamboo strips Set a staircase Fixed at the door of the duck house Make it easy for them to get in and out Finally, the net that surrounded most of the hut This way the duck won't get lost . said she wanted to try living there Welcome our little ducks to their new home There are a lot of things they like to eat. Soon, with Hahaha You better go away. I won't give you the injection, just go away And told me to go away Take this Sprite bottle and put it on your feet This way your legs won't rot. Right, right, right, right, right Except for the paint, it's really good So I started a blind Avocado-flavored Mercury paint feels smoother than the foundation I use. My sister uses a powder purifier Wow, not bad . Meow meow, are you here to cause trouble ? Give me a bottle of white wine. was I once a map ? All collapsed ditch, which was only 50 centimeters wide, was more than doubled in size. Then put the natural hemp of the stone together Next, we dismantled the old mud that had been used for a year and a half. Replaced with new carbonized mud It is estimated that it will not be a problem to use it for four or five years The fence on the left side of the gate Cut into three identical pieces of snow Our New World This bead has been cut for almost a year. I have never used 13 strokes and The pavilion was built with the help of my family. Completed by myself This time the pavilion is bigger than last time . Professional matters should be left to professionals The masters came early. The pavilion has a total floor area of 10 square meters A total of 326 red bricks were used The bad things I did last night paving method of the field shape Simple and low loss Finally fill the gaps with sand and you are done. In the afternoon , I invited the elder sisters from the village to help me prepare the land. It's been a week since I laid the grass Look at how they look now. Very good. Congratulations. It's said it's going to rain tonight Finish thatching before it gets dark and rains. Used artificial thatch One meter width Used 18 meters It rained after we finished digging. Early morning on the fourth day I started moving bricks and paving the road again paving method is used. Cut off the original flower bed A winding path stretches out The flowers in the flowerbed have long been removed. Sprinkle flower seeds Two stone slabs were brought in and placed over the ditch. In the afternoon, I couldn't wait to go to the flower market to buy flowers. I like He said he wanted to dig Dig Deeper He likes to raise fish Let's hire someone to do it tomorrow . Look at my hands Still wearing my wellies You can really fit in . Size 41 My aunt Aunt Whose hands will become garbage? In fact, I am this have eaten Happy Husband See if you like it one can forget death While alive Then let's do it together with life and death Clearly there is only a small boat with no shore in sight But it came in handy also borrowed a small express car from Cuihua's family next door. Comfortable, comfortable, comfortable Fish breasts bought online for me Make a row of hollow bamboo tubes you're talking to me this happen? this era Wow, so simple This is so troublesome for my husband. You'll know if it's good tonight. A construction site spent 90 yuan to buy 100 bricks Two boards and four wooden stakes It cost me 300 yuan I found some leftover wood boards from previous renovations to use as the base. an outline on the wood board along the table top Nail a circle of three-inch nails on the outline The wire mesh is what I used to make a chicken coop last year. Picked up one Wrap around the nail Use 1:3 cement mortar Casting a solid chassis After it is completely solidified Apply waterproof glue The sister next door came barefoot to watch the fun asked me curiously You are a bitch What are the props for? I'll be there in a few days After a few days I'm done, come and see. I do not believe It's okay if he doesn't believe it Then I 'll continue to show you . Hit me and kill me The wooden board was dealt with simply . The table is made of red bricks 80 yuan for each side Without any cement mortar Go straight up The advantage is time- saving and labor-saving The downside is getting caught There is actually a bread next to the wood stove. The tooth is broken Next Steps I 'll tell you how I operate it. The first step is to build a base with red bricks with collected gravel length, width and height of the base are all here . Step 2 Install the furnace bars one by one The third step is to boil the burning stone The burning stone is lined with fire bricks on both sides to protect its slope. Install the upper door Continue to build up layer by layer Red bricks burn and die into horn death This is genius Fill the gaps on both sides with cement mortar I asked for an abandoned iron foot . Build on top of Nanshan Stone Just right While going, grind the refractory material on the inner wall A nearly circular kiln mouth The inside must be ground with refractory Step 4: Make an oven foam with metal Punch two holes on each side Install the screws Put it firmly on the furnace. Finished on rice in the oven Actually reinforce an iron plate Install a simple iron plate as a chimney Spray anti-rust paint Can this seal the kiln ? I can't help the way you lick and bite Step 5 Use the size and position of the finished product to sit here Shake It's basically finished. But looking left and right, it always looks like a drum show To say goodbye to Tianan Xiaoyeba Come out again Welcome everyone's love Death Becoming a father Feed the chickens , feed the meat, feed the cats, little buns guest starred in the plot The second person to appear every day is my family's Chaoyang A big head Eat and drink for free Rubbing here and there Everyone, follow my camera . The red bricks on the ground have been stepped on for two years Looks good Look at this 50 square meter low broken wall Who was the one dollar? Then came the absurd Just messed around with it The house faces southeast Two rooms were put down Let's not look inside the house yet. Continue to show you the sunrise In this bush The night view Delphinium parviflorum Following the red light path, chasing the oriole grass Flowery Stone Bridge The one who caught my eye was a person Awesome Grassland Fight Brag to me and die Grassland Revolt I'll do it. From the East In the curly forest Piece together a tea light Apart from the real talk 'm afraid this I have already looked at my yard last time. Let me show you today What's it like inside this short, shabby guy of mine? Turn on the light and welcome Please come in It looks like the house is relatively simple. But isn't it very warm? This is suspended from the ceiling using reed mats This is a wall painted with rammed earth These furnitures were given by friends. What they used I think I can save money if I can. Lie here and watch the sunrise in the morning Isn't it a beautiful thing? This bedside table is a desk Then transformed it These flowers are all picked from my yard Look, there's a chicken coop in the back (I will show you my backyard next time) It's my vegetable garden and chicken coop Do you like this kind of room?