Hey, and welcome to Connect! Today, we're going to talk I want to share the experiences you'll have, and the technology as well as how we're going to The basic story of technology is that it's given us and experience the world Back when I started Facebook, that mostly meant text Then we got phones with cameras And recently, as connections got faster, video has become the main way We've gone from desktop to web to phones. From text to photos to video. But this isn't the end of the line. The next platform and medium an embodied internet not just looking at it. And we call this the metaverse. You'll be able to do get together with friends and family, as well as entirely new categories that don't really fit how we think Now, since we're doing this I figured let's make it special. So we've put together something that I think is really give you a feeling We believe the metaverse will be the successor We'll be able to feel present, like we're right there with people, We'll be able to express ourselves in new, And that's going to unlock When I send my parents a video of my kids, they'll feel like not peering in through a little window. When you play a game with friends, you'll feel like you're right there not just on your computer by yourself. And when you're in a meeting it'll feel like making eye contact, and not looking at a grid of faces That's what we mean Instead of looking at a screen, you're going to be in these experiences. Everything we do online today, connecting socially, is going to be more natural and vivid. This isn't about It's about making the time Screens just can't convey the full range of human expression and connection. They can't deliver But the next version That's what we should be working towards, technology that's built around people, and how we actually experience the world That's what the metaverse is all about. The best way to understand the metaverse But it's tough, Some of the basic building blocks and others are emerging as we speak. We're starting to get a sense and what it could feel like. So, today we're going to do something Rather than just focusing like a normal keynote, we're going to talk about the future. So let's start by exploring what different kinds of starting with the most important of all, connecting with people. Imagine you put on your glasses or headset and you're instantly in your home space. It has parts of your physical home It has things And it has an incredibly inspiring view of whatever you find most beautiful. Hey. Are you coming? Yeah, just gotta find something to wear. All right. Perfect. Oh, boy! Hey, Mark. Hey, what's going on? Hi. What's up, Mark. We're floating in space? Who made this place? It's awesome. Right? It's from a creator I met in LA. This place is amazing. -Boz, is that you? You know I had to do the robot, man. I thought I was supposed to be the robot. I knew you were bluffing. Hey, wait. Where is Naomi? -Let's call her. -Hey, should we deal you in? Sorry, I'm running late, There's this artist going around Soho hiding AR pieces for people to find. 3D street art, that's cool. Send that link over -This is stunning. -It's awesome. Wait, it's disappearing. This is amazing. Hold on, I'll tip the artist -Wow, brilliant. I have another one that you're gonna love. Come on, let's see it. Koi fish that fly? That's new. This is wild. Hey, one sec, Boz. It's Priscilla. Hey, you have to see this. Oh, I love that guy. We've got to show that to the kids. Can you also send that to my dad? I'll message him. All right, see you at home. This place is great, Boz, but All right, so that's a glimpse that we're gonna be able to get together It's a ways off, some of the fundamental building blocks First, the feeling of presence. This is the defining quality You're going to really feel You'll see their facial expressions, maybe figure out if they're actually all the subtle ways we communicate that today's technology today Next, there are avatars, and that's how we're going to Avatars will be as common but instead of a static image, they're going to be living your expressions, your gestures, that are going to than anything You'll probably have a stylized one for hanging out, and maybe even a fantasy one for gaming. You're gonna have a wardrobe of designed by different creators Importantly, you should be able to across different apps Beyond avatars, there's your home space. You'll be able to design it maybe put up your own pictures and videos, You'll be able to invite people over, You'll have a home office Your home is your personal space from which you can teleport Now, speaking of teleporting, there are going to be all kinds rooms like we just saw, but also games and whole worlds that you can teleport Teleporting around the metaverse is going to be like clicking a link In order to unlock the potential there needs to be interoperability. That goes beyond just taking your avatar and digital items which we're already You want to know that when that your items will be useful and you're not going to be You want to know that you own your items, This is going to require like some of the important projects around crypto and NFTs it's also going to take norm setting, and new forms of governance, and this is something Privacy and safety need to be built You'll get to decide block someone or when you want to take a break and teleport to a private bubble You're going to be able to bring things from the physical world almost any type of media photos, videos, art, music, movies, Lots of things that are physical today, will just be able to be holograms You won't need a physical TV, it'll just be a $1 hologram from some high school kid And you'll be able to take your items as holograms in augmented reality too. You're going to be able to on all kinds of different devices, sometimes using virtual reality sometimes using augmented reality glasses so you can be present and sometimes on a computer or phone so you can quickly jump into the metaverse There will be new ways that are much more natural. Instead of typing or tapping, you're gonna say a few words, or even make Your devices won't be the focal point Instead of getting in the way, they're gonna give you in new experiences that you're having These are some of the basic concepts And while this may sound we're starting to see a lot In the next 5-10 years, and a lot of us will be that are as detailed and convincing So even though it's still a long way off, we're starting to work on some Horizon is the social platform for people to create and interact One part of this is Horizon Home, which is our early vision Horizon Home when you put on your Quest headset. Today there are already and in the future, We've just called it Home until now because it's been missing Soon, we're going to be introducing where you can invite your friends You'll be able to hang out, and jump into apps together. Then there is Horizon Worlds, which is where you can build worlds Horizon is designed to make it possible and we're already seeing people build from creating new games together that family and friends We started rolling out Horizon Worlds and we're adding more people And we just launched Horizon Workrooms Beyond Horizon, to communicate with your friends This year, we're bringing Messenger calls You'll be able to invite your friends and soon you'll be able to go explore These are the kind o tools so that you can jump into the metaverse And they're going to unlock Now, let's move on from some of these basic concepts to a completely different set around entertainment and gaming. Imagine your best friend is at a concert What if you could be there with her? -Yo. Oh, yeah. METAVERSE AFTERPARTY Afterparty passes? -Yes. Jumping in now. What if there was an afterparty no matter where they were? This is wild. Hey, check this out. Charity auction happening. There's swag! And when you go to the afterparty, Hear new versions of your favorite songs. And check out the merch that just dropped. Ooh, I like that. Well, now you've got to get it. You can start to see how the metaverse by letting us add new layers to the world Creators and artists are going to able and really bring them into Now there's a lot that needs to get built but we're working on some of these pieces First, we're building tools to place digital objects for people to interact with. And, rather than just new creator capabilities that can respond and react realistically. Including a realistic sense In the next year, we're also adding different physical locations into cohesive like guided tours or scavenger hunts. We're also building a Horizon marketplace where creators can sell and share And our hope is that this will enable and help grow the overall Because at the end of the day, who were going to build the metaverse And to make sure that can sustain hundreds of which is what we're going to need then it's critical that can make a good living, Now, if you asked people today a lot of people would probably say But the people would say it's about gaming. And that's because gaming provides And it is the biggest Gaming in the metaverse from immersive experiences to bring simple games into our Maybe you'll play old games in new ways. So, Barcelona, huh? Well, it's not New York, but I like it... New York misses you. What's that? I said, Let me put my game face on Oh! Okay, check. I got to try another game face next time. Maybe you'll go head to head Lucky shot! Some call it skill. Keep talking! Or maybe you'll do things that aren't Hey, Mark. Down for a VR Foiling session? Now, this is more my style. Classic look. All right. Nice. Oh, nice choice, Mark. Ready to shred. Okay, here we go. Hang in there, Mark. -That's not good. All right, backflip. -I've got an idea. -Got a pump it to jump it. I didn't know that was an option. All right, you're not gonna catch me now. -Tube City. Don't worry, I'll let you win next time. Well, that was a close one. -You want to go again? I'm gonna need a lot Man! Well, gaming is how people are going for the first time. It already has some of the most the most active creator And major platforms like Epic are working starting with gaming. For our part, we're heavily investing so the game studios can keep building Now, Deb, from our studios team Deb, take us through some exciting Absolutely. Over the years, we've had the opportunity like Vertigo Games. The studio behind fan-favorite, I love Arizona Sunshine. That game basically through the first months That's awesome. If you enjoyed that, Mark, you'll be excited that on five more great games We'll share more Nice. What else is coming? Well, the metaverse So one of the most important aspects that launch updates and like Echo VR, Beat Saber, We're focused on this making sure games can build-out -Beat Saber has a passionate community. So do I and Beat Saber in lifetime revenue on Quest alone. It's a great example of a game They've actually been working with the tracks and feel the music. Also, the team has been working Check this out. I can't wait to play this. And they keep partnering to release new music packs all the time. Did you play the Billie Eilish A little more than I should. I probably should have been working Well, they have a great lineup And there's one more epic surprise So stay tuned. Okay? Have you played POPULATION: ONE? -I mean, yeah, I love the game so much. POPULATION: ONE is a thrilling Since its launch at Connect last year, it has become one of the highest and the biggest multiplayer You can have up to 24 people in We're super excited like an all-new Autumn event and a Winter Wonderland Update Okay, here's something I know -Lay it on us. This is a title from the WarpFrog team. This is the team that set the standard when it launched on Rift That's right, Blade and Sorcery: NOMAD. The built-for-VR medieval fantasy sandbox, that pairs magic with melee, For more gaming updates, look out for It's going to be loaded with news But Mark, I believe you have Yeah, you know, I have to say. It's really impressive to see this line-up but there's one project that Yeah, this is one of the all-time greats, and we've been working for years I'm excited to announce that Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas This new version of what I think will offer players an entirely new way in Virtual Reality. That's it, Mark. I'm moving to the metaverse. Right, thanks, Deb. Now, a lot of the most take advantage of how you can Being able to look anywhere, move freely. It's just a fundamentally different This quality of being and able to interact with the world Now, that opens up some that didn't really make sense before And one example that we're And speaking of that, I think A lot of you are already It lets you work out in some It's kind of like Peloton, you just have your VR headset from boxing lessons to sword fighting You'll be able to work out in new worlds. Even against an AI. Maybe you'll get some friends together Maybe play pickup with people Or imagine your Facebook cycling group -Let's go! Maybe you'll even train with the best, Like Lee Kiefer, Olympic gold medalist! On guard. Fence. -Don't be scared to stab. You seem like a natural. Woah! All right, that's a little too realistic. -See you later, Lee. That was fun. And that's what fitness Now, I think we're going to see emerging around fitness of the full immersion Speaking of which, Supernatural FitXR has new fitness studios And Player 22 by Rezzil, is adding guided and hand-tracked We're making a fitness accessories pack with controller grips and a facial interface that making your sessions more comfortable. And that's all coming next year. But enough with the fun and games. It's time for everyone's favorite - Work. Over the last year and a half, a lot of us And while I miss seeing I think remote work is here So we're going to need Let's take a look at what working Imagine if you could be at the office You would still have Shared physical space. Those chance interactions All accessible from anywhere. Now, imagine that you have and you could do more than And on top of all that, you can keep Looking good. Let's get together I'm free now. Let's jump in. -Hi! So what do we think? I think it's ready. Great. I'll prep it for the presentation. All right. Good luck. Imagine a space where and focus on the task at hand. And when you're ready to share you can present it as if Wait, where's Mark? I think he's in the middle of something. You can already see some of these elements which we launched a couple of months ago. Later this year, we plan so you can put your own logos We're also introducing for when you want to do some focused work or just cross a few things We're also announcing for the Quest Store, and as a new developer framework So you can drop in while you're in VR using services or stay connected This starts bringing more of your And as we've focused more on work, and frankly as we've heard we're working on making it so you can log into Quest with an account other than We're starting to test support And we're working on making I know this is a big deal Not everyone wants linked to all these other experiences. I get that, especially as the metaverse expands. I'll share more about that later. I'm genuinely optimistic about work in the metaverse. We know from the last couple of years that a lot of people can But hybrid is gonna be a lot more complex, when some people are together Giving everyone the tools to be present no matter where they are, whether as a hologram sitting next to you or in a discussion that's gonna be a game changer. I think this could be very positive Giving people access to jobs no matter where they live, will be a big deal for Dropping our daily commutes will mean less time stuck in traffic, more time doing things that matter, and it'll be good for the environment. Actually, if you travel for work and working in the metaverse one less flight each year, that's better than almost anything else I think working in the metaverse is going to feel like a huge step forward. And these dynamics, like the ability and interact around they're going to be valuable in a lot of other categories So now, Marne, is going to take us through some of them. Thanks, Mark. We'll see you in a minute! What if you could learn just by bringing it closer to you? So we're going to have Actually, I have to write this paper. Will you help me? Let's take a closer look. What part of the solar system Saturn. If you were taking astrophysics, Did you know the rings are made up -Really? You ready to do that paper now, right? Yeah. In the metaverse, you'll be able to teleport but any time as well. Ancient Rome. Imagine standing on the streets, hearing the sounds, visiting the markets, to get a sense of the rhythm of life Imagine learning how the Forum was built by actually seeing the Forum get built, right in front of you. Hi everyone! I'm Marne Levine. In the metaverse, learning won't feel anything With a headset or glasses, you'll be able to pull up or maybe even the service manual Let's say you're With apps like Osso VR, you can learn new techniques practicing until you get it right. Or if you're studying earth science, you could swim through Get up close to Earth's mightiest insects with your instructor, David Attenborough, whose VR documentary This is a world of intrigue, a world of wonder, a secret world hidden to the human eye. Explore the extraordinary world with me, David Attenborough. This is just one of the ways But in order to get there, we're going to need of the people who build these experiences. So we're setting aside to train the next generation of creators to build immersive learning content and increase access to devices. And to help more creators make a living building AR effects using Spark AR, we're going to establish and certification process, make it easier to monetize, and put our Spark AR curriculum Thanks, Marne. So that's a glimpse that you might have in the metaverse. From connecting with friends, to gaming and entertainment, to work and education, Now let's talk about are going to build all of this, and about the economy The last few years have been humbling for me One of the main lessons that I've learned is that building products isn't enough. We also need to help build ecosystems so that millions of people can be rewarded for their work, and benefit as the tide rises, not just as consumers but as creators and developers. But this period has also been humbling because as big of a company as we are, we've also learned what it is like to build for other platforms. And living under their rules has profoundly shaped my views Most of all, I've come to believe that the lack of choice stopping people from building new things, and holding back We've tried to take a different approach. We want to serve which means working to make Our mobile apps are free. Our ads business model is an auction, which guarantees every business We offer our creator and commerce tools either at cost or with modest fees to enable as much creation And it's worked. Billions of people love our products, we have hundreds of millions and we have a rapidly growing ecosystem That's the approach that we want We plan to continue to either subsidize our devices or sell them at cost to make them available to more people. We'll continue supporting sideloading so consumers and developers have choice, rather than forcing them to find apps or reach customers. We'll aim to offer with low fees in as many cases as possible so we can maximize while recognizing that we'll need to keep some fees higher for some period to make sure we don't lose After all, while a growing number we expect to invest many billions before the metaverse reaches scale. Our hope, though, is that if we all work at it, that within the next decade host hundreds of billions of dollars and support jobs for millions of creators and developers. We'll try to lay out how some of this commerce model will work, but I also want to be there's a ton that we just don't know yet. What I can tell you, though, is that we're fully committed to this. It is the next chapter of our work and we believe for the internet overall. And our strategy and track record show that we will do everything to grow the community, the creator economy, And to tell us more about all of that, here's Vishal, Thanks, Mark. As you said, creators, and businesses as we can by keeping fees as low as possible As a company, we have been investing in Commerce and Creators for many years, but let me take a moment and explain how For people, the metaverse will offer And most importantly, there'll be a real sense of continuity where the things you buy Today, much of is inside a single app, website, or game. You might buy a custom skin but you can't take it with you In the physical world, that would be the equivalent of buying and never being able In the future, you'll be able and then wear them For creators, our goal is to provide a way for as many creators as possible One thing we've learned is that we can't We need to enable as many to unlock the best ideas. There will be many kinds Creators who make digital objects, creators who offer and those who build entire worlds We also want creators to have If a creator designs their fans should be able to buy it and then visit different spaces Frankly, if a creator all of their fans Businesses will be creators too, building out digital spaces They'll sell both as well as experiences and services. And they'll be able to use ads to ensure the right customers Speaking of buying things, we're also exploring new types to ensure people feel confident This will make it easier limited-edition digital objects like NFTs, display them in their digital spaces, and even resell them In short, the metaverse will remove many of the physical constraints and make entirely new businesses possible. While this is very exciting, the metaverse is all about co-creating. We're building this developers, and entrepreneurs. So today I've asked Jackie Aina to join me to start a conversation Jackie is a beauty creator who launched her own lifestyle brand where she sells candles and partners with major brands So let's meet Jackie in her space. Here we are in this digital space, totally inspired by you Jackie, I've been such a big fan of yours Tell me a bit about So rewind back to 2009. As it pertains to beauty, I would go to a makeup counter and I always felt rejected, So I got so frustrated you know what? Not only am I but I'm gonna show other people how How did you go from to a product? You have a brand called Forvr Mood, it's huge on Instagram, So Forvr Mood was not only a bit of a love letter to me That's how we bond, it was through fragrance It's been doing amazing Jackie, this space is pretty magical. And I know it kind of reflects Tell me a bit about what you love Okay. So first thing, color is everything. I love pastels. You can see it in the brand, you can see it With the metaverse, when we're curating collections this would be a great way and create atmospheres to enhance creativity. And then if I can invite people, It'd be like bringing them So I would want them to feel some of the things I feel or when I light my candles. Interacting with people in comments and having a conversation is a way to get your fan excited but also you feel like I get excited too. Yeah. So this idea of reaching and pulling a fan in -is pretty powerful. And it humanizes that person on the other end There's an interesting opportunity to think about how we build community and how we engage with our fans as opposed to just Imagine, for your biggest fans, where anyone could visit I love that because, when we first launched the brand, Obviously, quarantine. and I have this idea of doing, like, where we would have And now, anyone from anywhere in the world come and feel what you just described, have that sense, Also, you have your greatest fans, You will need to reach use advertising You could also drop where, only available to your who paid a special access to That's dope. Commerce is going to be You'll be able to sell The Butterfly Effect So beautiful. So, Jackie, as we walk what does I just feel like this is like I can't even begin to imagine thanks to creators like you. There's a lot here to be excited about. Just like the internet today, to find a business model whether that's custom work, or other monetization tools Now, think about how many people How many of those jobs I expect that the metaverse lots of opportunities for people Now, we have confidence and we're investing significantly But the reality is that no one knows exactly which models are going to work So we're going to approach this and we're going to work will help bring the metaverse to life. Now, Boz is going to join us what people are already building and what kinds of tools Hey, Boz. Still kind of jealous You got to have the robot when I mean, of course. Look, Mark, we've been working but we always kept the same vision, that help people feel connected, And that vision's what drives us today. To help people get together We've come a long way thanks to the developers and the creators who see the potential But we still have So, to keep the pace of innovation we do have a few exciting announcements. Today, we're introducing which is a broad range and AI capabilities to build mixed-reality experiences. Tell us more We've said before that realistic presence is the key to feeling connected And the Presence Platform's capabilities are what's gonna deliver Things like environmental understanding, voice interaction, In fact, let's start with hands. I mean, the human hand And bringing hands into VR It required a lot of collaboration And we continue to improve that product, finding new ways to navigate So, today, we're introducing A library of modular components hand interactions to your apps. That's pretty exciting. Yeah, we really think this is gonna for new and existing titles more naturally Now, in addition to hands, there's another That's your voice. The Voice SDK lets developers into their games and apps so they can So, soon, you'll be able and shake up your routine Yeah, I've tried this one before. -This one's really tough. Since we launched we've already seen breakthrough that blend the virtual and the real world. Soon, with our next SDK release, to ship their mixed reality apps Now, of course, access To achieve that apps also need to be and, you know, blend the virtual objects with the physical environment around them So, developers wanna be persistent world-locked content or your Instagram feed And tools like spatial anchors, will help make these mixed Now, I'd gladly nerd out with you -on the technical details of this. But I think it's better Load The World Beyond. This is Oppy. Oppy, come, come on, Oppy. Who's a good, laid on an interactive Oh, you are. Yes, you are. Oppy, sit. Pets in the metaverse. Just as stubborn as they are You know, Boz, I always really wanted -Did you? I'm looking forward to how developers a new generation of mixed reality And it also gives us that people are gonna Let's talk about With Spark, we really focused that allow people to stay engaged but also stay connected to Creators are We're doing everything we can with our know-how, with resources, And for more on that, I'd like to say hi to Sue, at Facebook Reality Labs Thanks, guys. Spark AR is focused that empower people and at the same time, more present Creators are helping us while exploring Fundamentally, and enabling a global community to develop the AR content and experiences programs like AR Curriculum, and world-over 22,000 creators and we're adding additional programming The depth and breadth of content would In one week alone, you'll see effects or the launch of a new album to life, all by tapping into We're also powering So, imagine playing that with a friend in the metaverse How cool, right? Right now, we have with diverse needs to engage with their fans and audiences. We know people, more than across the Facebook family of apps, We see over 80 billion effects and we want to make it even easier So, we created a tool, code named Polar for novice creators in art, 2D or 3D design, Think, paint by numbers. So, creators whose first love can enhance their content And that's an important piece It's open to anyone And the metaverse is well positioned for creators from all walks of life. This is primitive And we want to make sure creators and capitalize on Thanks, Sue. So, that's some of the software platform that needs to get built But there are other important Hey, Nick. Hey, Mark, I hope I'm not interrupting. You got a sec? I think Oppy's but I always have time for you. I just love the presentation so far. But as you mentioned early on, there are inevitably gonna be and I know you've talked but people want to know how we're gonna and especially that we play our part in helping to keep people safe Yeah, that's right. The way I look at it is that, in the past, sometimes left policymakers So, on the one hand, companies get accused And on the other, tech people feel for the slower pace of regulation. And I really think that it doesn't because we have years until the metaverse So, this is the start of the journey, Like I said earlier, interoperability, need to be built And with all the novel technologies everyone who's building should be focused on This is one of the lessons that I've It's that you really want to emphasize So, at Connect last year, Boz outlined and the first one was, Right, and that means what data is collected, It also means giving people as well as age guidance for when youngsters And we're spending a lot of time and getting perspectives on what we're building And this is about designing for before the products even exist. And one example is our research device that helps inform We're also funding You know, last year, we announced grants of AR, VR, and smart devices especially communities whose perspectives as well as best practices for creating And, this year, we're opening up support because we need those to make sure to another one of our principles, And that point because this is and in particular, the human rights and So, these technologies are built in a way One of the advantages is that we can collaborate with people like what we're doing through the new fund Yeah, the XR Programs and Research Fund. It's a two-year, $50 million and external research with like Howard University, Women and universities in Seoul, And this is crucial the metaverse isn't something so much as it's something Across the industry, we need to bring and commitment to building openness, safety and privacy as we do for all the other These have to be fundamental software and experiences -Right. So, one thing that we is the future of hardware that will help We're working on multiple new products unlock richer social interactions, That must be Angela, our head -Hey, Angela. -Is that what I think it is? All right. Come on in. So, what do you think we're working on right now? That's hard to say, you know, But next year, we are that'll push the boundaries We've codenamed it Project Cambria. So this isn't the next Quest. But Cambria will be a completely new and it'll be at the higher end Our plan is to keep to release our most advanced technology. before we can hit the price points All right. So, let's talk about Yeah, sure. There's a ton For example, your avatar will be able and reflect your facial expressions This way, people you're interacting with will have a real sense It does mean building more sensors that's comfortable to wear for a while. And because we want VR to be for everyone, avatars represent a diverse set as well as paying attention to things that may get in the way of some sensors. So, that's going to be a big step forward And I'm really glad we're focused Now, what about unlocking I mean, imagine working while seeing your real desk so clearly that you can pick up a pen and write Or you're doing a workout with It's going to be so cool. We're already seeing the potential as people are building But with Cambria, with high-resolution, We essentially combine an array of sensors to represent your physical world with a sense of depth and perspective. Now, we're still a ways away what our eyes see in the physical world, but we're pretty encouraged by how far we've been able to advance Definitely, but we also need to So, let's talk about the progress Yeah, we're pushing the limits and form factor with something They essentially work to achieve a slimmer profile Now with several optical layers, we'll need to precisely control and fabrication to achieve and really deliver the best optics ever That's pretty awesome. some of the good stuff All right. Now, I'm excited over future generations, so we can keep into people's hands into our Quest product line. That's our goal. We're starting to to build experiences and we're really looking forward to Sounds good. Now, beyond virtual reality, to make true augmented reality possible. In a lot of ways, not just because we need to invent that's not based on screens, but because we basically into a pair of normal-looking glasses. So we're approaching this problem First, how much technology can we pack into a pair of normal, And second, how do we take and keep miniaturizing and improving it until it fits into a pair of normal, On the first path, last month, our first smart glasses They're not full AR glasses yet, but they let you take pictures and videos, while you're out looking at the world We built leading privacy features like the LED light which phones don't even have. And we delivered this These are all steps along the path But the ultimate goal here We've been working on that too, an experience that we've been working on which is the codename for our first Here, you'll see you're chatting and planning a game night. You can select a game and then, you can easily just put your game That's the kind of experience There's a lot of technical work to get We have to fit hologram displays, custom silicon chips, cameras, speakers, and more into glasses that are We still have a ways to go with Nazare, I'm excited about But even that's still early in a journey Immersive all-day experiences And for the last seven years, our research team has been working that are necessary Michael Abrash leads this team, to talk about some of the Hey, Michael. Do you want to Sure! That covers a lot of ground though. It's going to take about a dozen to get to the next generation metaverse, and we're working on all of them, hand tracking, eye tracking, computer vision, avatars, You're right. That's a lot. We probably only have time for a Well, I think the metaverse first and foremost about So, I'd say, let's start with avatars. Yeah, I agree. The goal here is to have both realistic that create a deep feeling Exactly. And we've shown Well, what can your face do? Well, I've always hoped And it's a remarkable experience and photorealistic avatars But they're only part of the picture. Yeah, because you're not always That's why people shave style their hair, put on makeup, you'll be able to do all of that So this next video shows how with hair and skin rendering She's going from, first medical field-- Now, I want to point out this technology but it shows that avatars are ultimately Notice that you can see Now, clothing is another and whether you want say, you make a call Or maybe you just want to be wearing You're going to need the ability So, here's an early look And you can see when the hand touches and stretches it, Now, to use your avatar to teleport to a meeting you'll also need realistic So, let's look at that. Contrary to how this looks, this is actually not a video It's a 3D reconstruction which, I guess, just became clear Exactly. So, what you can see here is that various objects on the right, and then on the left, you can see of the space and the moving objects So, what's critical here is that That's what's novel here. And that's what So, what we've seen so far But we all know what we want. We want the whole package. So you're just there. Last year, we showed our very first Here to tell you more about our progress Hi, there! My name is Yaser and I direct the Facebook Reality Well, that's not completely true. What you're seeing is actually a rendering Over the past couple of years, we've made quite a bit My avatar can now look left, look right, look up, look down. Here You can see Elaine You can see her view and the reconstructed real world space as she moves around the Avatar. What you see on the left This gives you a sense of a future with another person's realistic avatar Now, preventing others That's why, even though we're already thinking about Whether by tying it or by verifying identity All right, so we've talked about But, of course, we also want to be able And while seeing hands in VR is a big step forward towards that, We're going to need an even easier to interact with virtual content when And we believe that neural interfaces of how we interact with AR glasses. And more specifically, EMG input combined with contextualized AI. It turns out that we all have and with simple and perhaps sensors will one day be able into digital commands It's pretty wild. So, let's take a look at what EMG input and where we are with it today. This video shows some of the ways that can provide important So, at first, that input is going to Click, scroll, select. But as the technology evolves, unlock full speed typing, subtle, personalized controls This is genuinely so let's look at an early prototype This experimental UI shows how EMG input could one day allow you resting comfortably at your side Notice how the researcher and highly visible click gesture We've made a lot of progress and we're now able with the smallest EMG enables this by picking up subtle neural motor commands Basically what you're saying to send a text message just by That's going to be pretty amazing. But I guess it's just because the other is AI and can give you a simple set of choices So let's take a look that we've built using project Aria, into AR glasses and live maps Remember the mock apartment Well, we've indexed including not only location, geometry and function of each one. We fed all that information Mingfei is wearing and the reason is to simulate will ultimately be able to access data from a 3D map the real world objects and better understand your context What's happening here calculating where Mingfei locating and identifying based on the index mentioned earlier, objects Mingfei is interested in That contextual information to offer proactive assistance Here, the system knows that so when she clicks while looking at it, Ultimately, her AR glasses actions are at any time. Hey, assistance. Where is my favorite mug? We're also working on a voice interface Here, the system is displaying the current in the future it might tell her Or it might highlight Really, it's an early look at the sort of that AI plus EMG input This is how we'll all Thanks, Michael. That was awesome. All right, so I hope that of some of the technical challenges to deliver deep and immersive experiences A lot of what we've shown today isn't going to be available Some of this is still a long way off, but this is some that I've ever gotten to work on. And I'm just incredibly energized And there's one more thing I believe the metaverse is the And it's the next chapter for I've been thinking a lot about what this and who we are as we We're a company that focuses While most other tech companies focus we focus on building technology so people One of the reasons I started you could use the internet to Information, news, movies, Except for the thing that Today we are seen as But in our DNA, we are a company that And the metaverse is the next frontier. Just like social networking was Facebook was born in a A college campus. The web. It was what we could build into our experience of technology. But connecting was From way earlier on, I remember sitting sketching in my notebooks, ideas And even though I didn't have the it was always clear that feel present with the Isn't that the ultimate promise of technology. To be together teleport anywhere, and to Yet here we are in 2021 and our devices are still designed The experiences we're allowed are more tightly controlled than ever. And high taxes on creative new ideas are stifling. This is not the way that The metaverse gives us an opportunity to change But it's going to take all of us, creators, Together, we can finally put people and deliver an experience where Together we can create a more open platform -- with more ways to discover experiences and more interoperability between them. And together, we can unlock a massively I know the internet story Every chapter means new And yes, there and disruption of But there will also be opportunities and benefits that we can't even imagine yet. For connection, for creation, We'll all need to work together from possible version of this future to life. A future where with just a pair of glasses, you will be able to step beyond the physical world and into the that we have talked about today. I've been thinking a lot about our Facebook is one of the most used products in the It is an iconic social media brand. But increasingly, it just doesn't Instagram, WhatsApp, Messenger, Quest. Building our social media apps will always But right now, our brand one product that it can't that we're doing today, let Over time I hope that we are seen as a And I want to anchor our work and our We just announced that we are making We're now looking at and reporting on One for our family of apps And as part of this, new company brand to encompass To reflect who we are and I am proud to announce that starting today, our company is now ... Meta. Our mission remains the same -- Our apps and their brands, And we are still the company that But now we have a new north star And we have a new name that reflects And the future that we want to help build. From now on, we're going That means that over time you won't need to use And as our new brand starts I hope that people come to and the future that we stand for. I used to love studying Classics. And the word &quot;meta&quot; comes from the For me, it symbolizes that there There's always a next chapter to the story. And for us, it's a story that and grew beyond anything we could imagine. Into a family of apps that people to find their voice, to start and movements that have I'm proud of what we've built so far as we move beyond what's possible today, beyond the limits of and towards a future where everyone create new opportunities, It's a future that is beyond any one We have built things that have brought We have learned a lot from struggling with social issues and living under closed platforms. And now, it is time to take everything that we've learned and help build the next chapter. I am dedicating our energy to this more than any other company in the world. And if this is the future that you want to see, then I hope that you will join us. Because the future is going to be