Tim Ferriss: Stephen, it's nice to see you. Thank you for making the time today. Stephen Wolfram: Nice to be here. Tim Ferriss: I was impressed that just before to recall when it was that we sat next to Health Conference and mentioned that you have So how do you search for something like that? Stephen Wolfram: I keep an awful lot of stuff. I've got all my email going back 30 years. I have a habit of writing trip reports for like that. And I have also scans of paper documents. You weren't a paper document. You're more recent than paper document, so But I have scans of, well it's like a quarter I generated in the time in my life before And I also tend to record. I record all the key strokes I type and screen And then -- to -- I was just going to ask, how do you How would that be used? Stephen Wolfram: I don't usually. Tim Ferriss: You do not. Stephen Wolfram: Usually I don't. Occasionally I'll want to know -- occasionally, horrible way and it'll be like, oh, I just Well, no I didn't, because I had it recorded. Tim Ferriss: Ah. Right. Stephen Wolfram: That was the thing that caused is one crash. And then I decided it's cheap to just record And occasionally I'll do things like, oh, Do I type faster or slower on my new keyboard? Those kinds of things. Tim Ferriss: Got it. And you can track that type of thing. Stephen Wolfram: It's easy to answer that Tim Ferriss: It's one thing to record or ingest your thinking. And I, in the process of doing research for on Reddit involving creating matrices. So I wanted to explore your use of matrices I'm just going to read a very, very short thinking about things where I don't have a I don't like to have 'disembodied ideas' floating Which is my current state of affairs, so I'm &quot;Of course, when something is important enough Could you give an example of what such a matrix Stephen Wolfram: Yeah. What I mean by that is, some kind of framework So for example, if I have a small idea about place to put that idea. If I'm doing a big project about molecular then I have a place to put that. So it's that kind of thing. I've been lucky enough, my main life work Language, which is this language that's supposed So a large number of ideas that I have about wind up in the matrix, which is the Wolfram Similarly, I've found, for example, writing another kind of matrix into which I can put, write a piece about that historical study Tim Ferriss: I see. Stephen Wolfram: But when it's too small a and it tends to die on the vine. Since you're asking about this, I've just Which is, I've just been finishing a project Tim Ferriss: Wow. Stephen Wolfram: And in the process of doing in when I was 12 years old, it's a question thermodynamics and why randomness gets generated I've made various pieces of progress on this a bunch of the things that we've done recently I think I can actually really nail this question. So I've written a whole thing about the scientific I should write a piece describing my 50-year And so that got me back into, I'm looking at all of these paper documents that I have It's a very interesting experience, going what didn't. How did I get to the things that were important How did those come to be? What were the kinds of steps that I had to One of the things I really noticed, really of time in which I was building some conceptual Sometimes I had clues about how that framework Just didn't understand it. Finally, through the very slow process, I I get some other clue. I do some other computer experiments, something And then literally I can trace, because I kind of thing, I can trace. It was 15 minutes from the time when I saw and so on. It's really remarkable how much years can of conceptual framework needed, and then it's That was a striking thing to me. Tim Ferriss: I want to ask a few follow up perhaps just request an example of what such people listening and for me, frankly. But before we get to that, putting together your search for answers or exploration of Reviewing calendars from 1983 and so on, I Why do you do it? Or is it the reward in the process of writing? Is it something gratifying in the process Are you hoping to impart something to those Why do that? Stephen Wolfram: That's a good question. I was wondering it myself. I thought it would be really easy, but it No. I have done quite a lot of historical biography, I find that when I'm really trying to understand from. So for example, the things I'm doing right second law of thermodynamics was developed I think people took a wrong turn sometime So I think the thing that I've now figured had figured out at that time. And so when I'm saying I think they took a they come to take that wrong turn? And so that's my next project for the next material for it. I get to go back and read all the original those things. But I don't feel confident that I know what took that move because they thought this and And I thought for myself, I was mostly, well, I thought it was sort of an interesting story. It's a very rare case in history of science data on how some idea got developed. And so I thought it's kind of an interesting One thinks about computational X for all X. This is computational history. And it's like what can you do in computational What kinds of things can you expose in computational The other thing that's interesting to me, I did or figured out 40 years ago, let's say, back I realized there were threads that could the time. Give you an example. I was working on these simple programs. What do simple programs do? The big surprise was, even very simple programs That was something I didn't expect. It was a violation of my intuition. It took me a couple of years to come to terms Same time, several of actually top mathematicians on the things that I had uncovered. They said, &quot;Let's go do math on these things. Let's figure out more stuff about them.&quot; And they worked for a while. I just found a bunch of their notes, actually, and so on. And they did a bunch of very sophisticated What I realized is, at the time I was just Their methods didn't happen to work, so what? What I then realized, just now, is the big fact that they couldn't figure out anything So in other words, there's this phenomenon is basically the big picture of why they couldn't Usually you say, &quot;I know the rules by which So then you might say, &quot;Okay great, I've got I know everything about what's going to happen Well, that's not true. Because if the rules define some computation, out by running the computation, the question Can you say, &quot;Okay, system, you went through don't need to do that. I'm smarter than the system. I can just say the answer is 42,&quot; or something. What computational irreducibility tells you, follow each step in the evolution of the system. And that's a really important fact about science. It's a way in which science explains from that it can't readily answer. The thing that I realized only, I don't know a sense, if I had an achievement, intellectual realizing that the fact that one had gotten to know. Not, &quot;Oh, we got stuck. Let's give up.&quot; But the fact that one got stuck meant that be made in the way that you think about these So that's an example that, for me, is quite there, what was really important there, which Tim Ferriss: Makes me -- I was just going Holmes, the case of The term that I'd love for you just to elaborate to be a muggle question, but for people who audience, when you say, for instance, computational who may have fear around the term &quot;computational&quot; Computational history as an example? Stephen Wolfram: We humans like to come up Language itself is an example of that. We see things out there in the world and we whatever.&quot; The fact that we are able to symbolically are many different kinds of dogs and many dog&quot; -- so it's a way of organizing the things language. There've been in history a variety of kinds Logic, for example, was one from antiquity. Mathematics is another kind of organizational the way that you talk about the world.&quot; As far as I'm concerned, the importance of how you talk about the world. And a big part of what I've spent my life language, which provides a precise way to of some piece of food or some description else, and represent those things computationally well a human could read it and say, &quot;Oh, I But also we have the extra boost from the then the computer can help us to get further I mean, in a sense, one of the big things is human language. You can take of things about the world and way. I see computational language as being another to share the burden of seeing what happens, And so, for me, that's the big thing is describing Now, when I talk about simple programs and is kind of a meta model of the world. So there are models of actual trees and dogs this. And then how do you break that down to something And so then what you end up with are these what they are about in many different ways. But for example, one type that I've studied and the typical setup is you have a row of white, let's say. And then the computational rule is, you look of that cell and its two neighbors, let's Based on that you say, okay, I'm going to to be black or whatever. You just keep running that rule over and over The big surprise is, and this is the thing surprise is that even with a rule that simple, and it makes this incredibly complicated pattern. A pattern so complicated that if you were say, is this random or is there some regularity You would just say, it looks completely random Even though the rule that made it is this describe or write down or feed to a computer So for me, this notion of computation is having about the world, and then there's this kind what are the very simplest elements of that And then talk about what one can do with those. I mean, I think a good analogy perhaps for comes from the mathematical notation that I mean, it's sort of an interesting evolution and things like that, people didn't have a They just used words. And then some time around 500 years ago, people things like this. And it's when that sort of streamlining of where math really took off and algebra got this whole mathematical approach to science I guess my own personal last 40 years of effort for talking about the world that is kind of notation is for the mathematical way of talking Tim Ferriss: I have a question about natural I don't think I'm misquoting, but feel free You are so deeply aware of and able to work I did read at one point you were considering you said you had practiced French but had along those lines. And I don't know if that was the tongue-in-cheek Stephen Wolfram: Well no, no. That's from ancient times. I went to fancy schools in England when I I learned three languages, Latin, Greek, and Okay, you don't get to speak Latin or Greek, But French, you could in principle speak. I can read scientific French pretty fluently. But if you say -- if I'm in France and I'm No way. I can't do that. It's one of these things. I should get over it one day. Because I think I have the vocabulary knowledge, I just have never really gotten into that. I've been very deeply involved in computational I've not been deeply -- I've been interested of view of the practice of learning lots of It's one of those skills where I could have automatic translation is now getting to the so important anymore. Just like I could have been a champion map I'm glad I didn't put huge effort into that, Tim Ferriss: Yeah, that's true. I suppose I am the opposite in the sense that in part because I derive so much pleasure it, but looking at the progression, say, in which was pre-COVID, to just about six weeks Stephen Wolfram: That's interesting. Tim Ferriss: -- how much it has improved. Fortunately, I already speak, read, and write as an exchange student when I was 15, but voice pretty synchronously to communicate remarkable. Where do you see that, or how do you see that or in the near term? I mean, this is something I would imagine But how do you think we'll be using this type Stephen Wolfram: I think one of the things of can you actually express the same thoughts And that's a deep issue. I think what we realize is that, language In a sense, it is a societal construction So when we use the word &quot;chair,&quot; we know what But if you have a language that comes from is very different, you'll end up with words for that word. Because there just isn't the shared cultural there. So I think the thing that will be pretty interesting the structural aspects of translation, at there are thoughts that we just don't have And that's something, as you start generalizing with the alien intelligences? How do you communicate with cats and dogs? How do you communicate with AIs? Things like this. These are all examples of alien intelligences We share some emotional responses with pets probably, some sort of deep philosophical It's interesting to see how this process of translate things. I guess for computers, the thing I've been things we think about in our minds to the And how do we -- computers can compute all Many of the things they can compute, we humans There's a certain small set of possible things to the things that we humans in the current we care about. And so an interesting question to understand, we think we care about into something which And it comes back again, I suppose after one's somehow relates to these questions like, how represent human thoughts in a computational Now, when you talk about natural language we make our Wolfram|Alpha system and intelligent doing is it's taking a natural language question, by China in 1960 or something? And it's taking that and it is turning that symbolic representation that we can then compute But whatever poetry there might have been of the, I don't know, some poetic name for We crush all the poetry out of that. We're just turning it into, so what is the is good computer speak, so to speak. Whereas it could have been that the very appreciative into some other human language, that notion part of that thing that one's asking. But for the computer it says, &quot;I don't care I'm just here to provide a symbolic representation I think the thing to understand about translation, built the same way the source mind is necessarily change that. Now, you know can see that. If you imagine you have two machine-learning how to tell cats from dogs, for example, the will typically be quite different. The details of how they will have reacted And so there isn't a direct translation. System A does it this way inside. Its most important thing is that the tail So there isn't this direct internal translation. Just as for humans, even if we could do brain-to-brain to work. Just like when you have two machine-learning inside will be different. And that thought experiment, so to speak, that also applies. The thing that is the robust transfer of thoughts The thoughts themselves are not directly transferable, this formal representation of thoughts that so to speak. I think that's my way of thinking about that Tim Ferriss: Yeah. This underscores, I think, part of the appeal they really have very little utility. I was just studying Romanian, which has very A part of the fascination is, as you're mentioning, of language, even if the translations, literal mind, the nuance can be much more challenging And I find exploring the language is a way population, whether Japanese or Romanian, Because for instance in Japanese, there are But they might take the form of, &quot;Well, that's Let me ask Mr. Takahashi.&quot; And those all mean &quot;no.&quot; But the translation won't necessarily convey And also thinking about, and I'll stop my of the language, let's just say something &quot;I eat the apple&quot; versus &quot;I, the apple eat,&quot; in German you would find it, but only in certain And all of that, I think, represents, often people process reality. So I really enjoy it. Now, let me ask you a question about the type done. Where you're looking at how someone took a point in time. I have not read this book of yours, but Idea It's a compilation of essays. How did you choose the players on the field How did you choose the people you included? Stephen Wolfram: Oh, it was always opportunistic. I'm afraid some of it was somebody died and post. Others were, somebody was having a big anniversary that, so rather opportunistically. But it happened to cover a rather nice collection and Steve Jobs, who were both people I knew, who are people who died long before I was Tim Ferriss: So Dick Feynman, I'd love to, bit of your experience with Dick Feynman. I own the set of Encyclopedia Britannica that I ended up buying it on my 43rd birthday as Stephen Wolfram: That's cool. Tim Ferriss: And I drew a few diagrams of And I wish I knew more physics. I really enjoyed it when I was younger. I did not pursue it to an advanced level at I really wish I could appreciate his genius But what was it like to spend time with him, What was he like in person? Stephen Wolfram: Yeah, I met him when I was Okay? Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Stephen Wolfram: And he would always say, times older than you are.&quot; No, he could be quite competitive in those But the thing that I liked about him, whenever It's like the thinking apparatus is engaged so to speak. And he liked drilling down to really get, What's the essence of what's going on?&quot; And sometimes he would play a little trick he was really good at was calculating things He used computers a little bit, but mostly kinds of things. And so he would do, he'd have some question, out the answer. Then he would get this answer, and then he out that answer by just some intuitive argument math?&quot; I remember talking to him about this. He thought that everybody can do the complicated figure this out by intuition. And so he would then figure out this intuitive the intuition. There's some fields where he did that. And people are like, &quot;We don't know how on And people have been trying to reverse engineer little clicks on the world, so to speak. Tim Ferriss: Oh, that's incredible. Intellectual sleight of hand. Would Ramanujan -- this is someone I know I personify the intuition that Feynman was Stephen Wolfram: Well, Ramanujan is a different Ramanujan was a slightly decently educated remarkable mathematical results. Ramanujan, like Feynman, was a very good calculator. And it really confused the mathematicians formula for Pi. Nobody's ever seen anything like it.&quot; And he'd say, &quot;Here it is.&quot; And then when he started corresponding with they were like, &quot;Well, how did you prove this? How do you know this?&quot; And eventually he got so fed up, I think, so told it to me in a dream.&quot; But the truth of it was, he was a really good And so he just worked out, this particular decimal places. And he had good enough mathematical intuition It's not just going to be an approximation, Occasionally, that intuition failed him. He had a result about prime numbers, for example, it looked like it was true. Turns out the result isn't true. But the first exception is that 10 to the place which he couldn't reach with calculation. So in a sense he was, I think, a great experimental Had he used computers, he would've had a whole But even with himself as the computer, so things. And literally, the mathematicians of the time And so for them, it just seemed to be this from nothing. A bit like Dick Feynman. He was often pulling formulas from a lot of And I remember when I was younger, I happened early on when I was a teenager, and so on. And for some reason the tools existed, but by computer, but people weren't using them. One of the experiences that I had when I was can be really powerful for doing science and And I started using them to do that, and I complicated mathematical formulas and so on For whatever crazy reason, other people just And so I could write physics papers where that I derived, and so on. And people were like, &quot;You must be amazingly And it's like, well no, actually. I'm actually pretty bad at it, but me with But they didn't really even understand the Yeah, I've seen this interesting phenomenon even understand that those tools exist it I find, for me -- attribution, I'm going to skip. But what was it, any sufficiently advanced magic? Something like that. I can't remember what the attribution would Stephen Wolfram: -- Arthur C. Clarke. Tim Ferriss: I think that sounds like Arthur Stephen Wolfram: Right. Yeah. No, I think that the thing that I've spent from doing computer experiments. In another age I would've been there with experiments. Thank goodness I can get away with doing computer me, so to speak. But you do these experiments and there's a but you can discover things that you never and allow you to build things up. And it's this thing that comes from nowhere. Because it's just coming from not the natural You're just turning over this rock in the that there's this whole crazy thing going Tim Ferriss: I would love to pose a question not too long ago, and it's related to what And I'll unpack what that means. He asked each of us to present a heresy. And the heresy in this context was something six to eight people, would disagree with you And these were a lot of technical folks. And I think each person in the group could the broader population would disagree with But are there any particular beliefs that insights, this could be related to the Physics Things you believe that you have high conviction on now, but let's just say hopefully 10 years yes, that was actually, in fact, had some Does anything come to mind? Stephen Wolfram: Yeah, there's several, but But this one, the resistance is crumbling But I think it would still be the case that would not have completely crumbled. And that's the question of, &quot;What is space? And is space made of anything?&quot; So go back, let's say 120 years. People said, &quot;What's water made of?&quot; Water isn't made of anything. Water is just a fluid that flows in the way Turns out what became clear than the late something. People have guessed it much earlier, it's So the question now is, &quot;What is space made This thing that we move around in, is it just we want? Or does it have an inner structure?&quot; And I've been pretty sure for quite a while made of these discrete atoms of existence. You can think of in the case of space, atoms And all that one can say is how these atoms So there's this giant network that defines ultimately is. And everything that exists in the universe work in the underlying structure of space. That's kind of like, if you have a fluid, around. But let's say you just look at little vortex, whirlpool type thing. We can say, there's a whirlpool, you can see And we can talk about it and so on. But ultimately, it's just made of a bunch fashion. And it's my strong belief that everything and photons, and the things we that get made eddies in the structure of this giant network universe, and the underlying thing that space So that's something -- this, be vetoed by this, be compatible or Stephen Wolfram: It's kind of a detail. The bigger picture is something which is a Dark matter is the rotations of galaxies look than you can account for by looking at the But there's a bigger embarrassment, which theory of the way small scale stuff happens zero point fluctuations. And there are an infinite collection of zero produce energy, or are associated with energy roll the universe up into a tiny ball. That is not what we see. We see a universe that's a big universe, not ball. And so that's, in terms of missing energy, orders of magnitude or more. That's a bigger problem, so to speak, than But that's a dark matter problem. Dark energy is yet a different problem. But these are all features of, there's aspects where the energy doesn't seem to have the don't know where the energy is coming from, One feature of our of model of physics is those vacuum fluctuations and so on, those of space. So in the usual theory, it's like there's And then there's all this matter that is doing and that matter should have more of an effect But in our models, those quantum fluctuation-like And so it's not surprising, and the math works doesn't itself have the effect on space of up into a tiny ball. That's an example of how something like that Tim Ferriss: I do have a question about time, But any other heresies that would be on the Stephen Wolfram: Oh, boy. Here's another one, it's a little bit more See, what's happened is, as a result of the a different paradigmatic way of thinking about And so there are a bunch of fields that you thinking to, and start to make foundational I'll mention another thing, I don't know how But in physics, the two big theories of physics of 20th century physics: general relativity, and statistical mechanics. Which is what brings us things like the second increase, and so on. And it's the theory of heat, so to speak. Those are the three big theories of 20th century One of the things that I think is just super three of those theories are basically come They're all in a sense versions of the same They're all in some sense the same theory. Which, to me, is really remarkable. And in fact, one of the things that has just have thought -- well, okay, so statistical together, what do they typically do? For example, you can have molecules that make that determine the pressure and volume of These are typical things that happen when That's what statistical mechanics is about. And people have believed that the most significant law of thermodynamics, which is the law that When you have mechanical work that's doing And once it's heat, that's microscopic motion scale mechanical motion. It's turned into heat, it's random, you don't People have believed that it's possible to some kind of almost mathematical way. You don't really need to know physics to be tend to, for example, go from mechanical work But people have believed that general relativity of our universe. They're both things where you could have made they're just things where it happened to be What has become clear from our Physics Project from the same place, and they're all as derivable And they're all derivable in a really interesting They're all derivable ultimately from this this limit of all possible computations. The entangled limit of all possible computations. And what turns out to happen is all three like us sampling this ruliad object. And what matters is that we have certain attributes For example, we are computationally bounded. We can only fit a limited amount of computational We can't describe, oh, here's where every In our minds, the narrative that we have for let's describe where every atom went. We're just talking about these much more filtered That turns out to be one of the important The other one is that we believe we are persistent In other words, even though at every moment we are being the atoms of space that we were are being created and so on. Despite that, we believe that we are persistent It's like the little eddy on the water. The molecules that make that eddy, it's different Yet there is a definite thing, which if the it is persistent in time. Those two features that our minds are computationally time, those two features determine how we limit of all possible processes. And the sampling that we get to do is one three big theories of 20th century physics. Tim Ferriss: How do you spell ruliad? Stephen Wolfram: R-U-L-I-A-D. Tim Ferriss: Oh, I got it. Look at that. Incredible. Now, is there a lay explanation or exploration That someone like -- Tim Ferriss: -- myself might digest? Stephen Wolfram: The first thing to think that gets to it. One of the things I've long been interested you just run that rule long enough and you'll In other words, I was talking before about they do really complicated things. The most complicated thing we know about is Or we just write down this rule and we could whole universe. Okay, then you start thinking, well, let's Let's imagine that we'd found that -- let is how quantum mechanics works. In classical mechanics you have laws that in the world. There might be something that says, I throw in a certain trajectory. Tim Ferriss: And by classical, you mean Newtonian Stephen Wolfram: Newtonian physics, yes. Tim Ferriss: Got it. Stephen Wolfram: Actually, the relativistic That's the distinction between classical as The dividing line is around 1920, it's about And so, in the quantum view of the world, Instead, the quantum view is there are many That was Dick Feynman's idea, this idea paths. But the notion is that in quantum mechanics The ball goes on many different possible trajectories. We, as observers of what happened, we get get to say, &quot;Oh, there was a certain probability There's a certain probability that would happen.&quot; That's the traditional view of quantum mechanics. In our models you have this giant graph that the structure of the universe. And it's continually being rewritten according What turns out to happen is, there are many Those different possible rewrites give you They give you essentially different threads Different possible things that could happen Those threads of history, sometimes they branch, next. Sometimes they merge, because two things end So you end up with this whole complicated histories for the universe. So now the question is, how do we perceive And why do we not see the universe as this And how can we tell what's happening? Well, the thing we have to realize is that universe. So our minds are branching just like everything It turns out the core question of how one branching mind perceive a branching universe? And so then this thing that I mentioned that's persistent in time. And so even though in some sort of external is branching like crazy, we believe that our experience. And so that means as we impose that belief we conflate lots of different paths that from doing different things. But we so know, actually, those are all in what we have to believe in order to have this experience. And so that process is what drives the understanding And actually, returning to Dick Feynman again. He always used to say that having worked his was very fond of saying nobody understands And I talked to him for ages and ages about And I wish he was still around because I think quantum mechanics. And it's just this idea of the branching mind I hadn't seen that coming at all. And it's a bizarre idea that turns out, I But okay, in quantum mechanics we have all happen in the universe, which to us get conflated Well, okay, let's say we've got this model represents everything the universe does. So then we might imagine this day where we've done some search and we have rule number 713 For a long time I was just really uncomfortable Because let's say we're universe 713, the Why didn't we get number seven trillion, whatever? Why this one? One of the big lessons of science over the We're not very special. We might have thought the Earth was the center We might have thought these kinds of things, We're just on a random planet somewhere in Even the idea that our rule is a simple rule, seems very anti-Copernican. This really bothered me for a long time. And I realized, actually, something even more Which is, maybe the universe is not picking rules. And so what the ruliad is is this computational So imagine you had all possible computers points, and you run them all. You might say, &quot;How could that do anything The critical point is that sometimes those In other words, two different computers might is the same, has the same structure. And so you might say, &quot;Well, they're just Well, they don't do independent things because that they do. And so you end up building up this rich structure, call the ruliad. It's the entangled limit of all possible computations. And what's really interesting about it is, object. In other words, as soon as you define that As soon as you define your terms, you have It's not the case that it's like, oh, it so this way. It is as inevitable as, once you define what so on. Two plus two equals four. There's no way of getting out of that. It's not something that is a random fact about and a nose type thing, which might be seen It's something that is a necessary feature up. So the ruliad is this necessary object. And now the thing which is interesting is, limitable possible computations. How do we experience that? Well, we are also part of that object. So it's the same story as the branching mind an even more abstracted version of that. It's, how do we as elements inside this ruliad One of the things one starts talking about which is the space of kind of possible different So we might say we've got one view of the this rule.&quot; And then some other person, alien, whatever, The universe really works according to this Now the reason, what knits all of that together, for about a hundred years, which is this idea You might have thought that if you wanted you'd buy a word processing computer. You want to have a spreadsheet computer, you'd But the big fact that emerged in the 1920s of hardware object. I mean, it wasn't put to practice until the single hardware object that can just be programmed whatever. And it's kind of the same thing with the universe, the operation of the universe, but they're can be made to run a spreadsheet rather than So -- then I want to pause for a second, ask a follow-up. Stephen Wolfram: So one of the things that this notion of where are you in rulial space? Where what kind of mode of description of And you can imagine that every different mind So the fact that you and I have different of the fact that we are some distance apart And so what you realize is, as we think about universe by spacecraft or whatever going out We also have the exploration of the universe And that's kind of, the different minds and represent kind of travel through rulial space. And just as we kind of, when we send out spacecraft parts of the physical universe, when we come and different ideas, we're kind of traveling And that's kind of a way to start representing Tim Ferriss: All right. I'm going to ask a number of questions that myself, but I knew that I when I -- Tim Ferriss: Oh, yeah, just -- languages and you were asking about different That's an example of being in different places So you can imagine two languages where the they kind of correspond to nearby places in to travel from one to the other, whereas things of views of the world are further away in And that's just a way of perhaps conceptualizing Please, go ahead. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, when you said that, I was gendered languages or certain languages that Mandarin, and how that affects maybe where So how does a branching mind perceive a branching the branching universe? I think as many people hear this, they imagine out in some form of to conjure the image of you took a snapshot of the eddy, minute after But there is a branching that I think for time, and so there's some past to future to I have tried to stretch the boundaries of listening to say, Carlo Rovelli, who I think I don't know his research very well. How do you think about time? Is how humans experience or think about time in terms of its linear past to future nature? Stephen Wolfram: So I mean, first thing is, Tim Ferriss: Exactly. Stephen Wolfram: That's something that I think about our theory of physics. I mean, time is the inexorable progress of So in other words, the universe is in some to another state, and another one. That progressive process of transformation And this phenomenon of computational reducibility of can't jump ahead, that is the fact that There is something, you can't just say, &quot;Oh, of time. I could always just jump ahead.&quot; Now, in most of the universe, time is just It's just as the universe is sort of updated, Now, we are part of the universe, so we are If the universe just stopped, we wouldn't too. So for example, one place where that happens, center of the simplest kind of black hole, property that it's a place where time stops. And so in our model of physics, what's happening is being updated, being updated, but if you're There's no more update that can be applied. Actually, if you're doing math, you kind of If you're doing a calculation, you do, &quot;Oh, These things are happening,&quot; and eventually, it's fixed, nothing changes anymore. That's what happens at the center of a black It's kind of bad news in a sense, if you want just stopped. So time, as far as I'm concerned, is this in the actual way that it manifests in the So for example, in relativity and gravitation in which the notion of, &quot;When is it the same Is complicated. Like we say, let's say, have a Mars colony Okay, it's 12 noon at this point. Well, it's 20 light minutes away to Mars, Do we say that the 12 noon is the time when it was 12 noon on Earth reaches Mars? Or do we try and back calculate that and say, if the clock had been 20 minutes early?&quot; And so on. That whole question of the way in which you to define what counts as simultaneity in time, and gravitation theory and so on. And that's another kind of twist in this whole But in quantum mechanics, the big issue is, or are there many threads of time? Now, we humans normally only perceive one I've sort of wondered whether there's some of a multi-way trance, where they actually going on at the same time. But for most of us, most of the time, it's that we have. And that's a -- what prompted that wonder or question about Stephen Wolfram: Because one of the features drives the mathematical structure of quantum that we are persistent in time and that we have a single thread of experience. If that isn't the case, then we've got a different mechanics ends up being something which says, it has these many parts of history.&quot; But in the end, we want to get an answer. We don't want to be saying we've got two different We're going to say, &quot;We say a definite thing And so for example, when people talk about one hopes for is that one can use these multiple computation, and so then, you can do all these Now the big problem, and again, I seem to but he and I worked on quantum physics -- Stephen Wolfram: -- back in 1981 or so. It was kind of a funny experience because was using a computer. I actually found one of the computations that do these calculations by hand, and I had no Because it's just like you do this calculation this or this, you could have made this or I don't know why that assumption is right.&quot; And he'd look at the stuff I did on a computer right.&quot; So that was an interesting challenge, so to But actually, even at that time, we kind of use of quantum mechanics to compute things In the formal theory of quantum mechanics, How do you actually measure what happened Well now, what we see is there are all these if we want to get a definite answer, have And the big question is, &quot;How hard is it to And if it's as hard to knit them together then you don't get an advantage in the end. And that's a difficult thing to figure out, out. I'm not hopeful about the true quantum advantage. I think that the formalism of quantum mechanics And it's very, this whole idea of these, what threads of history and so on. That's a very interesting formal thing relevant But this idea that you're actually going to of it and get this sort of quantum advantage, It's also, as a practical matter, the whole to think, &quot;Oh, can we make computers out of and so on?&quot; And that's a completely worthwhile thing, So the two ends are worthwhile. I'm not sure that the middle is so worthwhile. So that's our notion of time. Now, in terms of people's perception of time, computations, our minds are undergoing these And that's kind of, it's the alignment of the computation going on in the universe that in thermodynamics of things sort of decaying of the universe, things about cosmology and The fact that all those different arrows of they're actually the same thing, they're all that's happening in the universe. Tim Ferriss: I'm going to use a term that to the point that it's often undefined, at But I'm going to ask this question anyway, constitutes consciousness? It can be defined any way you want, or it Or if that is an emergent property or a subjective can be currently explained? How do you think about, if at all, this may Stephen Wolfram: Yeah. Well, I've always sort of avoided it because thing. But I was literally confronted with, &quot;I need I may not have to -- and here's how. In the universe, ultimately there are all but our minds don't do all possible computations. Our minds are somewhat more, they're much And in particular, they have these features persistence and so on. For me, those are the things we need to use So those are features of consciousness that It's kind of actually a little disappointing inanimate matter and there's this and that, and it goes through life. And eventually, we get to intelligence, consciousness. We are the tippy-top. We are the best thing in the universe,&quot; so But actually, what I've come to realize is has much more capability than we have. And this thing we call consciousness is a specific, where we believe, for example, that we have. And that that's kind of the thing that consciousness, is this thing where it's not about everything things that are sort of the way that our minds I think an exercise people talk about, &quot;Well, very materialistic way? Isn't there some magic thing in consciousness from everything else in the universe?&quot; Well, to us, inside, there absolutely is. To us, inside, we are this one point in rulial on. That is our experience of the universe, and And there may be some other point in rulial by where we can say, &quot;We're experiencing these We can tell that they're similar to what's But each sort of consciousness is unique in Now, I was kind of doing an exercise recently, what it's like to be a computer. And you imagine we humans, we live our lives, Eventually, it's all lost when we die. And the question is, for a computer, from system crashes, that's a period of time over And how do those life experiences compare There is a whole inner thinking that's going How does that compare with us humans? There's sort of the communication with other and so on. How does that compare? How can we describe that in what it's like of the science fiction AI of the future, just What would it be like to be the sort of inside view of the machine, so to speak? Tim Ferriss: Let's segue to personal productivity. So this is something I imagine you do still fair amount of your writing on personal infrastructure And it seems like there are, is I think you that then later become more mainstream or Are there any personal productivity or infrastructure you think will gain more adoption in some Stephen Wolfram: So I started live streaming started this about, when was it? 2017, so a few years ago. And it's really an interesting process because that we do are live streamed. And that means people who are in the meeting they kind of know it's going out to the world, kind of an immediate feedback. If we announce some particular topic we're experts in that topic often will show up because, using our tools and they might as well contribute And also, people who are just energetic users And it's really a wonderful kind of immediate To me it's a little bit, it helps me feel grinding away, trying to figure out how software the fact that I'm leaving some record of this, And I know people have used some of our live things like this. And so it helps me make it seem more meaningful, The even more extreme version of that is that I'm just sitting by myself and I'm working or something like that, and I just record Like last night, I probably recorded five Basically was working on this sort of personal screen and I'm just recording what I'm doing. Now, why am I doing this? Because it's easy to do and the thing that bit more meaningful to me. It sort of makes me think, &quot;Oh, I'm not going recording everything here.&quot; And okay, I admit, I have a secondary screen, And the other thing is, when I'm doing science is people say, &quot;Well, how did you figure that I'm saying, &quot;You can really find out how I Just go look at this video -- Stephen Wolfram: -- and you can find the And maybe I got it wrong, and you'll see, And you can see that moment, and you can then Same thing, by the way, for our software design The people who do project management routinely the meetings. &quot;What actually happened? How did we decide this? Oh, a bug showed up there. Let's go carve that piece of the video out So I think this thing about doing actual production don't know anybody else who does that. I think nobody else is crazy enough to do Stephen Wolfram: And part of why we can do space, where it's not like -- I know people live streams. It's like, good luck. We just spent 35 years building all this stuff. One live stream is not going to let you rebuild So, that's one thing. The other thing that I myself have become going to say really stupid things on these These are real life things where, yes, I'm People are going to say, &quot;You're wrong. You're wrong.&quot; And we're going to have a little argument, you're right.&quot; And I don't have an internal ego issue with something that people can go back and find I'm sure it's possible to find all kinds of live streams and so on. Okay. So, another productivity hack, I suppose, So, at the beginning of the pandemic, I thought, school. I know a bunch of stuff about science.&quot; Every so often I'll do a Q&amp;A. Once a week I'll do a Q&amp;A about science and So I started doing this at the beginning of I've done 100 episodes or more now of this and technology Q&amp;A for kids and others. Okay, so what has that done for me? People ask all kinds of crazy things, and And I find that this process of I'm just sitting no looking anything up, just how can I figure And from a couple of days ago, there was a some piece of physics that is relevant to before. And the process of explaining it, particularly to go on talking at the camera, so to speak, got to figure something out,&quot; I found really And I've been doing actually two other alternating, science and technology and the other about your territory. And people there, again, I just find it really I'm trying to answer these questions, particularly to say, &quot;Oh, let me think about that, and And then I never get around to answering it. I'm kind of on the spot and having to answer I know that, in terms of explaining things, that I've gotten better through hundreds of I try and answer them. The one thing that always trips me up is when &quot;That's really easy. I have that one absolutely nailed.&quot; Those are the ones that I trip up on. And actually, there's a curious reason, which these things, where it's like, I've understood So it's easy, and then I realize, oh, my gosh, the other thing, which, yeah, I learnt when But not everybody knows that, and I have to And I have to go explain this other thing one's descending into the swamp of complicated Tim Ferriss: So let's look at maybe, if there the physiological underpinnings of productivity. So, we have these physical bodies, and you but have energy reserves. I'm not using energy in a very precise, physics Right? You're producing enough neurotransmitters, you are able to maintain, it seems like, a Do you think about energy management in that Stephen Wolfram: You know what -- comes so naturally out of the box that you to think about it? Stephen Wolfram: I think I'm lucky that I'm And it's always amusing to me that I'm an of young folk who are working with me and And that always -- Actually, I get a kick So that -- Stephen Wolfram: -- that helps add energy But no, I think for me, look, one thing is And for me, that's a huge, energizing force. If I was like, &quot;Oh, gosh, I have to do this, not very interested,&quot; and it's like I'm jumping It's like I was -- okay, another strange my life 50 years ago, in the last few weeks, ago, I initiated a reunion for my elementary And so, it's a small subgroup of people, and And actually, it was, I liked these people I liked them 50 years later. That was nice. But I realized one of the things that's a people were -- we were writing little blurbs &quot;I retired.&quot; &quot;I retired,&quot; etc, etc, etc. And they're British folk, so they had lots doing in their retirement. But so, I was realizing, I'm not retired, working more than 12 hours a day, every day, And I'm having a good time, and I've been that add energy to me rather than taking it When I do creative things, and I figure stuff the process of finishing them and getting And I think, if I was doing things where I'm we realized this just didn't work, I would Okay. Wrong [inaudible 01:36:00]. Tim Ferriss: Uh-huh. Stephen Wolfram: Right? And I would try and take my wife to science Okay. So, my wife is a mathematician, so science enough away that she was like, &quot;Oh, I'm getting So, for me, it would have a physiological Tim Ferriss: Shopping. Stephen Wolfram: -- looking around shops. I'm like, I feel really tired. I have to -- Stephen Wolfram: -- lay down, etc, etc, etc. So, I think the effect that I'm doing things effect. Now, having said that, I did discover, when exercise, and that helped for me, I think, For the last three years, I've walked more last three years, and that's just one of my Even if I'm traveling or this or that or the it's like I've got to walk 10,000 steps. If that's around an airport on phone calls on my life, so to speak. And I think that has had a positive effect. For me, it's been bizarre because, when I I'm in better shape now. And so, for me, I don't yet notice that I'm many ways, than I was when I was younger. Tim Ferriss: Your mitochondria are getting Stephen Wolfram: Yeah, yeah. Right. No, another thing about that and about the fortunate enough that, often, you'll do something, you're 25 years old. And then, it's all downhill from there, and And I've been lucky enough that, for example, years ago, that was something I didn't really It's a rejuvenating thing, and it's just added so many things to think about and so on. That's one thing. I sleep as close to eight hours as I can. I don't try and game it of saying I'm going I'm very habitual, in terms of when I go to Things I eat tend to be habitual, and they least. I've found that, for me, I try and optimize don't care about, so to speak, that I don't about them as possible so that I can spend want to think about these things and really But, yeah. No, I've been fortunate enough that, for whatever kicking and providing good energy. But as I say, I think it's mostly that just I tend to organize it so that there are things I'm going to do this if I'm feeling tired, I'm going to do this if I get sick. Okay. And I've had a whole bunch of those. And I've only been sick once in the last three got this big, pent-up supply of things to Tim Ferriss: Now, are those just low-energy, get done, like talk to my accountant about Stephen Wolfram: Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'm not usually talking to other people, of things. Tim Ferriss: I see. I see. Stephen Wolfram: Or sometimes, they're... watch and have never had time to do. But I did learn, okay, so this is one not was curious what has caused me to get sick Why have I gotten sick? And so I have the data for, I think, 27 years sick. It's always upper respiratory things. Right? And so I think I've gotten sick 25 times in And the question is, what was I doing when And was it, oh, I went out, and I met a bunch And the one correlation, and I haven't been correlation was it was often two days after Okay. And in a few cases, that was not a commercial That was a private plane, so without a lot And so then I asked my medical research friends And here's the theory. The theory would be a big part of upper respiratory system operating in one's nose and so on. And if you get your nose dried out and so and things like that, your little, innate So my hack has been take things like wheat I go on a plane, take that and a couple of N of about eight or something of trip side So far, I haven't gotten sick It also makes me think of ways that you could, sort of moisture integrity of the sinal lining, Stephen Wolfram: Yeah, I thought about that. My most relevant medical research friend claimed to try and do that. Tim Ferriss: Try to keep the nose well hydrated. Stephen Wolfram: Right. It's a strange thing. You're on some flight, going somewhere, and nose or whatever. No, that's -- Stephen Wolfram: One of the things I found to do when I'm tired because, for me, in terms If I'm sick, I might be like, &quot;Oh, my gosh, That's so terrible.&quot; But in a sense, I'm like, &quot;Great, now I have had to do somehow.&quot; I do the same thing when I'm driving places. I always maintain a call-while-driving list got to do this sometime. I don't need to be in front of a computer.&quot; This is something I can do then. And it's actually good for lots of interactions It's just like, if there's a person who lives them. But if they live somewhere completely different, you end up seeing them. And it's been the same thing for me with call-while-driving. It's like, &quot;I'm going to call somebody,&quot; and Tim Ferriss: Stephen, I'm so continually impressed but how you log and track and interpret so I think that I take a lot of notes, but you a quarter million pages, something along those It's just incredible. Stephen Wolfram: That's the stuff on paper I have three million emails as well, so yeah, Tim Ferriss: So, you have a lot of stuff, to, at some point, do a round two. I'm sure we could do themed conversations Is there anything else that you would like my audience's attention to -- Tim Ferriss: -- anything at all, in terms you'd like to air publicly, really anything -- for a bunch of personal productivity hacks -- Yeah. Stephen Wolfram: -- because one slowly accumulates And I find I'll try things and probably two-thirds But it's keep trying them, but anyway. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Stephen Wolfram: So, I think, no, we've covered Tim Ferriss: I look forward to hopefully seeing has been delightful and very fun for me. I've taken copious notes, so I will be doing And you seem to be doing pretty well on the If I think of anything that is a gross omission, Stephen Wolfram: Okay. Yeah. Tim Ferriss: People can find you on Twitter, Facebook/stephenwolfram, linkedin.com, also, And we'll link to everything that you've mentioned. Is there anything that you would like to point the moment, or any resources that people may Stephen Wolfram: Well, let's see. The stuff I write ends up in writings.stephenwolfram.com. And I put lots of effort into writing these fun to read. Although even the process of writing them, its own right. There's also a recent thing, for me, is we I suppose, an attempted productivity hack. My company, which I started now 36 years ago, into real things. And it's 800 people who are really, really own ideas as well. But that's been a thing, where mostly, we been trying to solve is, if you're making that? And I've carved off a bit of resources from recently launched Wolfram Institute, which And that's a new thing in the last just few that are happening there. And I guess there'll be yet more live streaming So, those are a few things. And I suppose the other, I have to plug my Wolfram Language and Wolfram|Alpha and Mathematica idea of make the world computational. And I suppose the one pitch I would make is, an artifact from the future. And in other words, the direction that things representing the world computationally and But there are a few million people who actually but there are a lot of millions of people of the future. And it's a big advantage if you can grab the I've done a lot of work with kids, who are so on, and I've taken to referring to learning It's something that you get to do that, and with it. Anyway, so learn that superpower, and more And it's one of these things where you can big ideas, there's a certain, inexorable slowness And there are always some number of early front, and so my parting pitch would be, if and Wolfram Language and so on, try to understand about productivity hacks. The biggest amplifier, hugest productivity That's what all the things I've done in science idea and the tower of technology that we built So that's my parting, ultimate productivity Tim Ferriss: Wonderful. And for everybody listening, Mathematica, to all of these things in the show notes, And you can just search Wolfram, W-O-L-F-R-A-M, Stephen, I really enjoy learning from you technologist, I'm sure there are many multi-hyphenate communicator and teacher. So, the practical impact of what you do is by millions of people and that will be used, more, but also in the principled and systematic people, including kids, including with non-technical like myself and no doubt with many, many millions So thank you. I really, really appreciate the time you take taken to have this conversation. Stephen Wolfram: Thank you. Tim Ferriss: So, thank you very much. And to everybody listening, I'll plug it one You can go to tim.blog/podcast, for the show episode and in all episodes. And until next time, be a little bit kinder Be very curious. Definitely paddle early for the superpowers adoption, like those that Stephen was mentioning. And thank you for tuning in.