Hello everyone, have a nice evening!!! Hello everyone, have a nice evening!!! If the water supply line is broken or leaking, don't throw it away. If the water supply line is broken or leaking, don't throw it away . If the water supply line is broken or leaking, don't throw it away. Cut the broken area or water leak cut out the break or water leak cut out the break or water leak inside there is a joint inside there is a joint inside there is a joint chisel cut out this part chisel cut out this part chisel cut out this part so you got the joint so you got the joint so you got the joint cut the pipe evenly cut the pipe evenly cut the pipe evenly put the stainless steel tightening ring in first put the stainless steel tightening ring in first put the coupling on the nut, then put it in the water supply line put the coupling on the nut, then Put it in the water supply line to connect it to the nut, then put it in the water supply line Tighten the stainless steel tightening wire. Tighten the stainless steel tightening wire. Tighten the stainless steel tightening wire Remember to add roon to ensure tightness remember to add roon to ensure tightness remember to add roon to ensure tightness That's it, that's it, that's it , that's it If you want the water supply line to be as long as you want, if you want the water supply line to be as long as you want, use a soft water pipe, 12mm diameter for a soft water pipe, 12mm diameter for a soft water pipe, 12mm diameter for two clamps stainless steel into the pipe, put two stainless steel clamps on the pipe , then install two joints and tighten them, then insert two joints and tighten them, then insert two joints and tighten them, and you have a long water supply line according to If you want , you have the long water supply line as you want. So you have the long water supply line as you want This is the method of stretching the pipe This is the method of stretching the pipe, cutting off the joint, reusing the old nut and faucet head (21mm-1/2) cutting off the joint, reusing the nut and faucet head old (21mm-1/2) cut off the joint, reuse the old nut and faucet head (21mm-1/2) use a heat gun to heat the 20mm hot water pipe use a heat gun to heat the 20mm hot water pipe Use a heat gun to heat a 20mm hot water pipe. Remember to rotate the pipe evenly to heat it evenly. Remember to rotate the pipe evenly to heat it evenly. Remember to rotate the pipe evenly to heat it evenly for about 5-7 minutes. Clamp it in a vise and pull it. Extending the tube for about 5-7 minutes is enough. Clamp it in a vise and extend the tube for about 5-7 minutes. Clamp it in a vise and extend the tube. Use a wet towel to cool . Use a wet towel to cool. Use a wet towel to cool. cut out the large tube cut out the large tube cut out the large tube put the nut into the tube, mark the nut into the tube, mark the nut into the tube, mark then cut off the large tube then cut off the large tube then cut off the large tube Use plumbing pliers to flare the pipe end wider. Use plumbing pliers to flare the pipe end wider. Use plumbing pliers to flare the pipe end wider. put the nut and faucet head on the pipe put the nut and faucet head on the pipe put the nut and faucet head on the pipe then flare the other end of the pipe then flare the other end of the pipe then flare the other end of the pipe Polish both ends of the tube. Grind both ends of the tube . Smooth both ends of the tube Use a 5mm drill bit to drill off the plastic plugging the pipe end. Use a 5mm drill bit to drill away the plastic plugging the pipe end. Use a 5mm drill bit to drill away the plastic plugging the pipe end. You see that the diameters of the two pipes are similar. You see that the diameters of the two pipes are are equivalent , you can see the diameters of the two pipes are equivalent, the pipe end is flared wide so it doesn't slip out of the nut the pipe end is flared wide so it doesn't slip out of the nut the pipe end is flared wide so it doesn't slip out of the nut it's very flexible, everyone, it's very flexible, everyone, it's very flexible, everyone, install it and you're done, install it, you're done, install it, and you're done. What do you think about this video? Please leave a comment. What do you think about this video? Leave a comment, what do you think about this video? Please leave a comment. I'll stop the video here bye bye everyone I'll stop the video here Bye bye everyone I'll stop the video here Bye bye everyone