The next DLC is coming soon with new characters, least once. When I did the Yoshi challenge, I won so many races I should not have won. And, the Yoshi challenge, but I am using Birdo, who well here because, in my opinion, Birdo and Yoshi the game of any character. And even though I've most comfortable with. So all I have to do is stay Oh, and I got hit off the edge. This is such beginning part seriously. I feel like it's it's not like a comeback track, but it's just like You gotta be like a Waluigi Wiggler player, All right, mushroom right here. You have no place I mean, second place has triple greens, I'm just gonna be one of those annoying people so the person behind me with triple mushrooms Like, I get to actually be one of these people. Why is first place that far ahead? At least assuming I don't get hit. I have two mushrooms. Wow, another one didn't I have a lot, a lot of catching up to do. Luckily, right there. Oh, mushroom, yes! I'm gonna toss Oh, I think it hit. Wait, that They definitely don't have Oh, what, they did! And now I don't. Ugh, I got of them getting hit, but they didn't actually but I didn't know how far first place was ahead Come on, so many red shells. Nice, nice, second place. I just want to by lag. It's always lag. It's never me. Oh, changed my tires to be blue because I thought honestly, I'm not sure if this is a hot take players, but I feel like being able to change your different in a way that's fun is very important Yeah, like just trying to win every time with stale. And like if you're a competitive player and that's why you're so good. But for me, doing the and I know everyone's different, so I'm not if you're the type who played Waluigi Wiggler at the game and that's what you cared for sure. I just also really want to be able I hit the button. It's okay, I'm right on Please don't back this red shell. I mean, I'm Oh I got a single item. And it got Jeez, Yoshi, calm down [Music] Please, okay, they only have a banana. I'll out of nowhere. Nooo, don't snipe me. Yes! full blue shelled. DLC wave 4 Birdo was in first place, it's a girl with this sort of short hair and this is a Japanese player with a very high rating, I called it. I called it. I don't know what it is one specific look. All right, so every time I've to get it to fit a better color scheme, and like So yeah, I now have GLA tires, the Mercedes GLA JPGiviner suggested, which gives you more speed I mean, that's not that important, but it is one but with Birdo or like anyone around this So I get hit here, get the double item box. It's the double item box but you also don't want to your path, then it's extremely scary. Oh, Can we first place, let's do this. [Music] Jeez, I didn't see the purple, but based on how long Okay, so this is-- never mind. [Music] I like being really annoying with the fire flower flower never ends. Oh they have a green shell and Wow, I'm gonna have a bad race here. Ah, they lagged off the screen and didn't get I think we're good here. [Music] Get get away, get away. [laughs] Oh, that was Oooh, okay, we have a red Yoshi right that sucks. [laughs] I do want to be at the any shortcuts you can do that require like an I'll use one right as we land. me. Please pass some people. Thank I take the double shortcut, hopefully, get hit by my triple greens as Yes, there we go. Boost panel, yes! Oh, Okay, let's not go up there again for the second but if anything's wrong, like the Shy Guys are Two times up the blue thing. I can't even talk. good because you can keep doing shortcuts without behind you at the cannon gets a really good item Okay, let's stop here. Don't want to be going the shortcut. And this shortcut's quite a slow spot to get blue shelled. I mean, there's no such I misjudged that so hard. I actually slowed down I made a terrible mistake and I still didn't get I'm just glad I didn't get hit. Based on how this lap in such a terrible position and I still the end of the lap. So I'm pretty confident in No, I went off the edge. Ah, that's why And this is such a bad respawn, it takes so long. I should probably still win this. Yeah, there no one is even near, wow. I feel like sometimes DK lot of people online haven't bothered to learn the Hasn't everyone seen my DK Summit video? So I got sponge tires. I actually love these tires. Like, I changed my mind and think this combo is better difference is, this one has more invincibility, just like a trade-off there, not a really big the slippery parts are a little easier to drive. And you might be like, 'Oh, isn't that a bad because if you, um, have lower handling, then that sharper. In other words, charge your drifts more, much as you can, but the problem is a lot of the someone else got into first place and just took sometimes it's actually better because you can Just want to take the middle path here, I'm enjoying the items that I what is going on? Somehow dodged the trees. Here, delay these drifts so you don't pop. that's totally fine. What the heck? [laughs] Okay, but as it turns out, it didn't matter if I dodged some tricks there, that was really bad. Someone They have a star? come on. This is just not way. I'm going to stop following me. I can beat this person. Wait, no, they Please, please hit. Nooo, I've thrown that a timing. Wow, respect to the Yoshi on Yoshi Well, I mean, they did dodge the shock, so if you of win on any combo. Okay, I got pushed so hard and passing absolutely everybody, I guess that what you do on that section. Sometimes things Yeah, so, okay, let me tell you about something. right? Uh, or even someone with more handling the exact same thing I just did, you will not get high. So if you try and soft drift that whole So, this is an instance where less Please, nice, that red shell took slightly longer I always forget the double item boxes that shortcut and then I just kind of that's also a place where getting the purple Uh, wait, please, I literally had it out. game, that's like glitch level of BS. Okay, and I'm getting absolutely killed here. Yep, Get the item. Okay, this is really bad. there. Getting destroyed here. Goodbye, sorry, Oh, nice, nice, nice. Oh, I didn't get hit. I knew what I was running into. Okay, I'm getting the item, this is I actually hit someone, that's nice. but there's a blue shell coming. I don't know if I tossed them all backwards. Come This is really unfortunate. Are you kidding two more people. Ughhh, I don't want to keep my controller [laughs] Just in case, but Oh, we got another high VR Japanese female with Sorry for stereotyping, but we're gonna find out as I expected, but 15,000. I mean, that's still standard tires now. Like, these actually have the out of the way, except they are just lower on the uh, that's why you should not use these if you're is not that huge of an important stat, so it's look nice, it's not really a big deal until you the invincibility bonus, and, uh, then you will Okay, we have a slight lead here no coins are high, let's use this. [Music] Blue yeah this was so bad. I noticed that so late and Let's use this. Grab the double item. Good Oh, out of the way, I'm slowing down. [laughs] Don't tell me greens don't Okay, I have a bullet, that's good, Ah, I'm just gonna use it. That was terrible, not reacting to things. I could Oh, that subway was scary. Okay, immediately Okay, okay, we're actually making a little actually, but we're close. Yeah, not happening. [laughs] Yoshi gang, Yoshi hive mind. All right, anti-gravity speed bonus, which is like the on this track. In fact, a lot of the DLCs don't like, that's one of the main things, you know, 'Nope, no anti-gravity. It's not a thing we bagging track because that one shortcut is to get hit. And you, you can have a bullet just horn if I have to. I'll just use it now, I I'm gonna save this mushroom [Music] get I messed up. [laughs] Take that, all planned. We have a lot of people in the back right now. Nice little orange mini-turbo right there. Final stretch here, if there's another blue shell and I can actually make it all the way to really nice. I'm canceling the blooper too, let's I'm just trying to get the biggest I couldn't hit the banana. Probably getting Oh, I actually tried to snipe the Yoshi and it second blue shell. I think I definitely we got a top three of all green, which is not that game when you're color-coordinated. Look, everyone's on such different-looking combos, All right, so I'm pretty sure I have the same with the combo I'm using right now. I would argue Inkstriker, but I probably would give it to Yoshi Barely got the double item. I Wow, two defenses. Could have taken the pink Wow, see, one of those red shells didn't even not gonna go over that shortcut as long as I'm in Yeah, nothing you can do about that. [Music] Bomb, bomb. This is-- what am I They didn't drop it. I'm gonna get are the kinds of decisions you have All right, that was terrible, all thanks And we have a bullet coming through. Isn't that a fun little play-by-play? What a fun Taking blue path again. Ooh, Please give it to me, yes! First place that's what Wasn't even coming for me because I'm so happy with that. I didn't realize I was in only person's item I could have stolen was first a guaranteed play. It looks like I got lucky, but