(narrator) Weapons have existed For millennia, they have deterd Weapons bring suffering and de. They show what humans But they are also intended to e Almost every war Women, children, civilians. Some weapons are developed We'll look at the historical b. Why does mankind build the ato? The most terrible of all weapo. It can actually destroy civiliz. (narrator) How about biological Winning is all that matters. (narrator) What sealed the fatef Wow. Let's go and see! (narrator) Our first weapon: A wonder weapon for sieges For centuries, high castle wals One of the first technical sols It basically takes the attackerp on a rolling platform that can e and the attackers can then go as (narrator) But in siege tower ms Even if they outnumber the def. (Prof. Lambert) It's not a place a wooden tower It doesn't look good. So they're not hugely successfu. (narrator) Attacks from a distae With catapults. They are time-consuming, In the 12th century, conquers the battlefields. It is called trebuchet. A reconstruction in Beckdorf, Weapons expert Mike Loades is . It's the most imposing and the t And in an age before gunpowder, (narrator) What makes the trebut At the end of that beam is, in , The principle of a sling is thas and so it throws further. If you were to put that sling you would have an even longer sm The trouble is, the beam you need a machine to operate i. So you can think of the stone the sling is the weapon, and the big wooden trebuchet isy (narrator) Building a trebuchet It's simply not possible to mov. A fully erected trebuchet, (narrator) The solution: attacks to transport them to the besiey Your military engineers where they made it. Part of the siege would be watcg and you would hope he would say, You know what's coming and it'sg There's a psychological (narrator) The hard work pays o. Depictions from the 12th and 1y in all corners of the known wo. For example, in Northern Germa. Lake Dannsee was located near , Back in 1311, robber baron The North German bishops Iron Heinrich, as he is also c, (in German) (dubbed in English) The bishopsf are after robber knight, Iron H, who was hiding in Dannsee Castle (narrator) Back then, bishops we and it therefore was their dute They want to force But it is surrounded by water So they have two trebuchets The intent is to destroy Mechanics with destructive pow. You just release the heavyweigx the long throwing arm with the. But how can you actually hit (Hausser) If the tension doesn'e and the projectile weight is th, It will always cover In order to get that accuracy of the same size, shape, And these are actual trebuchet s by a mason, with a hammer and cl (narrator) Almost 1,000 of thess to fight robber baron Heinrich. We want to find out how accurae We set up a palisade of tree ts just like Heinrich had around . Four meters high, six meters w. The trunks are placed Does the trebuchet projectile d This has some movement. It has some elasticity. I think that might prove quite (narrator) It takes a team to operate Firing the trebuchet requires and as many hard-working They have to fill They grease the firing line and position the throwing arm. An historical stone taken frome will serve as our ammunition. Fire at will. Wow, that was so close. And it flew true. Let's go and . (narrator) Our stone gets buried Good grief. I don't know where that stone i. It's gone down there I can't even... I can't even feel it. (narrator) But the trunks (in German) (dubbed in English) Sometimes until they achieved the desired. (narrator) Time, a decisive facr Without catapults, Roman legions typically rely or At some point, the famine willh and force them to surrender. One legendary exception to thie Rebellious Jews barricade thems The Roman Legion X besieges ths It is only when the legionnairs out of stones and sand up to ts As they moved up, the Jewish but eventually the Romans (narrator) When the Romans they find the lifeless bodies Only two women They'd killed themselves. They weren't going to surrender (narrator) To this day, Masada e The ramp built by the Romans Meanwhile in Beckdorf, we are g The first shot was a miss. The trebuchet can't be moved, with the trajectory guide. Mike Loades takes a closer look with his experienced And then you can move Going to there, I only need to e Very small. Very small can make -Of course. You have to think about one cenr I hope we can do it. You are the right hands. -We will try it again. (narrator) Positioning the thro. Charging the catapult with a n. And fire. The projectile travels too far. We remove a couple of stones This reduces the firing velociy That's the one. Yes. (narrator) Will it work now? A clear hit. The stone goes straight (they cheer) We have a hit. Just look at this. It's just gone down like matchs, Here is the real damage. This is where the stone must hak The walls are now breached (narrator) Our trebuchet has hi, Just like it did 700 years ago. Back then, the troops the protective palisade The robber baron is thrown Destruction is not always You want the castle: If you can scare them into In 1346, Tartarian troops makee They're besieging the city and want to bring the plague But how are they able do this They understood it was so they protected their hands, That means they could move the d without putting themselves in d. (narrator) Using trebuchets, ths The message is clear. &quot;Surrender now or we kill you a&quot; This is classic siege warfare. So, it's psychological, it's bi, (narrator) This is how of a very insidious way of war. Biological and chemical weapons The attempts to outlaw such ats Greece, 6th century BCE. The Oracle of Delphi attracting pilgrims and guidan. The coastal town of Kirra benem But an alliance wants to seize the earnings fr. They besiege Kirra. According to historical report, they take straight from the gr. They throw hellebore roots inte An attack with serious repercu. (in German) (dubbed in English) The consequs vomiting, nausea, vertigo, and . And vomiting and diarrhea and the body (narrator) Soon, half the resids It is impossible for them The attackers kill all of them Any means of getting an advanta, these are all good things, Once you've won, nobody minds h. (narrator) Another historical In 1267, the Mongols The Chinese fight tooth and na. They also use a weapon They call it &quot;fen phao kuan fa, It proves particularly effectie The main ingredient: dried human excrement that is t Everybody knows that horrid ods But is it really possible to py Medieval Chinese documents dese Weapons expert Mike Loades The first evidence comes from China in 1044, And we have a number of recipes Here is one that And it's the roots If you ingest those roots, your stomach bleeds, it causes terrible suffering. Another common ingredient These nasty little fellows. It feeds on waste, and it absorn there are all sorts Tung oil, deadly poisonous from Lime, basic chalk, but when thad that itself becomes a deadly su. If it mixes with the moist parts or mucus in the nose or it gets that becomes a deadly burning a. So, these are all very noxious s pulverized with human feces. I'm happy to say the producers and this is the fuel. When dried this becomes an unpleasant-smelling fuel And it was the burning excrement the smoke that carried the toxic and that is what got into the it got into their stomachs and e run out of the ships. The purpose of the stinkpot without destroying the place. A horrible, disgusting, cowardl, shameful chemical warfare. (narrator) The recipes vary. Biological and chemical warfarn They've got an advantage who is a less sophisticated socy So, it gives them an edge. (narrator) For centuries, with gaseous warfare agents. Producing them efficiently at e The most far-reaching In 1492, Christopher Columbus but rather reaches a whole new. For the indigenous population An ever-growing number They bring in bacteria and virs of indigenous Americans Within only a couple of decade, from diseases, such as the mea. But in some cases, European cos For example, in Pennsylvania i. Indian tribes are besieging Fo. Some of the British colonizers Their commander-in-chief Jeffrt of smallpox among the Indian t. (in German) (dubbed in English) They gave bs with disastrous impact (narrator) Targeted biological . The Indians are forced to end Summer 1914. World War I brings about entiry German chemist Fritz Haber ints On April 22, 1915, a pale yelld towards the French frontlines Under the observing eyes of Ha, German troops release 150 tons Chlorine gas was actually a bypt Then they found out it can serve It's a very dangerous weapon (narrator) More than Several thousands are injured. The Germans were first, (narrator) Industrial production Thousands of tons of gas are p, to protect the soldiers from c. But in 1917, the Germans also known as mustard gas. (in German) (dubbed in English) Mustard gas causing blisters and burns What was vicious about this weas It was about contact with skin. (narrator) The fear of deadly gs Poison gas kills leaving more than one million . US nurse Shirley Millard writet &quot;They struggle for breath. Their lungs are gone, Some with their eyes and faces After the end of World War I, the bloodshed of millions In 1920, 32 states form an orgn In 1925, they agree on prohibie But the League of Nations prov. By the mid-30s, it becomes is on the brink of another majr June 25, 1945. In Europe, World War II is ove. 50 countries found the United s The new organization has the se But this time it is supposed t. And the UN has stood the test . By 2017, there are 193 member . They have signed with all its rights and obliga. UN soldiers are deployed to ene Their mission Their job is to observe Joint treaties promote the pron Not all states honor the agree, producing chemical weapons It remains one of the big ridds Both sides are fighting bitter, In World War II, not because they don't have it, using something everyone has. It won't advantage anyone strat. (narrator) At the end of the wa, Hitler wants to take He sends everyone to the front, He intends to destroy Influential military officers Hitler doesn't heed their advi. Perhaps because he also fell vm and temporarily lost his sight. (soldiers shout) The Germans are spared a potenl that would probably have involy Anthrax, a rod-shaped bacterium. Inhaling the spores can prove . When symptoms the disease has usually progresd even right after detection. (narrator) Scotland, 1942. On the uninhabited island of G, of the anthrax bacterium on sh. The plan: Airplanes drop made out of flax seeds all ove. The spores would spread rapidl. Moribund animals would cause a. All of the 80 sheep on Gruinar. A large-scale anthrax attack oy I imagine that had Germany the British wanted to be It's highly unlikely (narrator) Germany is defeated The development of chemical anl So too does the fear of an att. In the late 50s, the US Office commissions scientists It is designed to filter the ar Its user-friendly design But the masks are never used. , New York, 2001. One week after the 9/11 terror. Newspaper agencies, receive letters with a siniste: &quot;You cannot stop us. We have this anthrax. You die now. Are you afraid? Death to America. Death to Israel. Allah is grea&quot; The letters contained anthrax . Is this the next attack US president George W. Bush American people We cannot (narrator) But everything The FBI believes the spores The scientist Bruce Edwards Ivs But before they can question h, If, or why, he sent the anthras During the Cold War, both sides despite international conventi. The nerve agent VX is one such. Invented as an insecticide, than the toxic substance sarin In the 60s, US soldiers use trs Upon contact with nerve agents, But it has to be the right one. March 16, 1988. The Iraqi Air Force under Saddn over the city of Halabja. The dictator suspects that thee 3,000 to 5,000 people lose the. Men, women, and children. (man speaks Kurdish) (narrator) Since 2013, poison gs Western states accuse of attacking rebel strongholds Assad and his allies as propaganda by the opponents. But independent experts, confirm the suspicions. Biological and chemical weapon: they are not the most importans The search for the most effectn leads to unthinkable dimensions The atomic bomb. July 16, 1945. A desert in New. The Americans want to test Code name of the experiment: T. (birdsong) (explosion) The first nuclear bomb in hist. It's the dawn of a new era. Los Alamos, New Mexico. Top researchers so the US would have it before. The basic principle: physics. (in German) (dubbed in English) Uranium 235, has quite a large nucleus Another part of the nucleus are. If you shoot a neutron at this , the nucleus splits This releases energy. Not a whole lot, but enough to e If these three neutrons they will produce the same effe. This can set off a chain reacti. If a critical mass is achieved, that is, when there are this chain reaction self-perpet. That alone is perilous. But if I increase the mass, I ce and then, the chain reaction it increases exponentially, (narrator) The first nuclear bob It is surrounded by a normal e. Once the explosive is ignited, This produces a fission reacti. The bomb has explosive capabils of conventional explosives. The US military has identifieds But in May 1945, The Germans are spared the ato. In the Pacific, The Japanese army has basicalln (airplanes drone) (in German) (dubbed in English) In Japan, b, They think they owe it sacrificing their lives if need. This makes it really hard to brg (narrator) US President Truman s Unlike in the Trinity test, theb In order to reach the bullet contains Little Boy weighs just 64 kg, but has the explosive power August 6, 1945. An American B-29 bomber At 8.15 a.m., Little Boy Three days later, the plutoniub The heat and blast waves Then there's the radiation. More than 160,000 people die i. The Japanese Minister of Foreis on September 2, 1945. With the atomic bomb, the US es on two fronts. (applause) The Americans had to finish ther The Japanese know they've lost, they've won until those bombs g. (whistling and cheering) (narrator) All that is left of a In the months and years followg from long-term consequences, with acute radiation syndrome (in German) (dubbed in English) Radiation You start bleeding, from the no, It affects the bowel tissue, The radiation is most harmful The number of red blood cells ds In the end the entire bone marrw And without the bone marrow, (narrator) Doctors are helpless. (in German) (dubbed in English) You can try you can transplant bone marrow, depend on how high the radiatioe (narrator) For decades, more pee than in the rest of the countr. Nuclear weapons have only been, but the horrors caused The military conducts another t with the bomb Baker on July 25. Back then, few people know that The Soviet Union On August 29, 1949, the first t A third nuclear world war In the East and West, even chin He did what we all must learo You Duck! And cover I remember being a child of what to do in a case of an a. So, we had this fear. We didn't understand it, (narrator) Protests form. Like here in New York in 1960, nuclear opponents demand the prohibition People don't think, It can destroy everybody. It's almost become (whistles blow) (narrator) The demonstrations People were alarmed. They startd They started to think about ways But those who thought about thit They worked out the best way nobody would dare to start one. (narrator) The super powers They develop hydrogen bombs, that are a thousand times dropped on Hiroshima and Nagas. Mankind is now able The principle of the new super: Two hydrogen isotopes combine This process, releasing vast as The fusion is only possible generated by the detonation This fission causes the fusion A weapon whose force In the 1980s, the Soviet Union of more than 70,000 nuclear we. President Ronald Reagan justifs That budget is It is America's ability to prevt the greatest of human tragedies in a sometimes dangerous world. (narrator) The enemies could ane But eventually, Two rational actors realize by exchanging nuclear weapons. (narrator) At the Lawrence past nuclear tests Every test conducted by the US as top-secret records. Nuclear physicist Greg Spriggs and film technician Jim Moye Declassifying the unique film l All the films on our Livermore YouTube site, They can see what we are seeing. (narrator) The explosions were d considering the technical capas Jim Moye has already digitizedn They recorded a lot. I don't know how they could how this would be used in the f. (narrator) Once the images are , Information on the recordings, like the distance between the a provide insight into The only two times nuclear boms date back more than 70 years. But the ensuing ethical discusn They killed a lot of people the. But one could argue it saved lin Who knows how long without a weapon like this aime. (narrator) Spriggs is He is convinced by learning more about their e. We need to be able to tell this is what will happen if youp If somebody bombs us, and if we have to retaliate, thd (narrator) Peace through deterr. In 2017, they maintain It has been working. Until now. (Prof. Lambert) Now they are with different agendas, There is no case study What we know about is that they end up starting was (narrator) A balancing act (cheering) Almost 15,000 nuclear weapons are supposed We can only hope that reason w. But in the meantime, new weapot With fatal repercussions Digitization has reached Access is digitally secured. This also applies to the weapo. The control over centrifuges ud American and/or Israeli experts launch an attack With the help of a digital wea, the computer virus Stuxnet The Iranian nuclear program is. This kind of warfare has been Intelligence dominance equals ignorance, (narrator) State secrets can alo Countries are re-arming themse, Cyber security Cyber warfare Not only in the digital world, Subtitles: Jacqueline Ball et a.