Orcas. Often known as killer whales. They stalk the oceans of the world, They hunt in groups With their high intelligence, they leave a trail Now, it's they and not their prey Wildlife cameraman, David Reichert, to this mighty predator to understand firsthand the relationship In the southern Indian Ocean midway between the coast of South Africa This French archipelago sits smack Westerly winds that pack a real punch. Here it rains 310 days a year. Winds in excess of 60 miles an hour make human life unbearable. The wind brings rain, snow, and hail. On the Crozet Islands, you can experience September marks the beginning but there's never a good time Some people do. This longline fishing boat that can only be found in these waters. Patagonian toothfish. They were only discovered Today, they fetch high prices where they're more commonly known Other hunters prize the toothfish, like the giant David Reichert is passionate about orcas Like all the fish around here, the toothfish fish But the amazing thing that they've adapted to the presence They've discovered an easy way to feed. They only have to wait Unfortunately, They're illegal and try to force by throwing dynamite at them. So the orcas have become even though they haven't given up Scientists have produced alarming figures. Fifty percent of the orcas in the region It's a wanton and secret slaughter David boarded one of the few and study the behavior in its natural environment. As a specialist in filming marine mammals, David stops at nothing But what he's about to do Filming underwater close to boats How nervous will they be of his presence if private fishermen A young female approaches, Her mother instantly recalls her. In orca society, The orcas are certainly avoiding David. He'll have to wait for another encounter. That's where the orcas are heading because their traditional prey in the area Every spring, to mate and give birth Over thousands of years, orcas have perfected I wonder how far has altered the orcas' culture Has it changed their feeding habits? What impact has the slaughter really had? Has the elephant seal population To find out, David will spend four hard months in conditions where life Here animals are safe from man. They shouldn't be afraid of people. It's the perfect place and understand the close links I've arrived just in time. The elephant seals have begun to return. This 15 foot male seal gorging on fish He's swum thousands of miles to get here. Now, hauling four tons of blubber only one thing is on his mind. Sex. Enter a female. But she's not here to mate. Rather, to give birth to a pup For the male, To reproduce, males must establish The only way to do that. Throw your weight around The male is six or seven times and to show he means business, How affectionate. The dominant male must keep This potential rival The role of dominant male and on this beach, Conflict is inevitable. Another female arrives. Distracted by the advances of two males, Her long journey is over. She'll never give birth to her pup. Hunting this way shows how the orcas Fish are rare and inaccessible, The rest of the family Allowing the others to join especially for the young. To survive, you must learn, and the transmission of knowledge This might seem cruel, but it shows the extent and how far they go to protect each other. The fatal blow Skuas and other scavenging birds Home away from home. The wooden crate contains everything until the longline returns in four months. Skuas confirm David's suspicions. Animals on the Crozet Islands They've no reason to be aggressive, This is the price David to study how orcas Within a few days, succeeds in pressing The problem now is to keep the peace. It's time for a nap. Others never seem to rest. There's always a chance of a fat seal A large male orca with its typical is followed by two females Orcas live in a matriarchal society. The dominant female leads the group, daughters and other youngsters, Reproduction only takes place The matriarch is very imposing. Over 20 feet long. I know orcas But what if she really is eyeing me The group moves off peacefully David's close encounter reminds him of something Amateur footage of the drama, showed an inexperienced orca But scientists were on hand The female's release was a joy to behold A very lucky escape. I wonder if the female could be the same one I felt threatened, but she may What do I really represent It's a question that dogs me. This male seal knows only too well He recently barely escaped Ironically, seals are more vulnerable They dive to depths of over 4,000 feet, In the shallows, offer a tempting feast of protein. No wonder orcas risk beaching But even close to shore, A young orca strays from the group, and finds itself face to face The orca hazards a closer inspection. The seal holds its ground. No point in being too brave. It was a good lesson for the youngster. Next time, it'll stay with the group This male is staking out his territory Hey, watch it. Whoa, okay, calm down. Loneliness is obviously getting to him. It's time for me to explore the island. I've decided to cross where I've noticed the orcas What is it that attracts them down there? This is the perfect spot for me. The rocky bottom leaves the water clear, What a treat It's now obvious to David on this side of the island. A sloping beach shelters in their tens of thousands. For the orcas, the beach represents Adult penguins They'll keep their warm, When they grow real feathers they'll take to the sea They wait patiently There are plenty They seem to have adopted me. Probably because they're hungry. Raising the young takes almost a year, and requires Mothers and fathers are away for ten days. They swim hundreds of miles and dive 1,500 feet Once they filled their crop, picking them out from the crowd King penguins This is an opportunity for orcas to refine First, they observe complete silence. The hunters don't want Then, moments before the attack, they emit discrete clicks When the trap is set, Catching a penguin demands But they haven't much choice In summer, when the seals are abundant, hunting penguins is good practice For the penguins who managed to fish for their chicks, the return journey Finally, starving chicks September draws to a close. The dominant male now has This record number probably that there are fewer orcas around. But orcas keep piling on the pressure, and for good reason. Female seals are about Skuas and giant petrels And anxious mothers The first exchange of cries Along with their odor, this allows them With its eyes barely open, baby seals feed off the richest milk It contains ten times Pups put on four times their weight After that, mother's job is done. The dominant male tires of herding Not only must he watch over them, This earthly paradise The dominant male stops eating He sheds 30 pounds every day surviving on his winter reserves. The ten months Single males lie in wait The presence of so many females stimulates their own desire The dominant male cries foul. His bulbous nose amplifies the protest. The larger the nose, It's a rude instrument of dissuasion Seeing one intruder off What a never ending battle to stay on top. DNA studies show the dominant male is far from being the father The hormonal urge Winner takes all When you get this close to these giants, you can feel how much energy goes into their drive It's a symbol of resistance A real fight for life. I'm determined to experience the same kind I'm going back I recognize the matriarch I see in the fullness great experience Is she again the one I like to imagine she is. I wish this moment would last forever. I must find out more about her Once again, The orcas developed a complex culture Males live for about 50 years. Females can survive into their 80s, which explains Females have more experience. These mammals are such efficient killers. They only need to spend Otherwise they rest, A process that can last 20 years. Touching, caressing, Scientists now know share a common language, and even more amazing, Frustrated on land, He hopes to meet orcas behind this bed of giant kelp. Orcas never venture Solid stalks rise and could become Beyond the forest, Her clicks signal her position The matriarch Once again, the encounter is fleeting. Caution and mistrust The appearance of penguins means the orcas For David, their grace and agility for a little longer. Well, well, looks like I've got a visitor. The single male has been well Perhaps, next year he'll have more luck. Even the strongest seals until they're at least eight years old. Even then, The battle to dominate He may not look aggressive, There's no way What a beautiful day for a change. It does wonders for my mood. Baby elephant seals pass their first days close to the warm bellies What momentary bliss? The atmosphere Orcas also take advantage But the way they sleep is most unusual. So they don't drown, evolution has blessed them Only half their brain sleeps at one time. They literally nap with one eye open. No sooner has the sun come out, The Roaring Forties Wisely, the orcas move away from shore. I wonder how the newborn elephant seals The pups keep on suckling It is really picking up. I'd better seek some shelter. Filming in these conditions Without the tent, I'd be finished. Suddenly, I feel very alone. Very different from the animals. I'm fragile and vulnerable. The storm turns or the end of the world. There seems no limit to the power I've spent the night terrified By mid-October, the first female elephant seals are now ready to return. After nursing their pups for three weeks, they're pregnant again This one is ready to leave, Abandonment before weaning seems cruel. But there's a good reason. Mother no longer has the reserves though she might return But time is not on her side. She's exhausted and vulnerable. Orcas share the spoils of hunting. Solidarity within the group The pup too is a victim. How will it survive without its mother? Unlike penguin chicks baby seals depend solely on their mothers. Weak and skinny, the orphan barely has a chance, even against a bird. It must find another mother. The door is closed. Female seals cannot afford and other pups also insist I'm heartbroken to see firsthand But there's nothing I can do to help. It's been attacked A victim of the cruel laws It will never know the taste of fish. Will never become a dominant male to father offspring Mid-November and the harem The dominant male rouses himself Babies are now The young stick together They've begun to molt. Black at birth, but the new coats itch terribly. David can't resist lending a hand. After all, they've been neighbors I know, it's not very scientific of me, but I just can't resist My excuse is that they, and not I, I'm really excited by their willingness The seals really have accepted me. What an honor. The confidence they show are the simplest and most important Moments like this By December, hunger forces Their first tentative steps But unlike young orcas, they can't rely on adult protection For some, Orcas must fatten up for the winter ahead when measly penguins unless they brave the dynamite David must catch the young seals before they too migrate to the Antarctic. I was looking for him, Is he admiring me or mocking me for needing this ridiculous suit But who's to say we can't be friends? If only he would stay. Why is he leaving? Will he be back? The answer is in black and white. Is she hoping to catch my seal friend? A male approaches me for the first time. He's nearly 30 feet long A living juggernaut. Then the matriarch returns. This time I'm sure I feel naked and completely defenseless. The orcas know it too, We are communicating. I don't know how exactly, In this open, smiling face, I realize Call it intuition, but I'm now positive this female She's become head of the clan before exposing Today, she knows I come in peace. No words can express the emotion I feel The orcas we sometimes call killer whales, may be in their own way, trying to thank us I'm reassured to see are preserving their ancient ways. For now, at least, Given their experience their initial reaction How can you blame them when faced with such a destructive species Even when they show They opened the door On an island, where life hangs wild animals accept my presence. They give up some of their secrets, This extraordinary encounter Forever.