Good morning, dear audience. I hope you are well. We want to travel to Isfahan province. Give an energetic greeting to the audience. Uncle, I want to come with you. My dears, check that you have brought all the tools. yes I will check I brought the blankets. My dear mother, come and sit. Nasru comes with Rasool. Mahmoud, there is room for one more person in my car. We are comfortable. Arash, come on. Abbas reads poetry for you. Arash, come with us. We want to sing. Medina, come. Sit a little tight for Medina to ride. good time did you sit yes Are you ready to go? Yes, we fly in the sky. I feel like we are flying in the sky. Mother prays for us to travel safely. Mom, did you fasten your seat belt? no Please close it. Arash, help grandma. Well done my son. Wait, let me stop. Is your chair comfortable? yes Guys, say goodbye to our city. Goodbye Dora. move on Mother, come with us and visit the city of Isfahan. Then tell the audience and us your opinion about the city and the nomads. Thank you, my dear son. May God protect you. Wherever you go, I will be with you. Because I spent my life in the nomadic areas, I like the nomadic life more. But the facilities of the city are much better. I am used to the nomadic life and I cannot leave it. Shall we buy a table? yes Nasru, get a table. I'll get bread. Give me some more bread, that's enough. Please give me a bag. Elena, be careful. Open the bag. thank you very much How many kilos do these dishes take? one kilo Please put the bowl too. Let's move towards the river. yes Are you guys hungry? yes Now we are going to have breakfast by the river. Abbas, did you buy a car? Yes, I ate its food. Medina, are you scared? You almost hurt me. Is this a good place? yes It is wonderful. do we have tea Yes, Zainab, give it to Bahman. Spread it on the pebbles. A platform is there. It's good here. Bring the basket, my daughter. The platform is small. So this is a more suitable place. Say hello to this water. thank god Come to the water. Hi flowing water and speechless tree, go away. The mother is picking the plant. Everyone sit down. He likes to work constantly. Abbas, let's have breakfast. Everyone cooperate. Mahmoud Shall we eat this breakfast? Yes, give me the bowls. My daughter has a cold. Film the mother who can't stop working even when traveling. Elena, come, thank you, my dear. sit down Are these plants edible? Yes, we will definitely come to pick these plants on the way back. My hand was hurting and I couldn't collect more plants. . Elena come The water will take you away. Let's sit down and have tea before we go. Abbas and Arash come. We should come here in summer and pick almonds. wait dear The wind is strong. Dear Cobra, bring the baskets , Arash, stand there. Abbas, come and stand here. This is the rock. Is there a black stone? Yes, my son , we want to go. Is this basket for you? No. Are you ready to fly? Yes , is there enough space for this basket? No, does your hand hurt, mother? I feel pain in these parts. did you bring your robe We will also go to the doctor in Isfahan city. We are now in the city of Borujen. We will reach Isfahan city in 90 minutes. God has made everything easy. In the past, it took ten days to reach the city of Borujen. Because it was a long way and people didn't have money, they finally came to this city once a year. Now people are in prosperity in terms of food and clothing. Facilities have increased and traveling has become easier. The first person who saw the caravan returning from Borujen city would come and inform the rest of the good news. The children would come from a long distance and spend the night in the mountains, rejoicing and dancing until the caravan returned from the trip. Everyone waits for their relatives and returns home with them until next year when they reach Borujen city again. Now the same route can be covered in two hours. How far is it to Isfaha? It is two hours from Dora to Borujen. It is 1.5 hours from Brojet to Isfahan. We must also consider the distance between Dora and Lordegan. It is the same. What did people bring from Borujen in the past? They sold livestock products of the nomads in the city and bought food and clothes instead. Did they move things using donkeys? Yes, Abbas, can you ride a donkey home? I bought you food. Thank you very much, mother, look at the nature here. It is dry compared to ours. There are no trees here, people should plant oak trees here. Is there no tree because of lack of water? The amount of precipitation here is the same as our region. The oak tree needs little water. They should plant trees here. You should have been in charge of the Natural Resources Department, planting trees all over here. If they allow me, I will bring oak seeds today and plant them all using a tractor. This bayan becomes beautiful and green with the use of trees. They don't bother to do it. They can hire workers to plant trees. This is the entrance to the city of Isfahan. First, we go to my friend's house and eat and rest a little. Then we will go to see the historical monuments of Isfahan. Can a car cross that bridge? Yes, mother, we will rest here for a while, then we will go for a walk in the city. The emperor enters. She is the queen mother. Hello and greetings. Please turn on the lamps inside . The key is behind you. come sit down You are very welcome. you came late We stopped on the way. didn't you go to work no I was waiting for you. please be comfortable We move the cars and come back. Abbas, come here, you are very welcome. You worked hard, Mr. Engineer. You have authority. Please sit down. Shall I come to your aid? no Please, I will do this. don't bother you have authority I will help you. Mr. Messenger, sit down. Messenger, do you want to help? Yes, I will be back now. Mr. Rasool, sit down too. no I want to help. This is easy. Should I put the fruits here? Yes, the seller said this is Shahreza pomegranate. I hope he is right. Anar Shahreza is excellent. It is the same. Does Shahreza have a river? No, eat fruit and relax a little. Thank you, if it is not comfortable, you can sit on the floor. We are more comfortable on the ground. Are the plates short? no it is enough Thank you very much . We appreciate you. please You are very welcome. Thank you, Mr. Engineer, he is one of my university friends. He knows all of you. I saw Nasru closely. How are you? thank you Put the fruit in front of Nasru. I sit on the floor. I am more comfortable. Bring the sofa forward and sit on it. Bring a plate and sit down. Take these plates too. Where did I put the key? With your permission, I will go to have lunch with Mr. Mahmoud. May God be with you. I put a kettle of water on the stove to make tea for you. thank you Do you need anything? No, please brew the tea. Okay guys, sit down. drink tea I take the fruits. drink tea I don't eat He is pouring tea. Sorry that lunch is late. You have authority. Take the drinks, dear. Collaborate guys. Give me the spoons, no, I want to get spoons from other models. Take this and sit down dear. Mahmoud, come sit here. Bring the spoons. We ordered different dishes. You can share it with the viewer. Elnaz, come, put these kebabs here too. We also ordered pasta. Honey, put this in front of grandma. Let's all go to see Naqsh Jahan Square. I know it's hard for you to come to this city, but I love that you come here all the time. You must come to visit us , Mr. Rasool, take this. (Mr. Engineer shows the way to Rasul) Get on. You have to go this way. Mahmoud, if you have anything, be sure to let me know, dear. We will go with your permission. May God be with you. Everyone get on board. ride emperor Rasool and I sit on the front seats. Where should the cameraman sit? He has to film and follow us. I do not accept this issue. ok I walk Come here, give me the dubbin so I can film you too. no I am not neat. You are beautiful anyway my dear. I need to check if you are all present. Yes, you all are. let's go Where do we want to go? The destination is unknown. We want to go to Naqsh Jahan square. There is a very beautiful architecture here. Let's go around and then visit &quot;Ali Qapu&quot;. say hello to me Hello, sing. Well done...it's great, we'll get off here. We want to walk here. Thank you very much, give him whatever amount he wants. Thank you very much . Good luck. I am also from Ler tribe. The card is great. Write down my number and call me if you need. wear your hat It is very cold. look at me It is of no use. You should all look. We go to see &quot;Ali Qapu&quot;. Don't be tired mother. be healthy are you tired No, my son. Well done Berto, sing for us. Pay attention to Abbas's gesture. come visit get along The car came. Let's go up. Here is the way in.. I will help you. Thank you, son, come on, all the lamps are on. Look at the sky. The ceiling here is very high. look Abbas is taking pictures. Take a professional photo of us. Thank you dear, he took a great picture. See the water. It is night. let's go He says why I did not wear my local clothes? You go ahead. I have reached the end of the path. The path continues. be careful These are beautiful works of calligraphy. Did you work as a penman? Yes, check out these crafts. Do you want to buy a violin? You have to buy in the arcade. what do you want for i like it If you like it, definitely buy it, Abbas, can you play the violin? It is an uncle simulator. no It is a centaur. We can play with that song like this. By hand? No, that's the guitar. Arash, look at the crafts. Do you want to buy a violin for your father? It does not exist here. Abbassaf, come sit next to me. Take Marzieh with you, come, my dear Medina, go with them too, I'm afraid. Wait a minute, there is not enough space here. I get off. I'm afraid, come and hug me, take care of yourself. are you guys having fun Yes, Arash, take this, don't you want something? Do you want ice cream? No, take whatever you want. Shall we go? yes