Hey, everyone, welcome In today's video, I'm going to give you a full print on demand This video is going to walk you through everything from the idea that you want to start print on demand, all the way to getting your first sales and everything in between step by step. Now, in order to make this I'm even going to put and walk you through everything and show you real examples Now, for those of you this video is going to be but it's going to be here on So all I ask is if you please just give it a thumbs up and let me know down in the comments. Okay, so the first thing we need to cover is what is print on demand, and specifically what is a So in the vast majority of cases, when you hear someone online talking about a print on demand business, what they're talking about is a print on demand T-shirt business. Now, although you can do print on demand with many other products, the most sales are going to It's just kind of how the market works. So this tutorial and is all going to focus on a print So let's start on Amazon. So if you didn't know, Amazon is the largest print Most people didn't even know that you could do print But to show you what this looks like, if you search for something and you scroll down here, I can tell that all of these And I'll show you in a second But I'm looking for the just a regular T-shirt, or anything like this. And then it has a design that looks like somebody It's not a company logo or anything, it's just kind of a funny shirt. Generally that works the best for a print on demand business. So if you click in on one of these, the dad giveaway that it is in fact done with print on demand is this It says Amazon Merch on Demand. That is Amazon's print So anytime there's a listing done with print on demand on Amazon, it's going to have that But essentially the way that a print on demand business let's say you or me, just and they uploaded it to Amazon, which created the virtual listing here. And the way that you can is because once you hover the T-shirt, the actual and the design stays the same. It's just showing what it would look like if it was printed on these And then the person that comes in here and wants to buy this can pick what color shirt they want it printed on. If they want it on a then they can scroll down here and they can pick what size and then they can add and they can purchase it through Amazon. Now, what's going to and what brings this whole is that once Amazon receives this order, they are going to go pick a men's shirt in navy blue color in a large size, and they're going to print and they're going to ship And if there's any returns, exchanges, or customer service, Amazon We as the print on demand seller, just get a split of the overall profit added into our account. That is what a print on demand So the idea here as a is you want to up with as as you can and upload them to like Amazon, and then as people find them and purchase them, those the shipping, the customer service, and we just get our split of the profit. Now the last thing I'll say is that there are multiple that you can use, and So you can create one and you can upload it to Amazon, you can upload it to several other print on-demand marketplaces, all getting their own traffic Once we get later on in this video, I'll share the top websites out of all of the websites So if you're just going to focus on a couple different websites, those ones will get you the most sales. Okay, so hopefully now that as to what print on demand is and what it looks like in real life, now let's actually get into this tutorial. So the very first step with different ideas to This is a huge part of the business and knowing how to come up with good ideas that are actually going to sell So what most people do and they just come up they search them, and they see and then they either copy them or they create similar designs. And a huge piece of is don't approach coming up with your T-shirt design ideas this way. This is really just coming and hoping that they sell. Now that more people know you have to be strategic with your print on demand design ideas. So with that being said, I'll on how I come up with design ideas and how I know that they're So let's switch over to that now, and I'll walk you through it. So if you go over to a and by the way, I'll put and all the other websites down in the description just You don't have to go find them on Google. But what ChatGPT is, is a free So really down at the bottom You can type in anything, and basically treat it It's essentially going and the other search engines, gather all of the information and give you a clean concise answer. So for as long as ChatGPT is free to use, which it currently is, I There are several different stages. We're going to use this If for some reason ChatGPT you can technically do It's just not going to be So with that in mind, this first stage here is we of different hobbies or occupations. In my experience of years the most sales are going to or occupation related shirts. So let's start off with That's all you have to type in. And then just hit Enter. And this is literally just a list of 20 hobbies. Now to give you an example here, once this finishes here, we have 20 of these hobbies we could use. If you did 20 occupations, it's going to do these and it's just going to give you different ideas for occupations. So a really big tip I can give you is that most of these shirts are going to be purchased as gifts. Now keep that in mind, as you are looking at So would be purchased for It's most likely not actually by someone who's doing but they know someone who does gardening and they really like it and So that kind of changes and just keep that in mind as we're going through So something else that's really if you type in 20 hobbies we may get the same list here. It's just how ChatGPT works. So a really good pointer for you is to start to get creative So instead of just 20 hobbies, or 20 women's hobbies or 20 kids' hobbies. The more creative you So you can do outdoor introverted hobbies, extroverted hobbies. This is where your own creativity is just going to give you Okay, so now we've got and this is a good So what most new print on at this stage and what's going is most new sellers and they would pick one of these hobbies and start creating designs about them. This single tip is going to help you a ton as you start your business. This is something I learned is that these big general overall hobbies are what you should just These should be considered and very hard for you as a new seller to actually compete in. Instead of just going into take, let's say motorcycle riding, and we're going to break within motorcycle riding. This one little tip here is worth so much because it's going to to give you the actual niches and ideas that you can compete in because not many other people So to show you what this looks like, let's take motorcycle riding, for example. I'm going to now search Now this will break into different sub-niches that So when you look at these, a bobber motorcycle, a cafe All of these are different sub-niches within the overall niche of motorcycles that you can create designs in. And you are far more likely to of the marketplace because Okay, so we're moving right along here. This tutorial's about to I have some really cool things to show you that I'm excited about, but just know that what is putting you ahead of because you're breaking it down into these really good niches. So although these are overall than creating on these there is a way that you can the marketplaces and those niches are, especially for a new So this brings us into the next tool here. This one is called Merch Informer. If you've seen my other I have been using Merch They are a staple in my So right off the bat, I do wanna say that Merch If you look at their pricing, they are about $9.99 per month. You only really need the newbie plan, but they do have a professional plan. And two important things is that I have a 20% off coupon. So it brings us down I will put that link down And secondly, they offer So for the purposes of this tutorial, you can do everything that and we are going to do on a free trial, so you don't even have to pay to use it. So I'll get logged into my account and I'll show you this next step here. Okay, so once you are they have all these They basically all open up and they give you more What we are going to be using is the competition checker. So if you just click in on this, you can literally type or the sub-niche is and hit Search, and it's going to give you and tell you how likely if you create designs in it. So let's go back to our list over here, and we have all of these So what I would be doing is coming in here in each one of these, And then we'll come over here. We're going to paste it and So just like that, you have everything you need to So basically over on the right side, it's going to give you a letter grade. So it works just like in school, So an F means that it is and A means that it is a So when I am doing this, I am copying, pasting, copying, pasting, and I'm searching all these If I get an A, B, or even a C, that is a niche that If I get an F, I know that that niche is just So right off the bat, we have one sub-niche This is a sub-niche that When we come back to our list, you can just keep copying pasting these. A good little tip here to know is that, if we copy something like cruiser and we go over here cruiser is just going to It's not going to know that we're talking about So just add on a motorcycle and then search it. But as you can see, just like that, two out of two are both A scores. Just to show you why these If you were to type in the general overall niche, you are going to see exactly This gets an F score because there are just out there for motorcycles. That big overall niche is There's so many people Now, keep in mind here that this applies to all of these niches as well. So if you were to type in you're probably going to get these same F. But if you go over here of fishing and you start to you're probably going to So now that you know how and go over to Merch Informer and make sure that they now it's time to actually that are going to go on those designs. So when it comes to print on demand, the designs are pretty much You have text only designs. These are like the ones that just like these. And then you have text So if we go over to that fishing niche, you've got text and graphics. These are pretty much the two categories that I would focus on for print on demand. A lot of people ask me, &quot;Can or can you upload photos And yes, technically you can, but I would say the vast majority of sales are going to come from But now I'll walk you through how to actually come So now that we know that cruiser got an A rating on Merch Informer, I'm going to start with So there's two strategies to do this. First, I'm going to show This is a totally free way to do this, and you can come up with some So I'm going to say 20 T-shirt And just let ChatGPT Now, not all of these are going to work. Some of them aren't but you can absolutely out of this list. So you've got &quot;Eat, Sleep, Ride, Repeat: Sportbike Lifestyle.&quot; &quot;Born to Race, Forced to Work.&quot; &quot;Keep Calm and Twist the Throttle.&quot; &quot;Fuelled by Coffee and Sportbike Dreams.&quot; So you can modify that to just &quot;Fuelled by Coffee and Sportbikes.&quot; You can see that there are and it only takes a second So that is the first way you to just come up with ideas for you. I'll show you what to do But I did wanna talk about the second way of coming up with design ideas. This is going to be a plug for something that I actually offer myself. I've put together pretty a list of the best selling phrases that you can use for just about any niche. These are universal templates that you can apply So you could use it for all of these different You could use it for all Once you find those sub-niches, it's more or less just plug So for those of you who and just have proven universal templates, you already know how to that is going to be linked Okay, so with that being said, let's move right onto the next step. This step is going to be the for print on demand that because it is about So for those of you who are not familiar with copyrights and trademarks, it basically means that someone, whether that's a person or a company, can only writes to a specific phrase or a specific image on T-shirts. So if you use that phrase and you try to sell it on let's say Amazon for print on demand, they have the rights to tell because they own the rights to sell it. No one else can make money from it. So I'll show you how to to make sure that they are and that you are free to sell on your print on demand shirts. So just go back over to Merch Informer, whether you have a free trial you will still have full So if you go over to trademarks and you go to trademark alerts, you can copy and paste all of the phrases that you wanna check at once. You can hit save and check trademarks, and it will check all of them instantly and you will know right or if someone else owns them. So I'll show you exactly how to do this. So let's just copy some of these phrases that we want to use. I'm just going to copy, we'll go back over here, I'm gonna copy this one, Okay, so in this list right here, I've pasted six different phrases that I pulled from that Let's just click Save, and then scroll down here a little bit and click Check trademarks. Now a little popup will come up and say, &quot;We're checking your data. Please allow a few minutes for results.&quot; So if you scroll down here, it's still going to say, Not checked yet. All you have to do is refresh your page, and you're going to meaning yes, you are nobody else owns it, or If you get a red X next to do not use that for print on demand because once you upload that and sell it on the marketplace, to get a copyright or and your design's going to get taken down. Now, a quick note to say that some of the print really pay attention to this. So if you get too many of and get your design taken down, they will just close your entire account. So just make sure that you are paying I know we're not spending too much time in this tutorial on it, but I really do wanna stress that this step is super important. Okay, so just like that, we have six phrases that we All of them are free and clear to use. Nobody owns the trademark to them. So now we can take these phrases and we can start creating the actual T-shirt designs with them. So when I started out and print on demand, I was creating all of my designs by hand, and back then, I really had so the designs were not very good. What I have learned over the years is that there are websites that have T-shirt design templates. So they're templates made by that you can come in and and customize them with that you want to put into that template. So coming into this next step of actually creating these designs, this is the specific T-shirt design tool that I personally use. It's called placeit.net. And although I've used just about every other this is the one that Placeit has the largest and secondly, probably everything on their website So as we were just talking about where you have to check the phrases to make sure that nobody well, the same thing for that are actually going into the designs. So most of the other tools out there that have customizable T-shirt templates are not 100% copyright-free. So you may create a really good design, but once you upload it to it may get taken down later and you get a strike on your account because somebody owns the graphic that you used in that design, or somebody owns even the font of the text that was in that design. This again is going to be a paid tool. It's about $10 per month, and So you can create as all included for that one price per month. Now two things that are super This $9.99 per month is This is how much it would break They do offer a month to month plan, so you can just have one month at a time. I believe it's about $15 per month. And I have a personal that I'll put down in the description. It gives you 15% off Now I just wanted to make to clarify that, 'cause I wanna make sure in all of these tools, how much they cost, and why I use them. Because I know when you're you're trying to make So I just wanted to properly and why I see so much value in them. So let me go ahead and and then I'll show you how Okay, so now that you are logged in, come back over to Merch Informer. These are all of the designs that we're going to create right now. So these are all about So I'm going to come back over to Placeit, and I'm just going to type And then this is going that they have on motorcycles. You're going to have both So once you do create a design, you can have that kind of so if you wanna post on but what we are focused on is these actual T-shirt design templates. So the quickest way to sort this over here is go over to the left side And these are all going to be that you can use that to motorcycles already. So let's go back over to Merch Informer and let's pick the one I love this one right here, So I'm just going to copy this. We'll go back over to Placeit, and let's see which template So all of these are I like this one right here. Let's just click on this. And this is going to bring So all of our changes are going to come on the left side over here. And then on the right side is more or less just suggestions things that you could and create a second design. So over on this left side, these three text boxes right to text that's on the screen. So this text right here, you can make it bigger and smaller. You can click undo if you as many times as you want to, or if you want to just to how it started, if you you can hit Reset Layout right here. Now, the way to actually change this text. If you double click in here, So you come over to the left side, each one of these text to the text that's on the design. So I'm just going to paste and I think it actually looks better when it's fully capitalized. And then I'm going to split So I'm going to put Born to Race, and then Forced to Work underneath of it. Born to Race, and then So here is our text right here. I'm just going to slide it to the middle. Once you hit the center, you're That means it is snapped Just make sure that both of And then if you can remember the sub-niche that all these So that's what this design So Born to Race, Forced to Work doesn't actually mention sportbikes. So that's where the graphic So this graphic right here, it's not going to do anything. Come over to the left side. Right here is a little edit button. If you click on that, it's going to open up their As I had mentioned, all of their graphics, all of their fonts, So you can freely just click on these and it will sub it into your design. And you know that you have the Nobody else owns it. So this is technically a sportbike. This is another sportbike right here. That looks like a better one to me, so I'm just going to drag that down and put that to the center. And then pretty much, we've just created a design right here, but I'll show you how to So if you go to edit, you can change the colors of this graphic. So if you didn't want a blue, but instead you wanted a It's going to change Again, you can just hit And then the other customization So if you want to change the you just click over here and this is going to be that Just click on the font and All of these are going to where you have the rights to use them. If you just click on any of these, it will switch it instantly for you and you can just make sure If you don't like it, just hit back. Then if you want to change the color, just hit the little color box right here. You can change the color So with that being said, our design is pretty We use that first phrase, all this we have rights to use. A couple more steps Let's drag this to the top, which if you can imagine of the shirt. And then we'll take our text, and we'll go up to the top as well. Now, there's only one before we actually download this. And as you can see, this If you were to download this as is and upload it to a it would print on the shirt So just come over to background color, go to the little checkerboard down here. This is going to give you Not all graphic design tools where you can just easily Placeit makes it super easy for us. So from here, all we have Just give this a second to load. It's going to say Processing your design. And then once it's ready, it'll and you'll get a pop-up here that says, what do you want to name this download? And where do you want it to save to? So right now it's going to and I want to name this which I have saved to my clipboard still. So this is going to be Born I'm just going to take And this is how I'm what this design is Just go ahead and click Save. And just like that, we So as you can see, it has no background, has a transparent background. When you zoom in here, you can see that the the pixels is perfect for print on demand. It's not going to be blurry Now the idea from here go back over to Merch Informer, and now we're going to do the same thing for the next phrases. So we'll copy this, we'll I'm going to type motorcycles again. We'll go to T-shirt designs. And now I'm just going to that I wanna use for this next one. Now real quick, I wanna show So if I click in on this yes, we've got all of these to use right here, but you Each one of these you So the list of the universal I was talking about that you can buy down in the description, an example of one of those in this video is &quot;Easily Distracted By&quot;. And then you type in So if you go back to our list up here, you don't even have to come up with different ideas about sportbikes. You can use all of these right here. It saves you that whole So if you just say sportbikes, and then you go over to and then you just go to their library, find a photo of a sportbike, which would be this one right here. Let's just take out this We'll just click hide, format this properly, &quot;Easily Boom, that's how easy it is So then to create more of these, you would then do dirt bikes or whatever type of bike was next. Put that to the center, come over here, find a dirt bike, and Now you've just made two designs. So it's just a different way to do it. This is the way that I prefer to do it because you can really scale this, you can create the designs much faster and you can use the same template just by swapping out the graphic Now, something else that I'll just before we move on is that you can search for So if you typed in horses, for example, all of these are going to be So you have seahorses, you have graphics of people playing polo on horses. So no matter what type of you can use this same concept of just swapping out the graphic, swapping out the name of the sub-niche, back and forth, back and forth. I just thought that was worth just so you knew the difference between the universal phrases and coming up with your Okay, so first off, we're You've made it so far in this tutorial. We are just at the logistical stage here of actually uploading the up to the print on demand website so they can actually be sold. The first thing that I wanna actually uploading these designs is which websites to Now there are quite a few that you could upload to. Not all of them should because not all of them get In my experience, there are three specific that I would focus on that are going to get the The first of these websites As we talked about Amazon Merch On Demand is the actual print on demand department. So if you go over to Google and you search Amazon Merch on Demand, this is their actual So you just click the signup button. A quick note on Amazon Merch on Demand. They are the only one that where you have to apply and as a print on demand seller. I will put a link to a that walks you through and gives you my pointers along the way, to give you the best However, the other two websites that I recommend uploading to that you can start on right away, first is Redbubble. Redbubble is going to be the So if you type in fishing shirts, these are all going to and this is kind of their marketplace. So it looks just like Amazon, and each one of these designs And then once the order goes through, Redbubble does all the the customer service, just So Redbubble is the second one. You can sign up and start The third one is called TeePublic. TeePublic is actually owned by Redbubble. They were purchased a couple years ago. So it's the same exact concept here. You type in fishing shirts, this is what their marketplace looks like. So when you look at any of these, it's going to be the same concept. They do the printing, the Now the super important is that all of these So as I briefly mentioned and you can upload it to All three of them are You're never going to You are just going to have added to your account. The other thing that is before I show you how to actually upload and create your listing here is that on these three websites, when someone places an order, you are not going to be On some other print on whenever customer places an order, you have to pay for that order upfront, the cost of the goods for that to be printed And then afterwards, you get with the profit. On these three websites, the customer pays for the So we are only getting our We don't have to actually front the money every time we get a sale. All right, so without further ado, let me show you how to I'll walk you through it step by step. It only takes a couple minutes, and you have a listing So let's go back to the TeePublic I think is just the Their upload interface is super easy. So if you're just getting this is the one that I would And these same principles apply for the other websites as well. So just come up to the top right corner and say, create an account. Just type in your first name, country, and set a password. And then you have this little &quot;Yes, I'd like to advertise my products and offsite marketing.&quot; By default, it is going to be on. I would recommend leaving this on. What their offsite marketing is, is they do email marketing, They're going to take your listing and show it to other totally for free for you. The reason they're able is because they get a split So if your design is really selling well, they're going to wanna show it and get as many sales because it's making them money as well. This is something that these for us that is so much easier than trying to run ads yourself. So in short, I would just If you ever do wanna turn this off later, you can turn it off. I just want you to be aware of that. So once you filled that out, just go ahead and hit Create My Account. And then it's going to send to just make sure that that So just check your email And then once you verify that, go back to create an account and just go to log in this time. Now sign in with your And now just like that, that button switches to Sell Your Art. So go ahead and just click that button, Sell Your Art up here. And it's just going to ask to upload or do you have If we had gone through and and downloaded them from Placeit, we could do multi-file upload. It just makes it a lot faster. But for this instance, let's 'cause we just have one And the first time around, it's going to ask you, what do Now something that's important is you can name it anything that you want. It can be super general. It doesn't have to be Back in the day, these and it was best practice to However, now that the have kind of changed over the years, your designs will be listed in those niches or sub-niches So the actual store doesn't So you can name it something or something about you. It really is not all that important. The only couple tips here are is not the name of another company to avoid any trademark issues. And secondly, make sure that or something that would turn someone away from purchasing from you because So I'm just going to come up with a general name here, GGTees2. So it says this store name is available. Perfect. Take me to the uploader. So now just click on this and allow you to pick the that we downloaded from Placeit. So just give this a second to upload here. And here is our file. You can see Born to Race, Forced to Work, it has a transparent background, that's why you can see the checkerboard. Everything is perfect here. As you scroll down here, You're going to get this that says, &quot;Your image isn't large enough to support our wall art options.&quot; This is talking about We are only printing so it's only going to not a massive wall art. So we can disregard this message and just keep scrolling down here. And once you come down here, pretty much our editing here. It only really takes a couple but once you know the formats you'll be able to do this on every design that you're uploading and you'll start to get a So the first things first So what I recommend doing for your title is to take whatever is on that shirt, Born to Race, Forced to So Born to Race, Forced to Work, and then put in what that sub-niche is. So this is for sportbikes. Now a little caveat that comes from experience they're going to add in whatever that article of So we don't need to type in the T-shirt because they are going to add that for us. So we'll leave that blank, and we'll just finish it as sportbike. I know that's a little bit confusing, but I'll show you in a second so it all makes sense. So then coming down in the description, just go ahead and copy this. This is the most efficient And then paste it down &quot;This Born to Race, Forced for those who love sportbikes.&quot; Now, depending on what your phrase is and what your sub-niche is, you may have to get a little bit creative and swap out a couple words. But generally what we've just done is all you need to do for your description and just make sure that it makes sense. Again, keep in mind on most of the print on demand T-shirts are going to be purchased So when you're saying for those who love it's going to make sense to the person who's making that purchase. Okay, then coming over to the right side, we have our main tag. This, instead of using the you wanna use the overall Now what this is going to do is get you in front of all of the people that are searching for motorcycles, which is a much larger overall niche. And then down here in supporting tags, this is where we can put in sportbikes. Now, if you have any other supporting tags that are related to that you can type them all in here. Just be sure to put comma in between them, and that will save that Okay, moving right along here. Does this design contain Just hit no here. Yes, technically you can and sell that on print on demand websites. I don't personally recommend it. I think it just opens you So I would just create designs like the ones that we've created here. Now the thing that we've is the albums. This is kind of creating I haven't personally seen I find that the designs just get listed on the marketplaces individually. You can play around with this feature and kind of create niche I just think that this is kind of old news that used to work really I don't think you need to do it anymore. But as you scroll down here, this is where you're going for what types of items for someone to purchase. Now remember, anything will be available to purchase, but it doesn't cost you anything extra because none of these items So just go through here and make sure that all make sense for what your design is. So if your design is you wouldn't necessarily wanna or if it's something that you wanna make sure that for kids, it's not going to be turned on. Now this brings us into the next step, which is actually choosing So when someone comes to that listing, as we saw over here and what is the first color Is that black, is it blue, is it gray? That is what we are setting right here. So for these default colors, you can really pick any color you want. Just make sure that that hides the text. So as you can see this asphalt color with the dark gray So I wouldn't be picking that color. But scroll through here a color that you really like. If you can't find something that looks exceptionally good to you, you can just go with white. Or if the font is white, But just go through here for all of these. And then once all of those are set, keep scrolling down here. And this is going to bring us into a rather important part here. So as I was just talking about, you don't want dark text on a dark shirt because you can't read it. Well, this is overall not that's going to show first, but the other colors that could actually purchase that design on. So just scroll through these Make sure that you can read So if it gets too close where you can uncheck that, and I'll show you an example Like that one might be a so I'm just going to uncheck it. Now, this is good practice to do so that none of the customers and they realize that they can't read it and they want to return it. Although us as these sellers with that return or the exchange because the company handles it for us, it just makes it easier for everyone by spending the extra second that could potentially be an issue. So now that you've done this, This is going to be what other products would you potentially So this brings us all the way back to in the beginning of the video print on-demand businesses are focused on T-shirts specifically. That is because although you and tapestries, all of in the vast majority of cases, people are just coming Now, in addition to that, if you were to click on any of these, you can see that the design So you have to come in, and make sure that it fits just right. It's in the right place. And in my opinion, if you have to spend so much and make sure that it's perfect for the person who's buying it, and ultimately these items many of the sales anyways, I don't spend the time What I end up doing is and I focus just on the T-shirts. That way, when I'm coming through here, I don't have to spend any time editing all of these different ones. Making sure that in the perfect spot. So that's what I recommend doing. It makes it super efficient. And then you just scroll down &quot;I have read and agree to the terms.&quot; Then you just click Publish. Now if you've made it you are officially a This is a live listing they can pick the color of the shirt, they can pick male, female, what type of shirt they want and they can add it right to their cart. And now you would take the same listing with the same title description and then Amazon Merch On Demand. Then you've got one design You'll get sales from all Now, as you can see, what I was talking about in the last step, they added T-shirt to the end of this. We ended it at sportbike, but because a T-shirt is selected. This makes it for them so that and they say, I want it printed they can just automatically or tank top, and our original Now our description is right down here. Our main tag is just above it, telling people what it's about, and then our little store name is over to the right, right here. As I was saying, it's because not many people This is the only place that people will see our So if they click on that, they can see all of the So a couple really important is that TeePublic, you don't actually set the price yourself. They are pretty unique where they set their own pricing for you because they run their sales. So like right now, this shirt is 27% off. They're doing all of their own sales, they're managing it all for us just to encourage people On the other websites, you do so you get to see as you're what the profit margin would be. Now, generally speaking, the profit margin is Now, on some of these they sell for $32, they're so your profit margin goes up with that. So it can be anywhere from 10 Now, I should also mention too, that that is the actual That is the net profit that Now, a question that how do I do marketing on this design? And something that I will literally years of doing this is that you do not need Although you could make you could run paid advertising and try to send that I've done all of that over the years, and although it does work, in my experience, it's not worth I would instead suggest and effort to create more designs and upload them to these marketplaces. The real secret sauce in all of this is finding those sub-niches that are not oversaturated already. Now, the last thing I'll is the next steps going forward. So if you've watched this whole tutorial and you followed along, to run a successful Now all you have to do is just reads and repeat the last few steps creating the designs, and uploading them. That's it, from there, you don't have to worry about marketing, none of that. The more designs that you can get uploaded to these big print on demand websites, essentially the larger your So guys, again, if you enjoyed this video, please just give it a thumbs up. All of the discount codes, all of the links to the resources we use throughout this video are all going to be As always, if you have just let me know down in the comments, and I would be happy to help you out. Otherwise, I'll be seeing