March 11, 2004. A Canadian family in Vancouver loin wrapped in smoked bacon when a provincial some very worrying news: That meal they've the flesh and guts of numerous murdered women... When they heard that news, one of Canada's was in custody, no thanks to the Canadian to keep on killing. That's doubtful, but what's not doubtful perplexing, and nauseating serial killer cases some extremely dark secrets. life was centered around meat, almost from get enough of the stuff, and he certainly Born on October 24, 1949, Pickton cut his km) east of downtown Vancouver. As with many pleasant. To understand the extremely revolting to know what shaped this madman. He wasn't as he was un-affectionately known, was molded a boy could have. farm, while their sister, Linda, was sent the farm life wasn't suited for the young is about Willy, but bear in mind as we tell embraced a dark streak. from a very young age. Their father, Leonard, He ignored the kids as much as possible, interacting physical and psychological abuse. story that Willy would tell police many years a three-week-old calf. He liked that calf came home from school, it wasn't there. it must have got out." Willy replied, "How His father remained silent. Willy ran to the hanging from a meat hook. He told his mother, the rest of my life, and now it's gone." with it." piece of meat. Somewhere in this kid's mind, and violence, affection and slaughter. He if that pet calf was the most important thing detectives that losing his beloved calf made around and around...You're only here today; You should keep these details in mind since a matter of debate. His childhood might hold Unsurprisingly, the kids stayed away from in Alberta in 1912, was also the embodiment was loud, controlling, and obnoxious. She head usually covered by a scarf, hairs sprouting just a few rotten teeth. She wouldn't have Deliverance. was not quite right in the head, blaming the had wrapped around his neck and cut off his at him. She was often heard screaming, "Git She worked both kids like coal miners. Up Two hundred pigs, plus the eight cows the Both kids stank like something rotten since regular bathing. Willy was taunted in school named him "Stinky Piggy." hard work, often witness to the slaughtering but blood and guts didn't bother young Willy. sometimes go and hide under the gutted pig viscera would, for Willy, be associated with The Picktons were very well known in their for having one of the biggest pig farms and pork, "L. F. Pickton Ranch Poultry and Pigs" they'd see the feral, unwashed kids running of collapse. This, they couldn't understand. selling land. It was as if they enjoyed living Pigs, chickens, ducks, dogs, and the occasional and excrement behind. A farmer who lived nearby another, made up of scraps of lumber. I didn't Willy, who had a good memory despite his low was no running water in the house. At that coop, where he could lift a floorboard under below. she loved Willy dearly. She protected him wasn't treating him like a slave, feeling education" class at school due to low grades animal and didn't talk like the other kids were the children of doctors who worked at them, many years later, admitted, "We were Robert." was surprised one day when a girl named Lisa in the store his family had on Shaughnessy the Meat Locker. That day he stared at Lisa, Chinese and her father Caucasian. She smiled so he gave her a free hotdog. They'd become good friends; she was probably of those keys we've talked about that may later. pulled him out when he was 14. He continued slaving away in the back cutting meat all One of the pivotal moments in his life came to drive. For whatever reason, David somehow The kid was 14-year-old Tim Barrett, who was It seemed as if David had not even slowed Instead of doing the right thing and telling his mother. She raced out to the accident was obviously dead, and rolled him into a road. This had a big impact on David and Willy, wrong. reported their son missing. His body was found is the autopsy revealed he'd died from drowning, although there were significant head injuries said those injuries would not have killed accessory, and Willy learned a thing or two David and his mom were both exposed in the he'd fixed the Pickton's truck. But in crime, and David only got four years' probation Many years later, Willy would tell this story with murder. away at the age of 91, the same year that Then a year later, Louise also passed away. the land, land that was worth a substantial $90,000, around $380,000 in today's money. its land were now worth close to $1 million Willy, who was 20, was suddenly rich, but requested in her will. Now all the animals place and never really got into the old hygiene changes was taking care of the animals he he decapitated it and took the head to a taxidermist. wall years later when the horrors of the Pickton Willy had never had a girlfriend. The girl the closest he'd come to falling in love, that girls were disgusted by him, the pig pals. Pen pals didn't know what he looked Just prior to his parents dying, the teenager was writing to in Pontiac, Michigan, USA. he called on pen pals in Chicago, Kansas City, heavyset girl, that he found true love. The their peers. They didn't bother with bars the time. Willy spent five weeks with her, sleeping with each other. The only thing Willy sometimes had to slaughter. He seemed to have which may have been why he and Connie never usually meant the meat grinder... the farm forever. He had to go. Years later, up, but she never did." Neither did he ever Willy told interrogators decades later. between, for Willy, at least, there's a almost ready, primed to kill, to become a world. He opened the place up to the Hell's Angels on, there were wild parties at the farm. The and held cock fights in the barns. For them, money. As long as he let them party, they Palace, always dumfounded by Willy's relationship that would run wild around the place. They laughed at him behind his back, but they sure It was through the bikers and the parties the streets of the most rundown areas of Vancouver. the substances that got them through their kind at first... to West Coast Reduction rendering facility, into grease to make soap, candy, and cosmetics. to the facility, it might have been part-human... and louder. This was kind of legal. In 1996, they named "Piggy Palace Good Times Society," functions, dances, shows, and exhibitions." the brothers used a converted building at in, including a regular cast of Downtown Vancouver's in 1,800 people. Young folks danced away the It was fertile ground for a serial killer. sometimes for violating city zoning ordinances, people, and for not writing up mandatory financial the radar of cops for his more violent proclivities Wendy Lynn Eistetter. Willy was now 48. This hurt, but this was the first time he got caught. about how Willy worked. Downtown Vancouver and offered her $100. She van, but she went to his house, which she didn't feel right. She explained, "I asked a telephone book. And I was leaning over the feel... feel him behind me." The next thing But she fought him, managing to pick up a "You BLEEP, you got me good." He subsequently The next thing she knew, they were outside arms as she pleaded, "I have a family. I'll he suddenly became heavy against her body, She ran for it, leaving him staggering in at 1.45 am, seen by the driver Brian Strilesky in blood, and holding a knife, quite a frightening remembers saying to them was, "In case I She didn't die. Willy was charged with attempted telling the cops she'd tried to steal from A few months later, the case was dismissed, so-called women of the night. The cops later and they admitted they dropped the case because make good witnesses. This would come back Many prostitutes went to the farm. They often of animal excrement and broken shacks. They'd low profile at the parties. It was common Palace was a dangerous place, but they went else often came free, or, at least, for 'favors.' they were greeted by a sign at the farm entrance bull with Aids." Willy couldn't even get One woman who went there one time later said, was a hellhole." She said women went anyway, always knew about what went on there, but They could have shut it down whenever they survived that farm still wonder why. missing in Vancouver, many of whom worked called the "less dead," meaning when they of society, they hardly existed when they still barely existed. They were less dead conventional society, despite their vulnerability After all, they hung out on the Eastside of and Canada's "Skid Row." This ten block where the sidewalks were covered with the had dumped in the night. Pimps strolled around Biker gangs and Asian cartels openly flaunted in this civic failure. of HIV infection in the whole of North America. would often end up there. It was the last the plughole of society that sucked in the and dirtier than the Eastside of Downtown. gaping wound oozing human puss that presented society, and because of Willy and his victims, The women talked among themselves about this never returned. The pimps started to wonder and again. We are not talking about a handful of women over the years. One of them was Rebecca Guno, who, on a hot Downtown Eastside, never to be seen again. in 1986, aka Expo '86, more women had gone of Main and Hastings, the bottom of rock bottom. was Willy Pickton, the weird guy who held 43-year-old Sherry Rail went missing, followed who'd told her buddies she was moving to Teressa Ann Williams, a 26-year-old Aboriginal was only reported missing in March 1989. 40-year-old psychiatric patient named Ingrid Wattley went missing. There was another break, Gonzales vanished into thin air. She wasn't took seven months for 32-year-old Catherine shortly before Dorothy Spence, a 36-year-old Diana Melnick also vanished. Lee, a 20-year woman who vanished after being 24, and Olivia Williams was just 22 when they a woman named Janet Henry had survived a close Clifford Olson, and on June 28, 1997, she black woman named Sarah Jane deVries vanished written, "I feel like I've come a long a lot of stuff." figured around 40 women had gone missing, so, police still weren't sure the many missing geographic profiling techniques, but despite became a major murder investigation. It was turn up in some place like LA or Vegas. even have one body at this point. They had that some of the sex workers and the gangs for good reason, of course. The police then women in an attempt to attain their DNA. They trying to match it with the DNA of Jane Doe's mental health facilities, drug rehabilitation and they came up empty-handed. These women And as the years passed, 97, 98, 99, more Jardine, 28, Michelle Gurney, 30, Marcella jail on December 27, 1998, and was not seen her at their apartment, where they'd cooked Some men were questioned, men who had a history had anything to do with the disappearances. Activities Society's "bad date" file, men to avoid. Willy's name wasn't on that dead. to 37-year-old Bill Hiscox. This widower had his wife passed, but his sister saved him in Surrey, southeast of Vancouver. The owners Pickton and David Pickton. When Hiscox collected Port Coquitlam pig farm, which he later described equally creepy and quiet Willy Pickton parked tinted windows." and the fact so many sex workers turned up in the newspapers, and then when he heard about something else: what he told a police are out there in his trailer and stuff." hotline anonymously, but later he met with later. That detective told him that he'd top" of the police force, but after that were filed as "persons of interest" and The farm was not surveilled, which was a God-awful in the 90s. In fact, cops were now pulling have been over 50. Even so, it seemed at times about those women than the police. The cops murder case. If it were, it would have been history. the Missing Women Task Force. By now, they 70, who'd all disappeared from the same too late, Canada's largest murder investigation to the public saying, "We're in no way saying in no way saying that all these people missing time, especially the women still working the they'd allowed a serial killer to remain The Pickton men's names stood out, both at a 1998 report, when Bill Hiscox had phoned had gone missing since then. Police noted He'd told them in '98 about those ten and he'd explained that Willy had once bragged He'd explained that a friend of Willy's, Lisa Yelds, had told him that she'd seen well as various women's belongings. This She suggested to Hiscox that the belongings Hiscox heard that Willy got rid of these women the meat to the public. story to cops back in '98, but in 2001, It wasn't until 2002 that there was a breakthrough, officer was the first policeman to find something detectives were still stalling, but this rookie guns, not pieces of ground women. of personal items belonging to women, including name of one of the missing women. So, it was case that was the cause of the subsequent by the way, that was worth about $70 million. just couldn't fathom. the remains of at least 27 women, parts of up into pig feed. Worse, it seemed to cops other parts for pork products. Even so, it on TV warning Canadians that they might well said one official, explaining that they would only possibly contract hepatitis B if they Given the size of Willy's operation, there after that announcement, especially when the assessment study to understand if people who contact with viruses, bacteria, and parasites, Both these diseases were very common in Vancouver They concluded the risk was "low to medium," Willy had been murdering and selling meat people were reluctant cannibals if he had a great time to be vegetarian in the Vancouver People asked how the hell police had let this and the fact many women had died after he'd on the streets as Crazy Jackie, told the press and over 50 were missing. She added, "There the list. Whole buildings of women have disappeared, the victims weren't white, which led to was for certain, those women were less-dead Let's now talk about Willy's interrogation. or two-word answers to questions, only to when he starts to talk about his dead calf To his interrogators, he seems a few sandwiches refers to himself as the "Pig Man," seemingly that his face is in the newspapers. with pictures of dozens of missing women he's being asked about them, he turns to Sergeant millions of people out there; they look so know." Then he starts talking about how chased by a black bear. to the bemused cops, "That was a scary feeling "Turn the other hoof, and if your arm's about once trying to split two boars up when explains, "I got in between 'em, and then What on Earth did the police have on their "Those are the good old days," Willy says, scars and really enjoyed myself . . . all "You do know you are never going back to there's nothing he likes about the farm, Meanwhile, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police prostitutes have been murdered or are missing Soon Vancouver will be sued for not doing to reprimand the cops, who certainly wouldn't of middle-class women had gone missing. job. It was thought many of the bodies had in someone's freezer somewhere, in parts looked like instruments of torture, kinky They found parts of a woman in a wood chipper. them, possibly after knocking them out with which he slaughtered them the same way he he told an undercover police officer, "I you inject the stuff, and you're dead in He'd likely also shot some of the victims, Willy's handheld reciprocating saw. But them, were missing completely, leading some set up. very worst details. AP issued a report, asking from Pickton's farm to return those products a woman named Lynn Ellingsen came forward a woman hanging from a meat hook. say anything anyway out of fear for her life. the police. This friend told them that Willy in detail how Ellingsen had seen Willy strip when she saw that human fat was yellow, not thing. one who took that tip and the one who'd as much as he wanted to search the farm, he of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. They but each time she remained silent. but were told to come back when Willy and they actually did that. They interviewed Willy the farm, but according to Shenher, they never was botched with a capital B. Shenher said women, and later, he had to be taken off the down, as Shenher was onto Willy more than In total, there were more than 40,000 photos taken from the farm, while the lab received ninety-eight testified, and another thirty gruesome trial. at trial. He'd told an undercover officer it 50. He was charged with killing 26 and innocent of first-degree murder but guilty jury didn't think the prosecution had proved the murders. Police Department apologized, saying in a heart that we would have caught him sooner...I we could undo. And I wish that more lives More people came forward to say they knew encounter with him. Tracy Bunyan. He took her back to his disgusting with women's clothes. Willy physically hurt her on the way that he was giving her "one was getting it like the others. His belief to justify his perverted, murderous acts. (not her real name), a self-described "hardcore homes all her childhood, experiencing the have. She said Willy picked her up in a white removed, she knew something was wrong. She and in the end, she had to jump out. She later In 2007, Judge Justice James Williams sentenced of parole after 25 years, meaning his parole now, currently serving out his sentence at where he still claims his innocence. the attorney general and solicitor general destroyed much of the farm in their search, and destroyed various plants, trees, groundcovers quiet about their brother, which isn't surprising, sued them, saying they knew all along what serious allegations have been made against and filed statements of defense. "Pickton: In His Own Words" was published prison. The book was soon withdrawn due to In the book, he claimed the Royal Canadian murders. He stated that some of the body parts at a police auction and that some women were those parties. He even claimed that the blood was nothing but spilled wallpaper glue. said it was "incoherent, illiterate ranting," and boring drivel filled with tirades against Angels." true, but he has some conspiracy theorists cops not investigate the case for so long, purses and a "sicko" who stripped the least put under police surveillance? If he that even with the most advanced forensics six murders. prison. In one of the letters, letters filled my-self is not from this world, but I am born and if I had to change any-thing I would not, He also kept writing to the Canadian media, to the story than everyone knew. Still, he Willy was also a compulsive liar. He once than the ones in the States," likely in Wayne Gacy or Ted Bundy. This might have been Now you need to watch "How These Sneaky take a deep dive into "How Insanely Creative