- I have talked about the decision around renting versus But in this video I wanted to take a bit The common perception is that with a mortgage payment that is equal to or less than what you then buying is a good decision. This way of thinking about the rent versus buy Comparing a mortgage payment to rent is not an apples to apples comparison. In order to properly assess we need to compare the of renting to the total That may sound like a complicated task but I have boiled it down I'm Ben Felix, portfolio In this episode of I'm going to give you about the rent versus buy decision. (upbeat music) Before we get to the 5% rule, I need to lay out the assumptions An unrecoverable cost with no associated residual value. When we are talking about of renting, the number is very easy. It's just the amount that For a home owner the unrecoverable to pin down. A homeowner has a mortgage payment, which feels kind of like rent, making it an easy number But it is not a meaningful comparison. A mortgage payment is not It is a combination of interest The unrecoverable costs property taxes, maintenance It is these costs that we Property taxes are pretty easy for most people to grasp. You pay the tax to own the home. And there is no residual value. Property taxes are generally That's the first piece of the 5% rule. Then we have to think Maintenance costs cover It can be large items or renovating a kitchen to But it can also be small things, like redoing the caulking in the bathroom. Pinning down the right number to estimate maintenance costs is not easy. And the data on average maintenance costs are not readily available. But most people suggest using 1% of the property value per year on average. This is the second piece of the 5% rule. Finally, the last and most important piece to the 5% rule is the cost of capital. This unrecoverable cost into two components, the cost of debt and the cost of equity. Most homeowners finance the purchase of their home using a mortgage. Let's use a new homeowner as an example. Say they put down 20% and finance the remaining The 80% that has been financed in interest costs. As of April, 2019, I can easily for just under and just above 3%. Let's call mortgage interest Up until this point. I think that all of the inputs to the 5% Property taxes, maintenance The last one, the cost of equity capital and it requires digging into some data. In our example for the It's on that 20% that there's When you put 20% down you are making a choice to Alternatively, you could and invested the down It is that alternative that which is a real economic cost incurred by a homeowner. To estimate this cost we need to come up with an estimate for expected returns; both for real estate and for stocks. A good place to start Looking at &quot;The Credit Suisse Global We can get an idea of the Globally, the real return for real estate, that's net of inflation from While stocks returned If we assume inflation at 1.7% then we will be thinking for real estate and a 6.9% I have had many commentators on my other real estate that 3% might work for global real estate, but not for Ontario. That's way too low for Ontario. It should be closer to five or 10%. Let's clear that up right now. The problem with this is that markets price assets based on the information that You would never sell if you knew that the buyer for $550,000. If you knew that you We can't assume that high like we've had Canada That is not a sensible Instead, we can look at the risk premium that the market has placed on those types of assets over time and use that as an That 6.9% historical return and China's stock markets going to zero. It also includes the If we were to cherry pick, say US stocks, the argument for stocks but it doesn't make a whole That was a bit of a digression but I think it was important At PWL Capital we do not for stocks as the estimate We use a combination of the and the current expected return based on the price earnings ratio. The effect of this is as they are now relative to the past, our expected returns are lower. Our current nominal expected return for a 100% equity portfolio is 6.57%. Quite a bit lower than If we take these numbers as they are: 3% for real we would have an expected between real estate and stocks, of 3.57%. To keep things simple, I think that we can round that down to 3%. We now have a cost of which is conveniently equal So no matter how you finance the home, the cost of capital is 3%. We now have a total of 5% that you would expect to Remember rent is an unrecoverable Homeowners also have unrecoverable costs but they are harder to see. The 5% rule can be used to think about the unrecoverable cost of renting and owning on an apples to apples basis. I think that this thinking can for anyone considering of their rent versus buy decision. Take the value of the home multiplied by 5% and divide by 12. If you can rent for less than that then renting is a sensible A $500,000 home would be in annual unrecoverable costs, or $2083 per month. It goes the other way, too. If you find a rental that you can take $3,000 multiplied The result in this case is $720,000. In other words, paying is financially equivalent in to owning a $720,000 home. There is no doubt that the 5% When we start considering variables like tax rates and portfolio For example, the 6.57% expected return for stocks is a pretax return, which is fine in an RRSP or TFSA, but in a taxable account be closer to 4.6% for someone taxed at the highest marginal reducing their cost of equity capital. Similarly, if the investment than 100% equity, the cost of equity capital decreases. If we think about this in terms of making financial decisions, it would just mean adjusting reducing the total I feel like that might be if you haven't thought from this perspective. So let me try saying it another way. One of the largest cost of owning a home is the opportunity cost of equity capital. If you pay $500,000 cash for a home, you have now spent as opposed to using it for something else, like investing in stocks. The difference in expected returns between real estate and It is a real economic cost and it has to be accounted for in the rent versus buy decision. The opportunity cost of equity capital on your mix between stocks and bonds, and whether or not your and if they are being Based on these variables, the 5% rule might need to be decreased, making home ownership of unrecoverable costs. That is an interesting point to chew on. The cost of owning a home decreases if you have maxed out or if you can't handle the volatility of an aggressive portfolio. For any aggressive investor, who has not maxed out their RRSP and TFSA, I think that the 5% rule in the rent versus buy decision. For anyone with a more or for a taxable investor, I might use something closer to 4%. Either way, thinking about the cost of home ownership in terms of the estimated unrecoverable costs makes it much easier to think of the rent versus buy decision. How do you think about the financial side of the rent versus buy decision? Tell me about it in the comments. Thanks for watching. My name is Ben Felix of PWL Capital and this is &quot;Common Sense Investing&quot;. If you enjoyed this video, please share it with someone from the information. Don't forget, if you've run out of &quot;Common Sense you can tune into weekly episodes of The &quot;Rational Reminder&quot; podcast wherever you get your podcasts. (upbeat music)