- Hey guys, Toby Mathis here, and today we're going revocable trust mistakes So I'm just going to to make it really easy for you. And let's talk about why We'll just get this out of the way. Number one reason is because What is probate? It's that legal process if you have a will or if you don't have you get to go to that judge. Technically, you know, they I think they're about average between 12 and 18 months depending on who you listen to. ARP came out and said, you it can eat up as much as 20%. The estate planners are all going to say, no, it's four to 7%. There are statutes that start at 8%, like in California or typical probate, let's just say like in Pennsylvania, just had one of these It was 13,500 just for Not to mention the personal representative and the cost of having to go through all the court, dealing with the court It's expensive. So people use that and it's very, very smart to avoid it. There's a second reason and that is that because you you keep your privacy. That probate process is a public record. Anybody can go poll and And believe it or not, that were targeting larger estates that were listed in the probate They were going in there, they had a shopping list of sorts. So if you don't want your you don't want to have where everybody can see and what they're doing with it, then you use the living trust. So they have, they're a great Another reason that we because with the living trust, we can actually control You cannot do that with through probate where they're just trying to distribute the assets. If you want to create a legacy where you're making to your grandkids, your great-grandkids, and future generations that that aren't even conceived, and they're a great legacy tool, rather than just dying and distribute, you can actually be very directive about, here's the conditions Here's ages at which you Here's tasks that you have to complete in order to get your money. You could put all that in living trust. You can't do it elsewhere. And those living trusts are a total plan. In other words, it's during If I'm not able to make we need documents that allow Medical decisions, if I'm end of life decisions, I The living trust when you the way that we do it here, for example, is we always include all which will be one of our about the seven huge mistakes. So let's talk about these And I'll just start off. Number one is they didn't A lot of times people go to and they draft a will with what's called a testamentary trust. In other words, the trust does And then it's going to be Why do they do it? Technically, I am not I'm not going to beat up on 'em, right? But a lot of times it's because that's the way they were trained and it means that they get and represent that trust. And yeah, there's annual trust accounting. Just look at the Michael Jackson case. You're going to see and years, for decades and decades, millions of dollars are going to be made by the legal services as they go in every year and do an accounting to the court. If you want to avoid that, We call it a living trust 'cause it is effective during your life. They call it inner vivos whatever the case, it's irrevocable trust that you can change at any time and it's effective during your lifetime. That's why we call them a living trust. So the big mistake that a testamentary trust Make sure that this is a living trust. And then number two, once you have it, make sure that you fund it. Make sure that your house, your bank accounts, your brokerage. If you have business interest, make sure that you are of your living trust and that you're transferring most of the time you're like your your house, you're going to have to retitle it with the county bank account. The bank may just note it. Brokerage account, if you're still owning it as trustee. So it's still, let's trustee of the Mathis Family Trust, right? I can do that. My business interest, I am, it's not going to change the It's still going on my tax return 'cause a living trust until it becomes irrevocable, which would require your or a During your lifetime, it is literally like a, I'll use luggage as an example. Let's say you have a roll along luggage and you put your stuff in it and take it out of that But if you're not able to something happens to you, to pick it up and continue to roll it, everything's still in that That's it. Your suitcase. And so they can open it up Hey, give the shirt to Mikey, Right? It says your instructions. That's what a living trust is. And so you want to make are in the luggage, So imagine that you're and you get a nice piece of some luggage and you open it up and you Instead you carry all your It doesn't make sense, right? If you're going to set up a Make sure that you're actually using it and you're putting your clothes in it. Now, there are different types of clothes that you don't want to. That'll be our big mistake. Number three is do not put assets that have a beneficiary designation. In other words, they are already a trust. You don't need to put and there can be adverse tax consequences. What am I talking about? I'm talking about like your IRA. You don't need to put the You can make a living trust a beneficiary, successor beneficiary in the future, in case there's nobody else. But generally speaking, you're safe to put individuals or life insurance. I can put an individual or What I don't do is have in the name of the living trust. It's still me. I'm still like annuities, same thing, I don't want to transfer So like there could be if I try to take the into that area, right? So I want to make sure is keeping those instruments, life insurance, IRAs, They are still, I'm not retitling them, but I may take a beneficiary designation and make it the trust. Especially if you're of any of your beneficiaries, because that will make a huge difference. There's actually a Supreme make somebody the beneficiary of your IRA, versus if it goes to the has credit shelter provisions to protect from making that it could actually have an impact. So make sure that don't that have beneficiary designations. Make sure you're putting and just remember that a living trust can still be a beneficiary of that asset, in which case then the trust document, it'll say itself will direct Number four, big mistake that we see, is poorly drafted trusts Like if you go get an online document, it's going to be garbage. Don't do it, 'cause it could still lead to disinheriting your kids. There's no q-tip provision, spend thrift provisions Spend thrift is how you that has creditors or and you're just distributing And if they're in that particular case, it's going to go to a third party. It's just literally going to They also don't put in legacy clauses, quite often it's just very simple document that ends up not serving you very well. Make sure that if you're that you're getting the Yes, living trusts are awesome. They can avoid probate, but you want to make sure that your wishes are And they have a lot of other superpowers that we don't want to minimize. And I'll use an example. Grandparents leave money to grandchild who has special needs. The state, and this is actually a case, the state in this case, was providing assistance to that child throughout his lifetime. Grandparents pass away, to the child and the state great, you owe us all this money, because we've been providing and now you have money so we're And they took grandma away from the child. That's 'cause there was no that prevented the trustee So make sure that you have a The other example I can give you of where people make a mistake is when it's parents especially if you have Brady you know, there's, your spouse of a child. You got to be careful here. But let's just say that it's just regular, you know, American couple, right? You're married and you You want to make sure that there's a trust that is created when first spouse passes, their surviving spouse can and then it goes to the kids. 'Cause otherwise what to your surviving spouse. And then if they get remarried and they don't document things correctly, this actually happened in my that I know that it happens Then you could a unintentionally because then it would Or if they create an estate to the surviving spouse, inherit disinherit your three kids. So that is a simple provision and a way you, people that know these provisions inside and out. Do not go the cheapy online route. Make sure that you have somebody actually draft it appropriately, 'cause it stinks when and they miss something besides these living trusts are powerful. It's like having a Lamborghini and leaving it in your garage, right? Make sure that if you have that power, that you're using some of stretch its legs a little bit. There's a whole bunch of in these living trusts that are of great benefit to you in your family. It can make sure your Make sure that you're not Make sure that you're getting it out there and you're using the power Make sure you're doing it. The other thing that we see, number five, is making the So if you have a legacy and you make it the kids, those kids that right now are looking at it saying, well mom and dad don't want but if they're the to all the money, what Yeah, forget mom and dad. So do not make a situation Or if you have a beneficiary and alcohol or some of and you make them the trustee, you're not going to have the to underneath that trust to make sure that they don't harm themselves. And by the way, statistically speaking, if you leave a windfall to somebody, they will keep about That's it. Ohio State There's plenty of studies out When you give somebody who's not prepared for their wealth, a bunch of money. So the solution is to or a trusted advisor or family member. Or you could put in their hey, the beneficiaries get to choose, but it's got to be a fiduciary. It's going to be a licensed CPA, Most trust companies, by Vanguard has a great solution. But it typically is for or 500,000 and above, right? So you may not be able to but you could still get a or an attorney who would still do it even with a smaller estate. And what you're doing is protecting the beneficiaries from themselves. So do not make your beneficiaries any of those provisions or if you have any of those concerns, right? You want to make sure that we're not just putting and then also thinking is thinking that there's asset There is not asset It is a revocable instrument during your lifetime. If something happens to you, don't expect that living trust It's not an asset protection tool until such time as you pass away. And then it's for the beneficiaries. So for example, if I have a living trust, even if I have my child listed and I pass away and that child is going through a bankruptcy, and somebody is trying I still have spend thrift that say the trustee can That's when a living trust for you, individually, no, it's not going to save you anything, you and your spouse, until when somebody passes, there's not asset protection And a lot of people will it's a great asset protection tool. No it's not. It's for your beneficiaries it could be, but it is not the replacement for a proper asset protection You might use an or a combination of entities during your lifetime depending and like what you're investing in. But that living trust is with that asset protection. It doesn't do it. And then number seven, of people think that a living You go in there and you do Sometimes they're going to and they go like, ah, I've got my estate plan. No, there's a lot that So you need the power of You need a power of You need to have your HIPAA releases, you need to have your schedule of gifts, you need to have a pour over will. Believe it or not, you still have a will in case you have assets outside I use the idea of luggage. So let's say that everything but you left a few things outside, right? There's a few pieces of clothing and maybe some of your toiletries What this says is, hey, put So you don't have a whole bunch of beneficiaries going in there The living trust is the sole beneficiary. Plus, if you have a properly it'll say, if you can test this document, you're disinherited, right? There's some teeth that but you still have that pour over will. We may want to have our, like, or special instructions, we If you have minor children, that they're cared for and you want to make sure you're picking you may put it in that pour over will. Why? Because that's a We don't want to put our living One of the benefits of a living So we want to keep it private. We don't want to destroy that of guardian provisions and where then you have to You can still do it under seal, but it kind of defeats the purpose. Use that pour over will otherwise. And then there's things which is your end of life decisions. Do I want extraordinary measures taken? If I'm in a terminal condition, do I just want to have or do I want to have heroic measures trying to preserve my life? Right? That is part of a proper estate plan and it is not automatically included, especially on those online documents. They're not included, in a firm like ours, we draft everything that includes all of those documents, period. We never go outside of it 'cause we're like, if it's an estate plan. Living trust is a component of it, but when we do an estate Most practitioners are going to be very similar to what I'm saying. They are not going to draft because it is not necessarily There's lots of other You know, if I'm disabled, you know, if, I've used my dad as an example we had to have that power of attorney so that my mom could act on his behalf. We, she also had to be able She needed the releases and she needed the so that they could communicate with her on behalf of my father. So I always look at those things, that's going to be very We don't tend to just drop, right? We tend to have things that and you want to make sure that allow someone to advocate for you if you're in that situation. So that is the seven big that we see made when people are doing, using a living trust. And I hope that you take it to heart and understand that those powerful if you use them correctly. Last thing I'm going to say is, if you could like and subscribe, And down in the comments, let me know if you already just say, yes, I have it. And if there's any issues that you have, by all means throw 'em on in there. You can always get a free consult that that's what you're looking for. And if you know of anybody that could benefit from It really helps us in the communicate with us and when you like and subscribe and share it. Thank you guys.