It's that time of the year again. With 2024 for me to sit down and reflect just where I'm at which products I don't want to be buying anymore whenever the new year approaches. Not necessarily to stick to no matter what, but more something have enough of those things, or I just find them anymore. And also, I always like these kind of felt like making one today as well. So here are feel free to use this list as inspiration for don't want to be buying next year. So this year, bought an apartment and everything changed. So I everything that I bought and everything that there were definitely some surprises there, but feel free to subscribe down below so you won't is kindly sponsored by Skillshare and I will chat this year I did something that I honestly thought plants. I have one right there behind me in the that I got them is that I wanted to brighten up so many real plants that I just didn't want to add plants don't require any work and they are still I don't love them. I don't get anything from these kind of dead to me, they also don't look that but I definitely won't be purchasing anymore. It a real plant. I did actually end up getting a it's sprouting all kinds of new leaves, it's So when we were in the process of moving here, apartments. So the one that we were leaving, and would be clean uh when we were to move in and with I just wasn't going to be lugging cleaning So we kind of just bought a lot of doubles. This supplies. And I just want to use them all up use it up challenge, really helpful for anything lot of that, to try to get your inventory back to And that is what we are going to do with all of that we've moved a few times over, I did briefly I decided against it, mainly for the reason that we have to go out. Because we both work from home. day on foot is a great way for us to get our walks there wouldn't be a real reason for us to leave it's like rainy and windy, which it is often know for myself that I'm not going to go out and groceries, it takes like an hour, we're walking our exercise in. Number four, cookbooks. I used because you can just as easily find recipes that a little bit. Because I actually really enjoy a lot of fun to cook from a cookbook. I have one both of my favorite cuisines, which are Japanese I really feel like I have the bases covered. cookbooks is that you can get all of these like twice and then never again. Like a cookbook for for different kinds of pesto and things like that. cookbooks that you never use. And that's something Earlier this year, I did kind of debate whether or to one now. But I decided against it because the I can just do it at home. Just roll out my yoga take a shower, and I'm done. It's free, it's more than if I had to go to a gym. I know myself that often. Number six, alcohol. This is not a Because I've never really been a type of person than one glass at a time. But I did decide to cut So over the last 6 months or so, I would say I've really like that. I prefer to have a drink only as good glass of scotch, or specialty beer, or like friends. So every once in a while, I think it's and not something that you just do on a random waking up early and starting the day off right. excited to start my day. And I do notice that if feeling a little groggy, sometimes I have a bit of motivated to work out or do something. And that's only on special occasions or when sharing it with none for me. Number seven, video games. I included not done playing all of the games that I still year too. The kind of games I like to play usually of person who likes to play games that I've I'm pretty confident that I can keep playing my without buying any new ones. So that's what I'm here as well. Number eight, furniture. So when we But I also replaced a lot of stuff that was old in this new space. We also have an office now, every piece that's in my home now. I'm obsessed be buying any new ones or replacing anything in unhealthy snacks and junk food. I keep this short on the channel. But we've had this rule of not regular groceries for a couple years now. And to keep doing that next year too. It helped us to couple of years and keep it off as well. So we over, or if it's a special occasion. Just not with with my digestion and my skin and my energy ever since moving into this place, we did make a liked. So this is a good opportunity for me have this be on the list next year as well. Food in. But now that we live here, we do live closer that has vegan sushi. So sometimes uh if we want them. But it is always so much better to order instead of through a third-party app. These apps order for them to use their services. So either or they charge you more to make up for that, and ordering food from the restaurant themselves. It's 11, holiday decor. This is super personal. If you with that. I don't know, I just find that I'm not having a bunch of decorating stuff that I have to I'm not really feeling it. If I want to get grabbing some blankets, you know, making a feel like I need the holiday decor. So we have and we didn't even have that and I don't really feel like I am going to be next year. Number 12, a new phone. Because of I'm a bad minimalist. I have one for my personal work or get like notifications and stuff, I can for a couple years now, it still works great. But work phone. It was 5 years old and it just yeah one. And I really hope to be able to use that well it has a lot of life in it still I think. So or hopefully the years after that. Now that we are about Skillshare, who have very kindly agreed to platform with thousands and thousands of fantastic years now if there's something that I want to work as a creative. Maybe you want to get into to learn how to make your own clothing. Or you to take your career into a new direction and you your own creative business. Skillshare has classes learn about. What I love about watching a class on Because often times, when we feel like there's think like yeah, I want to learn that someday. it's just difficult to know where to start, or the and daunting. And we don't do it. But if I am class or two and they give me a starting point to let's say that you have some goals for next year. helpful for you to learn to be more productive in class, where she teaches you skills and techniques overwhelm and distractions, without burning good deal to share with you for today's video. description box will not only get 30 days for first year of Skillshare. So really big thanks to channel, let's get back to the video. Lucky number a couple years now. And I'm still very happy with but I have plenty. I have a few necklaces and wear the same ones every day. I don't really wear with a few beautiful pieces. But once you have need to get any more. So that is going to be a a very strong dislike of smart things that can it just icks me out a little bit. So even if I'm I'm just not going ther.e I feel like I can think don't need something in the house that can hear these things really work out, and they help out a it works for you, definitely keep using it. But I was actually a bit of a miss for us this year, to I didn't end up liking it. I'm not going to go us because the video would be too long. But let's be smart, I think it only really works if what really match very well. And for me, it was just our 10-year-old vacuum broke, we actually ended our robot vacuum. And this works out out a lot some people say that the robot vacuum changed when we got one. I figured you know it's just and always have clean floors. And for some people, definitely keep using it. I'm just here to say So give it a good amount of thought before you that what it's able to do, is that exactly what disconnect there, it's going to be a lot of effort example of something that many people love. And if that I want. It's difficult to explain, but when I want to practice being mindful of the signs that to my body myself, instead of having a device tell of those things that I feel like if this didn't I wish I had something that tells me how I slept I took today. It's just not something that I and everyone has one, it's just not interesting to something where I could see like my heart rate for my mental health. And I actually think that is taking the Fitbit off. Number 17, makeup. I that I just really like. And so, the products they're used up. But I'm not going to try out a products that I'm not already using, and trying of that stuff. I like how simple it is now. Just and not really care about any of the other If these specific creams work for you, great, creams for specific things, because I trusted the so it must be good for my hands. And this is a now, I just use the same hydrating lotion for a difference. I'm no expert on this, but I think have a lotion from Biodermal that I really like. butter from OSea. And these products are really, they did send me them for free, just to try out. happy with them. And I just use them all over my creams for specific things. As long as you have skin, which these products do for me. I have very I'm very happy with them. Number 19, handbags, ones for years now. And I still really like them. tear now. Which honestly is surprising, because for like 3 years now. Or four years, I can't otherwise you cannot see the wear and tear. And backpack, and one bigger backpack for traveling. move things from one back to the other. And I tear is really starting to show more. And somehow I'm really happy with them still. Number 20 this stuff in 2022. And I still really like them. still have enough. And they meet our needs. So I next year. This is probably the only one on the hard for me. Because I love this stuff. It is stationery and notebooks. This one has been on because I had enough, and I just wanted to use up in this category. And it has lasted me so long, it so little. I used to be a big bullet journaler, that much. So I'm using up these notebooks for list or something, like I'm using up everything to be a while before I have to buy anything new writing that much anymore. Number 22, trendy home has its trends. So right now I think it's always like the Kawaii things. And there are these plastic um see-through containers, that have Like the squiggly spoons and the squiggly mirrors participate in any of them next year. When it with buying decor or just furniture or things very important because I'm here so much. So it's I do buy something for my home, is this something come. And usually with those trends, they're like but a year from now I'm just not going to like participating in the trendy home decor stuff next really careful with this one, about how I word wrong way. I don't necessarily think that there's you do you. It is your body, it is your face. And want to do that, or not. The reason I included it seriously considered it, but it has crossed my I know personally, and people I see online of my It's almost like getting your nails done. You little Botox like around your eyes or stuff. And started with this. Or you know how they say with getting all the lines, so that you can prevent I did consider it. But I very quickly decided uh reasons for getting it. For example a friend cannot really frown. Because that was giving her the headaches anymore. Which makes perfect sense. just be for cosmetic reasons. And again there's I want to age.... I want to embrace aging, if that do want to take a care of my skin. I don't want if that makes sense. You know. I do want want any fillers, I don't want any Botox. into my body. There's I believe that the risk is And it's relatively new, I don't really trust rest of my life. And I also feel like it's another go to. So you know, if I did all the things, I and a filler appointment every 2 months, and a and a pedicure every two months. And just all appointment to the next, my whole life. And that my time or my money on. And I also just want to is a gift, it is something to be grateful for, little insecurities about our body or our face or water in my own self, in my own psyche. The seed and happiness. And being grateful for the fact everything I want to do, instead of focusing on or things like that. I hope it made sense. Let I just wanted to include it because it has been it and I feel very strongly about it. So that's that of course it's fine if you want to do that, everyone is doing it now. And I feel like we we decide something like that. And number not cruelty-free. I thought I'd include this. of the best decisions that I've ever made in my I will continue to not buy animal products next for clothing, beauty items. Making sure as best animals. I just don't feel right having an animal something. I just don't feel like that's something I turned 35. And I realized that I went vegetarian meat in 20 years. And that is a long time, so that And I was wondering if this is something that you like a Q&amp;A style video, judgement free of course. a where everyone could be welcome and then let me know in the comments please. And I let me know if there are things that you won't be list that you actually do want to buy next year. the comments. And if you enjoyed this video, then joining us on Patreon. You will instantly get the years on there. It's getting close to 100 I a lot of fun, there are vlogs, tea time chats, having to do with minimalism and simple living You can join for $5 a month, and that helps me to do with running your own YouTube channel. Don't forget to check out Skillshare and get 30 days for free, plus 50% box. As always, thank you so much for being below. Have a wonderful day and I will see is there anything better than risotto balls? but then when they put it into a ball and they