- We're delighted you're here today. Welcome. I'm Althea Brooks and I'm Senior Director of Lifetime Learning in the University of Virginia's Today's program is part of which commemorates the life and legacy of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The theme for the 2022 Check out the UVA MLK website, mlk.virginia.edu for the We have well over a thousand registered for mapping the historic green books, architecture history of the African American travelers guide. We're thrilled to welcome you here today. And I'm eager just like you to learn more about the green books. We receive many questions Should you have a question please add it to the Q and A box. Our panel answer as many We are fortunate to have to share with us today. Malo Hutson, Dean of the will introduce our panel Allow me to introduce our moderator. Malo Andre Hutson is Dean and at the University of Virginia's He is nationally and expert in the community environmental justice, and urban health. Dean Hutson is the and fellowships, including the Salsburg Global Fellowship, two Mellon Fellowships and a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Health and Scholar Fellowship. Dean Hutson served as a tenured professor at the Graduate School of Architecture, planning and preservation He served as Chair of at the University of His most recent book, &quot;The Urban Struggle for &quot;and Social Justice, was published in 2016. Dean Hutson was invited to participate in the Obama administrations on environmental justice. Dean Hutson received his PhD from the School of at the Massachusetts He earned his Bachelor of Arts in Sociology and Master of City Planning from the University of Now please help me to share with us and please help me thank Dean Hutson for moderating the discussion. Dean Hutson, the microphone is all yours. Please begin the conversation. - Well, thank you so much And I just wanna welcome that everyone to our discussion today. Before we get started on me I thought I would just give about the green book. The green book was officially known as &quot;The Negro Motorist Green Book&quot;, or &quot;The Negros Travelers Green Book&quot;, and was first published in from Harlem, New York, who was actually a US postal worker. The green book provided black safe passage when traveling around the US, and eventually other parts of the world. The green book was viewed as from segregation, violence, discrimination that blacks faced before For many blacks traveling while black, it was often referred This could literally mean the difference between life and death. There are many places where or could not go such as doctor's offices, and There are some instances where there were such situations where there are sundown towns. These are places where and needed to be gone after dark. If you looked at the route 66 during the pre-Civil rights era, of the 44 of the 89 they were sundown towns. When the green book first began, it originally listed locations with many of the establishments in Harlem, but soon expanded nationally and even internationally by which you'll hear more about And it hit a high of about So copies a year were sold. On the other side of the the creation of the green book, what ended up happening for many blacks is they were able to network and create and have a or establishments that So this allowed blacks to where they could vacation for pleasure. Oftentimes in the green book, you would see the term for There are many popular destinations with beachfront places, places where blacks can go and feel safe and bond with one another. The green book listed several successful black owned businesses, especially black women owned businesses. And they played an important And they also were safe places Certainly as the automotive industry grew, blacks moved into the middle class and got cars. And they also were participating and traveling across the us whether it be from the north to the south, south to north or out to the west, the green book really played a role in helping to connect and where they would also have opportunity to meet other blacks from This is quite important. And you'll hear more about So with that short framing, why don't I turn to our panelists and they can provide you and then I'll save a little bit of time for some questions and we'll have a little bit of dialogue. Our first speaker is award-winning Catherine W. Zipf, who studies the underdogs of with an interest in race and gender, Zipf reconstructs lost providing a new often surprising viewpoint on the traditional narrative. Recent projects include Frank Lloyd Wrights, &quot;Falling Water&quot;, a book that examines Wrights career before the construction of &quot;Falling Water&quot; in the architecture of the a public catalog of green book sites. Our second panelist will be Olivia Pettee. She's a second year student That's right, a second year student. You heard me correctly. At the University of Virginia studying a American Olivia brings a deep curiosity for storytelling and how it can be used as a tool to create impact, whether it is through historical, visual or entrepreneurial means. She is a research assistant for the architecture of &quot;The a gallery assistant and a consultant for the Welcome Olivia. And lastly we'll have Louis P. Nelson, who is a Professor of and the Vice Provost for academic outreach in the office of the provost He is a specialist in of the early modern Atlantic world, with published work on the American South, the Caribbean and West Africa. His research engages the in West Africa and in the Americas, working to document and and landscapes that shape the Nelson is working on a to understand in the as a landscape of slavery. That important work combined led to Nelson's co-edited book of essays, &quot;Charlottesville 2017, the and increased focus on His first hand experience with the recent conflicts combined with his enslaved labor research, brings an informed scholarly perspective to global racial ed issues, This makes Nelson a sought after across the country and internationally. Nelson is accomplished scholar with two book link and Yale University presses. Three edited collections of essays, two terms as senior co-editor the leading English language on vernacular architecture So as you can see from our And with that said, why don't I turn it over to Catherine to lead us in today's discussion. - Thank you so much, Dean Hutson. It is a great pleasure to I am going to share my screen. If everybody could be patient All right, welcome everybody. I really wish I could but this is wonderful because people that wouldn't have And so I am delighted to be here. The architecture of &quot;The is a public architectural history project that studies the sites to discover their histories and support their preservation. It reveals the histories behind the women who ran tourist homes, the men who saw opportunity because of increased traffic and the businessmen new establishments that offered beauty, entertainment and style to These unsung people were the backbone of the African American travel industry. And through this project, So it's always nice to know in your audience. And could we have poll And I'll just keep going for the moment. So the buildings reflect the history of the African American Some buildings document the by whites and then African Americans, while others were purpose built as they seized opportunities many buildings in formerly have fallen on hard times Leaving only remnants once vibrant places, others have survived The architecture of &quot;The is the only digital database dedicated to studying the architecture of these important sites. And the only one with the goal of fully documenting every Our scope is deliberately ambitious designed to collect all this So that scholars, and everyone else can use our data as a foundation for their own future work. Yeah, I thought so. Yeah, that's awesome. 93% of you have already And that's really terrific. And so those of you who welcome, and we hope you Well, as you might expect, a project of this ambition Myself and my two co-founders and Susan Hellman, MAH 97, wahoowa, have been working on it since 2016, when the New York public announced that they had digitized their entire collection of Green Books. Like many other people, we were inspired by what the Schaumberg had made accessible and curious about what had happened in our own states. So we compiled the listings in our states, consulted our local primary resources, including deeds, directories, census records, historic and met with key members in our local African American communities. We assembled all information and took it to our first Unexpectedly, we were inundated with a host of other scholars wanting to do similar With their help, the project evolved into an effort to document of every building listed in &quot;The Negro Traveler's Green Book&quot;. This website and the is dedicated to that goal. Now, from the beginning, we knew that this project needed to have a public online component, but the intricacies of the data made just making a database very tricky. Whatever database we for what could be 50 different We invest story maps, GIS, and many, many others After considerable research, we asked Worthy Martin PhD, Director of the Institute in the Humanities or IAH, at the University of Dr. Martin has proven to And over the two years has furthered our project considerably. With Martin's help, we have crafted an interactive database that accommodates the No small task, considering that every state's green book On the backend, Martin that allows each researcher ensuring consistent regardless of a site's location. This template helps our capture a wide range of information such as each site's current location, description and history. On the front end, our users will be able to from multiple perspectives and can search for owners or visitors, types of the businesses and or locations at street, town and state levels. You wanna see the sites on a map? You can do that. Interested in owners? There is a way to search for them. In short, we're trying to anticipate how future scholars might for their own projects from scratch right into our database. And we've learned a lot along the way. For starters, the green book was not the only travel guide published during the pre-Civil rights era. There were at least six others that we have been able to identify. They span two errors, primarily those printed and those after. There are distinctions and as you can imagine. The covers say a lot But the green book was best known and ran for the longest period of time. From 1937 to 1966-67, there was a joint issue for two years. When Victor Green, a 44 in New York City, began publishing &quot;The Negro segregation had been a fact The first year's guide and listed gas stations and hotels, as well as tourist homes in Green compiled these listings And from those of his Now the green book rapidly took off. by 1938, just a year later, Green had expanded his to include cities and towns in There were also listings At the end of the guide. the green book was sold in black churches and through the Negro urban league, but the support given it by the Esso, or standard oil corporation, Esso gas stations, one of the few that carried the green book at their stations as early as 1940. The 1949 edition included Within 10 years, the to include 46 states and had reached its height The published guide was quite small, about six inches by four inches and easily fit into the car's glove box. Over time, as the guide expanded, readers joined postal carriers making it one of the first to incorporate user-generated content. And probably one of the to use user-generated content. Although the actual pages were modest and the listing Spartan, inclusion in the green book So I'd like to ask poll at the moment. I always wonder this is did you ever use the green book? I often find a lot of people did. Now, Victor Green was an He wrote in the 1948 volume quote, &quot;There will be a day &quot;when this guide will &quot;That is when we, as a race &quot;will have equal opportunities &quot;and privileges in the United States. &quot;It will be a great day for us &quot;to suspend this publication &quot;for then we can go wherever we please &quot;and without embarrassment.&quot; Green retired in 1952 to publish While he lived comfortably, he never made millions preferring to keep the Originally 25 cents, reach a maximum of only a The final editions contained about a hundred pages of listings that cover the entire Wow. That's really remarkable. Yeah. So the answer was 9% of you said, yes, you knew somebody who had used or perhaps you yourself but 91% and said no. And that's really interesting. And I hope maybe we can hear at some point. Please reach out to us We'd love to know more. The green books demise is often attributed to the passage of the which in theory rendered its In fact, Victor Green had died in 1960, leaving the guide without And the publication was sold before its 1963-64 volume, but the increase in during the late 1960s raised question as to whether publications like the green book undermined by advocating that only black businesses and the assassination of brought many black leaders to the fight for civil rights. I'm abbreviating this moment in history, quite substantially. This is a very complex moment in time, but I would recommend Marsha which talks about this moment quite a bit, and worth the read. So sales of the green book and the green book came to an end in 1967. Now our scholars formed the To date, we have people in Arkansas, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Iowa, Mississippi, Michigan, North Carolina, Rhode Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, and Virginia. Don't panic if you We're getting there. We have found that for our project, the more is definitely the merrier, States with more researchers do better than those who don't. And we continue to recruit. By 2025, we anticipate in all 50 states, as well as in Canada, Many of our affiliated scholars work for historic preservation offices or in cultural resource management firms. A handful are academics. There is no compensation. Everybody works for free. We expand beyond our original states, we have been fortunate of two researchers, both students at the University of Virginia. Olivia Pettee and Melanie as part of a university wide program to connect first year undergraduates with research projects Now second year students, Pettee and York have completed many tasks that help our other researchers such as compiling town state listings and establishing initial Their work is supported by UVA and we are so grateful to them and to UVA for their efforts on our project. The future for our project is bright. In addition to serving as an on the green book's history, we hope to facilitate efforts both at the local and the national level. Our information will be vital large and small, from to the national register to community members seeking to know more about their local history. As we continue to do our research, we look forward to the with the public that our work inspires. Thank you. And I'm delighted to turn one of our star under graduates, who will no doubt impress you. - Thank you, Catherine. My role within the architecture of &quot;The Negro Travelers Green The first is to lay the groundwork in the database and create the initial spreadsheets of listings. The aim of this process is to ensure that every site under every state in every addition of the In terms of numbers, Melanie York, who is also a research and I have recorded green which is approximately The type of information that Melanie and I have collected for these spreadsheets is exactly what you see when Let's look at the 1938 Each addition is organized by state and then alphabetically by town. Under each town are listings available to that particular place by category. As an example of how a traveler might have used the green book, you were driving to New York City and needed a place to stay, you would open the green book and consult the hotel You might also notice the in the paragraph in the top right corner. With such ads and information, the green book spoke directly to the social, political of these specific locations, especially in New York City, which has almost a This is what that same charting all the New York City listings looks like from the back end from Melanie and I's perspective. The information that we the name of the listing, the address and the type of listing that it is. So is it a hotel, a restaurant, a tailor, or a beauty parlor, et cetera. And what's interesting is from year to year, some green book sites appear while others don't. In many cases, sites are Addresses change, and in some cases, no address is listed at all. Melanie and I have combed and logged which years these sites appear and which they don't in order to track how these places might have fluctuated in terms of time, and in terms of space. One thing I've learned from is that these changes are a Testament to Green's determination to make this the best These sites had been selected A great example of how over its publication The 1947 edition reflects Since from 1942 to 1946, the green book went on a temporary hiatus, because of paper rationing The 1947 edition ushered in compared to the previous edition and the 1940 edition on your left. The cover appeared with a new design and a subtitle that read, &quot;A classified motorist and tourist guide &quot;covering the United States&quot;. The tagline at the bottom. &quot;Carry green book with you. &quot;You may need it.&quot; appeared on the cover in every subsequent edition. The 1947 edition also illustrates that the green book had always been so much more than a travel guide. It was an educational resource that served to empower readers at a time when black Americans who had fought for freedom abroad also had to fight for freedom at home. Victor Green recognized with knowledge. Which is why the 1947 edition opens with a seven page list of black colleges and universities. Among them that are still are Spelman and Morehouse Howard University and Washington DC, and the Hampton Institute now called Hampton University, which isn't too far from The green book was about much more than the listings themselves, especially in the later edition where a greater emphasis was placed on national and A great example of this which contains a section &quot;Your rights briefly speaking&quot;, which lists anti-discrimination statutes for public accommodations and recreation. So that travelers knew their rights when visiting these places. It also lists addresses any refusal of service or in some states. These types of articles was used in its historical moment to keep black travelers safe and give power to black owned through the readership of the green book. One of the states that is is Virginia. The second area that has been to assist project who has collected information and traveled throughout the state of Virginia to photograph and locate each of the sites listed under Virginia in the green book. And this is no easy feat. Of these approximately 315 sites, I've been looking more deeply into the ones right One of which is located from where I live. There are 12 sites in Charlottesville and one in Crozet that are Among them are four tourist two hotels, a beauty shop, a One of these theaters is which is located right here One question we received is why the Paramount and Jefferson theater only appear in the 1939 edition. While I'm not sure if this was the logic of the publishers of the green books, perhaps part of the reason could be that the Paramount Candacy Taylor, who on the green book, writes in that in the late 1930s, black patrons would enter through walk up a small unlit stairway to the balcony and sit Another site listed under Charlottesville is The Carver Inn, which at the address 701 Preston Avenue. According to the city it was run by a black woman And according to the book, Charlottesville and The Carver Inn was a that guests such as Louis Armstrong and Hadie McDonald stayed at. The Carver Inn is one example of how the green book in the lives of black women and how instrumental they were and proprietors of businesses. In fact, the green book itself was a Testament to this idea. After Victor Green passed away in 1960, Alma Duke Green, Victor's with the help of a The Carver Inn, like more than 75% of green book sites is gone. It has since been demolished. In the early 1970s The when Charlottesville adopted a plan to widen Grady Avenue and below is what stands at the location of where The Carver Inn used to be. However, all hope is not lost. Seven of the shows the listings are Exon. And one of these is Joker's barbershop. It is still operating in the green book, which If you're interested in to see what listings may be near you, the green book can be accessed on the New York Public Library website in the Schaumburg collection. I also highly recommend &quot;Overground Railroad&quot;, which tells some of these from green book sites across the country, both then and now. The green book was much It tells local and national histories about black businesses and the as well as what has to these places, since the green book listed them. As these spaces continue to change and local histories become erased, it is more urgent than ever to uncover these stories of success as told by the listings in the green book. And to most importantly, celebrate those who have paved the way. I'd like to thank Melanie Catherine Zipf, Anne Brueter, for their guidance and support as well as the opportunity With that, I'd like to pass who will be speaking on how this database is part of a suite of projects - Thank you so much, Olivia. That was yet one more reminder of how extraordinary our students here are at the University of Virginia. You're a real Testament to but also the clear communication. Thank you so much for It is, has been my great honor to be associated with I would like to just point out the fact that Catherine Zipf and Susan who are the key leads for this project and have been the backbone of are all volunteers in this project. And they're also all UVA alumni. They do work because of, in part, at least because of their training in the School of Architecture And that makes me enormously proud. There is much that the has yet to do and to tell and lots of repair that has yet to happen relative to the harm that we've engaged here in Virginia and But there are also incredible projects that have been unfolding over recent years that are pointing towards the resilience of the black community and the importance of understanding African American history in place. And so what I'd like to do is just to take a few minutes before we turn over to with Dean Hutson, to highlight just a few key projects that are also unfolding in relationship to the green book, this really important green book project. Many of our listeners, I assume, will already be familiar with the Memorial to enslaved laborers, but I'd like to say just a The Memorial to enslaved labors, which was completed in 2020 is a many years project with our commitment to mark our landscape with a Memorial that pays homage to and remembers the lives, the loves and commitments that labored here at the for our institution's first half century through a robust community and also ultimately inspired by students from the University of Virginia and specifically African American students from the School of Architecture who launched a design competition in 2011 for a Memorial enslaved laborers. It was that project birthed amongst students and student activists that really convinced the university that it was both time for us but also the right thing to do. It was an important moment for us in our institutional history. One of the reasons that I'm really proud of the Memorial to enslaved laborers is that it's rafted very heavily on a robust community engagement program. The president had already established, President Sullivan had already established the president's commission on slavery, which was a multi-year research project and community engagement project to better understand both at the University of Virginia, And that meant that that commission was comprised of large numbers And especially in individuals of that very same enslaved community. So that collaborative project had a strong focus on community engagement and sitting down and listening in parlors and in living rooms and but also in church parish halls, understanding and listening of that particular history was an incredibly important precondition for the design and launch of And so when the university in 2016 actually commissioned the design it was not at all surprise that community engagement work. Comprised by three folks with the University of Virginia Frank Dukes was a community was part of the design team. And as a faculty member in right here in the School of Architecture. So too, Greg Bleam, as in Charlottesville and at the University of Virginia and Mabel Wilson, also a UVA alum now Professor at Columbia University, where those three individuals together with Howard and Hue, design architects produced a really remarkable project. But that remarkable project because of their continued commitment to sitting and listen to the desires of the descendant community so that the Memorial was actually a result very much of their desires. And so we're really proud of the fact that that Memorial has by the local community as well and is a place where as harmful and as dark as that history is, it's a place where that its particular attention and where our descendant in helping us better understand the various interpretations of that space. So Memorial to enslave a major website, which took us quite a while And I think it just dropped into the chat. So I'll encourage you And one of the things that is actually a series As we were doing our engagement work, one of the things that is that local parents and really wanted educational on that site. So John Kamasi, who's a faculty member in the School of Architecture in our School of Education, spent an entire semester developing those modules in partnership with K12 educators. And so we started with the premise, how do we create a module can literally just download as a PDF, print out and run as a And so we had UVA students working under the guidance of professor Kamasi, but also in partnership with Alexis Mason and other in our community associated with both Charlottesville Sorry, Elmo County and Those educators worked very to produce modules that that would be very, very useful for them. And so we're really Those modules are now up and running. Encourage you to go take a look at those. And this is an ongoing project. We're intending to produce as professor Kamasi teaches this class. I'll also highlight two other projects that have gotten a lot less attention. Deservedly. I think the Memorial to enslaved labors is certainly worthy of the and recognition that it has received, but it's not the only game in town. There are other things that And I'll just highlight two, that also are associated with The first is an Andrew series of field schools. One of the things that the Department of which is my department in has long been famous for, has been very careful of buildings and landscapes. Training our students to very and understand that you can capture all kinds of important when you carefully and We refer to that as field training. So this particular Andrew as a series of three on landscapes field schools that are gonna happen between researchers that are associated with a vernacular architecture forum, which is a professional And what I'm really proud of is that the applications, the successful applications came forward because they were co-written between community members or and the various faculty partners. And so these were not projects where the faculty partner had an idea and they just sort of said, we wanna work in that community. The faculty partner building relationships of trust with that African American community. And the application came from both sides as it were. So that's a project that and the first field school for students here at UVA, but also across the country to help them better understand how is it that they can actually with African American communities to ensure that those African from that particular project. So there'll be three years of Well, five years of the field schools, three different field schools We're very excited about that, that new endeavor. And I'll end by introducing of a second Andrew Mellon This is a 5 million dollar grant that the University of Virginia received about 18 months ago, framed And because of course it's the school of architecture in this project, which is very exciting. One of the components of this is the production of a whole series of first year classes for our incoming first year student to help them better explore the intersection of race and place. And one of the things that we're doing in is that key faculty, like those two in the School of Architecture, like Elgin Cutly and Professor Lisa Riley, are teaching classes where they're actually taking and engaging with the curators and the traditional knowledge holders and stewards of those sites. So for example, this particular Mellon funded program has as its key partners, the Jefferson School for African which is one of our partners downtown. So the students are going and talking with the curators and understanding those exhibits. But they're also engaging directly with the descendant community, the descendants to enslaved laborers that are associated here with And the descendants community with the faculty to develop And so the descendant community have ownership over some of the content in those classes and they're actually helping us to deliver that And so they're getting direct and direct exposure to the students through that particular project. And that's really exciting. And one of our other community partners for these first year seminar So the University of Virginia stands on the traditional lands and they have their The university of Virginia has been building a relationship of trust slowly and over time And we're very excited to come to the table as one And so some subset of our student groups in that one credit class and went to Bear Mountain, which is the seat of the Monacan Nation and engaged with the Monacan Elders. And I'm also very excited to say that this particular grant has also recently funded a tribal fellow. And so a representative is actually gonna be in residence here at the University of and available to faculty in their various classes on Native American and the relationships in the present, politics in the present. So there is so much going on across the University of Virginia, as it relates to issues of in African American place. And I just wanted to take a few minutes to offer that larger context for this really incredible around the green book. And I'm so grateful for who have stepped up to do and so proud, so proud of the two students who are And now well just turn it and happy to step in and answer any questions you might have. - Great, thank you. I'm gonna thank all of our panelists. And if you would like to we can get started with that have been coming in. One question, one series of questions and this is directed towards Catherine, but Olivia, please jump in or Louis, if you feel fit, is that you mentioned Catherine, you mentioned in your one of the geniuses of it had So was relying on other and then they put in the book. Similar things, as you were presenting, many people, I presume black families that or others that just use the book, talked about their own experiences today. And many people are wondering how can they share information or be involved in the research project and how do you kind of approach that? And then I have a follow up question somewhat related and touches that were discussed earlier. So many people have said, There's someone talking about and or their family use the green book. How can they share this information or if they're volunteers - So the wonderful thing is that I am super easy to find. I am Catherine Zipf on Twitter, and please reach out to me via Twitter. I am also easily found on LinkedIn and I do check those often. Fay, I did get your emails earlier today. Your contact, who she hit So just to show everybody and I will be reaching I've just been a little but I will be getting back to you. And we very much want to hear from especially people with the green book or with any of the These kinds of presentations tend to bring that information I did a presentation in and ran across a whole host of people who remembered one of and as a center of which was really wonderful So yes, please reach out and I will definitely get back in touch. And if I don't get back don't be shy about nudging me. I sometimes get a little busy, And we do hope you will reach out. - And then just a follow up question about as this research project expands, are you looking for funding or do you have plans to or bring in additional funding where you might have or in the community? Do you have any plans around that? There's some questions - Yeah. I mean, we are always happy to receive money and especially because right now, the money that we do have has gone towards two very important of our project. One is of course, all of the programming that goes on behind the scenes of the database, and that is no small task. That was one of the really when we were investigating and the GIS and such was the considerable amount of programming that goes on behind it. And we were so grateful to Worthy Martin for stepping forward to because he has contributed that was just simply beyond our reach as three independent scholars. And then of course, the second thing that funding is to keep Olivia and Melanie and hopefully a whole host of future generations I hope you all have been very And Melanie is wonderful as well. And they have both risen to unexpected way that students do. And it's really terrific. And so we would love to keep going and keep having them on. So yeah, if that may have perhaps gone by a little quickly on the screen there, but if you earmark your donation to IF the Institute for Advanced Technology and the Humanities/greenbooks, it will get to us. And, and we are so grateful. Thank you so much. - I wanna follow up with which was presented today is the importance of As I started off and as the importance of history, the role that many of these sites played, whether it be the businesses themselves, the amount of, you know, if some of the sites where and there were women and they were part of the And so they're of a great And there are a number of questions about historic preservation and what could be done to preserve them. And I'll just read one question but overall, there are kind of around this area. It says African American history has not received the and preservation that other How can land trust or use the green book to map, to identify cultural heritage sites, historic sites in Virginia and others are even, you know, what can we do to preserve the We know that they may be or they may be, you know, in the site of maybe being torn down, plans to be torn down. So what can we do? And I know that's really important as a Dean of School of Architecture, as we think about history and - So one of the things about our project, is how many people working in offices we have, who have done considerable research on their own green book And it, for those who know preservation, many of the first line of for preserving a site is listing on the national register or listing on any one of the number of local historic districts, all of those things that many people like to complain about having to do, but the reality of it is they work. And none of that can happen for any site unless you know what it is, you can identify it, you can map it, you can say something about the history. And so one of the key things is just simply generate the inventories for this level of preservation. For example, there are are many projects that are floated to say that are located along Route 66. And that is all well and good, except that nobody knows what they are. And so what we hope is that our project will in one place so that can move forward so well Tennessee is a terrific example because we have several, we have a wonderful team there, many with UVA affiliations, not that it's all UVA, but it's much UVA and that's great, but in Tennessee, they have of research done into And as a result, they've with all kinds of listings and such. And I think Louis might wanna tell us a little about some of to that effect. - Sure, I'd be happy to. Of course, the School has for many, many years a wide range of buildings And I do think that that listing is one of that we can take, but it's also really important that we carefully and accurately document these buildings in the landscape. And so I think there's a between this process of both as well as documenting these Those things are really important. And I would highlight that it's important for us to digest the simple fact that we preserve buildings that we value, right. We preserve buildings that And as historic preservation has unfolded over so many of the past decades, that there has been very for African American at the local and the state level. That's changing. And that's really exciting. And one of the things that I think is really important about that, is that so often narrative, historical narratives and out the other. But one of the things that I've learned as I've taught here at is that when you tie history to buildings, it's much less difficult. It's much more difficult That as soon as you have the visual cue of certain associations, certain narratives associated or street or space, then every if it's in your local community, you're still reminded of And so I think it's so as we're at a national moment, trying to grapple with the telling of African American history and amplifying the lives and their contributions to and black resilience, not just in the abstract, And that's one of the in the green book makes such an incredibly important difference. It's so critical that we and save these buildings because they're part of a landscape that has until very recently been both overlooked and entirely ignored. - Thank you. Catherine, there are many requests. Can you repeat the donation website? Maybe you can post it, but Could you repeat that? So just to put that out there. Yep. Another question that comes up and it's a really important when Mr. Green started the green book and as it expanded to who supported that? How was it so supported, was paid for? I know you mentioned and Esso but can you give us some insight on who might have been advertising in it? And also related to that, there was a question earlier about what kind of places were there? Natural park, natural places like national parks, So any of you can answer. Olivia, please jump in as well. - Yeah, I can help and answer the second part of that question just about the national parks. I would say in the later editions is where you get more just vacation and recreational listings. I know I can't pinpoint the exact year, but there actually is a a lot of national parks are listed. There was special editions for railroad. I think, I believe the 1951 edition was made especially for that. I would say that for the most part, it's not unusual to find listings of parks just throughout the green book. It was much more than just hotels or even restaurants. I think at times there were some sites that maybe even didn't even Just us from going you sometimes find sites that you really never expecting to see, like the name of, there was one for a private investigator, or oftentimes there But I think for the most part, even towards the end of the green book, there was a section which listed sites just And even towards the end, Bermuda, the Caribbean, even So national parks and recreation definitely played a role in just sort of including these listings - Catherine, anything to add? - No, I was going to leave it to Olivia, because of course to talk about Virginia. I could talk about those but I don't think anybody cares. Or at least I do. - So the advertising, is many people are asking about I know Canada, Mexico, and many of those Olivia, what was the story behind that? If you have a brief moment if you know anything? Any of you can answer that. - Yes, so the international listings are something we're still working towards. So we don't know a lot about except that there were quite a number outside of the United States obviously where African Americans would want to travel, travel So we don't know quite a lot about the international listing as yet. Part of the ambition of the project is to get to the international listings so that we can learn more about them. I think one of the things about this project is build into such interesting stories and we learn so much just the little, think of of a brick wall that build up. So it is interesting to think through the lens of the as Olivia so brilliantly explain that the green book was about more than just listing black businesses. It was about many, many things. And so you see the ambitions of international travel fitting within that broad scope as of expansion and really, where can we go with this? And it's interesting is thinking about travel and what he can do with this guide. So I guess the real answer is stay tuned. - A good question related to that is some people have asked, do we have a, I know we of sites may be difficult but do you have a percentage do you know, by any chance? Estimate or has anyone - Well, the calculations, to And I will tell you the story that when I researched there are 24 sites in Rhode Island and half of them survive. And I thought, oh my Lord, That's just awful. And then our team in North and said, well, they and it's 11%. And so suddenly my 50%, which initially looks the And so I think these are numbers that we're still calculating overall, as we gain more knowledge about it. Some sites just fared And my colleague, Anne that she's researched Baltimore. And when I-95 went through Baltimore, I mean, there went 50 green book sites. So I think the answer is, I mean, I know 75% is bad. 75% loss is bad at around 25% survival is batted around quite a bit. And it's probably about in that ballpark, but we don't know for sure. We're still working towards that. And as you can see, between that's a big difference. - Yes. And one of the sad things is he passed away right before the passage of civil rights legislation. And there was a question. Have you heard from his family at all or reached out to them or is any reactions to this research? - So we have not, largely because we've been down in the of our individual listings. The scholar who has reached is Candasy Taylor. She has written a book We referenced it and I It's a fabulous book. And she has consulted with the family. And much of that She is a wonderful researcher and we have very much We feel that our project with a little bit of a different agenda. She's looking to really of the large green book Whereas we really are looking individually and really what we learn from those sites from there. I know Althea would like us to wrap up, but just to quickly say that as we get into the details of this, we learn an incredible amount. And so I hope that we can keep going, and keep finding these things out. And thank you, while I - Catherine, before you disappear, can you put in the chat, We're getting tons of - Yes, I just did just now, hopefully it's there and thank you everybody We very much appreciate it. - Great, and also, can you, one more time, put your contact information in the chat and send it out to everyone. - I will, thank you. Panel, thank you. This was wonderful. What great information My family certainly used I heard from an uncle. He said he was using it up So copies must have So thank you so much for and educating us about It's been an informative Thank you all. Audience, thanks for sticking with us. I'd love to share some upcoming events that will just keep you in the know. The MLK keynote address is Yamish Alsindar, on black history and legacy of MLK purpose, If you haven't registered, there's time. Go to mlk.virginia.edu/events. Also some lifetime Saving St. John School and That's on February 17th at 3:00 PM. Check out our website for that. Also we're planning a program on Booker T Washington in February. More details coming. So visit engagement.Virginia.edu/learn. There's a great program That's Friday at 11:00 AM, offered by the Miller Center, is democracy essential to Our UVA alumni and Paris, the African American experience, on May 28th through June 5th. Register for that great program. From your friends here thank you for joining us today. Please stay safe and healthy. Have a great afternoon. See you soon.