- [Narrator] Salami slicing tactics. It's not a method for cutting deli meats. It's a military strategy that China has used in This salami represents the sea. Each slice is a portion of the region that China has claimed over decades, often angering its neighbors And the US missed the moment to intervene, in part because it was to mediate other global issues In that time, China and in some cases, turned Today it controls 27 largely in disputed areas, which is why this mostly chopped up salami represents the state of the sea now that the US has taken against China. So what is it doing to counter Beijing? The South China Sea is where 60% of the world's population lives. Trillions of dollars worth of trade passes through the sea each year. According to the China Power Project by the Center for Strategic 1/3 of all global trade transits the sea, making many countries on the region. It's critical to the US economy because America imports around 90% of its advanced microchips from Taiwan. And roughly 14% of American maritime trade transited the sea in 2016. But in that same year, over 64% of China's maritime trade passed through. $874 billion. China is the largest exporter And having control over more of the sea would potentially give over the economies of the US - It is because national security is no longer simply about Economic security is national security - [Narrator] And that's why often focus on one big jargony term, exclusive economic zones. EEZs are areas in the sea over the resources. They generally extend (crowd chattering) And because countries like Vietnam and the Philippines rely China's encroachment has posed a problem for their security and economies. - So you hear the fishermen complaining of China's aggressive action and denying them the ability to fish in our own exclusive economic - [Narrator] China says to almost the entire South China Sea based on a map from 1947 cutting through the majority of the sea. Fittingly, it's called the nine-dash line, but that line cuts through EEZ claims for five other countries. To try and solidify its claim to the sea, China has been incrementally to slowly change the status It began this process in the 1970s when it took control of the In 1995, China occupied Mischief Reef which was claimed by the And in 2012, it took Scarborough Shoal, just 120 nautical miles west of the Philippine Island of Luzon. Then China started to which concerned the US, and prompted President Xi Jinping to make this assurance in 2015. - [Interpreter] We are peace and stability in the South China Sea and China does not intend - [Narrator] Not long after, the US says the PRC broke its promise. China now has 20 outposts and seven in the Spratlys, several of which have military jamming equipment, Throughout this process, some US officials expressed concern. They said they repeatedly told the Chinese they were making a mistake, driving countries in the region and herding China's ties with Washington. And in 2016, something critical happened. The Philippines brought China over its occupation of and the Philippines won. The Hague said that and all the islands it had built would not expand its But China boycotted the tribunal and refused to recognize the ruling. The US has taken steps to boosting its military presence and strengthening America and the Philippines since 1951, which means if the other must come to its aid. In 2014, the US and the Philippines signed the enhanced Defense The EDCA give America access to five military bases in the Philippines where the US can build However, the two countries relations have teetered over the years. The previous president of the briefly strengthened which in turn weakened the But the shift was the Philippines changed course. This year EDCA expanded to include four more bases where the two countries ran in decades. - If it's an issue for the Philippines in terms of international relations, it's an issue for the United States because we're a mutual and we will come to the if they're attacked. And I think it's as simple as that. - [Narrator] In response to China's foreign ministry said it would escalate tensions and endanger peace and - Well, there's a superpower struggle. There's the geopolitical but China is violating our And regardless of there is a competition, we have an issue with - [Narrator] The US freedom of navigation operations FONOPs are meant to challenge by demonstrating that the sail, and operate wherever The PRC calls these FONOPs illegal. Still, the US has with other nearby nations and encouraged some to run In a recent call with General Secretary he and Biden discussed how to maintain a free and open Indo-Pacific. China and Vietnam have long and Vietnam's economy But like the Philippines, Vietnam has also faced difficulties operating in its own due to China's encroachment This gave the US an opportunity with yet another country - We greatly value the with all of these countries in the region. And there's one constant among all of them and that is we respect their sovereignty and that's where the PRC, I because they wanna operate and not respect the sovereignty of the other existing (brooding music)