Mountain Altai. The center of the most powerful modern glaciation in the south of Siberia. Here, at the foot of Mount Beluha, the great Katun River is born. Its milky waters rush down from under the ice shell of the Gebler Glacier. The upper reaches of the Katun are the territory of inaccessible mountains, turquoise lakes, turbulent rivers and ringing waterfalls. Here coniferous taiga and woodlands give way to forb alpine meadows, tundra and swamps. These natural resources are protected by the Katun Biosphere Reserve, a UNESCO World Natural Heritage Site. The Katunsky Nature Reserve was established in 1991. It is located in the Ust-Koksinsky region of the Altai Republic within the Katunsky ridge and Listvyaga ridge. director of the Katunsky reserve - Alexander Zoteev: This is the Katunsky ridge. Behind the pass are the Multinsky Lakes. This is the highest mountain in the reserve. 3300 meters The reserve is part of the Big Altai transboundary biosphere reserve, which also includes two parks. From the east, the natural park &quot;Beluha&quot; adjoins the reserve, and the Katon-Karagai national park - from the south, from the side of Kazakhstan. The area of the Katunsky Reserve is more than 150 000 hectares. Its territory is divided into three sections: Multinsky, Verkh-Katunsky and Katandinsky. Let's get to know them better. The multi site is the most famous and visited by tourists. Multa is a right tributary of the Katun, thirty-nine kilometers long. It connects a cascade of three lakes - Upper, Middle and Lower. Cedars, larch trees, and firs often approach the water itself. These two lakes are connected by the Shuma roll. The Multa River rushes between large boulders in a stormy stream, breaking through into the lower lake. And here it is, the reserved lake Verkhnee Multinskoe, one of the most beautiful in Altai. This body of water lies in a glacial valley at the upper border of the forest. From the north, the lake is supported by an ancient sea wall made of glacial sediments, through which the Multa river made its way. At the end of June, on the milky-turquoise water surface, &quot;lake icebergs&quot; are still drifting - the remnants of winter ice. A bright shade of water is given by fine suspended matter of rocks carried by streams from glaciers. The length of the lake is about one and a half kilometers. The southern part of the lake basin is the deepest and is forty-eight meters. The tributaries of the lake flow along steep rocky slopes. Where they cross tectonic ledges, picturesque waterfalls are formed, the beauty of which will enchant even the most sophisticated travelers. Mighty cedars grow on the west bank. These trees adapt well to different soil and climatic conditions. With their powerful anchor roots, cedars cover huge stones, penetrate into cracks in the rocks and firmly anchor there. The middle and upper parts of the mountain slopes are covered with mosaic patterns of catchments, peonies, irises and violets. Here and along the shores grow rare plants listed in the Red Data Books of Russia and the Altai Republic. Among them is the healing rhodiola rosea, or golden root. The nature of the Verkhmultinskoye Lake is virgin. You cannot make fires and stay overnight here. Only natural processes change the landscape picture, for example, avalanches. Their traces in the form of old and freshly felled trees are clearly visible in the northern part of the lake. We will go down to the mouth of one of the tributaries of the Multa - the Poperechnaya River. Its valley is framed by the slopes of the mountains with turmeric trees and cedar-larch taiga. This fast and rapids river is known for the large waterfall of the same name, which you can come close to. Lake Poperechnoye is located a kilometer from the waterfall. It is located in a mountain circus at an altitude of about two thousand meters above sea level. The tributaries of the lake are mainly fed by snow and glaciers, and the Poperechnaya River flows out of it. From the Multinsky section of the reserve, bypassing the mountain passes, you can go to Lake Taimeniem. But there is also another way. We go up the Katun from the village of Maralovodka. Boats with beekeepers from local apiaries and fishermen sweep by. From the village to the mouth of the Ozernoi River - no less - eighty kilometers. The trail goes along the river. On it the state inspectors of the Verkh-Katunsky section get to the rotational service to Lake Taimen. The security department makes a way here for ATVs. The task is not easy - the path lies through rocky clamps, fords and swamps. Director of the Katunsky Nature Reserve - Alexander Zoteev: Normal people don't travel here. Here, only people like us can pass. But what to do? The road needs to be done - here we are. Between the high mountains covered with coniferous forest, there is a huge mirror of crystal-clear water - Lake Taimenye. Not far from the source of the Ozernoy River, on the southwestern shore of the lake, there is another cordon of the reserve. It is a convenient field base for organizing protection, scientific research and educational tourism. Several species of fish live in Taimen. The main one is, of course, Siberian grayling Along the bottom of a wide valley from the foot of the ridge, the Solowha River flows, collecting the waters of streams and rivers. This is the main artery of Lake Taimen. To the cascade of waterfalls, we go along the right bank of Solowhi along a carpet of forb meadows. Taimeni waterfalls are one of the largest in the reserve. We go to the Kazinikhinsky pass, behind which stretches the third section of the reserve - Katandinsky. We climb along the old cattle track to the watershed of Lake Taimeniego and the Stanovoi River. Inspector Sergei Uryumtsev accompanies us. We go down to the Bypass stream, a tributary of the Stanovaya river. From here begins the ascent to the Kazinikha pass. The trail then follows along the sides of the valley, then goes to the stream, repeatedly crossing it. With the climb, the snow becomes more. It is relatively dense and can support the weight of horses. The saddle of the pass, like the approaches to it, lies under a thick snow cover. At the pass, at an altitude of 2600 meters, the inspectors of the Katandinsky section, the most difficult to access in the reserve, are already waiting. You need to go down to the bottom of the snow and change horses. Below, under the pass, lies the Emerald Lake. The color of its water depends on the weather and lighting. We load the Katandin horses and go to the valley of the Kazinikha river. On the way to the cordon of the same name, you need to overcome several fords, as well as swamps and rocky debris. Subalpine meadows coexist with cedar and larch taiga. Ungulates, fur animals, and predators freely live here. From the confluence of the Kazinikha and Ioldo rivers, the Kuragan, the right tributary of the Katun, begins. In this remote place, the main outpost of the Katandinsky section of the reserve is located. State inspectors from the village of Katanda work in shifts here. The Kazinikha cordon is 60 kilometers upstream of the Kuragan River. Every time this is a test for horses, especially young and inexperienced ones. The crossing of the Katun is worth a lot of effort. Once upon a time there was a ferry here, now there is no ferry, no bridge. So at the beginning and at the end of the shift, you have to melt horses along a deep and rapid river. In addition to this ford, there are other, as well as dangerous rocky clamps on the route. It is good that there are solid bridges across large rivers. All of them were built on their own, from scrap materials. At the cordon, the shift arrived in time to be met by colleagues. First of all, you need to unsaddle the tired horses and send them to graze. Exchange of fresh news, dinner, sauna - after a long walk, it is especially gratifying to be in warmth and comfort. The Kazinikha cordon is built with conscience. Here, as well as everywhere in the reserve, the master's hand is visible in everything. A warm and comfortable apartment building, a good warehouse for tools, a hot sauna - live and work! All the buildings, like the bridges, were built by the state inspectors themselves. Loads for buildings and arrangement of everyday life at the cordon were delivered on horseback, since neither water nor automobile routes lead here. Besides the daily chores, each shift has a lot of work to do. The primary task is to protect the territory and fight against poaching. Working in the reserve obliges you to know the names of local plants, the habits of animals and birds. Inspectors not only participate in seasonal census routes, but also daily record meetings with animals, conduct phenological observations. Solonetsy. In places where there are no or insufficient natural salt licks, artificial ones are usually arranged. We put salt there and the animals come. The camera takes 3000 - 4000 pictures per month. An automatic camera registers different animals on the salt licks. Salt is an important component of the diet of many forest animals, especially ungulates. Minerals are needed for normal metabolism, for the full growth of horns, molting, pregnancy and lactation. The reserve staff put salt in May and add it as needed. As you can see, each inspector is a nature researcher, a bit of a biologist, geographer and meteorologist. Day and night the Kazinikha river roars and rumbles. Thanks to an extensive network of tributaries, Kazinich is gaining great strength to the mouth. Kazinich is gaining great strength to the mouth. Kazinich is gaining great strength to the mouth. with large stones in the channel, becomes unstoppable. There is also a cascade of waterfalls with its own unique appearance. The expedition continues. Ahead is Mount Belukha and the sources of the Katun. It's time to go to the slope for the rested horses. In the vicinity of the cordon there are few places suitable for grazing horses. To get food, they climb a steep grassy slope. Horses are reliable companions of man in the taiga and mountains. Horses are reliable companions of man in the taiga and mountains. They are universal - they transport goods, people, force rough rivers, maneuver along mountain steeps among stones and bushes. In areas like Katandinsky, there is nowhere without horses in the reserve! Before the trip, you need to dry the saddles, check the harness, make minor repairs. August We are heading southeast, upstream of the Yoldo river. We walk along the coast among thickets of Altai honeysuckle and Siberian juniper. The healing peony Maryin root has opened its leafy fruits with shiny seeds. Tall grass meadows of Ivan-chai are replaced by forests and stone scatter-curums, where can we go without them! The mouth of the Bochanikha River is located six kilometers from the Kazinikha cordon. We go up to its picturesque valley in the hope of seeing animals there. Marals, roe deer, wolverines and, of course, bears live here. This old bear is gaining weight just before hibernation. The bear extracts roots from the ground that are rich in starch and other nutrients. It's time to go down to the mouth of the river. As soon as the camp was set up, the gorge plunged into twilight. A warm, cozy evening by the fire is a short respite on the way to the pass. We follow the route that is called &quot;the old path of the Old Believers&quot;. It is known that in the nineteenth century the Old Believers-Kerzhaks from the Uimon Valley carried the horns of marals along this path - pantas to Bukhtarma and further to China. In the last century, the area of the ascent to the Ioldo Pass was covered with rocks. For 20 years the trail remained impassable for horses. The staff of the reserve cleared it. The work was carried out for several years, since the arrangement of mountain trails takes time and effort. The Yoldo Pass is an amazing place. Here you can shoot fantasy films. It is surrounded by rock castles and peaks of mountains over 3000 meters high. Yoldo reveals his secrets sequentially. There is a glacial lake under the pass. Below another, dark turquoise lake, took refuge. It gives rise to the Upper Kuragan River, a tributary of the Katun River. We descend into a wide and welcoming river valley. On the tributaries, catchments and buttercups still bloom. The maral root has already faded, but its large purple baskets are still found on the slope. This plant is listed in the Red Data Books of Russia and the Altai Republic. It has valuable medicinal properties. These places are inhabited by colonies of gray marmots. Like bears, marmots store subcutaneous fat for the winter. In September, these rodents will hibernate in their long and deep burrows with a complex system of tunnels. Belukha is the highest mountain in Siberia. There are over 160 glaciers here On the southwestern slope of Belukha lies the Black Glacier. Placer waterfall. The Black Glacier and the Rossypnoy Waterfall were discovered in the 19th century by the famous Russian explorer Vasily Sapozhnikov. Gebler glacier or Katunsky glacier. This is one of the first glaciers discovered in Altai in 1835 by the Russian scientist Friedrich Gebler. The Katun River starts here. Glaciers accumulate fresh water supplies and supply rivers. Due to climate warming, the glaciers of the Katunsky ridge are retreating. The scientists of the reserve and their partners from scientific institutions are conducting research on the Gebler glacier. Below the confluence of the Ognevka River, the slopes close up, blocking the path of the Katun River. This porous area called &quot;Cheeks&quot; is known to water tourists for the danger and difficulty of passage. Director and cameraman Ivan Usanov. Written by Svetlana Usanova. Announcer Vasily Romanov. Composer Alexander Trifonov. Throat singing (kai) was performed by Bolot Bairyshev and Aydar Churupov.