Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is If you like these videos, please Also, please like and leave a comment, and series of videos. Thanks for your help. In this In the previous video we looked at various but in this video we'll look at some more By architectures, I mean how the wireless network as a whole, including the wired network access points, 1.1.e, controllers, Here's what we'll cover. Before covering wireless messages and the 802.11 frame format. 802.11 wired Ethernet LANs, so there are some is different as well. Then we'll cover different lightweight, and cloud-based. Finally we'll look We didn't cover WLCs in the previous video. access points, and are essential in large thousands of wireless access points. Make for a bonus question from Boson Software's So let's look at the 802.11 frame format first. 802.3 Ethernet frame. 802.11 frames are but for the CCNA you don't have to learn it in as I'll just provide a high-level overview. First header than an Ethernet header, but depending on the fields might not be present in the frame. For but not all messages use all 4 address fields. frame control. It's 2 bytes, 16 bits, in message type and subtype. I'll talk about Next is the Duration/ID field. As the name Depending on the message type it can indicate dedicated for transmission of the frame. Or the connection, between the wireless field is similar to the Ethernet type/length Next up the addresses. Up to four addresses Which addresses are present, and their The four addresses that can be DA. This is the final recipient of the frame. The The receiver address, RA. This is the immediate final destination. And the transmitter address, but not necessarily the original sender, Having four addresses like this isn't but 802.11 wireless networks have unique control. It's used to reassemble fragments and control, which as you probably guessed is After that is a field called HT, high throughput, throughout operations. I didn't mention Wi-Fi 4, is also known as high throughput is also known as Very High Throughput, VHT, Wi-Fi. and after it is the frame body, which is the And finally there is the FCS, frame Just like in an Ethernet frame, this is used to for 802.11 frames. Remember, not all of these It all depends on the version of 802.11 being used and their operations can be much more complicated in wireless networks you should definitely learn Next, before 802.11 message types, I want which I only briefly mentioned in the last video. Access points are used to bridge traffic for example hosts connected to the wired network. it must be associated with the AP, and there is a There are three connection states. First, when with the AP. Second, when the station is And finally, when the station is authenticated be authenticated and associated with the AP to simple version of that process. First, the station APs and BSSs are available, and the AP sends Note that there are actually two ways for a scanning, where the station sends probe requests That's what I show in the diagram on the left. station listens for beacon messages from an AP. the BSS. Okay, so using either active or passive BSS. However it's still in that first connection Then there is an authentication exchange, for and the AP authenticates it. If this is authenticated but not yet associated. Finally, and if this is successful we have authenticated and associated. Finally the Now, all of these messages, probe, are the same type of 802.11 message. There are three 802.11 message types. are used to manage the BSS. For example, the beacon, probe, authentication, and There are more management messages than these, is control. These frames are used to control assist with the delivery of management and data send messages, which I very briefly mentioned Also, ACK messages, used to acknowledge that The third type of message is data. These are Okay, here's a brief overview of I can't say exactly which information you'll be good idea to have a basic understanding of these First up we are going to talk about different ways There are three main wireless AP deployment I'll introduce autonomous APs first. Autonomous on a WLC, wireless LAN controller. Hence the that means they are configured individually. remotely via telnet or SSH, or also an HTTP or small networks this is fine, but configuring becomes unrealistic. Note that an IP address for so you can connect via telnet, SSH, or HTTP to as how much power it should use to transmit and manually per AP. Security policies, for example Other settings such as QoS are also configured management of the APs. So, as I said before, Here's an example network with autonomous should connect to the wired network with a so it might be obvious that a trunk connection but even if the AP provides only one SSID, It's because the management traffic used as well as the other devices, the I might not have mentioned this earlier in the traffic separate from regular data traffic So, there are trunk links between each of for the wireless clients, as well as VLAN99 for data traffic from wireless clients has a very wireless clients associated with the same AP. you'll understand it when you see the path that So, with an autonomous AP traffic between these and then to the other AP and PC. Or between there's no need for the traffic to even go this is different compared to the traffic Notice that each VLAN has to stretch across the bad practice. Why is that? Why is it bad to have Well, there are many reasons, but here are a is a broadcast domain, and if the VLANs are each broadcast message will be The second reason is that A big focus of modern network design is because disabling links means a reduction in total labor-intensive if it has to be done over dozens autonomous APs can be used in small networks, but A large network can have thousands of APs, APs one-by-one is not realistic. Finally, in the modes covered in the previous video, Now let's talk about the next major deployment of an AP can be split between the AP and a handle real-time operations like transmitting encryption and decryption of traffic, However, other functions are carried out by and QoS management, client authentication, etc. The WLC centrally controls all of This is called split-MAC architecture, because the functions are split between the also used to centrally configure the lightweight and manually configure them one-by-one, Note that the WLC can be located in the same or in a different subnet and VLAN. I'll talk about and lightweight APs authenticate each other using These certificates follow the X.509 standard, which is the same that websites use to prove their only authorized APs can join the network, so an Here's an example network, with a wireless lightweight APs use a protocol called CAPWAP, points, to communicate. CAPWAP is based on access point protocol. For communications, two like this. Note that each of represents two separate tunnels, So, let's see what those two tunnels are. One is There's another port number for you to remember, So, this tunnel is used to configure the Note that all traffic in this tunnel is The second tunnel is the data tunnel, using UDP sent through this tunnel to the WLC. It does not to another client associated with the same AP. Now, of course in reality the traffic does pass However it is encapsulated with new headers to IPsec tunnels in the WAN video. Note that traffic but you can configure it to be encrypted using layer security. I mentioned TLS, transport DTLS is basically the same thing, but it Now, here's another difference between Because all traffic from wireless clients APs connect to switch access ports, not if you want, but there's no need for To make that clear, let me demonstrate the Okay, I've simplified the diagrams. On the a lightweight AP and a WLC. On the right we have local-MAC architecture. As you know, when using with a trunk link. There should be a VLAN for network device management. If a wireless client it sends the frame to its wireless access point, the wired network, which will then forward it wants to send traffic to another device associated the wired network. The frame is sent to the AP When using a split-MAC architecture, this is all have to connect to the switch with a trunk, an needed to connect the WLC to the wired network. In a VLAN and forming the border between the wired Traffic from a wireless client is sent to the sends it over the wired network to the default Even if the traffic is destined for a host to the WLC, and then tunneled back and sent to demonstrate the differences between the traffic There are some key benefits to using a split-MAC don't have to memorize it, but you should First, scalability. With a WLC, or even multiple and support a network with thousands of APs. That WLCs also provide dynamic channel assignment. each AP should use, so you don't have to The WLC can also automatically set the appropriate coverage without interfering with other APs. coverage. So, when an AP stops functioning, the to avoid coverage holes. Seamless roaming is also noticeable delay. Another benefit is client load the WLC can associate the client with the the last benefit I'll mention is security and QoS policies ensures consistency across the network. but definitely be aware that the split-MAC Now, just as autonomous APs can function as APs have different modes as well. First is local a BSS, or multiple BSSs for clients to associate of an AP. Next is FlexConnect mode. In this mode associate with, but it adds extra functionality. forward traffic between the wired and wireless So, here on the left are some standard All traffic is tunneled to the WLC first. But what if connectivity to the WLC is lost, a problem if FlexConnect is enabled, because like an autonomous AP, no need to tunnel the The next mode is sniffer mode. In this mode Instead it is dedicated to capturing 802.11 frames and sending them to a device running software traffic and then sends those packets to The next mode is Monitor mode. Again, it doesn't to receiving 802.11 frames to detect rogue device, an AP can send de-authentication messages The next mode, rogue detector mode, is similar AP does not even use its radio. Instead it but it receives a list of suspected rogue clients ARP messages on the wired network and correlating it can detect rogue devices. Okay, the next is clients. That is SE-connect, or spectrum expert spectrum analysis on all channels. It can send Expert on a PC to collect and analyze the data. Okay, the next mode is bridge/mesh mode. Like the autonomous AP's outdoor bridge mode, between sites, even over long distances. A mesh Here's an example similar to what we saw in the And here's an example that looks more like potentially long distances. Now there's which basically adds flexconnect functionality access points to locally forward traffic Here's that complete list. This is a lot looked at each one, but that's okay. If you Cisco has documentation about each of them but for the CCNA exam you should just be able to I don't recommend memorizing this list, Now let's look at the last main type of AP architecture is in between autonomous AP and functions. Basically, it involves autonomous An example is Cisco Meraki, and because the you should be aware of for the CCNA. The Meraki can be used to configure APs, monitor the etc. Just like I mentioned for WLCs, Meraki what transmit power to use, etc. However, It is sent directly to the wired So, only what we call management traffic Let's see an example. Information such as RF is sent to servers in the Meraki cloud. PCs communicating with each other, is direct and So, I think you can see how the functionality Here's an image from Meraki demonstrating the same the green arrow, is sent to the Meraki cloud. is sent directly to its intended destination Here's another image from that same Meraki This is where you monitor the wireless network, I use the Cisco Meraki solution in my job and and the Meraki dashboard makes it easy to monitor Okay, that's all for the cloud-based between autonomous AP and split-MAC architecture. The final topic for today is WLC deployment LAN controllers, this applies not autonomous AP or cloud-based AP architectures. four ways to deploy a WLC in your network. I'll them first. First, a unified WLC deployment. The device, in a central location of the network. The WLC is a VM running on a server, Keep in mind that this is not the same as the In this case the APs are not cloud-based, they here simply refers to where the WLC is. In an in a switch in the network. And finally the WLC functionality is actually integrated So here is an example of a unified WLC, a that is deployed in a central location of the 6000 APs, and if you need more than that you can suitable for a large enterprise campus. Here's Of course the larger models are more powerful Next is the cloud-based WLC. In this case the a private cloud in a data center. This kind of and again if more are needed you can add a split-MAC architecture with a cloud-based WLC we looked at earlier. These are lightweight APs, Next, embedded WLCs. In this case This type of WLC can support up to about 200 more switches with embedded WLCs. Embedded Finally, Cisco Mobility Express places the WLC internal CAPWAP tunnels to it, and the other up to about 100 APs, and you'll have to add to support more APs. This kind of deployment Here's that summary of the and I've added information about how Definitely be familiar with these Okay, here's what we covered in this video. different kinds of 802.11 messages and the Because wireless networks have different there are quite a few differences between 802.3 We then covered the three main kinds of APs, sure you know the basic characteristics of each the different wireless LAN controller deployment Make sure to watch until the end question from Boson Software's ExSim for What kind of message is an 802.11 probe request? Okay, the answer is C, management. Here are with a few examples of each. Which of the following AP Pause the video now to select Okay, the answers are C, lightweight, and D, cloud-based. Lightweight APs are centrally managed are centrally managed by a cloud server such Which of the following AP Pause the video now to select the best answer. Okay, the answer is C, lightweight. Lightweight two tunnels, a control tunnel and a data Which of the following lightweight Pause the video to select Okay, the answers are A, local and C, flexconnect. FlexConnect offers the additional ability even if the tunnels to the WLC go Which of the following WLC deployments Pause the video now to select the best answer. Okay, the answer is D, unified. Embedded WLCs mobility express about 100, and unified Now let's take a look at a bonus practice