- This $30 magical snow melting device claims to use NASA aerospace technology, and it also uses electromagnetic molecular interference to melt snow. What the **** is that supposed to mean? Let's find out. Sponsored by Linode. Cloud computing from Akamai. (upbeat music) Hey everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken, and this And by real, I mean fake. And by science, I mean ignorance. These ads have been spreading and the Bikenda and other similar products are popping up all over and they're spreading So let's break down what and of course, I will buy one I found four video ads, three of which are and one is longer with a terrible - [Robotic Female Voiceover] interference antifreeze. - [Ken] The first ad shows a snowblower and a person holding the Then they show a bunch of snowy cars, and an exploded view of the product. Then suddenly, in the next shot, the snow is melted off the car... uh-huh. Next, they blast you of cheesy visual effects and the ad suddenly ends. Okay? No call to action, nothing Okay, whatever. Next! The second ad is similar. Quick cuts with no narration, and again, poor visual effects and animation, but maybe slightly None of these shots truly melting ice and snow. That's a problem. The third ad shows some different shots, including clips from Thomas and Friends? For some reason. Then we see someone spraying Then we see the Bikenda again, and suddenly the ad abruptly ends. And that brings us to the fourth ad, which so far is the only one I can find that has a voiceover. Let's enjoy. The ad shows someone holding but it doesn't say the name Bikenda. Although the product looks similar, the narrator claims this to move violently, and generate thereby achieving the of no ice inside and outside your car. While the narrator talks, they show the consumer But then they suddenly show which talks about aromatherapy? Aromatherapy? I thought this You're sending mixed signals. Then they say a call to action, and end. So let's just start before I break down and cry. For starters, none of these melting the snow and ice. So that's a huge red flag. The closest thing we but we can see the water That's what's clearing the ice, not this magical Bikenda BS. And realistically, we could &quot;Don't buy this thing!&quot; The next thing that concerns I'm just hypothesizing here, but I somehow doubt that's what the actual inside I will buy one soon and But my bigger concern is, all of these things, these components, don't look like they contain any snow or ice melting capabilities. We see a solar panel, a tiny PCB, a motor, a circular piece of wood, and the outer case. Oh yeah, those components Have fun! Another problem is, these advertisers just and to the best of my knowledge, Chris is not a spokesperson for Bikenda. So that's another red flag. Which leads us to the fourth and final ad. And this is where the investigation took an interesting turn. Up until now, I wasn't was actually supposed to be in real life. It really just looked like some But then I see this box that says &quot;Dancing car perfume.&quot; Oh, so it's an air freshener? That explains why later in the ad, we see this weird slide which which has nothing to do They're having a bit And judging by the Chinese there's likely some which are making this product hard to advertise consistently. So yeah, this Bikenda car air freshener. But I wonder how good it smells. I also love how this ad says, &quot;This device can cause even at the freezing point!&quot; - [Robotic Female Voice] even at the freezing point. - Quick physics lesson for all of the scam advertisers out there, but ALL water molecules vibrate at the freezing point of water! You can't cease the vibration You can greatly reduce their but you can't reach absolute zero, minus 273.15 degrees Celsius, in practice. So now let's check out the web presence of Bih-kenda, Bye-kenda. However the heck you pronounce it, before I stir up a The landing page linked in or it's warm-F-care. I have no idea how you want Just do whatever. And in case you forget the website's name, you can look at the scattered throughout the ads. And for the love of Jobs, where do I even begin with Do I start with the Or do I talk about the for a plastic disc? Or do I start with the But then below it, it says It's gonna be a long day. Apparently the full Bikenda Electromagnetic Antifreeze Snow Removal Instrument. We'll just call it Bikenda. Hey, it's got my name in it! That's not good. The Bikenda webpage shows other images claiming this product eliminates and it's a technological revolution. Okay, I'll hold you to that. They claim it's solar driven, and it will detect a temperature and it emits pixie dust, apparently. Okay, great. Out of curiosity, let's just and see what else these guys are about. So they sell bracelets? Just bracelets. Which, according to them, is considered a wide selection of products to improve your wellbeing. Apparently this magnetic bracelet was made in the United States, but originated from mainland China. Not sure how that works, but ultimately, I'm losing a lot of faith in this brand. Not that I had much in the first place. Oh look! They have a &quot;Made in USA&quot; Which has now been removed. But the good news is, all their products are Animal. Like just one particular animal? Oh! Maybe they meant Animal Aside from the Warmfcare website, I've seen the Bikenda pop up from multiple different including Chocoladna, RespiNature, and MAX Visual Art. All these pages appear to exist only for the sake of selling product. Not necessarily Bikenda, but products in general. They're not actually reputable And none of these pages relating to snow, ice, or other Bikenda-type products. And RespiNature has four different pages with the same name and profile pic, but with different categories? I guess they're just I also went to the UnicPuffin website, which was in the ad with voiceover, and their website doesn't mention anything about a snow melting device. Weird. And this caught me off guard. I was searching alternatives to regular ice scrapers, you know? And the top sponsored was a similar product to Bikenda. It looked the same, but I'm not sure if it's just one company setting all this stuff up or if it's multiple companies. But regardless, multiple to try to sell this product to consumers. At least this result links to a $9 unit as opposed to the $30 unit from Warmfcare, but that still doesn't judging by these reviews. And the scammers forgot to exclude some of the air freshener The lies are right under your nose. Overall, Bikenda's web but maybe, just maybe, by some miracle, it will actually work. I have to test it myself So you know what I did next, right? I went ahead and bought one. For consistency, I decided directly from Warmfcare, but I saw many similar products under different names on Amazon. I can't believe I'm about to The purchase process was and they asked for a tip. Yeah, absolutely not. And boom! Order complete. And whoa, hey, shocker! Post transaction upsell, for a Okay, we'll skip that. Oh! Another special Yeah, that's a hard pass. And it just brought me Glitch or feature? You decide. But here's the good news. We don't have to wait for long because they deliver typically (jazzy music) These things took a month to And when I went to it said tracking info because this package was shipped Has that ever happened to you? 'Cause that's a first for me. But, at least they're here now! And yeah, I bought two just because I may have to violently So, let's take a look. The box shows the brand and product name, and it claims this device Doesn't generate heat? Like, I don't know how that's possible. Like, I'm not ready to understand this complex physics lesson. Oh, good news! It's made in the USA! Wait a minute. Hang on a sec. The package says it's from Guangdong. That's a Chinese province. So what did they do? Did they make 'em in the USA and then just ship 'em to China to store 'em in a warehouse somewhere? Probably not. Yeah, this thing was made in China. Don't lie to me, box! So inside, we have the and what looks like probably to just mount And that's it. No So hopefully it's easy to use. Oh, and it spins! That's kinda nice. It's Whee! Okay, it comes apart for some reason. Not sure why, but I'm looking at this, and it looks like Like it's all sealed together. I don't see any screws, Ultimately, I don't see a so we're probably gonna So Krazy Karl is on a vacation in Tahiti, and I couldn't find my hammer, but I could find this very nice So I used that. And here's the insides. I was actually surprised there I thought the scammers and just sell you a disc that you have to spin manually with your fingers. But no, there's actually a PCB, two wires, and a motor. There's no battery inside this thing. So if the solar panel is real, which looking at this little that's gotta be our power So, let's try it out with a working unit. And funny enough, I'm gonna to power this scam tech product. My EliteTac. That was a good episode. Okay, here we go. Three, two, one! Hey, check it out! It's spinning when I shine so we can conclude, this But does it actually melt snow We'll find that out soon. But, I wanna mention this. Out of all the pieces in here, you know, I didn't see that wooden disc. I'm actually a little surprised. The exploded view looked mostly but that wooden disc is not there. And there's a reason for that. Brainiac Brent helped and we discovered the wooden disc is used to hold the scented And since the scammers are as a snow ice melter, they likely just simply chose to try to disguise the product better. For fun, I bought one of that looks similar to the Bikenda, and we'll see how it I can't wait to smell it! While we wait for the let's go out and actually test this thing. There's two tests that I want to try. My hypo-thesis is this is because I don't see any components in here that would lead me to with something this small. But we gotta give it a (upbeat music) Oh yeah, we need snow first. ****. While we wait for the snow, let's dissect this product's insane name. The name just sounds like techno babble, but some buzzwords like which we hear in the ad, could be hinting at the possibility that this device emits microwaves, like what a magnetron And to some consumers, they may think, &quot;Oh! That's what melts the snow.&quot; Perhaps these buzzwords are into buying these antifreeze scams. It happens more often For some extra context, here's how microwave ovens really work. Water molecules in food The microwaves realign the water molecules many times per second, or in a way, vibrate, very rapidly, which generates heat. But this tiny low power Bikenda And if it was, that would make this device potentially harmful to humans. But thankfully, we don't Okay, let's check on the weather. Oh! The snow is coming! And I can tell because the iPhone shows an annoying blank paper which is supposed to mean snow, I guess? And I'm happy to report that a real world test, very Why? Well, because I happen to they show in the No seriously, tell me. I placed the Bikenda on and I let it sit outside overnight. It got covered in snow, and I Good morning, world. It is a beautiful below freezing outside. I'm just inside this So yeah, come on! Come on, little device. Do something! Melt the snow! I'm gonna freeze to death! If I freeze to death, I'm gonna get really hungry, and that's not gonna be good! Ooh! SunChip. Nevermind! I'll be fine. Well, as you can see, it Happy opposite day! This thing makes no **** sense! Even the fake claims are flawed! Let's just make pretend that this thing could actually melt snow and ice. It still says it needs solar power to automatically activate itself, but if your car is you're not gonna get adequate sunlight to even activate the It makes no sense! Okay, time for test number two. And this will be a much easier Certainly you'll be able to I went back into the snow on a tiny box in direct I observed it for five minutes straight, and not a single flake of snow melted. So the Bikenda doesn't But there is one more thing. (doorbell rings) Hey! Thanks, mysterious delivery man who lives under my desk Behold, the true form of this product. An air freshener. Let's take this out. Ooh, the enclosed instruction book! And hey, we actually get Thanks for including that! And we'll take out our essential oils. Put a couple drops in there. Pop it in. All right, let's see. Oh my gosh! That is the worst ****ing air Holy cow, dude. Hang on. Lemon orange? Whoever made this has never smelled a lemon or orange in their life. Oh gosh! It's like nail polish, like just like, injected Fricking Goo Gone smells Yeah, everyone, don't buy the Bikenda. If you wanna get the snow use the tried and true ice scraper. But, I do wanna talk about since we're all here. Since it's getting cold out there, you're probably gonna but do not plug them into And I only bring this up because it's come up in a past episode, and I want everyone to stay And another tip to make your If you have an application or website that needs to be scaled and deployed, Linode has the infrastructure Linode offers out of box apps for game servers like TF2, CS:GO, and even Minecraft! You can run your own virtual build an online application with Joomla's content management system, or build a video streaming site with a multitude of app choices. There's so much you can do with Linode's affordable Linux virtual machines. And to boot, they offer award-winning Visit linode.com/computerclan and click one of the signup buttons, and we'll give you a 60-day $100 credit just for watching this episode. And when you do that, you're also supporting the Computer Clan. So thank you very much. Catch the crazy, and pass it on. (upbeat music) Mm! Goo Gone smoke! Don't breathe this.