All right. Hey, welcome to all out welcome to Miriam. Miriam, thanks for joining me. Glad you're here. Thanks for having me here. Yeah. So you're calling zone I understand? Yeah, here in Denver. Yeah, very cool. Very cool. And howdy from Cleveland, I'll just get that Cleveland's pretty awesome. But we're here today just to which is of particular interest and also about fall summit. But first of all, tell us a little bit about how Like what's your background, or that sort of thing to give to where you are now. Sure. I studied theater so I think it's pretty Yes, that's totally obvious. Yeah, I actually left company around 2006, and ran the We needed a website. I asked my brother if he and he said he And I think he Oh, all right. Yeah, which was a bit of a thick But also you're CSS EDs website, and I was like, hm. I was having a lot of fun and you were doing fake supporting transparency. Yeah. And all sorts of that were pretty wild, and I And built out our and then eventually decided and started taking I wasn't sure it was so I was also looking at theater companies, hanging Become an electrician, See if I could start a and what took off was the CSS. So here I am. Crazy CSS stuff. Yeah, and you still You recently, in won an award for a Yeah. It's always sort into it thinking and this was my side job, exactly that way. But I still do both, need that in my life. I have a band too, And then a local theater company And they brought me and that's when I won an award. But I have a theater company. We do a show every two Whenever we are like it, and have Whenever I have a Put together a show-- hey kids, let's but on [INAUDIBLE] barn? Yeah, honestly that's how characterize starting Let's put a show on the road. Exactly that's great. And painted our own backdrops, Yeah, come a little A little bit. But you know, grew slowly. Yeah. As we all have come a little So 2006 when you It's interesting CSS at that But it was still-- Yeah, I think actually it was was actually looking at that. Yeah, that was that weird Where like nothing because Microsoft done with Internet Explorer. IU6 is enough. We're not going to Yeah it was funny. I got a job at an insurance and they hired me OK. But their website was all and they didn't have much write rebuilding it in CSS. And I showed it to them, CSS isn't going to take off. We're not ready for that yet. It's such a fad so this web I had a boss tell me that once. In his defense, it was 1993. It's like, don't be messing That's cool. I'm curious, so your is about name-brands Did you start out using or were you building and then later came to Yeah, I would say that any of them in an all-in sense. I've just always found Around 2008 when we were I saw Natalie Downs Oh, yeah. And I really like the way And I liked the way she it was right when grid were becoming huge-- There were so many 960 Grid wait, blueprint. Blueprint is different True. And there were all were taking over the world. And she was saying, have ways of talking about CSS that we could build things without relying And I liked that. And I also realized was doing the same kind So small agency work, which has than big, corporate We weren't dealing with do you handle 100,000 pages. We were dealing with more So it's not surprising was drawn to her approach, around the same time. And Nicole was doing some and then there was And I've just always and interested in the way that I'm very systems-minded. I'm curious about the So that's always what gets me. It's not like exactly, how are It's what is the mental to this class name? And that's what I'm So is there one mental find particularly interesting? Well I would say it's the I would say Natalie Down in 2008 and 2009 really laid that's happened since. And a lot of the with slightly different or slightly different But those two sort of and with a mental model directly. And I think Natalie was Our organizing convention are that cascade. We'll build from there. And I think Inverted building on that idea, and that looks like. More recently, Cube So I think there's a lot out what people have latched a way of naming attached to any mental model. OK. So people use it in But yeah, to me The cascade is the mental of that. That's interesting, hear so many people say conventions, is that they're to think about the cascade. Like Utility CSS, usually gets leveled is you're but the cascade is So that's interesting to me. The way you see it is that of the cascade. Well I think there I think both of I'm saying the ones I'm come out of the cascade. OK. And then I struggle with And I think BEM, like I So that one's like people on use BEM as a naming structure. And some of them are using and say, OK, we're not besides a single class. Everything is a single class. There's no specificity. And I look at that, having the ability what the cascade is all about. And when we remove we use Frameworks and we lose also source order. We've just deleted and we don't gain We actually get more can't setup explicit layering. And that explicit for us to say some things So I always feel like if you make the cascade worse. Right. Yeah, so do you think that is being fragile, and with stems from people who are I think partially it is self But also I would say part of it from other languages, this sense that good and means ignoring fundamentally misunderstood CSS. CSS is only about the cascade is about context. The cascade is about in a million different is nothing but context Right. And as soon as we there's a great quote from the Web Project website on CERN paraphrasing-- in order we will never control fonts And I look at that, and I think, is that we don't control fonts and there's this language throughout all that Yeah. We don't control We suggest fonts and figures it out. Right. And that's just fundamentally or Python, or any you control the environment, Yeah that has been always drawn me to the web is But what you get for that Exactly. That was in those One of the fundamental is ubiquity over consistency. It doesn't matter how you're you should be able to And it might not be exactly the but you're still getting it. Like you say, a lot of It's like we want to Maybe you can only run this but it's consistent. Right, exactly. You're not going to be Oh someone had a different sized Exactly. And it's all built in with this. Browsers are allowed to ignore That's how HTML and CSS It's because browsers can just Yeah. I understand coming to CSS but it's how the language works. And to me it's like I'm like, great I do theater. I understand this. It's going to be We're going to have We're going to have That's all right. So correct me if I'm wrong but development to improve theater? Is that what we're saying here? Well we get to write a script. We even get to write It's just that the Right, and the browser but I'm also going That's fascinating. I never really thought But yeah, that whole where every audience Yeah. I actually did a little and I was in a production of are Dead, which is still one of It's fantastic. But it was in the was one show where at the somebody in the audience just like talking back, trying to And we just had to roll Like one of the characters All of a sudden, yeah I'm here. OK, what? Yikes. All right. Yeah. I'm going to have That is a good analogy. It is very much That's very cool. I mean you're going to be of this for the Fall Summit Mm-hmm. Yeah. We look forward to, what Well I'm going to I always structure historically, because I a reaction to the conventions So I go through and just look at what what problem are It's sort of like those two in 2008 and 2009 they actually work and have a lot of But they're clearly interested For Natalie it's, how am I to the next and turn out just for each client, and then hand And for Nicole going to make this without growing my CSS is designed for that. We talk about it like CSS That's a thing people The initial concept was if we we can style everything instead of putting it in line. So those are sort of that they're dealing with. And I think each come out since has had there's one particular thing How are we going to do And the companies are different. And I think there's a trend what did Salesforce, And we should all do that. They probably solved it. And I don't think that's true. Companies are different. Companies are solving Products are different. No reason for us all to Let's look at these and we can mix and match, and So hopefully you'll to start mixing and matching. So I'll cover both what they're thinking talk about the specifics of How are they And then hopefully you and not only have a But also have-- What do you need, chisels? Chisel. Sure. Yeah. I started using I have already blunted one. I say I've already if I have more than You think wood cuts? Actually I was trying to chisel of corners. It's a long story we OK. It started with going to eventually end But we're still in I'm actually looking because I'm going have not really thought about I mean sure, at some level I naming conventions developed by somebody to solve But have I ever really thought trying to solve was? No, I probably haven't And so hearing from you and and insight, I think that's Where can people oddbird.net is my company, Oddbird on Twitter All right. Those are good Excellent. Everything else is That's the best way to do that. Very cool. I'm going to say It's been fun. I love talking CSS with people. And I'm just going to for just a couple more things. Our next Meet the will be on Tuesday, October 6th. So that's in six We'll be talking to a teamwork expert, and also one And then if anyone go to aneventapart.com the deal for what our lineup for Fall Summit. So you can see Miriam , and And check out our deal and getting access So actually six days of But yeah, this was great. And actually it about this in more but first I want so that I know what I talk to you the next time. So anyway, I'm looking So thanks much, and Thank you.