Hey guys and welcome back to a new video of AmazingDilbaa! Todays video is about a talented young woman who got a lot of attention with her perfomance at America's Got Talent We are going to take a look at who this young lady is and what's her talent. Let's go! Guys, I fast forwarded the introduction part, I'll summarize it briefly for you. She's a seventeen year old girl named Putri Ariani from Indonesia and she has as far as I can see a visual impairment and she's going to sing. Aand she even plays the piano! She's really cute. And she's so young! It's her first time in America as she said. Okay, I'm very curious. Woow. A very gentle and beautiful voice, really. You know, I can't even put on my pants properly on some days (I'm mad at myself lol) and she.. is playing the piano as if hhh wow. Woooow- That was really good, this little .. how do you say it? Wow wait. That's what I mean, wow. She sings with a lot of emotion so many emotions. At this point I must say, you know what bothers me about these shows? Everytime in the middle of the song the applause I mean I know why they applause, a sign of recognition, to show that they like the perfomance, encouragement and respect for the person who shows his or her talent Of course, nothing wrong with that at all! But it just bothers me when they do it while she's singing, do you know what I mean? I hate it. (no hate) You know, when they applause, I can't hear her singing properly. Wow. Wooow! How long she hold that note. When you try it at home, singing a note like that for so long.. I think you would probably fail. Beautiful. Damn, goosebumps. You see, I can't hear her because you're applauding in between man. No hate but - Awesome. Wow, really. She sang with so much emotions.. she shows us that no handicap can stop you from making your dreams come true. With this in mind, how she plays the piano while singing with 100 percent of power That's amazing. Her vocal tone is also very beautiful With only seventeen years old performing like this, guys.. Well.. Putri Ariani, very well done, really. No you can applaud! Yes, applaud! She's so cute. These are her parents, right? What is happening? Simon. How cute. Support from her parents - top! Cute. The way he walks. What did you want? Simon is known for being though (?) sometimes I think, but when he reacts like this, you've already won. Right, he's the one who gave her the golden buzzer. Pscht. oooh Elton John! Wooow! And the coice of the song, I already love this! Wow. Wow guys, her feelings in this song are on point. So good! And she also works with her voice, like singing louder or more softly You know what I mean, and then there also the swingings in her voice. With so much feeling, that' really.. beautiful. You see? For real now she touches you with her singing. She's feeling it right now in this moment. It's like while she's singing, she's in her own bubble. She isn't bothered by what's happening outside her &quot;bubble&quot; at all and just concentrates on what she's doing with 100 percent feeling. If not, then 120 percent. Wow, you also just feel it, that's incredible. Wow, again. Wow, goosebumps. Be quiet. I think his reaction obviously shows he was really blown away by her performance. Yeah guys, that was Putri Ariani, seventeen years old from Indonesia. Well, I'm really uhm.. She just made her own version of this Elton John song. and put in 150 percent feelings. In my opinion she definetely deserved the golden buzzer. And I'm happy for her that she could get a lot of attention through this show. That's what I think is really positive about these TV shows you can get a lot of attention when you have talent and uuh.. when it's spread through the media and whatever She definitely deserves this because she has more than just talent. What I saw so far, was just great! If the song was on spotify for example without all that applauding - so that's what I don't like about these shows It's just my opionion of course, it's no hate and I understand why people do that but somehow it destroys the whole .. the whole performance (and atmosphere), do you know what I mean? Apart from that, Putri Ariani, you really did an awesome job and I hope that she can achieve all her goals. And she also shows that you can be succesful when you really want to be and when you do something to reach your goals I hope to hear more from her but I'm sure we will! and umm.. Putri Ariani, a heart for you from Germany! Yeah guys, that's it for today! If you liked this video, follow and like for more videos in the future. Hope to see you guys next time! Take care and See you, bye bye!