- A number of years ago, some in what gets people to say, yes, - [Actor] Yes. - [Actor] Yes, drill sergeant! - Whether we're salespeople, or even in our own personal lives, we're trying to get other And so, how can we be more If you understand the science of language, you can communicate much more effectively. I'm Jonah Berger, I'm a at the University of Pennsylvania and bestselling author of &quot;Magic Words.&quot; (typewriter clicking) (upbeat piano music) The most fascinating thing I've found from the work that we and others have done is that subtle shifts can Adding a couple letters can increase the likelihood that other people do what you ask them. So, some researchers a couple years ago went to a local preschool, and they asked four or five-year-old kids to clean up a messy classroom. The floor was covered in and they asked the kids For some of the kids, they used a normal approach we might use. They said, &quot;Hey, can you help clean up?&quot; But for the second half of the kids, they tried a slightly different strategy. They asked them, &quot;Would and cleaning up the classroom?&quot; Now, the difference and asking for someone to be a helper is infinitesimally small. It's adding two letters at Yet, those two letters led in people's likelihood of helping. Again, the difference is infinitesimally small, Yet, that one letter led in people's likelihood of What's the difference and vote and voter? Why might one be more It turns out it comes down to the difference between We all want to see ourselves and intelligent in a So, rather than describing describing them as a hard worker, will make that trait seem more persistent and more likely to last. Rather than asking people to lead more, telling them, &quot;Can you be a leader?&quot; Rather than ask them to innovate, By turning actions into identities, we can make people much more likely to engage in those desired actions. Another way to get people to listen is by showing confidence. All of us know someone in our lives that's particularly charismatic. When they open their mouths, or make presentations, everybody listens. (suspenseful music) How do they do it? How are they so charismatic? What makes them so It turns out some insight can come from a recent He's done a great job, whether of convincing his audience to - [Trump] We're going to win in Iowa. We're going to win that people haven't seen before. You know, we set the record last time. We're going to set it And next November, we're going to very simply make America - The thing that he's that transformational leaders do. Is the same thing that Is the same thing that Trump speaks with a One way he communicates that confidence is what's called linguistic certainty. He communicates using certain language. He speaks in fact, with a lot of what some people might call definites - &quot;It's obvious,&quot; &quot;everyone regardless of whether it's true. - [Trump] We can build and we can build it better than anyone. You know it, I know - Not surprisingly, this certainty makes him more persuasive. And so, the language of confidence can increase the likelihood that other people do what you ask them. A couple years ago, I was that was trying to become a What they were saying when were full of ums and uhs, and even likes from time to time - what people might call fillers. - [Musk] Um, like free speech used to be uh, a left or liberal value. And, and, and yet we, we the in quotes left uh a um and uh that, that seems crazy. - We use fillers all the time. Even the best of us use fillers. We use them to essentially But if we're saying, it makes us seem like we don't which leads our audience to be And so, what do we do about this? How do we overcome these fillers? First, just try pausing instead. We all need time to think, rather than filling in those - [Obama] I'm here today because this is one of those pivotal moments when every one of us as citizens of the United States need to determine just who it is that we are. Just what it is that we stand for. - The second thing I would say but I've done it and it's worth trying - just record yourself talking. Record that audio, get it transcribed, and look at what you're saying. It's going to be painful. It's painful listening to ourselves, even more painful reading. But by seeing how we use language, we can be more persuasive While we might think that some people are just naturally good at it's actually not The good news is it's not random, it's not luck, and it's not chance. There's a science behind and how we can use it more effectively.