Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, secretly dislikes you. Do you worry too much about what people think out the opinions of others and living by their of other people's opinions. We want people and appreciated. And that's okay. Often people them. We frame this quality as a flaw as if an insecure or self-conscious person. While people think of you isn't always a bad thing. others' opinions and changing your behavior to healthy. Considering others' opinions allows preferences. It also helps you connect with world. Just because you care whether people behavior to suit their needs or earn respect. doesn't like you. They may not say it out But deep down, something about you rubs them the behavior, or personality to make them like you you should disregard them entirely. Their secret how much effort you invest into your friendship. even if they don't like you, helps you you know whom you can rely on and whom you can't. about their feelings. Some people seem cold and are loving and vocal while secretly feeling what people really think of you? What signs give change your behavior for anyone, but by using the about the people in your life. A good friend is conscientious of your limits through a rough time in your life. For example, they may forgo a night out to keep you company On the other hand, if someone doesn't like you, Let's say you recently lost your job and are short on money. Your friend knows that times are outings, and luxurious trips. When you for letting them down. But a real friend would 2. The Superiority Complex each other and support each other in times of you may feel like they're disappointed things are going well in your life, they make you Instead of celebrating your successes, this person they don't seem proud to be your friend. act as if they know better than you. They If this sounds familiar, you and your friend are they're no longer able to understand you, or anyone who makes you feel inferior 3. Sudden Awkwardness awkward or uncomfortable? Do you often notice Around someone you like and care about, nothing there's an unspoken trust and comfort between But when your friendship starts to may reappear. You may feel nervous about behavior. You may have to cater to this Unfortunately, this discomfort can be a sign gotten awkward, the trust and security between want to say it out loud, but they may 4. Touchy Subjects a touchy subject? Even if you ask an innocent if you say, "how is your job going?" they assume occupation. In response, they might exaggerate Of course, you weren't trying to offend are met with irritation and hostility 5. Closed Body Signals how people really feel about each other. When open and friendly. They'll comfortably stand interest and engagement with the conversation. will send a very different message. they may seem closed off and uncomfortable. They between you. They might avoid eye contact or spend are all examples of closed body language. If they may be as friendly as you think. Friends should never take advantage of each it's okay to rely on people you trust. Every for help or a favor, but if someone dislikes They're quick to shut you down or criticize what real friends do. If someone makes you feel 7. Two-Faced Personalities to your face and then talks about you behind secretly hates you. Face to face, they pretend to they become your number one critic. These but deep down, they may want to bring you down. Friends are supposed to see the good in each compensate for each other's weaknesses, but dislikes you. Instead of celebrating your your flaws. They play up your weaknesses This kind of behavior can take its toll on too seriously, you might lose faith in your yourself when someone you care about attacks your think they are. Anyone who concentrates on your have your best interests in mind. A compliment from a friend can make your day. leaves you feeling conflicted and unsure of they may subtly bring you down with For example, they might say, "Wow, you played like a compliment, they're implying that everyone compliments like these are one of many ways other words, this person dislikes you, 10. Constant Irritation they never smile around you anymore? When someone at everything you do. It doesn't matter how good their friend. They secretly resent you, and their If this person were really your friend, You'd make each other laugh and smile, other's lives. On the other hand, if you know something they're not telling you. Around other people, your friend is the life of They're always smiling and joking around. But quiet and nervous. They talk less and frown more. something about you rubs them the wrong way. likely hiding their true feelings. When someone dislikes you, they may raise try to get personal, they push you away you might have exchanged secrets and expressed know what they're thinking. You may be worried trying extra hard to rebuild your friendship and this person may be holding a grudge against you. hates you, your friendship may never recover. sure to subscribe because more