Hi, I'm Rick Steves, best of Europe. the wonder of this city...Venice. Venice, more than any a seductive charm. For centuries it was -- &quot;the most serene about to see why. In this first of two sample the splendor of take a pilgrimage to see some famous horses, enjoy a grand but noisy view, feast on Venetian treats, get a splash of modern art, be dazzled by masterpieces of the Venetian Renaissance, with the city of Located in Italy at the Adriatic Sea is Venice. to the mainland by a long causeway. drag -- the Grand Canal -- mouth and winds through the center. we'll see is within a Rialto Bridge and St. Mark's Square. Venice, more than any other to get out early and stay out On every square each corner is an excuse charms of the city. on a practical foundation economic might. With mountains of with ready ships, Venice was a commercial six biggest cities in Europe. in the early 15th citizens, nearly 1,000 The city's ceremonial and faced the sea: two you to a power without exquisite downtown The winged lion is the symbol of Mark, This was the Venetian and political center: Piazza San Marco, of St. Mark and the Doge's Palace. The Doge's Palace -- the of Venice's duke -- was power and wealth of the visitors that Venice was number one. exterior, a distinct blend of For four centuries, piece of real estate in Europe. palace is a maze of Here in the doge's lavish illustrates the reach empire -- which stretched eastern Mediterranean. While it didn't have vast was a mighty trading of ports and a mastery of the sea. driven by an interest in trade. And, until the 16th like Vasco da Gama the world leaving geographic hole, Here in the Senate address their colleagues, Glorious paintings reminded Venetians of ordained greatness. Tintoretto's &quot;Triumph city -- always represented in heaven among the Greek Gods, receiving the wealth of the sea. The doge was something only makes sense in an like Venice. by other nobles to of their laws and decisions. There were 120 The vast Hall of the meeting of 2,500 nobles. &quot;Paradise&quot; -- the largest oil lawmakers that making ultimately put you in the And for further Bridge of Sighs led to its infamous prison. legend, gazing out the to enjoy their last sighed...and were Opponents of the government and decisively. bars -- held commoners and nobles alike. The great Venetian rogue While this prison was comfortable in its day, with so much beauty so a particularly cruel punishment. The palace kept an armory intimidating array of dishearten potential adversaries. a powerful collection the art in its day, curiosities: tiny and a particularly effective chastity belt. Along with economic Venice was built upon a power. Its formidable Nearby stand the imposing first great military The Republic's fortified workers using an early production and could produce one warship a day. The Arsenal put the visiting rulers. to town, spectacle: the creation before his very eyes. Then, after a quick glide vessel was completely to bolster Venetian dominance Power in Venice also came To gain religious kind of legitimacy, important relics. St. Mark actually traveled Christianity to the region. His bones would be perfect. So, in 828, remains out of Egypt and here as it looked in the 13th century. Mark -- looking pretty grumpy after the city's patron saint the winged lion -- became The grand church of St. a distinctly Eastern style. elaborate exterior remind ties with the Greek, The basilica is decorated of miss-matched columns eras, much of it pillaged The style? These four guys are a It's an ancient Roman statue purple porphyry stone -- pillaged from far away -- probably placed here proudly as spoils of war. Of all the loot its grandest prize is a set of centuries looked out While these are copies, These much-coveted and horses are a trophy And talk about legend, they were cast in the 4th century BC, then brought by Constantine in the East...Constantinople. grabbed them, them to decorate an arch in Paris. Venetians believe The church is covered And, in good medieval style, they come with religious lessons. hall-features an elaborate of Old Testament scenes. The creation dome tells with Adam and Eve and In a scene-by-scene story lonely in the garden, and then trouble: from apple to The interior of the its gold leaf mosaic work. St. Mark lie beneath the high altar. or Golden Altarpiece is Its stunning golden wall features prophets and center: Jesus, as Ruler of the Cosmos. All this precious art in the church's mosaic workshop. done for a thousand patiently restoring a They're cleaning and cutting new ones as to the exact medieval original. St. Mark's bell tower -- or feet over the square. like an exclamation power and greatness for 1200 years. Today an elevator zips top to enjoy a commanding view. you can see how Venice in the center of a vast lagoon. the domes and towers of amazing to think it all of pilings...millions of tree trunks driven For an ear-shattering experience, be here About 25 miles of canals flowing like streams The city is actually a 100 islands -- laced together bridges and a vast web walkways. and in a state of elegant on the artificial Survey the city by on a boat called a vaporetto. city buses except that the stops are docks, stops, you'll drown. Joy-riding through the unforgettable treats. minutes so you can hop on and off The city's main thoroughfare With water taxis, boats, post boats and navigating around the there's a lot of congestion Where the Grand Canal stands one of Venice's the church dedicated Our Lady of Health. Plagues decimated communities They were a huge concern. make great and desperate he'd spare them from While lots of towns Venice built this entire surviving the disease just 14 months killed Stepping into La Salute, a round dome atop a relatively small church And the theme is The Virgin Mary by a humble Lady Venice. angel baby to drive away Old Lady Plague. For a break from explore the back lanes, serving &quot;cicchetti,&quot; uniquely Venetian This is a great way to try a With a good regional setting you can eat new friends or enjoy old ones. joining us to give our Rick: So, what is &quot;cicchetti?&quot; that you normally have when you Rick: It can make a small meal. Allesandro: If you keep going for Because you can't drive perfectly suited to Allesandro: This is that you grab with the hand Rick: Eat with your fingers, Allesandro: With your You help yourself, a little for you, a little for me, Rick: Good one. Allesandro says it's at what you want, be limited to what's fresh from the market Allesandro: When you have to order what in the morning, has to be fresh. Rick: So this is representative found in the market Allesandro: Yes, yes, in the morning. Eating &quot;cicchetti&quot; is to try something Allesandro: This, this one You grab it, they sell it from the tail... Rick: By the tail. Allesandro: By the tail and you eat it, These are fantastic. Rick: Oh, that's an explosion of taste! But don't forget, according to only eat &quot;cicchetti&quot; of the main course....wine. Because of its former city of palaces. Grand Canal. is the best way to really doors of this historic most from the 14th Palaces like these are merchants amassed lots of capital. alliances and aggressive Venice, the eastern free-trade zone. As Venetian nobles traded wealth, this one which has been family for nearly 400 years. on the mainland had to with heavy stone and tall towers. their natural lagoon could be sumptuous A palace served all the warehouse at water above that, and plush living quarters The goods -- in the case salt, cotton, and coffee -- came this loading dock. Today many former palazzos While there are a number in town, my favorites are the ones -- which combine and friendly welcome and At this hotel, prince for a day bedroom with all the terrace with a view Venice is a great place honeymoon...or a special anniversary. Visiting here, beauty, people, more intense level. The Grand Canal cuts only four bridges. the Rialto. stretching about 200 it was an engineering Originally, power -- one at San Marco Rialto, which left the long been the commercial To cross the Grand bridge handy, a &quot;traghetto&quot; -- one of the shuttle pedestrians back locations. afford a private gondola? round-trips on this for the cost of an Among the many palaces Grand Canal, mansion of Peggy Guggenheim. American-born heiress She made her mark as a lover -- of modern artists. houses the Peggy Guggenheim with groundbreaking Visiting, you can imagine dream home -- with the greeting guests in the entryway. With astonishing Who's Who of her Her dining room, still decorated with Braque, and others. She married the painter, Max Ernst. supported young artists, Jackson Pollock -- with his Abstract By the time she retired, celebrity herself. sit here on her terrace, in the Grand Canal, This city also has several as art galleries packed masterpieces. But I particularly enjoy which it was designed... Chiesa dei Frari. The &quot;Church of the order and the art that warmed by the spirit of The Franciscans, inspired by non-materialists -- part that spread across Europe They were all about obedience -- with an emphasis on the The long lofty nave ideal for large gatherings Originally simple and it was embellished with wealthy groups or leading artists to In Donatello's wood carving of the prophet of the desert -- dressed in animal skins and diet of bugs 'n' honey -- of the Messiah. here in Venice at the Adjacent, Giovanni Bellini's was painted by the Renaissance in a softer, Renaissance humanism saints that were Bellini places them so beautiful it creates its Over the high altar, a stained glass window, of the Virgin Mary&quot; sets beauty found in this church. composition draws you to triumphant Mary, to join God in heaven. While the Frari has great the entire city is art the best way to through its picturesque Venice's sleek and symbol of the city. were the way to get communities of the lagoon. shifting sand bars, and the captains stood up to see. boats still come with and no rudder, or keel. a slight curve so that side propels them The art of the gondola back canals. needed to be good with from Italy's mountains. a refreshing alpine-feel in this delightful Nearby, in an artisans are welcome to observe the city's 400 gondoliers. tools, graceful oars to be true and properly balanced. &quot;forcula&quot; -- the stylized a sculpture, hand crafted, one of a A gondola ride is a Gondolas are moored everywhere. early evening, the light is right. personality you enjoy, settle on a price, On a gondola, Venice -- far from the Lonely bridges, reflections of This is just one more enchanting wonders of I'm Rick Steves charms of Venice. Life is good. keep on travelin'. &quot;Ciao.&quot;