Kagawa, Japan Long-established Udon shop located behind the prefectural government office 3:45 President Sakae is at work as early as 3:30 a.m. The day before, dough is made into dumplings and stepped on early in the morning. Make 1,000 (small) servings of udon per day. To stretch the dough with a rolling pin, I step on it a total of 3 times to train it Now stretching and cutting with the rolling pin. If I want to make udon, I imagine how I should stretch it, I can push hard or stretch softly with my hands. The condition of the fabric is like this, or I see it like this, I look at the condition of the fabric and see if it looks like this, or if it needs to be stretched bigger or smaller. (How long have you been an udon chef?) I was an office worker, so about 16 years. I've been doing it since I was a student, So that's about 45 years. Originally a noodle factory, Sakae Udon The main store was bought from a customer when it was a noodle factory. The current president, who has been in the business for 5 years, took over from his predecessor Before that, he ran another restaurant, Sakae Udon. In total, he runs 5 stores. They make 3,750 servings of udon on weekdays. 5,000 servings on weekends The most common time of year is New Year's Day, etc., 8-9,000 meals Loaded and moved to the main store. Sakae Udon Head Office&quot; located behind &quot;Kagawa Prefectural Office&quot; in Takamatsu City. 5:05 Preparation begins. Bukkake udon soup stock Dashi is transferred to a tank in the seating area. Udon noodle soup stock Toppings of your choice, green onion, tenkasu Roasted sesame Clean and take out the second broth In one day, make 6 cups of dashi stock for 6 skins. The first two mornings are taken by the previous president. Dashi (soup stock) is made from kombu (kelp), iriko (dried sardines), and gobi (dried sardines). Set timer for boiled eggs Vendor delivers chikuwa and fish paste. Laid out fish paste. giving away a portion of the proceeds from the sale of a product Gobo (burdock root) from Aomori Cooked before tempura. Tempura is cooked and then deep-fried to soften its texture. Boiled eggs are boiled. Sweet potatoes for tempura Pumpkin wads, cleanly removed. Cut off the head Cut for tempura Onion Shredded for kakiage. 5:36 Chicken breast used for chicken tempura Fried food Making tempura flour Sift to avoid lumps. Add water little by little and stir. Powdered batter Making tempura of conger eel Anago tempura is fried Chikuwa tempura Boiled egg shells Wipe dry Dip in tempura flour and deep fry Boiled egg tempura Tempura of chikuwa, conger eel and squid lizardfish is done Vegetables for kakiage are cut Cut carrots into strips, Kakiage vegetables are completed. 5:42 Dough is rolled out. 7:00 opening (varies daily) Closed: Sunday (Saturday is irregular) Parking lot available Total 48 seats Self-pouring udon soup stock Tabletop condiments: sesame, soy sauce, shichimi Kake Udon - small 280yen All tempura 120yen About 60 kinds of fish paste and fried food are lined up everyday. Talking with Sakae-san, the first regular customer. Udon and soba noodles are boiled in cauldron. (Staff) Don't you open it too soon? I'll let the regulars in at 6:00 while I'm preparing the food, Officially, it starts at 7:00, The office workers start coming in around 6:30. Tuesdays are free. Yesterday was busy. Watering buckwheat noodles. Divide into portions. Stretch dough with cotton swab. Cut stretched dough Boil in cauldron Udon noodles are checked and put in water. Quickly water it down Sorry, sorry for the delay. Yes, sir. 2 take-out soba, 2 take-out dashi, medium udon + tempura Boil to your liking, drain water Topping with fried bean curd Sprinkle green onion and tenkasu Turn on faucet and pour soup stock. Sip udon noodle Familiar Udon noodles that you want to eat early in the morning Udon noodles are soaked in broth of rich flavor. Enjoy the dashi to the last, Finished the meal beautifully! Maiwashi, seasoning. Dust pumpkin and sweet potato with flour. Fried sardines Shrimp tempura being laid out Order kake udon small and inari Inari 120yen Sorry for the delay. Kake Udon small Regular customers put udon into tebo and pour hot water to their liking. Self-service tempura Served with condiments Add soup stock have a bowl of soup stock First of all, I eat the chikuwa-ten, which is made from a whole chikuwa fish. Sipping udon noodle (Staff) What did you eat today? Kake no naka and two tempura. It is delicious. I like it best. 6:15 Udon and Tempura for breakfast. Put away the bowls to the return slot. Full stomach, rubbing sleepy eyes, go to work. Yes, thank you for your patience. Regulars who ordered Kakesoba and Maruten (Staff) Do you always come here? Every day. At breakfast before work. (Staff) How long have you been coming? 20 years now, maybe longer. (I ask for) soba. It suits my taste, so I keep coming back. I power up with Sakae Udon and head to work. Kake Udon small Fried bean curd Chikuwa-ten Pouring soup stock Topping with green onion and tenkasu Kake Udon (small) 250yen A whole big piece of chikuwa-ten (tempura) is very satisfying! Big Oage (deep fried fish cake), Udon noodles with firm texture, The aroma of iriko (dried sardines) spreads in the mouth. Wakame seaweed Pouring soup stock Kake Udon (small) 250yen Happiness of eating freshly made udon in the morning. (Staff) How is the rain affecting you? (Staff) There is. It's totally there. About 150 (people) different. 7:00 Regulars who go there every morning I ordered a small udon + 1 tempura and ate it. (Staff) What tempura? Mostly chikuwa I've got a whole one here, I'm cutting a lot of places in half, I have a whole piece of Sakae's, so it's a satisfying amount. It's just like rice. You can eat it every day and not get tired of it. Customers come one after another for udon in the morning. Finding time to roll out the dough Making noodles Boil in cauldron Yes, waiting! Thank you very much! Meat udon meat Boiled egg, battered and deep-fried Shrimp tempura Arrange freshly made tempura Welcome. Three college students come to the store Order small udon noodles + 1 tempura each 400 yen each, please. I will take it. (Staff) Do you come to the store often? No, this is the 1st time. (Staff) Where did you come from today? Shiga Prefecture. Noodles are firm. Delicious! Udon noodle soup stock replenished Replenishment complete! Two women visit the store Small udon noodles, small hiyake udon noodles + tempura Choose sardine tempura Bon appetit! First, taste the broth Mmmm! Delicious. Delicious... Then noodles Coming from Kanagawa, Japan. Delicious! Delicious! Wiping up the tabletop. I moved here from Nara a year and a half ago, and I come here every morning. I've looked everywhere, but this is where I go every morning. This is the only place in Takamatsu city. I have been all around Takamatsu, but this is the best place. 2 men and 2 women, came to the store They order medium kamatama udon and small kake udon. There are many kinds of tempura. I'll have it. Yeah, it's delicious. (Staff) Where are you from? I am from Shiga. He is going to a live concert, He is going to a live concert. Delicious! Delicious! Udon noodles alone are delicious. Dashi soup stock is quite light, It has a strong taste, so it's delicious. It is so drinkable. Boiled enough, check by touch. Put freshly boiled udon into bowl, Raw egg is cracked in. Pour bukkake dashi broth over udon noodles, and kamatama udon is done. Looks so good. Topped with tenkasu and green onion Stir dashi, udon noodles and egg well. Ume! Want some? Yum! Delicious. It's something different. Kama-tama udon (small) 380yen Udon, soup stock, and egg are mixed well. Noodles are sticky, dashi soup stock and egg are mixed well, Udon noodles are set in a bowl at the same time as customers order. Making udon noodles with meat. Meat Grated radish on top, Dashi broth is poured over the top. Making meat udon fried oysters Tempura added one after another Continue to boil udon 11:10 It is processed in the blink of an eye get rid of the acumen taste Kombu and iriko are taken out. Dip dried bonito flakes into the water. Replenish broth for peak. (Staff) Do you come to the restaurant often? Every day I am, Bukkake Udon Bukkake udon and kake udon small Sweet potato and chikuwa Almost decided I'm gobo-ten It's cheap and tasty. It is different from others in terms of chunkiness. The soup stock is the best for my taste. Chikuwa-ten Poke with chopsticks to secure the inside cavity. There are two kinds of chikuwa-ten: isobe-age and chikuwa-ten. 5 men and 5 women visit They order one by one. (Staff) Is this your first time in the restaurant? This is my first time. I came from Tokyo on a trip. I want to go there so badly. (Staff) What did you guys ask for? I ordered bukkake udon. I am hiyake udon. I am kamatama. I ordered meat udon! Hiyakekake udon Cheap! (Staff) Authentic Sanuki udon, how do you like it? It's exceptional. I am happy. The firmness is different. Sticky! Dashi broth is also delicious! I wish I could come here every day. 12:05 The queue continues to the entrance Man in work clothes Sprinkle shichimi Very chewy and tasty udon noodles. I had bukkake udon, it was light and tasty. I had udon noodles with broth over it. Meat udon Kake Udon medium 330yen Thank you very much. Please warm it up. Locals, working businessmen rush in for udon. 12:30 (Staff) (Do you usually) wait in line longer than this? Yes, I line up. From 12:00, I stayed in line until about 40 minutes. Udon noodles with meat (small) 530yen Sweet meat and soup stock match each other! Udon noodles with meat (small) 590yen The taste of meat soaks into soup stock... Tender beef and udon noodles go well together... It was so delicious. Noodle firmness Totally different! Dashi Shoyu (Japanese soup stock and soy sauce) was so delicious. With kamatama, Udon noodles with meat broth. I ate a lot. I ate a lot of food! I had a lot of udon noodles with grated daikon and lemon. It is a perfect combination. Put in disposable chopsticks Replenish table-top condiments There are a lot of regulars and so on, so it's like getting to know each other, If you just look at the face, you know the person who takes it, If there are so many regulars that only the balls come before the order is placed, it's like that. I'm glad you're here. They come every day. 15,000 Sold out today! Finished. Kitchen cleaning begins. Clean all corners. Transfer soup stock remaining in tank. Last customer leaves. President prepares udon noodles after business hours Kneads dough 15 times on weekdays and 18 times on weekends. Beating varies according to the condition of the dough. (Staff) Are you thinking of using a machine for everything? No, we don't have any. In the beginning I thought I would try to get the same taste (in all stores), but it's not easy. Because the water to boil changes. (Water is important (in udon). (Staff) What do you want to do with your restaurant in the future? I still want many customers to come and I want to make udon noodles that will please them. I will be 65 in 4 years, so I have to think about retirement. My next goal is to increase the number of fans of the restaurant. More than 3,000 people come to all the stores per day. There are not many stores like that, are there? It would be great if we could develop something that would make the customers happy. I'm thinking about it now. The dough is coming together. Dividing into small portions Putting together dough Cutting udon dough into sticks Udon ball completed A machine for Chinese noodles is also placed Remnants of noodle factory Cleaned up and finished the work