How you determine the equity splits between that the relationship between you and your co-founders are happy with the results of There are likely problems ahead. Over 50% of all co on relationships and up how you can structure the equity splits between chance for things to work out. And I'll explain how to protect you and your We'll cover a lot of ground in today's video. We'll cover the obvious stuff like equity And you wanna wait around to the end of today's When I talk about some not so obvious stuff, and your co-founder doesn't invest in your What happens to the equity? In that particular case, I've built several revenue, and I've had my own share of co-founder And I've worked with a lot of CEOs that have Also, I know what works when it comes to co-founder And I know what doesn't work when it comes the equity splits between you and your co-founders. When you think about the equity, you need up into two piles. There's the pile for you and your co-founders. And there's the pile for your future employees. And you want that second pile, the pile for the easy way to figure this out is to develop company. And then in that hiring plan, determine how to then add all of this up. And that's gonna tell you how much equity company. Now, this should last you about two years, 20% of the equity for your company. That leaves about 80% for you and your co-founders. Now, what should this look like? Now? Let's start with what this should it look If you're thinking that it's 99% for you and then you know what? You're off to the wrong start, be generous co-founders. Now here's my basic rule. You should feel good about the equity split co-founders should feel good about it as well. If you hit that mark, then you're poised for If you're not already a subscriber, then hit get notified. Every time I release a new video, you will works and what to ask for your co-founders their own equity. So you're gonna have to lead the discussions your co-founders. And you're gonna have to educate your co-founders Now. Remember be fair and generous. Finally, there shouldn't be a huge amount When it comes to equity splits. If there is a lot of negotiation and the negotiation of problems to come. What about 50 50 splits between two co-founders Co-founders like 33 33 33 between three co-founders. I believe the CEO should have the most equity You're gonna have the most responsibility. So you should own the most equity. Now, however, this shouldn't be crazily weighted A split like 60, 40 between you and your co-founder previous example. Now, if this content is resonating with you, Now let's get into the not so obvious things I recommend that you get a lawyer that's familiar startups to help you and your co-founders Well spent first let's talk about investing yours hand, your co-founders needs to vest Period. It's the best defense you have against a co-founder The vest schedule that is universally accepted year cliff. Let me show you how this works. In reality, let's say you and your co-founder 40% of the equity in your startup. Let's see how this works in now in month, of the one year clip. Now at the end of month, 12, 10% of the equity And now for the remainder of the time for three, 3% of your co-founders equity vests The second issue is what if a late co-founder Now what's a late, co-founder a late co-founder later than the initial founders who joined But before the initial funding comes in, now So I'm very familiar with this issue. Now, the reality is your other co-founders too much equity. Remember equity is all about the future impact In my particular case, I can gave my late team because he deserved it. Now I was open about this with my co-founder. So there were no surprises about what I was Now, the easy way to explain this is to explain Now, the reality is everybody's gonna get However, if this co-founder ups the chances then it's worth it to add him or her to the that you're giving them, because it's gonna And that's what it's all about at the end Now, third, what do you do? If you invest money in your company and your this is a very common scenario. Now let me, you walk you through it. Let's say you own 60% of your company and And you've decided you're going to invest in the company. Let's further say the company is worth $1 So that means your investment now of a hundred Now let's go through how this works in reality. Now, the first thing is your investment is Equity is treated. Why is that? Well, because now your acting as an investor. Now this should be preferred stock that vests in, in this role that you're playing as an The equity is there immediately because you've into the company. Now, the second thing is you and your co-founder's Each let's take a look at how this works. In this case, your equity piece will start means you'll lose 6%, which means you'll end Now your co-founder will start off with 40%. He'll get diluted by 10% as well. So he'll be down now to 36%. You gain back 10% as a founder and an investor So now you go 54% plus 10%, which gives you Your co-founder loses the 4%. So he's down to 36% total. So it all adds up. Finally don't force your co-founder to invest And in fact, maybe it's even preferable that just in case things don't work out between Okay. We've completed our review of equity splits What did you learn from today's video? Put that in the comments column below today's And if you have any questions, I'd love to below today's video two. And I have one more thing for you today. I have a free startup pitch deck. It has all the slides you need to pitch your All you need to do to get your free startup video and ensures for free now for more great wait around about 20 seconds or so, and some do is just click 'em and you're on to the If you wanna subscribe to my channel, then If you wanna like today's video, then hit I'd certainly appreciate it. Now I've really enjoyed speaking with you My name is brett@brettjfox.com. Thank you so much. I'll see you again next week. Take care. Bye.