(gentle music) Welcome to my world. (upbeat music) Two escargots, plantain, frisee. Two green salads, Okay plan the sauce here. Lamb chops, steak frite. Shouldn't you be Two smoked fillet Come on make the desserts. Chocolate tart please. As a cook, tastes and smells And now I'm in So I'm leaving New York City in hope to have a few And I'm willing to go to I'm looking for extremes I'll try anything, I'll risk everything, I have nothing to lose. God help us, what we when we talk about Mexican food is again and again you know tomatoes, a squirt of lime, gobs and maybe Monterrey jack Some crappy refried beans. It ain't like that at all. There's a whole spectrum and ingredients that most I came to Mexico to find Some places I can tell I'm I'm going to like this place. I'm on my way to Oaxaca. A beautiful town with maybe the most sophisticated We're going to The central market. Food market and grocery market. [Anthony] I've enlisted to show me the authentic He's from Mexico City, so We can buy some food and And come chapulines too. What's a chapuline? Grasshoppers. Grasshopper, I don't for breakfast, why not. The Oaxacan market is surprisingly fresh stuff. It's a market that smells good. With a real variety And like all the best markets, it's notable for where there's And this place is no exception. [Martin] Eat here? [Anthony] Right here, sure. [Martin] They have [Anthony] Chocolate con agua chocolate con leche. Chocolate atole is with a sort of cornmeal texture. Sort of like tapioca, It's almost like a And the bread's kind of like a kind of like a brioche. That's a sweet bread. I'm kind of liking Cause it's thicker. I tell you if you stand you'll take on that original There's even a whole where there's meat available for grilling. You got sausages like and they'll grill Now this is pretty cool. This is very cool. Now what's going on here? [Martin] You buy by a quarter, by a half, by a And they can start [Anthony] Right. Now I see over here looks like some big [Martin] Yeah, big onions. That's a chorizo there? This is the chorizo. Just beef. This is chimigo tripa da tripes. I've eaten a lot of I don't know. Okay, we'll be back for this. Oh the hell with it, let's You can pick up your own whatever else you want to grill right by the butcher station. So it's sort of a build Many many options open to you as far as which butcher which products It's fun. Sort of a kooky concept. Now what should Should we get something or just snack on? [Martin] No, we can have I think just a snack. I want to get a little So that corn hot chocolate. Oh yeah, that looks good. Look at a all that nice Oh, that's really good. Spicy wonderful, oily, greasy, smokey. That's really good. What do we owe them? 12 pesos. [Anthony] I need a little so we take a moment to I've pictured my floor in exactly this position. Oh yeah, okay. Here's where I'm really The chili section. Chili molato. Chilaquiles Nero chile pasilla mixe chile guajillo. [Anthony] You could do an just on the chilies. There's so many of them. Each has their own some of which are very subtle. You know various stages you could get going a big I don't have the to pursue that subject What's the hottest pepper here? These are dried habaneros. [Martin] Dried habaneros. [Anthony] Okay, I My old friend Steven has Ah, grasshoppers. [Martin] Okay, now you have There's little grasshopper, Big grasshopper, top rated? You just go like that. These are good. Where's the flavor coming from? They put spices? Garlic, lemon, and salt. [Anthony] More bugs, Been there, done that. It's so last week. I have a few grasshoppers it's like eating potato chips. Crunchy. Mucho gracious. [Anthony] As if I haven't gorged on enough odd food already, Martin tells me the known for it's menudo, or tripe soup. I think I need a bowl. [Martin] It's everything inside. [Anthony] Make you strong? [Martin] Very strong, That's one for you. That's belly, eye. Good. [Martin] Heart. [Anthony] Oh yeah. Extra heart. Leg. The leg, right. Lech. Leg? Lech. Mouth. Good, lips, lips. [Martin] Belly, liver, and head. [Anthony] Menudo's a in other countries. It's strange bits of meat, some crunchy vegetables, and some hot broth Wow, oh yeah. There you go. That's a meal. That's good. Add this and a little lime, a little more chilies, I like it spicy. This nuclear. I don't know if there's The menudo is incredible. It may look like something but the dramatic variety floating around in That singing group is named after a big It's true. I can't be within 500 and not spend a So I begged Martin to take of Puerto Angel. (festive music) Looks like a swordfish cause Puerto Angel is a Cleaned up, ready to go. Looks good to me. Lunch. As in so many people recognize the Soon as a boat comes in, they come in quick and everybody Some of this goes to the A lot of it is just to bring home and take care Since I was at the beach, Which seemed like a In case we need we need a lighter. [Anthony] I got one. But now, looking back it venture in television The plan was to have the Chef Bourdain go and come up with a snapping Followed by a photogenic in a woolly sweater on the In fact it was a flabby assed and semi tenuously waiting in with a wirey Mexican He basically line He dives down, finds a big one and then tries to sucker him in. We're out there in our snorkels, and he dives like 25 feet down. He's down there for a long time. I get around half way down and I've got to come Two and a half packs a day. As so often is the case after 20 rip roaring we wrapped up this to the nearest beach bar. Where we ordered up the At this point, I don't Mrs. Paul's fish sticks. Food always tastes good between your toes. Okay, I'm ready for So Leo's telling is actually everyday food. He says every third he goes hunting with a dog. The dog roots out Grabs one of these suckers, I guess grills them up. I don't know we're going to have to So I decide to take and ask the host of our hotel to serve up this specialty. [Host] He wants to die. I mean look at how [Anthony] Let me describe First of all you look at nasty old thing you know that can't taste good. So he hands it off to Maybe the worst thing After stabbing it in the brain and roasting it in a flame They boil it in In one hour it gets cooked. We can start making the tamales. And then they put (festive music) and I mean, it's like and it's like what What part do I eat? It's very tough. It's covered with skin. You can feel the little and the meat is sort of rubbery but chicken like. It tasted exactly the if you've ever kept fish and you know you clean that sort of nasty greasy sludge that's kind of It was under cooked and to suck a few I'm sorry I did. It tastes like chicken. Unbelievably horrible. Worst episode ever. The corn meal gets iguana taste. I just want to die. I mean really really bad. I want to dip my head after this meal. You know pull my eyes and jump off a cliff. We're going to visit Who's famous for her made with banana leaves (rooster crowing) You walk in and the are the smells. The smell of incredible competes with livestock Flies are everywhere. There are chickens And I'm thinking great what Perhaps to ease my nervousness, she allows me to that's been simmering Oh, that's really good. Wow I'm looking forward to this. That's fantastic. Dominga then gets ready on a small portable The comal is the flat herbs, and things like that on. There are two ways you can boil them in the water, or grilled in the comal. I have banana leaves in These are for garnish. If you don't do You cannot bend them, they break. You toast them a little first. [Martin] You toast them, yeah. [Anthony] So we watch of these toasted banana leaves. Next was the arduous task for a trip to the much [Martin] That's the You have to wash it very well. [Anthony] Okay, we're This more than anything that Oaxacans point reason why their because this is still a They bring their own chocolate, their own corn, coffee other dry ingredients to the mill and grind This dates back to The mill is an essential in rural Mexico. It's a big stone another big stone wheel until the stuff is ground The paste is added and simmers to make There are usually two mills, one for wet ingredients such and another for dry ingredient, like corn to make cornmeal. We watched Dominga grind into cornmeal. Dominga came to have her own peppers for the mole we tasted Gracias. [Anthony] So once Dominga with her freshly she places it in a mixing bowl, adds some rendered and mixes it by hand. So I heard chimas It's the same, it's the same. [Anthony] Once again, Chicken which has been simmering with fresh garlic and and egg The smells are incredible. Next she pats dry each of And prepares the fire to steam the tamales. I can recognize a Finally she's able to with all of these she's been preparing Fist a little of the corn Then a little of the chicken, topped with some of the mole, then tightly wrapped. [Martin] Tamales or for supper. That's some Next Dominga steams the (guitar) Looks like the tamales And finally ready to eat. Seems like Martin Mm mm, wow. [Anthony] This is living. Okay that looks good. Yeah, that's not That's really good. That's really really fine. Good for hangovers. Got to be. This is fantastic. Like no tamale I've ever had. Light years better. Better than anything I've Really good. Flies don't necessary In fact, sometimes really good food. You don't want to smell animal But it's not an Dominga's a good Forget about every you've ever eaten in, this is food. Fresh in maybe original I'm going to have to have Little piece, missed a piece. Oh yeah. (energetic music) Posole, that's where Posole right. Right, yeah. And this place is supposed It's supposed to be good. [Anthony] Martin's heard It's pork and corn soup, which I love. Those tacos look good. Look I was going to have posole, but these tacos are And that looks like [Martin] Exactly. Cheeks, snout ears, Clearly popular joint. Alright. Sometimes street food Posole por senor. [Anthony] As you see, for a simple but hardy meal. This restaurant's got it all, this exactly the when going out to dinner. And just the type of (crying) This guy makes tacos faster (foreign language) It's the texture, the meatiness, the intensity of the that make this The best pork taco It's wonderful. This is a good example actually of you go looking for one thing and you find another thing. I went looking for posole and found some And one more. Great. Martin's outdone himself. Shown me all the good spots. So it's only fair friendly shots of mezcal, a close cousin of tequila. No what's a chaser they call? Sangrita. Sangrita, little blood. So a little mezcal, sounds like a nice mix. (Mariachi music) [Martin] Cuatro, Mezcal has a worm you see. [Anthony] Does that really work? If you eat the worm? No, no no. [Anthony] No, that's Never did anything for me. They say the worm at of mezcal makes you hallucinate. Okay first the lime, little maguey worm, pepper? They don't just use salt, they use ground up as a condiment. Mmm good. A hot sauce chaser, or sangrita to kill the worm taste my stomach's saying Let's do that again. Why am I drinking this? Uh, to get drunk. To take the pain away I see where this Will I never learn? Never challenge a native If I start singing, hit me with this and just You want another one, no, you want another one? Cuatro. [Anthony] I'm enjoying myself. Trading shot for But I fear that this Despite my unfortunate of reptilian cuisine, this has been a real Mexican cuisine, in is complex and time consuming, but it's worth it.