Hey everyone, welcome In today's video, I'm the easiest way to create Now I've been creating t-shirt designs and selling them online for The way that I'm about to and walk you through the easiest and the fastest that are actually going to sell. So, if you guys know my style of videos, we are going to get straight into it. We'll keep all the fluff out of this video and I'll keep it moving at a fast pace so we don't waste any time. Just before we switch over I do wanna say a couple important things about what I'm about to show you. First, this is a process from trial and error. It's something that I've never so it's definitely going to be worth a couple minutes of and learn how to do it. Secondly, this is the type of content that typically gets held but I'm giving it to you So all I ask is if you do enjoy this video as you're watching it, and let me know down in the comments. All right, without further ado, let's get into the fun stuff and switch over to the computer. Okay, so switching over to the computer, let's start on Google. This is going to be our first step here. So, the very first tip and from years of experience is there are two overall that are going to sell the best. The first one is going to be occupations and the second one is going to be hobbies. With both of those in mind, you can break those down into pretty much unlimited niches within them. So, the very first step is to get some general ideas to brainstorm and you'll see why these are so important. So I'm gonna type in list of occupations, give that a search, and you're going to have a You can click on really any of these. Let's just click on the first one here. This is going to give you a Now as you can see, there are a ton that we but this is kind of information overload. From the years that I've been doing this, it's not really efficient just because your mind bounces Rather the way that I prefer doing it and the way that I would suggest for you that makes it a lot easier So if you're not familiar with ChatGPT, it's a free artificial intelligence tool that came out a year or two ago now, and you can literally and start using this. Now as a side note, I will any of the tools or resources and things that we're I'll put them all down in the description so you don't have to go on So the way to use ChatGPT is you come down to message ChatGPT. And what's cool about so it's not just a general you can tailor it to ideas that you wanna work off of. So for instance, you could These are going to be occupations or more popularity than just This is just going to write you out a list of 50 occupations you but don't just stop with popular. You can say 50 indoor men's focused, women's focused. You can get as creative and you can see that it's and a lot more efficient So with that being said, that And as you can see, we haven't even gotten into the designing. We haven't really even but you need a very efficient way to come up with different ideas. And from my experience using ChatGPT is definitely the easiest So with that being said, that's going to bring us right into the next step in this process. This is going to be one of and what this step is is that we've come up with to figure out what are profitable and under-saturated niches within these overall niches. So to give you a quick example here, something like a doctor, well, there are so many So you don't wanna just go in trying to create a general doctor design. You wanna find what are that people are actively but no one else has about those doctors yet. That is exactly what we're and I'll show you how So, in order to save you I'm just going to bring that I use for this. This tool is called Merch Informer. If you've seen my other this is a tool that I use as a foundation in my print on demand process. I personally stand behind them because I've been using them for years. They are a very good tool. To be as transparent as So if you come over to pricing, you can see that they have monthly and they have yearly pricing, but they have two different plans. They've got a Newbie plan All you really need to do for what we are doing in this tutorial, and generally if you are just the Newbie plan is going The difference between the is basically in the Professional plan, you're going to have a much you can do every day and a couple additional features as well. But I would say for the vast the Newbie plan's all you need. They do have a free trial as well. So you can use all of the features and follow along in this And then the last thing about them is I have a personal 20% off I'll put a link to that down If you did wanna just enter you can type in Greg20. It'll take a straight 20% off of any of the plans you sign up for. Okay, so with all that being said, let me get logged into my account and I'll show you how to use this. Okay, so this is where things So, over on the left all of these open up into additional tools that you can kind of use throughout your print on demand process. For this research part, we are going to be looking which is in the keyword research tab. So with this tool all you have to do is type in the overall niche and it will break it down into all of the different sub-niches or different types of that occupation and tell you which ones of So what we wanna do is go back to ChatGPT and look through this list and kind of just pick one So I'm gonna start with teacher. Let's type in teacher, give that a search, and just like that, it's into all the different things So by default, it's only going to show you 10 results at once. So, let's just click that This makes it super efficient. You can just kind of keep But what we want to do here is look at this first column right here. This is going to be the different keyword that people are searching for. So you can treat this as the sub-niche. Now, not all of these are to create designs about, but as you scroll through here, you're going to find some ideas That is different than As you keep scrolling through, you're going to find more and more, so anatomy teacher, but there is more than just scrolling through here to get ideas. What this tool does is it also pulls how many people are searching So you have proof that and then the thing that I is once you find an idea, something like afterschool teacher, come all the way over to the It's the little I. Give that just one second to load, and this is going to pull So this is going to tell Just like in school, if you get an F, that means you failed. That means it's not a If you get an A, that means that's a very And specifically this is So, how many other people that are creating designs about afterschool teachers specifically? So what we've just done in is we took the general idea of teacher and we came across our first great niche that not many other competitors are in, which is afterschool teachers. So, what we're going to do for a second and now we're We're going to right click, and what we're going to do It's going to open up the menu and then right click on trademark alerts, and click open in a new tab. What this is going to do for us is if you come up to your tabs, you now have two tabs that are open. You can go back and forth. So, come over to this and you're just going to right click and you're going to paste, This brings you down to the next line. Okay, so let's go back over and now we're going to and we're going to pick out that all have an A rating So as we had just saw before, the next one that kind of Let's see what that has. Okay, that's got another A rating. So, this is a great niche I'm going to select anatomy teacher, right click, copy, come over here, and I'm going to paste it and then come down to the next line. Now this process that is picking out these and we're building a list of them. This is a feature that we are We're not ready for it quite yet, but by putting it into it's going to make this whole So, what I'm going to do and I'm going to fast forward you guys to just save a little bit of time. And I'm going to pull a and I'm going to build them into our list just so I can show you what on your end. Okay, so I've just gone through here and I pulled seven different ideas that are all A-rated and I've just pasted So these are going to be the sub-niches that we're going to target, and just know before we move on here, you can create as many So you could create just about teachers, and then you can go back to ChatGPT, you could pick nurses next, you could type in nurses up top here, and then you can break that into all of these And you can repeat this process. Okay, so hopefully we're If you guys have any questions just let me know down in the comments, but let's move into the next step. So, most people would probably think that these are the Now let's get into the next but there's actually some that we have to do before we can actually start creating the designs. So first, let's talk or what these designs We know what these sub-niches but what are those shirts So, this is another tip. This is going to be one that comes from years of experience, but what I've learned as over years of doing this is that it's not always about that are going to sell the best. Kind of the secret hack to all of this is that there are certain phrases, and they are universal phrases that can be customized into any niche that sell the best in no This is something that you will only learn after having a lot of sales data and looking at the trends what specific phrases are selling best in all of the different niches. Now, this is a concept in a couple other videos on this channel, and the feedback that I got from you guys is that you don't have enough sales data to go through to figure out So, for the sake of trying to make this as easy as possible for you guys, I've put together a list of both 10 and 100 of these phrases. I'm going to put a link to whether you're interested that link will be down in Now, in a second here, I'm going to give you one That's what we'll use for But I also wanna make for those of you who do and you start using them in your business, the trick to all of this, how you're going to get ahead is getting the most So using this process of finding where you are one of the that is how this whole Okay, so as promised, I'm going to give you one of I've gone ahead and screenshotted This is the phrase that we're going to be using in this tutorial Feel free to use this one So, the way that this works with the niche, and that's where you're going to fill it in. So, for this one specifically, the best uses are occupations, and some examples would be gym teacher, diesel mechanic, pediatric nurse. And essentially you fill &quot;Gym teacher is a noun, one, Same as a normal teacher, So for the first one, you fill For the second one you as explained right here. This is a simple, relatable T-shirt design that has proven to sell So, what we're going to do now is we're going to use this phrase and apply it to every single one of these sub-niches we found. So I'm going to start typing this in to show you how this works. So after school teacher, noun one, same as a normal And then since we've for efficiency here, we're come down here and we're going to paste it for each one of these. That's how quickly you So, I'm kind of showing you so you know the fastest but you may be wondering, what is this tool that we've been pasting all of this information Well, that is the other before we can start actually So, probably the most common mistake that people make in a is they don't check their phrases, which is actually the words to make sure that nobody the rights to that phrase. What so many people don't know is that there's something which allows a individual to own the rights to a That means that if you've just come up with a phrase yourself and you and you wanna use that on a shirt to sell, someone else might own the rights to that, and that means that yours and they have the rights to the profits that you made from it. So what we are doing with is we are pasting all of the ideas that we are thinking We're going to click save, and then we're going to And last step, we're going to What this is going to do is it's going to give us a Is it safe to use on or does somebody own the rights to it? Well, in the matter of seconds here, we just searched all seven of these and found out that all seven Guys, I really can't stress Just make sure that when you're you are doing this that nobody owns the rights to those before you're using and post that on a print on Okay, so with all of that done, we are now officially ready to get into creating the designs. So, this is going to be a I'm excited to share it with you. I'll show you all of these shortcuts, make this the easiest, most efficient way to create these designs. So let's go ahead and switch This is PlaceIt.net. This is the graphic design The long story short just about every graphic to create t-shirt designs. Not all of them are copyright free. This is a huge thing in print on demand, just like people can own the rights to the trademark of phrases, well, people can also own the copyrights, which is the same thing for the fonts, the graphics and the layouts. So not all graphic design tools online are fully copyright-free. PlaceIt on the other hand and then also they're commercially usable, which means that we can take the designs that we've made on their website and sell them for a profit So, I'll show you how to but again, I do wanna be transparent. They are another paid tool. They're about $7.47 cents per month if you pay on an annual basis. So, paying for the whole year upfront. I do have a 15% off coupon code for them. I will put that down in It brings it down to Now, I will say that is if So for those of you who and there's no contract, or with the coupon, it's Okay, with that out of the and I'll show you how Okay, so once you are logged in, you're going to hover over designs and then hover over apparel and print and go down to t-shirt designs. This is going to bring you into all of their t-shirt design If you scroll all the way to the bottom, you can see there's over I think altogether it's something like, 50,000 different templates you can use. And the cool thing about PlaceIt is they're always adding new So, as a print on demand seller, you can get access to before anyone else has Now, a couple other important is if you come over to the left side, you can sort these by different filters. So if you have something you can choose one of those over here. And then if you know a very specific niche or something, you can type in like, let's type in camping, for example. Just give that a search and then you can see all that are related to camping. So, I just wanted to show of how to sort through these But let's go back over here. Let's go to apparel and t-shirt designs. And what we are going to be looking for is a design that's going So what this is is really a definition. So, think about kind of a dictionary. So a culinary teacher, that is a noun, same as normal So I'm going to keep that through these designs that looks like it's going So, let me scroll and I'll find a template Okay, so I've got a it's going to be perfect right here. It's kind of a definition layout. Let's click on that. It's going to open it up And then over on the right side, it's going to give you that you might like as well. So, there's another I still like this one better. So, we're just going to click on edit. And what's cool about this that you do like, you can favorite it, or you can save it so into your account, you can if you wanna make more using that same template. But with that being said, this is kind of your editor. So, you can take all these elements, you can click and drag them around, you can make them bigger or smaller. And then if you wanna go back, just hit the back button right here. And if you want to reset the layout, if you get everything kind just hit the reset layout button. It'll move everything just Now with that being said, you don't actually click on You come over to the and anything you type in here And then just know that you can click in here, you can change the font to anything. Again, these are all going commercially usable fonts. We'll X out of that. And then you can change the font color as well by clicking it on here. So, the very first step, once you find the is we're going to set up that template and find all of the fonts, get it right the first time. That's going to allow us to scale this into all of these niches very quickly. So, let's figure out which one We're going to do culinary and we're just going to So, this first line is going Okay, so I've typed all of this in. The first step I'm going to Put that back to how it started. And I would still bring to make it look a little bit better. And then a really good is make sure that when you someone else is looking they can resonate with so they can tell what When I'm looking at this font right here, it's too hard to read. You to figure out what that says. So, I'm just going to come over here and I'm going to change this font to the matching other font here. So let's click on this. Here's the other font that it's using. That is a lot cleaner. As you can see, you can just tell what this So, I'm going to drag that down here. Just kind of line things up to where they look just about right. Okay, and that looks good. So, this is what we are Now, just another quick tip here, just a golden nugget that I've learned is that if you're selling turn the text from dark to white and then offer that on a dark shirt. I don't know why, but this always sells So, I'm going to switch As you can see, you can't see it because So come over to background switch that to black, okay, this is going to as to what this will look like on a shirt. So guys, I know this is If you have any questions yet, just let me know down in the comments. If you're enjoying this, Again, I really would appreciate that. So, this design is a very simple design, but it is proven to sell. We don't need to add any The idea of this is that it's and it'll be very relevant So, at this point, we're just but it has a black background. That was for us to be able So, come over to background color, and when you're ready to download it, click on the checkerboard right here. This is going to take and just leave the white text. It's a little bit hard to read, that's why we had the black one in there. But now when you download this, you upload it to a it's going to print only the text and not that black background behind it. So we already know this is all ready to go because we saw it with We are just going to click on download. If you scroll up a little bit, you'll see processing your design. Just takes a second here. Okay, once this loads, click And then we are going So, I'm going to do culinary teacher, same as a normal teacher, And then I'm actually going to select all of this besides culinary. So, all the way from the end of culinary. And then I'm going to copy that. And this is going to be for efficiency. So as you will see, we have We can now save this to our computer. And here's our design So, once you zoom in here, so you won't have any blurry prints. And then when you zoom out, you can see it has no background color. So this is just going to print the text exactly how we need it So, that is our very first design. It is literally that simple to create. And you can upload this file However, this is where kind of the tricks of the trade come in. So, once we come back to the designer, let's go back over to our trademark alerts and let's see which one is next. So, crafts teacher. All you have to do is come over here and switch this to crafts and the design is already ready to go. So, let me just show you so you can see what it looks like. We didn't have to change And then make sure the Go to download. Again, just give this one second to load and then click here to download. And this is where copying that name to our clipboard comes in. So, just type in crafts, and then right click and paste, and it's going to fill So crafts teacher, same as Save that to our downloads. Okay, so just like that, we've got crafts teacher. We are just making these So, you just keep coming back here. You find out what is the next one, a cello teacher. Come in here, you just change and this is how you really start to scale up creating these designs. So, what we've accomplished here is we've found low-competition niches that other people haven't and we're putting in and we have a way to totally copyright-free So guys, I know this video If you have any questions let me know down in the comments. Again, the discount codes any links in general, are going to be linked Also, the last thing I'll add in here is that for those of you with creating your titles or descriptions or what to set your these listings on print I will put a link down on the description to another video that walks you through all of my best tips for that part. All right guys, that's it for this one. I hope it has been helpful and I'll see you all in the next video.