In the last two episodes, we discovered that for our further evolution, it is not what we truly ourselves that uncovers the Bliss within us? What and mind? Who am I? Plato the Greek philosopher, considered that reality was divided into the Physical World as we perceive it and the the real - which he referred to as 'The Form'. things in existence. Plato's student, Aristotle as the true form of each living animal. The word the psyche as the first principle of the living different words to describe this first principle the Universal Mind, Consciousness or the Spirit; when all other temporary layers are stripped off before and will be after all of this. And this Plato as eternal, ideal and perfect. This Is us as This perfect ideal is our true form, existing of a higher nature than it. And that ideal we will To truly understand what the Spirit is, is the soul fit into the structure of a human? Are Soul from the Spirit. It is an aspect or attribute of is a reflection of the Spirit within the world, or world. The Spirit is not affected by the goings complete and unruffled. It is only the Spirit's changing World. However Spirit and soul are often philosophy also describes the True-Self as the known to be Divine, a fragment of God itself. within the five sheets of the human structure are. All else are temporary designs of matter, the limitations of the senses and subject to time. Spirit or 'Atma' in Hindu philosophy is known said, &quot;It is not in so far as he is man that so far as something Divine is present in him. men to think of human things and being mortal make ourselves Immortal and strain every nerve us. For even if it be small in bulk, much more So if we are Spirit which is a part of God, for the next question begs, what is God? f=First let shared by all religions although described in in multiple forms and thus multiple names for the evolution of life, as would be comfortable to Focusing on the differences in the bodily tools thus separating God from his ultimate formlessness to us throughout human history, and that is formlessness and our ultimate formlessness in God and how do we define Him that ultimately has as 'Satchitananda' which is made of three words: awareness or Consciousness and 'Ananda' meaning Consciousness, and Bliss. When Moses stood before when I come to the children of Israel and say to you' and they say to me 'what is His name?', 'I am that I am'. And He said, 'Thus you shall me to you.' This is my name forever and this is 'I am' is so all-encompassing, including all that exists can proclaim, 'I am'. 'I am' is therefore statement 'I am' also proclaims the awareness of bliss, because full awareness is the experience of we are, because each of us is. Ask yourself today, you will ever have. It is one thing that you the awareness of existence that is within each of of all I's. If He is the unification of all I's I that is me. And thus, with God being 'I am' are ultimately one with Him. 'I am' also points to under no conditions can he not be. Therefore, if and if He is constant in all these conditions and of all. He is, regardless of anything else. Being And this is why God's love is unlike any in on our willingness to return that love, nor does achieved or not achieved within this world. It is that does not discriminate, judge, or disregard. and never as anything else. Even at our lowest sees us as what we truly are, which is a part of is always ours. God loves us as Himself because He brought to the world as 'the gospel', meaning children of God, made from God, and heir to his tells us that all the strengths that we need are we are, be who we are, and tap into the power of enough because in truth we are more than enough it away with our unnecessary dependence on the world, who is our true home. Your self-confidence can you are sacred, and your truth is so big and this if you so choose. And although it seems like the we think we are and what others think we are is our true selves where our true selves are Immortal When we get back to our true nature, then like external and even the external layers will more miracle state, but also our most natural state. good start to the definition of who we are, but is critical for us to bring into our awareness what it is we are. When you acknowledge you have to logically also accept that others too applies to you or me must apply to all others Sri Adi Shankaracharya must apply to all others all Spirit which is the One God, then we are all separated from the whole. And thus although we there are three aspects in the Christian Trinity: is understood that these three are ultimately in the world and for the world, ultimately in us. We are all part of the homogeneous whole. our brothers and sisters of the world, united helps us to open our hearts to all other people long pointed out that the point of spirituality is Unity is what brings us into the perfect peace, prepared for us. In this journey towards knowing any part of that existence from our definition of because if any one part is missing from the whole be included in our circle of unconditional love a succinct definition of God would be that God is yet is the basis for all forms. Sai Baba said, &quot;A when you love or hate others, you love or hate consider yourself different from others because are no others and all are yours. That is the Arguably the most revered mantra of the Buddhist the Buddha's teachings is the Mantra 'Om mani carved into stones all over the Buddhist world. 'Jewel in the Lotus'. This mantra points us in a jewel to be sought. As in other spiritual It is said that the Buddha revealed that this or self-enlightenment. What then is the inner we ought to be seeking? Is this life meant to be associated with this Mantra which gives us a clue The story goes that a man goes to visit a close in his friend's quarters. The friend who has to Jewel of extreme value around the man's neck and and unaware of the precious possession goes in a position of poverty and making questionable After much time passes the close friend finds the are you stooping to this lowly behavior when you within your garments.' The now poverty-stricken fact exceedingly wealthy all along. What does this and experience of our true selves is our ultimate can well imagine that that Jewel that represents which once found and realized helps us to tap The jewel in the Mantra also then could well be Sleep and drunkenness in spiritual analogy usually when we were brought into creation. Referred to see ourselves as separate from the absolute, from ignorant decisions the man in the story makes in The poverty the man experiences refers to the without peace, without the continuous presence of from some form of poverty, whether it be poverty health, or the poverty of love. And whatever our the poverty of Truth, created by ignorance. that others are less than they are, and that the Recently my family and I encountered a beggar who Until we reach our ultimate goal of Spiritual and like the man in the story this often gives sign read, poverty is not a sin. We label each are just kept a little longer in ignorance, is the only one that could help us to shed the This analogy of a treasure to be found also of early Christian codices were discovered in the Within these was the 'Gospel of Thomas' which Many of these already appear in the cannon of 'If your leaders say to you, 'look the Father's the sky will precede you. If they say to you, 'it Rather, the Father's Imperial rule is inside you, will be known and you will understand that you are not know yourselves then you will live in poverty Imperial rule is like a merchant who had a supply Merchant was prudent. He sold the merchandise and you, seek His treasure that is unfailing, that is to destroy.&quot; Now having decided that the jewel in Lotus? The Lotus Flower is a common symbol in both the lotus is revered for its ability to stay even though it has to rely on these very waters the world in which we live. So if the jewel in the remains untainted by the world despite being in the teachings of Sathya Sai Baba. Sai Baba within a cave in the spiritual heart. The Lotus is the spiritual heart? The spiritual heart is Baba said breaks up into 'Hrid' and 'Daya', compassion is dependent on the world to exist that engender compassion. And these conditions the Lotus, true compassion is unaffected by the of the world's inhabitants. Thus, compassion is it to exist. Thus the 'Jewel in the Lotus' mantra that we cannot get to The Treasure of the Spirit means via the powers of compassion. There is still journey is dependent on the quality of compassion. Gautama Buddha reveals a long-kept secret. He there are multiple ways of reaching the goals that is the path in which one, out of compassion beings, and that is the 'Bodhisattva' path. This individual acts for one's own Liberation alone. with all our brothers and sisters of the world, The true experience of being one with all should out of a sense of compassion for the suffering we truly are. Within Buddhist philosophy the 'Mani of compassion. This pathway of compassion as is what was displayed by the great Souls of human was not limited. Who acted for the sake of all, love to sinner and saint, human and beast alike. broken out of Mercy for the Broken World. Surely of spiritual excellence and self- knowledge is surely a means to achieve the unity that is &quot;there is no deed holier than Mercy.&quot; In Sufism, be a person's Immortal essential self. This Ruh is also a prominent concept in Christianity, as part Divinity within each of us. In both religions the two descriptions, that is 'I am Spirit' and arguably the goal of all spiritual endeavour and that one's no less than the likes of Jesus, Sri Maharishi have managed to fully cognize, love at our deepest levels are Divine. These you are Spirit which is a part of God and thus you as not God. Therefore although presently unknown of God. So are other animals, but as explained not have access to the wisdom sheath and bliss the gap between terrestrial and Divine life. is our marvellous potential. Such is our grand from animal, to primitive being, to human, to made the leap or to have bridged the gap but it is the kinks to make truly awesome progress towards it is we are. We can achieve much within this prized possession and of Great Value to our own we have nothing else the very opportunity to a matter worth celebrating every day. When Jesus of blasphemy. Jesus retorted, &quot;Is it not written that Jesus was quoting is in the Old Testament are gods and all of you are children of the Most Brahman (Brahman meaning God). That Brahman is is you. What greater truth can I convey to you?&quot; as possessing eight forms of wealth. In fact man Beyond qualities, untainted, Eternal, liberated and Immaculate. Out of a sense of only to the Divine and not to him. This feeling better than this news? What identity could be could we be divine? This seems inconceivable to the illusion conceived by the sensory mind and that convinces us that we cannot be a part of God. associate ourselves with a body, but God is not a imprison our potential unless we decide that because God is powerful and we are not, but have it not be that the limitations of our power are not a limitation imposed by our Eternal Identity? revealed to us in our Evolution and curbing Our very evolutionary Journey. Have not spiritually which we now possess? And who could evaluate we cannot be a part of God because we are unfit decisions. But we are not our sins nor our past do not take these temporary creations with us into and not of our Eternal selves. We will dispose know and have faith in the truth of what we are the very ignorance that was the root cause of that we are not all knowing, but this is our temporary of ignorance that was placed upon us like a deep through our efforts and by the grace of God, along. God is not a thing of matter or judgment. Consciousness, wisdom, power, Bliss capable of possessing some amounts of awareness, then why deprive ourselves of the hope of being these attributes. These ultimate degrees of being after Evolution and before it too. The ultimate are not aware of this inherent potential as yet. in human beings that have gone beyond the natural be relevant to our own personal situation. We feel it is evidence of what our Eternal state is. Based the senses, body and ego, we impose limitations on and we have powers of God thus these limitations upon ourselves by our belief in our littleness reinterpretation of our realities that can undo the potential to reach to God's total Bliss, His love, and certainly we can have more control The realization of our own inherent Divinity our ultimate degree of perfection and the goal Perfection as our innermost and truest Essence. within our very selves and is our very selves could experience in the world. This treasure is a the human Destiny fully realized and it can only Compassion is therefore what distinguishes a truly of godhood without truly having shaken off the The difference is that in one character the ego is without the true awareness that we are not Divinity will only serve to deepen the chasms the sense of unity is developed through compassion same words, 'I am God' can come from very opposite since ego is a sense of Separation which If our inherent Unity is not understood then our that are crying 'I am God' from a standpoint of and at least for that time I are inflating the Although this may sound like a trap we will inflate the ego while trying to follow this ego and its sense of Separation already formed considering ourselves as an individual. We have that we go to God and godhood as the all, as for everyone because we are one. The boundaries make this trek towards our divine inheritance as of the individual. From the divinely Inspired the holy Son of God, United with your brothers in Feel this one self in you and let it shine away the Son of God himself, sinless as its creator yours.&quot; There may be some confusion seeing as then as one with God at other times. However these different stages in our growth. In Hindu terms, separateness, to qualified non-dual Duality which and eventually to non-duality or no separation and Nonduality is the ultimate goal of our spiritual of unity with all. This is not the disintegration an expansion of it to encompass all that exists of universal love and joy. The experience of as one with God. This ultimate goal is described story of Jesus, as explained by Sathya Sai Baba, Jesus's words, from him first describing himself as a Son of God or a part of God, and eventually ask, if Divinity is true of us then why is this episode quotes Jesus's explanation of why He spoke these parables only to his disciples and not to knowledge from the public view. He disclosed that to those who misinterpret his ideology. And this wisdom sheath and over developed ego can take and misuse it to create something destructive with suggests that the very earliest Christianity may with the introduction of the Gnostic ritual of John the Baptist and endorsed by Jesus through acknowledges the inherent spark of divinity within the Pearl' written by the disciple Thomas, that God has put us on, and the wisdom we seek and thrived alongside other early forms until the any attempt to bring about an acknowledgement by the then religious leadership which also then probably done in fear of a philosophy that would any one particular religion. Thus, over and revelation or personal growth that resulted in Many times with excommunication, at other times humanity was ready for a mass evolution, then such them would have had little effect. It is far more yet ready to fully receive the Gospel, the good and intolerance of the past was part of The Grand have depended on these murky waters of our past, could be revealed to us. In the East, the idea 'Avaduta Gita', or the 'Song of the Free Soul' expositions on the position of spiritual freedom Vedas, which is thus even more ancient. And with these scriptures and others like it are the common concept of a higher purpose, higher ideals, and before the Common Era from it. The 'Avaduta Gita' Vedic philosophy) is this knowledge, this supreme pervasive self. There is no doubt that I am that like the sky, naturally stainless. Thus you are the unchangeable one, equally perceived in all. unrestricted, think of day and night. You are not body. You are the exterior and the interior. You times. Why are you running hither and thither like Why do you shed tears my child. Neither you nor I of change, one of the nature of freedom. You suffer, seeking the objects of desires. Although philosophical schools were likely isolated of losing their children to the ascetic life, set there have been those trhrough the ages that have Others, having taken to the path, could easily with the mind then being planted in the infertile in the way of humanity, neither West nor East have liberation. But God has been paving the way for means or another has been shining a light on the all religions, around the world. Is Humanity now away from the persuasions of the ego, the cage time will tell, but this is a hope I harbour and you. Knowing now that God exists within us, as so intimately connected with you that He is your access to God who is within you, closer than your detached, almost unreal concept. God becomes peace and safety a contentment and fulfilment, a of worldly attachment, pursuit or relationship. will deepen our faith and trust in Him. A trust saves us from fear from anxiety stress and as we allow him to now direct our lives. And as understand that all others are just parts of the grudges against anyone anymore. And then a magic in God, through that love and devotion becomes you are one with Him. And through this devotion, and will of God, the conscience, you earn the of life becomes clear of all obstacles as He makes as and when you need it, in the correct quantity goal. And when we acknowledge that we are one with Spirit which is God, our boundaries expand and This unity redefines all our priorities selflessness, our judgment turns into compassion, see that it is Love Alone that can satisfy us, in our true nature. And when our boundaries drop instead of The Limited body and Mind, then we can And when we learn to love God it becomes even the glue that unites each of us to each other. all other beings, thus dissolves the limited ego, we start to experience peace as everything starts love always comes Joy. A joy less restricted and independent Joy, such that you do not have to that brought it to you. It is yours to keep so we venture on as we try to make the waves more through His Grace we will become privy to the the union of individual Consciousness with the Who better to turn to, what greater expert can is unlimited and totally free and available in the His Mercy endless and his power unfathomable. And here within us, ask Him, talk to Him, trust Him to the assistance of that embodiment of awareness up the opportunity to use the greatest tool for find - ever. Unknown to us all along, humanity popular belief. Hints of our superhuman genius and in poetry and prose, in a Mother's patience, in the great compassion of the super parables and analogies of religious scripture. of this great potential being suppressed, as the base lower evolutionary sides of humans But that was then. Breaking away from the get ahead until we do, and indeed we do it for being one, everyone will benefit from each us not delay, let us embark on an exploration of through the only means possible, through the means [Music]