Miraculously preserved, Castles always fascinate the public. The Middle Ages is an era of builders. They left us extraordinary monuments, Centuries after their appearance they remain with cathedrals, and the power of those who built them, For Philip II, was a tool with which of the King of France. Their construction accompanied of the medieval period. Hundreds were built in Europe but their shape, layout evolved considerably over time. There's innovation, to build the best, most perfect, From the first stone towers to the colossal sites for five centuries these constructions shaped the landscape From then on, numerous powers Border fortresses like Salses These buildings will have three functions: and a statement of prestige. They're the markers Together, they tell the tale of 500 years The appearance of castles in Europe During the long period of Roman peace a few castra, or fortified villas, Nothing more. In Latin texts, we see the term castrum. So castrum, or castellum, Castellum simply means village. And during the ninth and 10th century, changing from a stronghold to gradually become what we understand but is also a residence. And not just anyone's residence, In the ninth century, plunged Western Europe into chaos. The authority of the king, is considerably weakened. The fortified villas have to make way especially since this vast region, which isn't yet France, Hungarians to the East. Vikings to the North and West. Saracens to the South. To impede their progress, First in the west and south of France, Feudalism is on the rise. The Lords emancipated set out to conquer territory. But they then need to protect it. They create fortifications around three months. Motte-and-bailey castles To symbolize and concretely they had to artificially in order to see far away, The average size of these is about 30 meters in diameter The height varies from six to 12 meters, Upon this, stands a keep Below it is a courtyard, It's surrounded by a ditch and a rampart A wooden gatehouse defends the entrance. This is where the service buildings, wine presses and forges are located. It's something simple It can be made from materials using the workforce So you don't need real technicians Motte-and-bailey castles will multiply Their defense rests on embankments, wooden fences The keep, often accessible is a sign of the Lord's This is where he lives with his family. Arras in the Pas-de-Calais, A partially buried ground floor, topped with an upper floor and the Lord's bedchamber. Above this was the room and that assigned to the guards. Finally, at the very top Once again, this is a symbol and the rest of the aristocracy that you've made your mark At this time, the Lords are clashing in order to expand and assert their power. Motte-and-bailey castles spread They represent authority and power, to be protected from enemy raids. These first wooden structures, effective against small troops nonetheless have a weak point, fire. During the 10th and 11th centuries, will be reinforced by the use of stone. Some stone defenses being built in place Like Restormel castle In France, the architecture is influenced by the Normans they now see as a kind of nation from their neighbors appetites. It's a constant risk in the feudal system by being swallowed up by someone stronger. So they defend themselves In this constant quest for protection, the defense system of castles The most powerful and wealthy lords with large stone towers. The most famous who became count of Anjou at only 17, including Loches in Indre-et-Loire, one of the oldest With this construction, in everyone's eyes as the king's equal. He has a choice It can be strategic, of ostentatious castle palace. That's the expression of both his power So, for example, It's built entirely of stone, Set back from the more The rectangular keep at Loches It is 37 meters tall. There is a door The windows are splayed On the third floor, wider openings to an overhanging wooden gallery. Making it possible to change aim reaching the base of the walls. We see signs of residential generally with one lower room and a great hall, which is a multi functional Above that is a space called the camera. The bedchamber, for example, and then often a defensive floor which is a guards room The defense of such a fortress The wider and deeper the castle's ditches, the better its defense from incursions. That's passive defense. This passive defense Most fortresses from in particularly inaccessible places. At the crossroads Numerous obstacles prevent the attacker Ditches, ramparts or wooden fences. The castle is built in a naturally on a hill surrounded by a river, forming natural obstacles They slow down the enemy's advance. They isolate and protect themselves That doesn't mean they do nothing at all, at the top of the castle walls from which they could shoot But it's still relatively passive. Obstacles, walls, Many keeps built during the 11th century that was easy to construct. The Anglo-Norman model is the Tower of London, built around 1070 Or the large keep built at the start of the 12th century. But square keeps Their badly defended corners are easily accessible to attackers. They can dig saps, tunnels underneath which are then stuffed with and allow access to the keep. These square keeps will soon disappear better suited to the art of war. This will be the great of the 12th and 13th centuries, until the reign From the early 12th century, the castle represents It is also a place for everyday life. The peasants come there to work, clearing the ditches The master of the house Brothers. Sisters. Cousins. The knights move into the fiefs where they build fortified homes. But this sudden independence with the Lord to whom they're bound. There are two great rituals, You swear an oath, which is over your head, You are part of his court. It's a society where a man's worth he has around him, serving him. From there, there are numerous powers When the prince is away, In the same way that the great Lords pay him homage military support and advice. This organization of the relationships The pyramid of power rebuilds itself. Medieval society evolves. The king, who had lost everything, recovers the ban, And from now on, that can dispense justice. This process involves new castles conquering lords castles, Castles are more beautiful, even more impregnable, of a territory by the monarchy. Especially since a period known France and England a conflict in which We have political entities entering into open war This inevitably leads and as a result, to strongholds. There's innovation, to build the best, most perfect, When Philip II the Kingdom of France is hardly bigger Normandy, Anjou, Maine, of King John of England. Philip II extends of the Anglo-Norman rulers, He restores his influence in all the provinces He sets up an administration Benefiting from the growth and the weakening of the Lords impoverished by the first Crusades. Philip II, embarks on a vast initiative But he won't stop at territorial gains. He covers the kingdom at the forefront of which are castles. For Phillip II, was obviously A stronghold. But it was also a special tool in the service of his power, For him, it was a tool with which of the King of France. In all, about 30 buildings throughout the kingdom. When he hadn't built them himself, a symbol of his authority. In June 1204, and no longer King of the Franks. In order to defend his kingdom of the Plantagenet sovereigns, with standardized plans. A square enclosure, ramparts flanked and semicircular towers in the middle. A keep in the center. But which soon moves to the corner, a walkway around the tops of the walls and finally, a gatehouse and guard room The show Castle, The Louvre, That was the Palais de la Cite. The Louvre was built in the 1190s, that introduces a new model in reference to constructions and which is the result of a great deal of thought The Louvre occupied the southwest corner After 12 years of work, the great tower, It is surrounded by a circular moat The fortress walls forming are reinforced by 10 towers. A ditch filled with water The main door is to the south, The west wall is reinforced, Against the west and south walls two buildings house the soldiers, necessary to withstand a siege. The other two walls A deep well and a system Castles built to Philip II's plan that have existed since ancient times. That's to say quadrangular plans, and crowned with walkways so protected by defensive towers. The whole thing being surrounded That's an old idea, because we now have towers with increasing That's to say aero loops. These standards are typical can be found in Dordogne in Essen. The most accomplished Curtain walls with battlements, A door equipped with a portcullis, A solidly built gatehouse Arrow slits in the towers and walls. Towers at the corners that gradually supplants and then disappears in the 13th century, the Lord willingly moving Although this standardization lasts nearly two centuries, of devastating catapults The architecture and adopt even more defensive forms. By that time, will feature in all new fortifications. During the 12th century, medieval architects would favor round because the siege engine projectiles ricochet more easily off their surfaces. The Crusades, and more generally, had a considerable influence at the end of the 12th, because military engineers to find new techniques They went back such as the giant crossbow and trebuchet, Capable of firing blocks of stone, against castle walls and towers. This impressive siege engine by its lack of maneuverability The trebuchet is also an example While the defenders dropped onto the attackers Trebuchets were used to project into the besieged castle Whatever their size, these machines required They also require the knowledge the money to buy them. The largest siege engines were therefore often impoverished upon their return So there's an effort and in return, of course, The walls are made thicker, walkways with machicolations, systems to drop projectiles which are found in some such as Chateau Gaillard. But there we only see developing Chateau Gaillard in Normandy, was the pride of Richard the Lionheart. The English king accomplished the feat It was the last obstacle in his advance upon Rouen. It is only after a very long siege that he manages to capture it from very early on with the most It has to resist attack. So replacing the wooden hoardings in Chateau Gaillard, There were stone machicolations and the walls were thicker. The walls of Chateau Galliard There's great mechanical resistance The spur was there in case to deflect projectiles While the scalloped edge to make the projectiles ricochet off The thicker walls and the shape In the 12th and 13th centuries, with the architecture of Phillip II, The castle can now protect because men posted on its wall walks can actively defend the building thanks to new defensive mechanisms and their ability Advances in the art of construction even stronger and harder to approach. During the 13th century, gradually disappear, Pattresses, small rectangular structures and machicolations, stone galleries to better protect the outer wall. From the middle the towers are used as firing positions. The key element of active defense In a semicircular tower on the sides and front, but on the floor That way, leaving no blind spots, at different levels in a fan shape to defend almost every angle This is really implemented and Philip II, Progress is such that fortresses on flat, open ground. The architecture of Philip II for several centuries. Dover Castle on the English Coast Henry Plantagenet between 1179 and 1188 In southeast England, in the middle of the Hundred Years War, is an archetypal French fortress. It's built on a square base Additions, improvements the principles of the fortification evolved further with his successors, his son Louis VIII, who ceaselessly expand the royal domain. Louis IX, or Saint Louis, especially in the south of France had castles, strongholds built. These eventually became places from which In 1248, the Treaty of Corbeil, fixed A few years earlier, several fortresses had been bought by Louis IX, Their names were Aguilar, Among these vertiginous citadels is the most impressive. The fortress runs along a 300 meter ridge The complex is in three parts, two castles The old keep includes a dwelling while a second fortress erected allows total autonomy in case of siege. Although impressive, these citadels This is particularly the case with The fortress is defended by 20 infantrymen What could so few men Would they only have had time to go down In fact, these vertiginous citadels They're mainly political in a psychological war. They symbolize the will to make their mark The Albigensian Crusade to establish a strong foothold It's true that these castles because they're coveted territories, of old fortifications, retaken and strengthened Carcassonne is the prime example. It dates back to the late Roman Empire. On top of this infrastructure built to Philip II For example, the use of bossage, The towers are a little bit bigger, with circular towers and arrow loops, so therefore very expensive. But what counts is that the beauty are proof of the power, over these areas. Carcassonne Castle, is an architectural gem. The city's fortifications with three kilometers of ramparts equipped with two large doors. This huge Acropolis towers 50 meters The loveliest fortified city in Europe, crowned by a wall walk. The first inner wall The second is protected by 14 towers. It's a considerable financial investment and designed for active defense. There are archer towers, up to two to three meters long. We know very well that arrow loops two to three meters long So there's an ostentatious element royal authority which are also The criteria for choosing were strategic, The site had to be close which had to provide After the forest has been cleared, using a rope with 13 knots The master mason Stakes are planted then connected by ropes, the curtain walls will stand. The building work is done by specialists Stonecutters, masons, carpenters The cost of this work is high. The amount of dressed stone will therefore depend The size of the castle depends the land he has, and above all, The Middle Ages is an era of builders. It's a time when a lot of wealth, went into building cathedrals It may have been detrimental It may have been detrimental to the quality But it left us that are important It takes eight to 12 years of the early 13th century. During the whole process, over the quality of the assembly They use hoisting gear some of which Rib vaulting, beams, interlocking dressed stone windows. Each element of the castle The site is therefore colossal, coordinated by the Master Mason. We often wonder about the architects, by the quality of the buildings. There are cross ribbed vaults that echoes that of churches. Of course there are architects, Unfortunately, apart from a rare few, Although the medieval Their work, whose beauty and complexity has come down through the centuries. With the reign of Philip II, the kingdom enjoys a period But castles continue to spread And although they still meet their residential function is growing. The quest for comfort becomes The keep is eventually abandoned a dwelling built in the courtyard Here we see the emergence of spaces as a residence. And not just anyone's residence, and his inner circle. His extended family, his mesne. Throughout the Middle Ages, which appears Aula, Camera, Capella. The reception room, the aula in Latin. The hall is a large room where the Lord has his throne, and banquets take place. It's a place for conviviality. The tables are set up on trestles There's a part which is more private, And then a third place, The chapel is not only a place but it's also a cultural place Some books are kept there. The library is in the chapel. So the castle is a residence which we too often forget. Light is an element of comfort to the Lord's daily life. But the first rudimentary castles They're essentially arrow loops. In the 13th century, large on the less vulnerable facades. There are dwellings in the courtyard, that we still see in some cities which are quite large, of the natural light. Even if there were no big windows From early on as well as wooden shutters and oil cloth, and people also took advantage Openings are made in large niches and provided on the two side walls Window seats. Fireplaces are undoubtedly the elements relatively modest They become highly sophisticated The fireplace The hood is often The Lord's coat of arms, and richly carved decorations, What is surprising as in archaeology, very early on, particularly There are examples in castles There are always latrines in castles. Then there's the preparation of meals, So a whole organization and layout Water is a vital necessity Indispensable to everyday life, it is even more so The fortress must be autonomous. Perched on a rocky spur. It has cisterns where rainwater through a layer of pebbles and sand. On the plain, which is another element The wealthiest lords homes or pipes bringing in spring water, sometimes from several kilometers. Such is the case in Vincennes, The water is piped directly from springs three kilometers to the north, thanks to the difference in level. The precious liquid before being distributed The 50 meter keep, surrounded by a wall and a moat, 1200 meters long. Typical of early 15th century the moat is 11 meters deep The walls are on a series of cornices Built during these fortifications are typical during which the conflict between went through several During this interminable conflict, the art of war and military architecture. Gunpowder. At the end of the 14th century, numerous pieces of artillery appear The spread of artillery to the curtain walls By firing stone cannonballs from a tube, which are smaller You can breach a wall just as effectively, So the castle wall also has to adapt At first they just enlarge the arrow loops with embrasures Then they gradually start to design towers If the first stone cannonballs aren't the appearance of cast iron balls in the mid 15th century changes things because their These are balls that breach walls. Instead of smashing on the walls, The strongest, most powerful cannons Throughout the 15th century, the fortifications start The fortresses become sometimes more than 10 meters thick, of the new artillery. Castles will now be built that's increasingly powerful, using balls weighing up to 200 pounds, and 42 centimeters in diameter, or made entirely of cast iron. Adjusting the dosage of gunpowder From now on, on any point of the ramparts That's really the end At the end of the 15th century, In New Aquitaine, Bonaguil Castle, by a megalomaniac lord will benefit from the development of artillery. A massive outer wall called a Barbican an almond shaped keep More than 100 canon ports in the walls and protected and the base of the ramparts. Castles adopting these architectural forms with these very big artillery towers Faith in castles remain strong, are very different They're increasingly buried breaching their outer walls. The fortress of Salses, at the foot of the Pyrenees Built at the end of the 15th century it defends the border with France. Its general design is highly innovative of which Vauban is one Salses is an example of a caesura. It's the end of the castle. We can no longer speak even if it retains some of the features. It's already a citadel. It has big artillery towers, and is defended by cannons which are bunkers with ventilation systems so that the gunners aren't poisoned It's very solid. We're evolving towards forms The wall walk has also been designed and the horseshoe shaped towers are detached from the fortress The walls widened at their base and sunk into the moat from direct hits by attackers, with only the part needed by the artillery The moats are protected by gun ports In elevation, There are no tall towers. The towers are buried. There are very thick walls against which rather than shatter the masonry. So we have buried fortifications. The beginning of what will be called a staggering of the defenses. There are several lines of defense. The cannons are pushed back a long way, is no longer that of a medieval castle. The Fortress of Salses Castles will disappear from the landscape Their decline also symbolizes The castle's demise Peace within the Kingdom of France. Once the Hundred Years War there are still religious wars, for defended castles. So the emergence of royalty, gradually pacifies the territory. And the castles in their most Once more the doing of the prince The castle is transformed into a palace, its architectural splendors symbolizing Chambord built from 1519, is a perfect example. When you visit Chambord, one of the greatest castles it's not a fortified It's a castle in its own right. Some defensive attributes have been kept, such as the keep, But they become decorative, Yes, Chambord is a royal residence Superb castles to which the king Leonardo da Vinci stayed in these castles at the request It's a completely different context. These are areas that are At the same time, the kings continue Henry IV has several demolished to a void. As he says, they're being used This says it all. The castles and all powerful lords Much of the life of nobles close to their sovereign, at court. And Louie XIII. will continue their work of demolition. Louie XIII, Louie XIV, Richelieu, are all great destroyers the religious wars There's a desire to bring down which are also the symbols Often it was enough to dismantle In other cases, and the stones used elsewhere. During the revolution, all the symbols The castles were abandoned. Some were used as quarries for romantic ruins. In the 19th century, or lugubrious. Under the pen of the romantic writers, around the moss covered ruins the vision of an idealized The fairy tale castle onto lithographs and paintings. In the 19th century, discover not only castles, and have a very romantic The Middle Ages becomes because some well-to-do families and then neo-Gothic castles. From 1837, the year in which was created in France, Castles are restored just like Pierrefonds in the Oise, of the romantic fashion. Dismantled by order of Louis the 13th, by the architect Viollet-le-Duc from 1857. It's a royal construction of royal castle architecture. But at the same time, and take into account the restorations, including its reinterpretation It has to be read in two ways. Viollet-le-Duc was a real genius. On the outside, of the superstructure And inside he showed It's a perfect balance and a creation who was also an art These imposing ruins, for the aristocracy, who wants to turn it The architect, Violet-le-Duc, of the Middle Ages to it. This building is a fusion freely inspired by the medieval period. Double ramparts, watchtowers, the keep and the castles eight towers, rub shoulders with strangely shaped and labyrinthine corridors. It has a gothic side It's very gory, very Dracula. It's part of our contemporary imagination, which comes from At the same time, Violet-le-Duc of the 19th century of the Middle Ages. A bit like Chateaubriand. It was our roots. A sense of honor, a sense of nation, All of this is part of the same fantasy. And there's this desire but also castles like Pierrefonds, that the Middle Ages which has probably produced we've ever had in the West, There are 500 years condensed into a building than historical reality. Pierrefonds is a neo-Gothic decor For half a millennium, whose beauty, complexity fascinate us still. They are witnesses of an era These buildings will remain forever their architectural majesty they provide still arouses the public's curiosity. Proof that castles