Hello friends I am Lalit vashishtha. If you want deep understanding and visualization to the 11th dimension, then you have come As you will continue watching this video you dimensions are there according to different and what is the geometrical structure of higher In this Video I will also explain why we are we might be living in higher dimensions unknowingly dimensions would possess. So please watch the video till the end as will be answered in this video. First of all let's understand what we mean Dimension of a point is defined as the minimum that point in it. For example, to specify a sheet of paper we Therefore it is a two dimensional object. But to specify a cube in space 3 coordinates Therefore we call it a three dimensional object. Now we will discuss, how many dimensions are According to classical physics there are 3 and one dimension is of time. String theory requires 10 dimensions but as In Bosonic string theory spacetime is 26 dimensional. But now the Question arises, if there are are not able to perceive them. Why we cannot feel the presence of higher Actually We might be living in higher dimensions But because of the limitations of our brain them. According to some researches extra dimensions This scale is so small that we can not see technologies. As we live in a three dimensional world, it's higher dimensions. There is a process known as compactification, On changing our reference frame and going dimensions. Let me explain it with the help of a simple Suppose we are looking at a rope from some From this distance we will see only one dimension Now Imagine that an ant is crawling onto the So from the frame of reference of ant, the it's breadth and thickness also along with The ant can also feel the grooves and roughness If we go to microscopic level and see from see a whole new world of 3 dimensional atoms around it in 3 dimensional space. On going further into the microscopic level strings are vibrating in 11 dimensions. Everything in this universe is made up of to string theory. So now you can understand how we can find Friends now I will discuss every dimension, dimension. zeroth dimension- of an object in the zeroth dimension. Example of zeroth dimension is a point. Lets imagine someone is living in the zeroth nor any shape. He can not move in any direction like forward, zeroth dimension is the basis of all the higher First dimension dimension i.e. length. A straight line is an example of first dimensional We can get straight line by joining two points. A one Dimensional being can move only in a It cannot move in other dimensions like left, Second Dimension (2D) dimensional or 2D objects are flat shapes. Some common examples of two dimensional shapes As the name denotes, two dimensional objects There is no third dimension of height or depth. Therefore these objects are flat figures having If someone is living in two dimensions, then without being able to move in up or down directions. He will not have any idea of the third dimension Can you imagine what will happen when a 3 two dimensional being? Let's understand it with an interesting example. Suppose a two dimensional being present in apple entering into his flatland world on of the flatlander. But as we know a two dimensional being cannot So how would that 3 dimensional apple look He can not see the Apple untill it touches flatland and he cannot see anything which world. but as the Apple just touches the plane, he of contact of the Apple to the plane. Now as the Apple goes below his plane world, and the size of the circle is maximum when the plane and then the circle size becomes it disappears for him. It means the 2 dimensional being sees only is cut by his 2 dimensional plane at that So for a person living in a particular dimension, appear from nowhere, may change shapes and It may appear supernatural or kind of magic higher dimensional object it's nothing special. It just moves in dimensions that are not perceived Third dimension (3D) objects we enter into the world of three dimensions. This third dimension is of height. Therefore to represent three dimensional or breadth and height. As we have Already discussed that two dimensional volume. But three dimensional objects are solid objects Some common daily life examples of three dimensional We live in a three dimensional world. This is the reason we can move in forward, as we have full control over the three dimensions Fourth dimension A four Dimensional being can move freely in It would have full control over time. He would be able to move in any desired direction Suppose you are living in a four dimensional point in time in past and change your decisions. Now I will explain higher dimensions with you can understand the basic difference between First start with the fourth dimension, But we humans are 3 dimensional beings, therefore of space but we are forced to move only in as we are three dimensional beings. But if we consider the fourth dimension from is a 4 dimensional object. It is also called a tesseract. The relationship between a hypercube and a So in simple terms a hypercube or tesseract As a cube has 6 square faces, in the same consists of 8 cubical cells. Fifth dimension (5th dimension) time in different ways. A fifth dimensional being can move either He would have all the powers that are possessed But he would also be able to be present at It would also be possible for him to do many Actually Parallel universes exist in this you can I have careers in different fields. In this case, you will have another versions be living their lives independently. They would have separate timelines for the Their lives in different parallel universes It means their lives will change as per the universes. But one limitation of fifth dimension is that using shortcuts to another timeline of parallel I will explain all these things using our Sixth Dimension (6th dimension) that a person living in 5th dimension has Parallel universes exist also in the 6th dimension. A six dimensional being can see all the presents, But one limitation of the sixth dimension the same beginning (initial conditions) that Like in the fifth dimension, in the sixth, careers of your choice and your multiple versions universes. As I already discussed, one problem with the self version in another parallel universe But the sixth dimension is free from this You can easily jump from the timeline of your of any parallel universe. Now I will try to explain this with the same Seventh Dimension of universes. A seventh dimensional being can have infinite to any other universe. All the powers are possessed by a 7th dimensional The seventh dimension is free from the limitations The 7th dimensional universes may have originated And a person living in the seventh dimension able to move freely between all the infinite These infinite number of universes may have not just the big bang. Eighth Dimension possible presents, pasts and futures for all and all these infinite universes extend upto String Theory says in the eighth dimension You may think of it analogous to our digital but only can see or hear them. They can change shapes, size and appear or So it may be somewhat similar to the virtual Ninth Dimension ninth dimension. It is possible for the universes in the ninth and separate conditions and probabilities You will be surprised to know that in the may live simultaneously at the same place. These coexisting civilizations may not see The ninth dimensional being would have mind That being would be capable of going to any any infinite number of universes. He would have no physical form and would be of the universes. Tenth dimension powers. He would be able to do the things that are He would be able to control even the spacetime number of universes. So what would you call that 10th dimensional I think we can call him The God!!! Some researches also suggest that God lives Now I will discuss the 11th dimension Eleventh dimension: the superstring theory was introduced. Therefore to answer these questions, eleventh We can observe only three dimensions of space It is not possible for us to observe higher or curled up. According to superstring theory, everything and infinitely small vibrating loops called Even the subatomic particles are made up of subatomic particle is because of the manner It is interesting to note that, frequency for the mass of the particle. But the string theory does not answer two these tiny strings are made of and where they Size of the strings is of the order of 10(-33) This This is many times smaller than the diameter 10^-33 cm is actually millionth of a billionth a billionth of a billionth of a centimeter. I know Without giving an analogy our brains is. If we increase the size of an atom up to the size of the string would be just equal to a tree. My dear friends this was all 11 dimensions. I hope I could answer most of your questions Your valuable ideas and discussion on dimensions this video. If you want more details about any dimension please feel free to write in the comments. I will try my best to create a video on that Friends if you think that the video was interesting the video and for more videos hit the subscribe don't miss my new videos. And finally thank you so much for watching See you soon in the next video. Bye bye.