Anyone can learn a move, right? Like when you're walking you can lift up You know make it sassy--Yes! Like sassy! Sassy! Lexy's got sass, Lexy's all sass. This is Kristan Ann Ware. Sassy, I'm whipping it, sassy! She knew joining the Miami Dolphins meant But she wasn't prepared for what else she'd They say you're only special in the voice doesn't matter, you're here to perform They intimidate you into silence--but, I It's the best job in the world. Cheerleading. An iconic American pastime. Some love it, others think it's an image-obsessed It's a topic far removed from my day-to-day But growing up as a soccer player, they were What I looked like on the field never mattered, it could mean the difference of whether or So there's a big difference in this, Sideline Prep is a pro-cheer consulting company Teaching the tricks of the trade from her What's most important: definitely nutrition the importance of your appearance. But when did appearance become so important Cheerleading in the early 1900s was a male-only During World War II, women took over when stepping it up with gymnastics and acrobatics. It was in the 1970s that Dallas Cowboy owner, boost ticket sales by making cheerleading Skin tight outfits, suggestive dance moves Today, professional cheer is as much about For these women it's all part of the game, at the gym and mastering moves. We work so hard for years just for one audition. It's about the experience, it's about I love the glam. I love the feeling of putting on my makeup and seeing myself in the mirror. I just love it. From their moves to their makeup, every last Whatever it takes to land a coveted spot on Women want to become professional cheerleaders that they already have. Professional level is the next step for them. Yay! That was so good! But recent headlines are shining new light it is to exploitation. A new lawsuit against the Raiders. Two Raiderettes say that they were humiliated They're not even paid for quite a bit of An entire reform on how professional cheerleaders She and her lawyer are calling on the NFL Kristan Ann Ware is currently filing a claim against the NFL and her former Miami Dolphin's cheer and religious beliefs. She says that once her team discovered her singling her out and attacking her. It all came to a head in her third season Usually in the interviews they talk about in choreography, what they expect of you, of my job was talked about during that interview. And I went in and sat down and the first thing about your vow to wait for marriage.&quot; I was, I don't know, I remember the feeling-- to sweat, your knee caps start to shake, your told me, this isn't right. What happened after your interview? They asked me to change into a bikini to see if I was calendar ready. Which was usual. It was never a problem I was attacked for something so personal and into a bikini and stand in front of them--I I remember looking in the mirror and just &quot;Kristan, you can leave, you can walk out right now.&quot; And I didn't. Kristan Ann was used to being critiqued on For her, what crossed the line was feeling This kind of treatment is pervasive across Bailey Davis, a former New Orleans sensation photo deemed too sexy. Members of the 2013 Washington Redskins cheer at a photoshoot while male sponsors watched. And former Houston Texans cheerleader, Gabriella Davis, alleges that she and her teammates were called "crack whores" and "jelly bellies." I have not spoken to a cheerleader, not one, told all the time that they are not special, and there's a million girls that would take Sara Blackwell is a lawyer representing Kristan who are taking on the NFL. It sounds to me like they just want to completely They have a lot of control over these women and making them feel worthless. You are told that you are only here to be Your opinion doesn't matter, your voice Why would they say things like that? I think it's the ownership and Not only when you're in the uniform and you're at your job, but when you're away from it. Sara gave me access to some of the cheerleaders' I saw guidelines for everything. Love life, social media, and appearance. The rules for dealing with players reveal are told to avoid players at all costs. But the players are free to do what they want. This is extreme gender discrimination, and text the cheerleaders, they can call the cheerleaders, media, but if the cheerleaders even accept They say it's for the girls' protection, Perhaps the best indicator of how much they're valued is how much they're paid. I used to be a Cincinnati Bengal, but I was NFL cheerleader. It didn't take long for Alexa Brenneman, the Cincinnati Bengals, to realize she was You're expected to pay for your nails, you're have to have a gym membership, stay in shape. But we were paid around $100 per game. I added up our practices, our trainings, our hours and it's less than $3.00 an hour. Alexa filed a lawsuit against the Cincinnati to back pay and to raise salaries to meet As these lawsuits come about, women are starting to change. Alexa's case shows that it's possible Still, there's a long way to go. Today, what cheerleaders are paid is less the mascots, less than the concession stand I was curious to know what GeNienne Samuels, thought of everything I'd learned. A lot of cheerleaders that we've spoken quiet was this idea of, you're easily replaceable, The concept of feeling as though you are easily It's also valid as a reporter, as an anchor, and just part of reality. And I would hope that women don't allow voicing concerns or problems that they may Cheerleading has been my life. As a child it was my outlet. We're in it because we love it, because There are so many younger girls tone for them and show them that this is an While some have used the lawsuits as part the women leading the charge see an opportunity A chance to be included in the conversation. I'm just speaking out to make a positive What it's gonna take is a team of women and say, we're not going to tolerate this What do you hope happens with the NFL? They need to say, &quot;I hear you,&quot; to the cheerleaders and &quot;we're gonna take effective and real steps to make this a very professional and And if their voices are heard it could transform Thanks for watching Refinery29. For more videos like this, click here. And to subscribe, click here.