I'm not an urban planner, but I play one on TV. So you might ask, "Why do you run a &quot;urban planning and And I would say, &quot;What a coincidence!&quot; &quot;That's the topic of this video." I grew up in a car-dependent, car-infested city called London. To avoid confusion on this channel, I usually refer to it as sometimes something derogatory. By the time I was a teenager, I was pretty bored of Fake London, so I wanted to get out and see the rest of the world. So while I was in university, I took advantage of internships to live in several different as well as in the During this time, I also drove across the and across Canada once. And I stayed in dozens of Apart from some minor differences, all of these places There's an overwhelming sameness between almost all cities primarily due to their In the end, I decided to live in This was a place that but I didn't really I just knew I liked it a lot Incidentally, when I lived in downtown Toronto, I was able to easily live car-free, and this allowed me to save a huge amount of money After the dot-com crash of 2000, &quot;Pets.com.&quot; &quot;Because pets can't drive!&quot; &quot;Oh, yeah!&quot; &quot;Ooh, this is my kind of party.&quot; I was laid off from my and I was left unemployed When I finally did find a job, it was at a significantly lower salary than what I was earning before. There's simply no way I could have if I had to own a car to buy food, to apply for to go to job interviews, and to go to work. This is one of the reasons towards car-dependent places. Because they are with thousands of dollars per year for the costs of an automobile, just so that they can work This is fundamentally wrong. Nobody should have to own a car, just to participate in society. And designing a city is criminal. But what really opened my eyes is when I got a job that Suddenly I was being sent to the U.K., Germany, Taiwan, Japan, and all over the United States. I started realizing that there was a whole world of interesting and they weren't all the same or the Bay Area. During this time, I travelled excessively, for both personal and business trips. There was a period of I wasn't in the same time zone for One thing this insane amount was the opportunity to see all over the world. I wasn't going places as a tourist, I was going to where people I was taking local trains in Tokyo, I was stuck in rush-hour I was taking the S-Bahn in Berlin, I was taking taxis to remote And I was going between these on a nearly weekly basis. It was amazing to me to see how different all of these cities were, and the different ways but at the time I never why this was the case. Like most people, I assumed it was for due to the weather because I was completely That all changed during a trip to Houston. I was in the middle of an These are discounted tickets for but you need to travel only (always East,) (or always West) until you've flown all the way around the world. For most of my trip, I had taken public transportation in but I had been to Houston I needed to rent a car. However, I had met up with some so we shared one car We had a day off on Sunday, and When I was unpacking I noticed that my suitcase so I searched for a Thankfully, there was No problem! I decided to walk there. That, was a terrible, terrible mistake. I exited the hotel to find that it was on a street with no sidewalks. None at all. So I crossed through It is disturbingly common to find places without any sidewalks but I had grown up so I was used to it. As I got out to the main road, there was a sidewalk. I didn't know it at the time, but this road was what a street that is designed like a road, and in doing so, is expensive, inefficient, and dangerous. This walk was pretty uncomfortable. The weather was nice, but there were no trees The landscape was boring and All of the businesses I passed were far in the distance, behind giant parking lots, and the signs were all oversized, and only meant to be In a place like this, you're walking next to polluted air and the constant noise And you always need to be alert for any cars going in as drivers are only looking they are not looking for pedestrians. And in America, if you're hit by a car. Stoplights are long and And because cars can turn right you have to be hyper-aware This is the kind of that people who think is acceptable. But then I got to this spot ended. No warning. No alternative. It was just... gone. But there was a well-trodden so I followed it to this bridge, where there was... nothing. As I shimmied along the curb next to the guardrail, with high-speed cars and I thought about how I was balancing on a while crossing a 28-metre bridge with 7 lanes of car traffic. There was no consideration given and there was no other alternative for people walking. At that moment, I decided that, if I lived through this walk, I wanted to live in a place of a place like this. When I made it to the other side, there was also no sidewalk, of course. And I crossed through to get to the luggage shop. Needless to say, I took a cab back to the hotel. Yeah. I took a taxi, to go 800 meters. In the United States, over 45% of car trips Less than 5 kilometers. That's insane. Europeans assume because &quot;they're fat and lazy&quot;, but it's not. It's because these trips simply can't be done any other way. When I got back to my hotel, I started reading about I learned about car-dependency and I learned about walkability. And I learned about how these and how some places have not just for motor vehicles. One of the things is that the desolate I had visited in the U.S. and Canada weren't always this way. I was told that these because they were That's not true. They weren't designed for the car, they were bulldozed for the car. Look at these pictures of my This city is beautiful. Now it looks like this. This is a picture of No, it wasn't bombed. They did this to themselves. This used to be a that was just as good as And they destroyed it. When you see a place like this, you think the developers must but literally everything you see, right down to the colour of the paint are defined in some And those regulations are to make places that by car. This is entirely by design, and it's entirely by choice. It didn't need to be this way, and it doesn't need to stay this way. And THAT is why I became interested in urban planning. My walk in Houston was terrible experience I would have but it was the most memorable. And I have absolutely zero for this kind of car-centric, I clearly wasn't the only person who as proven by the path in the grass. You can see people walking In a place like this, if you're too poor to drive a car, then you're literally forgotten about. And this situation hasn't which is why I was able There's no excuse for this. If you have enough room then you have enough or a bicycle path. This is what a 28-metre in Amsterdam. It has a sidewalk, and a two-way bicycle path on both sides of the road. And yeah, this area in Houston almost 30 kilometers but that's no excuse. The area is lined with many of which are staffed In America, housing prices are talked about a lot, but the most important metric is housing PLUS How are these employees Do they all need to drive? Can they even afford to do that? Here's what an industrial park looks like in the Netherlands. The street is only 2 lanes wide, and there's a beautiful that can be used for people North Americans balk at designing pedestrian and anywhere but in busy downtowns. But here, employees of the nearby can use these safe paths to get to and from work, and for other trips like There is always a long list as to why nobody walks or But that's what they are: excuses. The real reason is that comfortable, or safe to walk or cycle in a place like this. Yeah, the weather or there might be hills, but don't you think that this guy Houston is one of the worst For my Dutch viewers, if Amsterdam were as then a circle including Alkmaar, Leiden, Utrecht, and Lelystad would all be connected by There is a right way and a wrong way to design a city, and this is decidedly the wrong way, for so many reasons. And by the way, the barbeque joints but the best brisket was at Mighty Quinn's. And you know where New York City. &quot;New York City!?&quot; &quot;Get a rope.&quot; But the sad part is, Houston is not even the and the city is actually doing than many other U.S. cities. For example, Houston recently deployed a literally overnight, and it has led to Streetfilms made an excellent They're really great. Bravo to Houston Metro Houston has been installing And the city has removed for 2 downtown neighbourhoods, in an attempt to mixed-use downtown. Speaking of mixed-use, it is a common myth that It's true that the city does not but they have lots such as minimum minimum lot sizes, and other regulations that cities would And they also have city-enforced deed restrictions that limit what you can build on that allows, for example, only single-family homes to be In short, Houston has all of the worst they just don't call it 'zoning'. City Beautiful has a if you're interested in learning more. But despite all the work Houston has a very, very, very long way to go. The city recently completed that is called a "protected Does this look It is the intersection of and it literally has high-speed so that they can bypass the Slip lanes are insanely It's absolutely ridiculous that engineers would in a place that's supposedly and being billed as I mean, I guess it's better than walking through the grass and But come on! This is what counts as And of course, Houston is also home the widest freeway In 2011, 2.2 billion dollars was spent widening the highway and as a result, travel times out of by up to 30%. This is a massive sum of money that could have been better or other alternatives to driving that are proven to reduce car traffic, but instead it was used as an of induced demand. And no lessons have The city and state are 7 billion dollars on This project will demolish 4 religious buildings, 2 schools, 168 homes, 1,067 multifamily units, and 331 businesses that employ almost 25,000 people. It is literally never-ending. It's often said that the truth about a city's aspirations isn't found in its vision, it's found in its budget. So despite the millions spent that somehow also include Houston is spending billions and is fully addicted I just... don't know how caused by a place How does this ever Financially or environmentally? And to me, the most sad part is that people who have grown up don't see a problem with this. To them, restricting cars is literally taking away their freedom, because they have become that they are incapable that it is possible to not only do you not need to drive, you won't even want to drive, and that lifestyle can be better in almost every way. My travels gave me every major city in most of them multiple times. And as a result, I have absolutely no desire to go back to any of them. But those experiences shaped and they're what ultimately moving to the Netherlands, the country that has the And hey, if Houston weren't so terrible, we never would have this thanks, Houston! I owe you one. I'd like to thank my who pay me to relive If you'd like to support the channel, and get access to bonus videos, visit Patreon.com/notjustbikes.