This is Mitchell Hall, one of the largest mass 4,000 cadets eat here at the same time, and get But how US Air Force Academy manages seat and why these cadets look so serious and why all branches of military serve half-rats and which US military branch has the Navy solved the problem of food allergies On weekdays, cadets at the US Air Force are required to dine in Mitchell Hall for Since recruits have extremely regimented between classes for meals. This means that they hall and a mere 20 minutes to eat. That's why The solution to feeding 4,000 hungry cadets in 1.7 acre dining area that hosts 400 tables with but the plan to feed this hungry bunch started finalized. On any given day everyone receives the with dietary restrictions are also available. loading docks, and is then transferred to a 13,500 routine begins. Preparations for lunch begin as these giant 100 gallon kettles, while others are be it meatballs or salad, they're put on trays, In order for the food to be served quickly, bread, beverages and salad are set on the tables the tables prior to the cadets' arriving. wait staff have 5 minutes to deliver hot lunch is served family style. This includes 10 the table by cadets. Passing the food around which is the whole point of serving lunch family calories and female cadets consume 3000 calories compared to the civilian population, is Now, you don't have to join the Air Force Academy thanks to CookUnity who is sponsoring this video, They don't ship you frozen meals, nor your own meals. What gets delivered from dozens of award-winning chefs. Each and if you don't have the time, CookUnity will This is chef Stacey Bareng's pulled pork This one is chef Ruben And how about chef Chase Evans's chicken stick it in the microwave and enjoy! Yeah, that's not my sexy voice, is it? and I'm going to keep ordering more That's Jared, one of our team members But because they currently only ship I couldn't try the meals myself, so Jared Menus are updated weekly and new chefs are always always find new favorite meals to choose from. restaurant quality meals delivered to go to cookunity.com/nwyt50 or click the NWYT50 to get 50% off your first CookUnity A unique aspect of Air Force Academy's dining Cadets are seated by squadron, and each table is helm of the table, acting as "table commandant". contrails, ask you to pass utensils to everyone or of the cadets are seated as they progress down the foot of the table. Freshmen are nicknamed doolies, context, their job is to pour beverages and pass they still get a little bit of time to eat which to someone like me looks extremely serious with questions by upperclassmen during their meal, to be yelled at non-stop, and a word of advice, memorizing it immediately. Contrails is a small the history of the Air Force. It also won't be of your upperclassmen and women. Expect more of you reach your senior year can you be somewhat if you want to, because you've earned it!. But and be seated efficiently and quickly, is an The preparation to get into the dining hall begins line up numerically by squadron at 11:30 in the as they march across the Terrazzo into Mitchell Drum &amp; Bugle Corps. It's quite a show for the noon meal formation dates back to 1905 when troops prior to lunch, to make sure that this was the most efficient way to The US Air Force Academy is not the only US Naval Academy and the West Point Military seated. At West Point, three meals per day are where 4,000 cadets eat their meal in the Naval Academy gather every weekday at midshipmen. They get 25 minutes to have their You might be wondering which Academy has the experience, but I do know that similar dietary branches, and the budget allowance in the Air West Point. But how is the military's Enlisted sailors aboard a warship eat at the eat at the wardroom which has better seating chiefs have it the best. The chief's the best food on the ships. This to order their own food and get all the A unique aspect of dining on US Navy ships is have no allergies to the food. That's because into the program in the first place. While it the Navy with a food allergy, it is very other branches. That's because it's difficult to underway. Not to mention that it would be nearly not be cross-contaminated with allergens. As the Naval Academy doesn't even bother catering That said, the US Navy does cater night shifts. Midrats stand for Midnight midnight for those who are starting one. Midrats are more often than There's also half rats and double rats, recruits who are at the bootcamp of any you will receive half the rations, or half rats, you may receive double rations, or double rats. Speaking of bootcamps, if you are in the US you eat at Dining Facilities Administration between locations, it's generally compared to a because when you're starving, food tastes you won't have much time to taste it, door to door. That said, recruits don't also consume their MREs while in the field. all the food is color coded as part of a called Go For Green. All the healthy stuff like bread would be yellow, and the good stuff ... With all this said, which branch gets the has the best food out of all the branches. Force really focuses on the quality of life most branches transfer their personnel to gain more experience and shuffle talent excellence don't stay in one place. homesteading, that is keeping their personnel at in savings that could be invested into better based on my online research, so if you have first