Nara City, Nara Prefecture, Hannya-ji-cho 8:39 Good morning. Owner Mr. Hiroki Nakabayashi, 46 years old 8:51 Making the hamburger patty mixture Minced beef and pork, ground twice Add water mix it together vigorously the hamburger patty is complete The amount of water changes depending on the meat, so I'm making it a little firmer today demi-glace sauce Western-style food, heading towards spring Mr. Nakabayashi is from Kitakyushu The restaurant we went to at the time was delicious the next day, I went to that restaurant and asked if I could train there It's a Western-style restaurant and if all goes well, even the fourth generation There aren't any restaurants where four generations can eat the same thing, are there? I want to create a restaurant like that where four generations can eat together. Konando-cho, Nara City, Nara Prefecture Western-style cuisine Haru (Spring) arrived Opened in 2011 Under preparation The old private house has been renovated. Making miso soup miso miso soup is ready Cooking the rice 'Spring rice' Cooking rice has begun! (demi-glace sauce) This is the basic base Add more of the stuff you made Finish the demi-glace sauce Put it on the heat. Stir it repeatedly so it doesn't burn. Strain the demi-glace sauce The demi-glace sauce is complete I put eggs in the fridge until it's full. They're all gone in an instant. There's quite a lot. There's quite a lot today. Preparing the fried prawns Using big prawns Coat each one carefully Finished preparing the prawns Making fried beans Fried beans complete 9:44 Good morning Making the hamburger patties Pushing out the air with one hand to shape them Give it a grill mark Cook it thoroughly I'll grill three more. The juicy hamburger steak is done! Purple cabbage Cabbage shreds Finished shredding the cabbage The rice is cooked Okay Carrying the eggs Warm the iron plate Eggs The teppan is ready The potatoes are boiled Frying the potatoes Everything is handmade, from peeling the potatoes Hashed potatoes for the staff meal Potatoes are complete hash browns are done (staff) What's the most popular menu item? Fried prawns and hamburger steak 90% After studying abroad After returning like students on graduation trips or I can come out when I'm called on You're good at this. Hamburg steak for the staff. Basil tartar sauce It's homemade The one we sell in jars is Homemade tartar sauce I've had coffee. After the meal, And we buy it from a bean shop. The coffee smells nice. 10:45 Preparing before opening Two minutes before opening 10:58 Put on the apron Okay, let's open it! Please. Let's do our best! Thank you for waiting. I'll show you the way. Please follow me. 11:00 Opening Michelin-starred restaurant Total 23 seats The garden can be viewed from the tatami room There are also table seats Haru-dore 819 yen Fried prawns &amp; hamburger steak (rice + miso soup) 2400 yen Fried prawns with head (rice + miso soup) 2000 yen Customers start coming in one after another as soon as the store opens. Welcome! The white one is basil, and the brown one is pickled vegetables With a set order, the salad and tartar sauce are Waiting for the hamburger while eating the salad Making the fried prawns and hamburger Light the grill Fry the prawns While they are frying, prepare the rice and miso soup Pour on the demi-glace sauce Add the fried prawns and it's done! This is the fried prawns and hamburger steak! The teppan is extremely hot! Yes, I'm sorry to have kept you waiting. It's sizzling. The hot hamburger steak is delicious. Thank you for waiting. The teppan is extremely hot. It's got a nostalgic flavor that makes you feel warm inside. It's delicious. Two men and two women have come to the store. This is pork cutlet. It's prawn cutlet and hamburger steak. A set with a generous portion! It's delicious! It's juicy! The juice comes out. It's the best! (Staff) What is the special feature of the hamburger steak? It's my favorite. We don't use chemical seasonings, salt or pepper. I wonder if it'll be different tasting beef for the first time. It's not like anywhere else Welcome! Two new customers, four customers in total Three orders for the prawn and hamburger steak set 11:21 Cooking non-stop The hamburger steak with the rich demi-glace sauce goes really well with rice... It's freshly made and really delicious! The meat is tender, too. It has a relaxed atmosphere It's an atmosphere where you can enjoy your meal slowly. They frequently refill the water. Three family members come to the restaurant One group is waiting The hamburg steak is delicious! I put a fried egg on top of the white rice I'm going to gobble this up I hope you're full now Regular customer I usually order prawn cutlets as a single dish It's meaty but tender, I think. It goes down smoothly. The one with pickled vegetables is sweet and delicious! Even children can eat it with peace of mind! I finished it all in one go! The rush of customers leaving! There's a sense of healing, like being back at home. Customers with their children Fried prawns and hamburger steak Making fried chicken Fried prawns and hamburgers are ready! Fried chicken is ready! Rice service The rice is too good with the hamburger steak! The hamburger steak is full of juice! It's delicious! The roof is high, and so on. The old-fashioned feel is really relaxing. Quickly tidy up Welcome! There are 6 of us, 3 adults and 3 children. The whole family has come to the restaurant to enjoy their favorite hamburgers. Fried prawns &amp; hamburger steak Salad Making the jumbo hamburger steak Cooking the jumbo hamburger steak slowly Fried prawns are done! Chicken cutlet Chicken cutlet is done. This is the chicken cutlet and the headless prawn cutlet. I'll put it in the middle. Fried prawns and hamburger steak are done. The giant hamburger steak is complete! Thank you! It looks delicious! The hamburger party has begun! It's delicious! Jumbo hamburger! The kids are really satisfied! My stomach and heart are full... Customers keep coming in one after another Cold beer is delicious in summer! Cold beer is delicious in summer! First, I'll quench my thirst with a beer Ah, it's delicious! The plate of meat has arrived The meat has a strong flavor and is delicious! There's a different kind of deliciousness to it than eating at home! Preparing the rice The prawn cutlet and hamburger steak are ready for the customer The hamburger steak arrives in no time at all! The pork cutlet is deep-fried Pork cutlet is done! (Sesame) grind it and put it in here (sauce) The pork cutlet is the perfect match for the sesame sauce! The rice goes down too well! Two people, a man and a woman, come into the restaurant. Chicken cutlet This is the chicken cutlet. They nod in agreement at the taste, which is even better than they imagined. A hearty minced pork cutlet This is the best demi-glace sauce It's not too rich, so you can eat it all up in one go It's delicious! (Tartare) It's got an egg-like flavor Even modern girls are full up. First, take a bite of the piping hot hamburger steak. The taste of hamburgers from long ago Sipping down a juicy hamburger with a beer The taste that makes you want to come back again and again After eating, you can take a breather while looking at the garden The story of when his wife had a stroke (His wife) woke up in the morning and collapsed it was a case of life or death. he was saved, but he didn't regain consciousness, so I was in a vegetative state and they were deciding whether to keep me alive or not suddenly regained consciousness like a miracle (Hospital life) He always brought me sweets. Thank you for the meal. Thank you A moment of happiness in spring The taste of memories that linger on The dishes are cleared away quickly 12:54 Shrimp and hamburger steak set and a la carte Preparing the teppan for the next customer Carrot green beans We use black tiger prawns The fried prawns are crispy. The aroma of the demi-glace sauce wafts through the air. Fried prawns and hamburger steak set 2400 yen The meat juice gushes out. The meat is so delicious. I take a sip of miso soup to cool down. Big-sized fried prawns! The meat is packed in tightly There are two types of tartar sauce: basil and pickled vegetables. The runny fried egg is a nice touch. The home-made rice is delicious! Thank you very much We look forward to seeing you again. Thank you very much. I cut my hand when I was 27 years old. I was working in Kitakyushu, serving Western food. The director of the hospital was from Nara. He cut off my arm I didn't give up and kept eating and drinking. When I was about to cut off my hand, he told me that spring would definitely come. I was given those words and I believed them and cut off my arm The name of the shop is also 'Haru'. My next goal is I'm going to work on supporting employment for people with disabilities. The original cause was a fly flying around when I tried to cut it with a knife, it stung my hand and I got a nervous disorder It's like losing an arm because of a single fly. If I hadn't been injured, I would have stopped eating and drinking. On the contrary, I learned words like "thank you" and "I'm grateful" there. I learned those words there. Moving on to the affiliated cafe Western-style food 3 minutes on foot from Haru Cafe Haru An old folk house cafe that retains the old-fashioned charm of the past You can enjoy a relaxing cup of coffee while looking at the garden This is a cafe that has been renovated from an old private house, isn't it? The specialty of Kitakyushu is grilled curry is the main dish here. Back to spring The last customer of the day Excuse me Thank you for your hard work. Cheers! Take a big gulp Making fried prawns and hamburgers Carefully pouring the demi-glace sauce over the food and top it with the fried prawns to complete it! Western-style food that's too good to be true! Itadakimasu The smell of old-fashioned Western-style restaurants The texture is interesting too. It's really gentle. You don't get this kind of flavor very often these days. I think it's delicious. The rice is delicious too. I don't often get to eat prawns this size I'm genuinely happy We put a thin batter on them I want people to know how delicious prawns are. So I'm looking at the customers' faces to see if they're happy with their food. while looking at the leftovers looking at the leftovers I have love for you. I'm hot. I've been saying that for a while now. Thank you. The last customer leaves the store 15:32 - business hours end The daily cleaning begins The sparkling kitchen Drying dishes Wiping the menu It's finished. A workplace with a homely atmosphere The set meal of fried prawns and hamburger steak is the best! I was surprised at how delicious it was! I was surprised at how delicious it was! Today's meal is fried rice Making fried rice Chopping meat frying the meat soy sauce Put the eggs in a separate frying pan Rice green onion Fried rice is complete The man's meal! Green onion I'll fill the bowls for three people. It's delicious! The meal is ready! I'll have it. It's delicious! 16:50 Good work! Good work! Everyone goes home together The owner goes to his favorite kushitenya I look back on the day with the master. He says that spring will definitely come. There's love It's hot We are particular about making everything by hand We followed "Yoshoku Haru", a restaurant that gives its customers inspiration and courage. Osaka Prefecture Along Osaka Prefectural Road No. 13 Kyoto Moriguchi Line New Laurent A Chinese restaurant bathed in the intense summer sunlight. Are those the ingredients for fried rice? Yes. We use this sauce to season the ingredients we use this sauce on grilled pork. and it also flavors the rice. I'm preparing a bento box for the lunch set. I lit the stove this morning. I took it off a while ago. I'm frying it using the remaining heat. This is the first batch of fried food. There are four pieces per person. Inside that lunch box. We'll leave it for about five minutes. This is soup for customers who don't order noodles. The set menu is 690 yen. sesame oil We are making chili oil. La-you? Yes. Do you make it yourself? It's all handmade. The cold noodle soup is also mostly homemade. It was established on January 19th, 1989. It's been 34 years. I started it all by myself. We used to be open until 2am. After graduating from culinary school, I started working at a Chinese restaurant in Kobe. After I quit, I worked in Nada City for a while. After that, I worked at two more restaurants. All of this was done for my own restaurant. So I went there an hour earlier than everyone else. I tried to do all the work myself. I did it when I was young. We open at 11:00 am. Daily lunch set for 690 yen. We've received an order for delivery! Speciality chanpon lunch Yakisoba andTian Jin Fan A small fried rice. Would you like to take the fried noodles away? Yakisoba is cooking. Lunch? Sure. The ingredients for the fried noodles. We've received an order for three meals of lunch every day! Sweet and sour pork from the daily lunch set. Deep-fried fish and crab cream croquettes. Chinese soup is included. Please take this to the delivery! Tianjin rice The fried noodles for delivery are ready! Special-made chanpon Special-made chanpon The owner's wife will quickly deliver your food! Meanwhile, the owner will take care of the restaurant's management. Stamina Ramen Ramen and fried rice Okay! Can you prepare some rice for the Chinese rice bowl? Chinese rice bowl Ramen with fried rice set. Tenshin sauce fried noodles Chinese rice bowl I understand. Do you come here often? I come here almost every day. Do you need to add any more eggs? Okay. Cold noodles and gyoza. Please try our ramen set meal. Chilled Chinese noodles Omelette rice Welcome! Please come in. Yes, two bowls of udon please. Kadoma-shi, Osaka 7:00 a.m. The owner opens the shutter door. The shop has been in business for about 50 years / I took over the shop from my mother. We covered "Manzima Shinuchi". Shiitake mushrooms soft water dried sardines Mix it with egg and udon so that the heat doesn't escape. It smells good. Seaweed Green onion The soup is best when served in hot water at a temperature of around 80 to 95 degrees. Iberian pork Deep-fried tofu That's vinegar. This gives the soup a mild sourness. Udon noodles don't go well with alkaline foods. It is best to cook it in acidic water with a pH of 5.5. This makes the noodles square. If you use alkaline water, the aluminum pot may turn completely black. Vinegar can prevent this. Pak choi Soaking vegetables in 50 degree hot water for about 2 minutes makes them crisp and fresh. We don't use any special flour. We choose different things each time to make delicious dishes. We blend four types of flour, and the ratio of each type varies each time. When I taste the dough in the morning, sometimes it is a little hard. If this happens, the next day we add a little more chewy flour and make slight adjustments to the mixing ratio. Do not rotate the dough more than 300 times when kneading it. If you go any further than that, the gluten structure will be destroyed. Because gluten is tense, if you apply sudden pressure, there is a possibility that the gluten structure will be destroyed. So, first of all, we'll let it rest to loosen the gluten. We'll leave it as it is and step on it after closing. Eggs Along National Route 163. We relocated from Mitsushima in April 2018. Here you are. The delicious part - the delicious part of the udon. Thank you for waiting. Let's finish the curry. I'll turn on the stove. The delicious part - the delicious part of the udon. Two bowls of udon have been made. Thank you. I ordered two bowls of chicken curry udon. The change is 3,000 yen. shiso pumpkin The price of each of these flours is different. The most expensive one. The second most expensive one. The most reasonable one. This is my favorite. It's not a question of price, is it? The reason for the price difference between these is due to the amount of ash they contain. Ash (mineral content contained in the germ and husk of wheat flour. When wheat flour is burned, the protein and starch contained in the flour burn away, but the ash remains. The smaller the amount of ash, the smaller the total amount of flour. In the case of sake, the price increases in the order of daiginjo, ginjo, and junmai. So, this is like a daiginjo. However, that doesn't mean it's the best tasting. Because each has a different texture, we blend them and fine-tune them to find the best combination. It's quite a lot of work though. This is a weakness of domestically produced wheat. The quality changes frequently. The last batch of flour was milled on October 15th. The amount of protein was about 9.4%. However, this bean, which was milled on October 29, contains more than 10% protein. When the protein content exceeds 10%, the amount of starch contained decreases. The wheat has become quite hard and is beginning to rot. The Japanese rainy season interferes with the harvest. When it rains before the harvest, the starch is converted into energy. If you do this, all the umami will escape from the wheat. That's why in Australia, where there is no rainy season, you can get wheat of a stable quality. In Hokkaido, where there are relatively few rainy days, the quality of the wheat is stable. The previous restaurant was too big, and it was difficult to manage. Since my children wouldn't take over the restaurant, I wanted to open a restaurant where I could do what I wanted to do. When the gluten is properly formed, the noodles will stretch more. It won't break. This is gluten. If you put stress on the gluten, the noodles will become easier to break. Pressure cooker, noodle without soup, Kimura-kun Naniwa-ku, Osaka City, Naniwa 7:45 Pancho Spaghetti Namba, Osaka Napolitan basilico Butter garlic onion Takanotsume Basilico sauce Special Neapolitan sauce Boil the noodles in parallel Secret Neapolitan powder Basil chips tomato ketchup The sauce for the spaghetti is complete The noodles are boiled. The hamburger patties for the topping are made. Wiping down every last detail Cutting up 80 onions shiso We put it in the spicy tomato sauce. It's green chili peppers. The portions are huge! Open at 11:00 Napolitan with fried eggs 990 yen Meat sauce fried eggs 990 yen Spicy and tasty spaghetti with tomato sauce 950 yen Spaghetti with tomato sauce and cheese 1070 yen Stamina Curry 1090 yen You can choose the amount of noodles! Meat sauce 890 yen Seafood salt basilico 980 yen Toppings Toppings Challenge menu (Napolitan or meat sauce) Challenge menu (Napolitan or meat sauce) As soon as it opens fried eggs, thick-cut bacon Clam Tuna Cooking with 5 frying pans at the same time Napolitan sauce Thick-cut bacon Add fried eggs and you're done! Meat sauce Meat sauce fried egg Napolitan Royal Set The food arrives Take a bite of the piping hot spaghetti! You can change the flavor with the condiments on the table, such as the flavored sauce, powdered cheese, and Tabasco! Sprinkle on some grated cheese and Tabasco sauce Change the flavor and enjoy it He keeps eating... He seems to like it. Basil pesto sauce Finished with shiso leaves on top This is a large portion of basil. Meat sauce mega Meat sauce with cold noodles Cheese grilled over a flame meat sauce (Staff) What did you order? Meat sauce The tomato flavor really stands out. The egg is fluffy. Hayashi sauce Omnapo White Napo Washing the frying pan in between Spicy Napo Meat Royal Road Set 12:24 The manager arrives at work The main cook takes over If you order a mega-portion, you get I'm playing with my older brother and the gang leader and the alien The amount of noodles goes up quite a bit just the amount of noodles the one making it now is my older brother Since the ingredients and sauce are added on top, it becomes a little heavier We're doing it as a "challenge menu" Sometimes even women can eat it I'm a bit surprised by this. My brother's got two frying pans worth! This is a large serving of Neapolitan spaghetti! Without being surprised by the quantity, he takes a bite He eats it all in one go He finishes it all in less than 15 minutes The order is taken using meal tickets I ordered a regular-sized portion of spaghetti napolitan Napolitan, regular size, 890 yen A little thick, chewy noodles The garlic gives it a real punch. 17:57 A female customer who has made an outrageous order I can't make it without using three frying pans The amount of ingredients for three frying pans The woman who ordered earlier was eating She eats it silently, as if she's used to it. She finishes it all in about 20 minutes. Stamina Curry Meat Sauce King Set Potato salad, meatballs, bacon, fried eggs, etc. The hearty meat and rich cheese are irresistible... 20:56 I want people to be able to eat If I can see their happy faces when they say it's delicious, Kyobashi, Osaka A popular menu item, Yurin-ji Katamachi, Miyakojima-ku, Osaka City 9:23 Opened in 2015 Peach It's a fermented drink. We cut this up Because it's not heated, the vitamins are intact You can mix it with chuhai Apple mango enzyme Customers ordering enzyme drinks Even before opening for business Add granulated sugar Stirring it every day Because it's a fermented drink You can take the vitamins as they are. The sauce for Mapo Tofu The sauce The sauce for the Mapo Tofu Second floor table seats The tofu shop is delivering This tofu is delicious. It's special order tofu. There are some spicy parts in the Mapo Tofu so that you can really taste the tofu We have it made with soybeans that have a strong flavor The tofu is cut into diamond shapes so that the flavors blend well We're going to fillet the whole chicken Preparing for deep-frying You can get oil from You cook it in a pan It's made from solid to liquid by heat. That's why we do It's much tastier We've been using that chicken fat It's not that expensive anymore It's complicated to manage If we're talking about price But it's delicious It's really delicious Chicken fat Roast pork Making the sauce for the roast pork sugar, soy sauce, tamari soy sauce, oyster sauce making soup for lunch thickening with potato starch beaten egg The soup is complete! The soup is 100% chicken! Preparing the gyoza Chives Squeezing the water out of the onions and cabbage Quickly wrapping them up Preparing fried rice Today's lunch special is Today's lunch set meal Today's fried chicken Lightly cook and Open at 11:30 Daily lunch set meal 800 yen Half-sized noodle set meal 850 yen Bean-curd soup with chili sauce set meal 980 yen A customer arrives immediately Add noodles Add spring onions, bean sprouts and roast pork Half-sized noodle set meal Chicken Nanban set meal (2 ordered) Tartar sauce Chicken Nanban set meal The batter is crispy on the outside and juicy on the inside. It goes well with white rice... Bean-curd soup with chili sauce set meal Thank you for waiting! Take a bite of the piping hot Mapo Tofu The punch of the Japanese pepper and the just-right spiciness It goes perfectly with rice I eat it while breaking a little sweat I finished eating it all in 10 minutes. I've been here 3 or 4 times in the past week. The daily specials are delicious. The Mapo Tofu set meal I had today was It was spicy and delicious! You can have more rice The sauce is refreshing There's lots of spring onion Daily set meal (Yurin-chicken) Fried chicken set meal Today's special is fried chicken with sweet and spicy sauce. It was light and (Staff) The speed of the service is incredible! That's right. 12:09 Daily set meal (with mini mapo tofu +250 yen) A customer who wants to have more rice (I ordered) I'm satisfied. (Staff) You also ordered another serving, right? That's right. The daily special is 800 yen, so I think it's very friendly to office workers. Fried chicken set meal. Gyoza set meal Daily special: Yurin-chicken set meal 800 yen Freshly fried hot yu-rin-ji Closes at 14:00 Preparing for the evening service The potato starch removes the slipperiness and smell of the prawns It's a little big for a prawn with no added water. These days, It's really expensive. The roast pork I prepared in the morning is now ready. Preparing homemade chili oil Cleaning the kitchen and taking a break 17:00 Cucumber (cucumber) Opening at 5:30 p.m. Famous fried gyoza (320 yen) Famous Szechuan-style Mapo Tofu (880 yen) Fried rice with roast pork 680 yen Famous specialty: 5 pieces of fried gyoza for 320 yen Add homemade chili oil to the sauce Gyoza dumplings in bite-sized pieces The tangy spiciness of the chili oil A customer with a reservation arrives at the restaurant The customer orders fried gyoza, cucumber salad, roast pork and fried chicken cucumber salad simmered pork fried chicken an additional order for Mapo Tofu is taken green onion, pepper Sichuan Mapo Tofu Chicken and cheese gyoza, coriander gyoza, gyoza with lots of shrimp This is a set of three kinds of gyoza Challenge: Super Spicy Mapo Tofu Looks really spicy... Chicken Nanban Sweet and Sour Pork with Black Vinegar eggplant, tomato leek Bean-curd and eggplant in spicy sauce Fried shrimp with cashew nuts Stir-fried beef and seasonal vegetables with black pepper Shrimp with mayonnaise sauce fried rice with starchy sauce plenty of sesame seeds sesame noodles mapo tofu and fried noodles Staff) Sesame noodles are unusual, aren't they? They are unusual, but not many people order them. Not many people order it, though. Once they've tried it, We close at 23:00 Washing area, clean the floor Ever since I was little, So it was always at the root of my thoughts. I thought I'd give it a try at least once. (Staff) Why Chinese food? When I was in high school, I had a part-time job at a Chinese restaurant. The food there was It was so delicious That's where I made up my mind. I've always wanted to run a curry restaurant. The long day starts at 9am.