- Okay, so what I'm not gonna to use stronger passwords. Set up 2FA, use A VPN, any of those generic basic security tips that you can find What I'm gonna share with you tips that I think most people aren't doing because they aren't even So stick around. My name's Josh. This is All Things Secure to you by DeleteMe. The best way to remove your internet, One of the first things that you can do to create stronger security to set up a separate email address for your banking investments and other really highly Essentially what I'm saying primary email address, that's for all of your communications. Whenever you email somebody or you sign up for something, to be the same as the email for your bank and your investments. And more than likely, that Now, the primary reason for doing this is to limit the effectiveness of So right now, because I don't use my primary email for my banking when I or phishing campaign to my email, my personal email address this Amazon purchase was this you for 500 and something dollars, I know that that wasn't actually my bank because my bank doesn't My bank only emails this that I don't give anywhere else. I don't use it for communication. The only thing I use it for and that makes hacking that Now, thankfully, setting this Just create a separate You can do that in Gmail. Just set up a new email account, or I suggest you open a private or an encrypted email address or Proton, which is what I use. You create that address, and then you just swap your that is the secret secure email address that you can use from then on out. If you were to follow me around nowadays, you would rarely ever see and swipe it or plug it into any of the kiosks where they're asking for my payments. The main reason for that of these retailers, any of these places to have my actual credit card number. Now, when you're doing this online, you can create a virtual credit card. You can do that through that I've talked about before. But in your day-to-Day life, to pay on something like your phone or whatever smartwatch you have. I know for a lot of people skepticism about the or the security of using or something to tap over and make payment. But the reality is, is that when you put your card or something like that, devices, it doesn't give over your actual credit card number. So if I'm paying for something to pay, they're not getting they're just getting a token it. If you were to actually look at it, you would see it's not your It is a different number or whatever service you that one period and And so now I'm not giving to every single merchant where I'm making a purchase. I am just tapping to pay and getting out what is card number, and now I don't have to worry about when something that information improperly. I haven't given them any information that they can actually use. Now, setting this up is also easy. All you have to do is go into or Google Pay the wallet You just input all the And now whenever it's time for me to go and pay, I just double click And then after I scan, I can to be able to say, okay, and pay for whatever it is You know how in the world of where two different people plug 'em in at the same time and turn it in order to launch a missile. When it comes to our online logins, our two keys are our And thanks to the fact compromised probably multiple the years, this key is basically So now all they have to guess your password or brute and now they can get into your accounts. What most people don't realize is that you can create unique unique strong passwords, and that adds an even greater of your online logins. Now, the challenge here is and time consuming to of what's probably hundreds that username email into But what you can do is set yourself up so that now going forward, every new account that you create has both a strong password and a unique username email. Now, the way that you set this software and the devices that you use. So for example, if you're an Apple user, they have the Hide my email to anybody that uses their iCloud service. I believe that one password that they do this with, and I use Proton, and they purchased Simple to create unique username And of course, there's always the option to just do the email add-on, which is, let's say you have your email address and before that at Symbol you just do a plus and then add something else. Let's say you're creating so you can have your netflix@gmail.com or whatever email address that you have that's a unique email address. I mean, it's not nearly as strong as creating a truly random but I think it's better than address for everything Set up a credit freeze. This is one of those things and so incredibly effective that I don't know why more people don't decide to go and do it. There are a number of Now in the US we have the top three, but around the world, this is that even people outside the Essentially, whenever for more credit, whether or anything like that, even a a background check, they're going to do what's called a credit pull. It could be a hard or a soft pull. When that happens, if you're basically telling that they are not allowed and give the approval for that credit. So if somebody signs up for or tries to access your credit to get a loan using your name, And I know what you might to set up a credit card or and I need to, you know, Well, it's very simple to go in and do what's known as Basically it's putting that I've done it multiple times and it has never been an issue for me. Sometimes I'll forget that and I'll apply for something. They'll deny me and say, Hey, Oh, I'm sorry. I'll go in and thaw that and say, try to run it again. They will, everything goes fine. And then less than 24 hours later, my credit freeze kicks back in. I don't care if you're already report multiple times a year, or if you have another company that's monitoring your credit 24 7, there really is no good reason not to set up a credit And if you wanna find out that walks you step by step how of the largest credit bureaus, but it looks the same I don't know if you've seen in the news, but there have been a lot of data breaches happening that had over 2.9 billion records stolen. You know, I get a lot of what they can do about all that's floating out there online. And there are some easy steps freeze that I suggest But there are also these data brokers that are collecting our as our name, email address, even our location data, packaging and we have the legal right to have that information removed But I'll be honest with and effort to do that, and to make those requests. And that's why I use a I've been using DeleteMe for years now to find my personal information online and make removal requests on my behalf. And I've trusted them to do this because I've read their privacy policy and I like how they handle the data. I know that they're not owned or affiliated with any and the information that I'm giving them. I'm not giving them my I'm giving them information that is already out there online. So I don't have a problem with providing them my and make removal requests. If you wanna learn more about how DeleteMe can help you online, go to join delete For those of you who are in the US or international dot join who are outside of the US and you'll get 20% off any Alright? For me, I'm not a big a coffee shop or any other public location and connecting directly to that wifi. Now, one of the ways that by using A VPN, but the reality is is that most You add a VPN on top of that What I like to do is that to the public wifi, I like I don't know about you, but and tether to my mobile wifi, that's a lot faster than But more than that, I would rather know who I'm trusting when I'm which in this case would I know a lot of us maybe don't but at least knowing who I'm gonna use A VPN or I wanna make sure I know that as opposed to public wifi. Most of the time we don't even know who's implementing that public wifi. What company is it and am I connecting to the right wifi anyway? Now, I admit that this one tip for us to implement, but with the wifi and Bluetooth on our mobile devices constantly on. Like we never turn it off unless we go onto an airplane Now the fact is, is and Bluetooth enabled all the time, your phone is constantly looking something to connect to, and that is an open threat The biggest challenge here I mean, I wanna be able to and have it automatically to getting into the settings and turning on the Bluetooth But if you can just get of turning off wifi and Bluetooth every time that's one way to do it. Or you could even set up a shortcut or an if this then that where it says anytime of either your home or and wifi are turned off. And then anytime that you that it's turned on. So there are some automated but really it's more about just that you're turning this off and when it is necessary. Alright, the last tip that I'll give here is a really easy one and it has to do with phone theft. This is something that's People are having their and we put so much on our phones that one, it's a threat if it is taken. Not to mention the fact that it is really, really inconvenient for and make sure that we're So first things first, I would make sure that you have a backup of your with some kind of cloud service or you connect it to your computer and manually back up your phone once every couple months maybe. But that's important. The other side of this though is to set up what each device has in terms So iOS, as of iOS 17, has something that is literally called So if you go into your settings and scroll all the way stolen device protection. For Android, they have which is its own thing They're also trying to use AI to determine when a phone has been taken. This is all part of just an that if that phone is stolen, no data, no personal information, no by the person that is taken that device. And hopefully that device because they've taken it and you're able to activate A bonus tip for any Apple users out in September, you can and force face id. So a lot of times we've had it where you know you can have face id, but then it backs up to the phone code. In this way, it's very similar but in this way you can to open using your face of their login process. So those are my seven little known, but what I consider to be that I think most people aren't doing. So if you have a moment, leave a comment to let me know which one of to you, and if you think there's to hear about that as well. So leave that as a comment and thanks again to delete You can go to join delete to get 20% off of any of their plans. If you wanna learn more about that here or watch this video next.