Your life is short and sometimes can be I couldn't stop thinking about this graph If you were to visualize The measures, the uses of our life this is what you look like. and each snowflake represents one winter and according to this, he will have It's so scary and fleeting This was my wake call. Don't let your life pass you by. as Confucius once said, We have two lives. And the second one begins So in this video, that can help you make In order to create a life you realize that it doesn't have to be meaningless. Your life can be rewarding when you live and to focus on what really matters most. And this brings me to the first point, relationships. Many of us wish that we had spent once they had passed away. We have this illusion and that they will always be there. But the truth is, the relationship that our family really is concentrated And as you grow independent those moments of time I certainly felt this my left home and I realized how difficult it was my brother, his girlfriend, my husband and my daughter together into one place because we're spread across And because now I have a kiddo I'm desperately trying to hold on precious years And I realize I can't. And all I have left ever since the day that she was born. And I don't know about you, You can feel that your life can be so meaningless And by the end of it, But here's another way to see it. As said by the Indian philosopher Ms.. Agata Maharaj. Wisdom tells me that I'm nothing. But love tells me that I'm everything. Wisdom tells me that in the grand But love tells me time with, the people that love you, You mean so much to them and to them. You are their world. So what can you do to make to spend it with your loved ones? And Tim shared this in that blog post is that, number one, proximity matters. Living near your closest and your dearest And this is one of the biggest goals I want to spend more time around when you have an international base family with friends and family But I'm trying the best I can. And number two is prioritize ruthlessly to focus on those that matter Think about this. Who truly matters in your life right now? Make time for them. Market before that That makes you too busy to go see them because the future just becomes forever. And lastly is that quality matters spent together. When you're spending time Think about how much your future self to this moment right now. When my daughter is tugging at my sleeve come play with me. And even though I'm really busy I always drop one I'm doing because I know that the future to come back to this very moment, And to me, life Let's invest it in what matters And this brings me to the next point, mean for you and for some of you, success might mean that you're making more money, Or maybe you're having nicer cars. And for some of you, it may mean or perhaps having a life full of joy, But there's no right or wrong definitions of success, and one life For me? What I value the ability to stay healthy with my family and friends and the freedom with who I want And this to borrow that quotes of all time The key to remember well lived is no one's going to live it Life is too short to do things that to look for validation from others your control. To spend it with people that bring you down, to compare and to spend it in your comfort zone one of my favorite questions, when I watched the Stanford commencement for the past 33 years, and asked myself what I want to do, And whenever the answer has been I know I need to change something. And I think thinking about the end in mind because there's the perception of something when we realize that it's in limited and the importance of something It's kind of human nature, isn't it? And I encourage you to take this moment, maybe write this one down, If today were the last day of your life, would you want to do If not, think about what that might be. And it doesn't mean that you have to make drastic changes, a spark in your life This happened to me and gradually in my life. Instead. so remember that life is short, but is about cognition, and to focus on doing And this brings me to the third point, which is embracing a life I've now come to realize that from leveraging my own unique abilities and you have the unique qualities to make a real impact in this world of creativity and reason really separates We have the ability to invent and create in this modern world will, I get the freedom to tap I feel that I have a sense of purpose when I wake up to do what I meant to do. I feel that there's so many ways and for me to grow as an individual being able to share what I know Help me to find that meaning and purpose And deep down, I know that's the reason because I always want to create And I don't believe that learning starts In fact, I think learning really begins into the real world. Don't you often feel that you learned in school, but from real life experiences that you read, or perhaps even the people the world's, changing fast technologies and new challenges in this world, that helps you stay ahead of the curve How do you and instead of being someone that shapes the world I've had so many pivots and that was the reason that I was able to eventually working at Google and also launching this YouTube channel every reinvention as an evolution Because I realized there's always room And doesn't that make your life growing as an individual? So in the lifespan of the universe your few decades of life, it's But it doesn't mean that your life And I'm sure that you agree with me. By the time you get to your deathbed, what others thought of you. what matters most is if you feel happy whether you felt like you lived a life And if you're happy, the life And life is short. If you waste time, life is short. When you put off and postpone When you put up a future that may or may not come although life is short, but if you live life can be incredibly rewarding and long Because when you do what you enjoy life can feel like it's an incredible, So to sum it all up, be relentless. To prioritize and focus Don't wait for the next step the life that you want and you marry to those who love you Everything. If you enjoyed this video, and let me know in the comments below. What are some of the things that you want And also remember to subscribe so you get I look forward to