What color is this? You're probably thinking, &quot;it's red!&quot; which, well, it is. And what about this? Why, it's green, of course! And what video on color would be complete We've been using these three colors to fool looking at a full-color image for over a century. We can do this because of how our eyes and It's all about ratios, and though it often of any real color using just these three in But now that we have the luxury of bringing world with bright, monochromatic LEDs, we strange our sense of color perception actually In this video, we're going to look at a the real world are lit using light from the What we'll find is that things can behave with light. None of the footage in this video has been I promise no matter how weird some of this Let's start with a brief overview of what I'm using these RGB studio lights to provide I can control the ratio of red, green, and and saturation parameters. For the most part, we'll be staying with be cycling through the 3 primary colors, red, of the three secondary colors that lie between When I need to, I can switch to standard which provide a reasonable approximation of true, full-spectrum lighting. Yes, these lights really are G Bee's knees. In RGB mode, the light they produce is trichromatic, color is monochromatic, meaning it's comprised And this is where the breakdown between the I'll explain this in a little more detail We'll be spending much of this video, in Here we have a kind of disappearing, color-changing This whiteboard, when lit with apparently on it. Well, watch this. Now it's gone. But it re-appears, now as a slightly more Now watch as before your eyes the ink becomes It stays black even as the light grows brighter to red once more. And finally, it's gone again. What's happening here? Well, the ink on this whiteboard is in fact Switching to normal white lighting reveals The red ink absorbs nearly all of the light is why the ink appears black when the scene It doesn't reflect any of that light back But in addition to absorbing the green and match to the red produced by the light's And that's why it disappears under red light. The white of the whiteboard reflects pretty as do most white objects, but so does the And so, there's very little contrast between disappears. Let's move on. What color is this can of spray paint? It's pretty hard to tell, isn't it? In fact, it's impossible to tell. Right now, this can of spray paint is being lit by a monochromatic light source. Doing this fundamentally breaks our color to determine what it is we're seeing. Under the same red light, let's look at This packaging says there are 8 colors here. Well, what on Earth are they? As far as I can tell, these are red, a darker more red. I think there's black, too, but I'm not With only one wavelength of light available know what it is you're seeing. Notice how we cannot tell what the colors We can see that each color reflects the light to appear in different brightness levels, the same red. But, with this being a Rubik's Cube, we red, green, and blue. We can make some educated guesses into which The brightest are probably red, yellow, orange, of the red light back into the camera. The darkest are going to be blue and green. Now we can be reasonably sure the darkest from red, and the next darkest is green. But as far as the bright colors? That's really anybody's guess. The brightest is probably white, but then call white. So white and at least one other color look But which colors are they? Well, let's switch the light over to white Oh, sorry, this one is actually monochromatic So, we were right about green and blue, but the same. Red was actually slightly darker, which you using red light. This tells us that the hue of this red is some of the red we were throwing at it. And if yellow and orange were reflecting the that again goes to show how strange our color breaks it. So how do we see in color? Well, in our eyes, we don't just have a We have some, known as rods, which just detect vision also have three types of color-sensitive These are pigmented to filter the wavelengths Now, we often think of these cone cells as Which is broadly true, but their actual stimulation Notice how the medium and long cones, which a lot, but the short cone is way over there. Well, where they are along the spectrum doesn't What matters is that they respond differently Say we have a yellow-green wavelength right Well, for this one color, and this one color stimulation, and the blue cones get negligible This unique ratio allows our brains to interpret As we move towards red and head into yellow, stimulated, and the long cone gets more stimulation. So, our brains know this color is closer to As we continue moving deeper into true red, to taper off, but the medium cone is tapering The important thing to remember is that any cause a unique ratio of stimulation between what color that is. And so, we can easily fool our eyes and brains all by using just three primary colors. We need one of them to be way over here, so but the medium cone doesn't get all that So we'll use red. We also need one to the left of the long-medium cone more intensely than the long. So we'll use green. And of course, we also need one way over here doesn't really influence the other two. So we'll use blue. Now, to make a color like yellow-orange, we that there's a lot of red and a bit of green. This mixture causes the same stimulation that Because there's overlap between the three mix of stimulation between the three of them. That includes, by the way, white, which is So, if we use three pure colors that allow with any given ratio, we can artificially Our eyes simply don't have a way to know But while we can make any color appear by that doesn't mean that the world will look the whole picture. And unless we have a way to make the cone we can't see color at all. And with that in mind, let's move onto some This scene contains many red objects. But, under monochromatic blue light, you'd Watch what happens, though, when I add just Suddenly, the red pops into existence. This is a pretty trippy effect in person, the RGB sliders of real life. Until we have red light available, red objects Even with green light, the same thing occurs. Notice how with green and blue light together, of the Rubik's Cube become distinct from Still, though, the red objects remain completely Pure green light keeps them in the dark, just Keep in mind that the green light is still without a third, longer wavelength to allow cones, our brains cannot see red. Plus, since the red objects in the scene aren't Add just a hint of red, though, and suddenly Now, there is red light to be reflected, and light to be detected and compared with green Here's a different kind of color. A game boy color. Under blue light, this thing looks weird to Now I'll add a bit of red and green, alternately. Compare the light on my hand to the light I'm not changing the color in the scene But the game boy drastically changes. This game boy's color, by the way, is dandelion. Which is of course, to our eyes, a mixture An important thing to note is that, just like actually separates subpixels into red, green, and blue perfectly. There's a lot of overlap. And I can show it to you, even with only one You might assume that if light is a monochromatic will never become active. But this isn't true. If I overexpose the image, you'll see that That happens because even though the light filters will still let some through, so the image The same thing happens with blue and red. However, this doesn't mean we can start We still only have one wavelength illuminating in the camera's subpixels stays the same. The camera's method of vision is surprisingly Well, as a matter of fact it's built for And even under normal exposure levels, there You might expect the image to turn black if there's a faint green image hiding underneath. That green is actually helping to define the Which brings me to my next demonstration. We can have a monochromatic light source of With RGB lights, I can only produce yellow This then becomes a dichromatic color, and actually tell some of the colors apart. We can even kinda tell blue from green. But, if I break out my yellow traffic light a monochromatic yellow. This color looks quite similar to the yellow but it's actually very different. So now, even though the green and red subpixels light, because it's actually just yellow no matter what's in the scene. Our eyes, and the camera, both see these two but if we use them to illuminate the real back, we discover they're actually very And that brings us to what makes this whole You may have heard of a term called the color This describes how well an artificial light around us. Incandescent lights, being a blackbody radiator, more efficient LED and fluorescent light sources, aren't incandescent, don't emit light Now, as we know, one of the most common ways and blue light, because, well, if you haven't paying much attention. This works absolutely fantastically for creating at now. Because it's providing its own illumination, green, and blue channels interact with the It just needs to fool your eyes into thinking And, well, displays are getting better and from just three colors of light. Except for that one time Sharp got all weird unnecessary especially since nobody's encoding But the problem with using just three colors this rarely looks right. Think about that whiteboard earlier. The red ink was invisible under red light. This meant that it reflected practically all Now, imagine I'm using these lights with This looks white to my eyes, but when it gets ratio of colors coming back can be way off. In the case of the whiteboard, the red looks Which makes sense. If one third of the light from these lights it's suddenly freakishly bright because, Under true white light, a much greater percentage more dull, like it should. As a quick note, this is the one demonstration what my eyes were seeing. The difference in person is much more dramatic. The problem here is that the ability to reduce is not reversible. If we have a truly white light source, then they truly are. Our eyes can see any wavelength of light because And indeed, cameras can see any wavelength also have overlap between them. And so we can reproduce the stimulation real wavelengths of light, but we cannot expect stimulation ratios that they should when they in the real world. This can perhaps best be demonstrated by the Purple is a rather strange color in general. It, along with magenta, are what are called If you look on the color spectrum, you'll but true violet is rather dull, and in fact Which is no surprise since it barely registers Purple and magenta are kinda similar to real only in our minds. That's pretty wild, when you think about Now obviously purple things exist in nature not like the color is imaginary. But, it cannot be reproduced with a single We only see purple and magenta when our eyes but little green. Therefore, purple and magenta objects absorb red and blue. And luckily, our brains have synthesized this not the average wavelength between them, as Otherwise, it would be another green. Anyway, let's take a look at our old friend This particular anthropomorphic automobile Now, using the phosphor-coated white LEDs, But when I switch to the RGB LEDs, well not so much. Under green light, he looks pretty dull. Which we might expect, given that we can of pigments, which will together absorb mostly When we add blue light, well now he just looks All into the cyan range, Putt-Putt looks just he looks kinda like a grey, as his white features darker blue. But here's the weirder thing. Add red, and now he really looks grey. If I change the angle so you can see his tongue, bright red, but his body still looks grey. And perhaps stranger still, replace the blue and he looks... burgundy? A burnt red? I don't know exactly what this color is, Now, some of this is down to how our brains' white eyes to his body color, and in fact looked grey to us is actually fairly purple. It's not the right purple, but it is purple. And when you think about it, that makes perfect Assuming this shade of purple is just a darker body would appear to be the same hue as his Without any sort of color contrast, that reduction Grey is simply a darker version of white, magenta. This also explains why his tongue looks so His tongue is now the only thing actually reflected back. Since it absorbs blue like a good red should, magenta mess that is everything else. And of course, we can also explain why he His body will be absorbing most of the green it reflects back is red. It looks a little weird because of the fact it absorbs some blue, so it looks darker than And our brains' vain attempt to compensate white makes it look stranger, still. Now we're not quite yet done with Putt-Putt. So far, I've been showing you how he looks But even under apparently white light, comprised simply does not get rendered correctly at Notice how differently he looks under normal compared to the false white made by the RGB Something about the way this purple absorbs simply cannot be reproduced using a trichromatic At least, not these lights. So keep in mind that even though I can show some red, some green, and some blue, I can't and expect to achieve the same result. Now, before I leave you, well first of all to answer that earlier, but more importantly have accidentally discovered one of the most Now, I've seen lots of simulated images with me like this did. The most common type of color blindness is There are varying degrees of this deficiency cones are either malfunctioning or not present. Now, I have no way to turn down or otherwise But, if I light the room I'm in with dichromatic Now, it's not like this is what a color-blind Especially because the entire scene is intensely appear very dark, not simply similar to red. But, for the first time, I truly felt like that well. The snake figure, here, suddenly had its red Again, this is by no means accurate, look Cube look black, but it is certainly interesting world become limited in ways I've never Anyway, that's it for now, I think. I didn't buy these lights assuming I was lighting is, but playing around with them And honestly, it's helped me understand Thanks for watching, and as always a huge this channel on Patreon. Thanks to the support of people like you, and I really enjoy it. I hope you do, too. If you'd like to join these people in supporting Thanks for your consideration, and I'll see you next time! trichromatically smooth jazz Hey! It's me! But from the future! Woah. So many of you probably know this but if you sometimes upload rather random things, they let you know that following this video I want of the subtle differences between using true So if you want to check that out, there's as a card on the end screen. For now, I hope you're enjoying this rather It's pretty groovy looking. Groovy.