In this video, you'll learn 5 steps I'm Dr. Morgan Nolte, founder of Zivli, and we for long-term weight loss and disease prevention Your hemoglobin A1c is not the sugar. Your fasting blood sugar is a Whereas your hemoglobin A1c measures your average Here's a chart that estimates what your As you can see, the higher your hemoglobin A1c, the worse off you are. An The prediabetic range for A1c is 5.7% to Often your doctor won't really address your diabetic range. But s o much can be done And so much can be done once you're on medications to reduce your amount of As a disclaimer, the advice I'm going to give If I say something and you think, ask yourself what you could do to get Ultimately, you've got to find a keeps insulin and inflammation low To show you the stuff I'm about to share story from a YouTube viewer who started This woman saw her doctor and her A1c Go on meds and continue eating how she was, In just 3 months, she lost over dropped 1.1 points in just 3 months and And this person reversed her prediabetes in 9 assuming is an hsCRP - went from 15 to 1. This is The first thing to lower your hemoglobin A1c day. This means you'll have to get most of your We have a video about our Ultimate Food Guide to help you with this we'll The standard American diet is Especially processed and refined chips and added sugar in pretty much everything If reducing your carbs scares you or makes you "What is the lowest hanging fruit that I could The first thing I did when lowering my creamer. That simple switch saved The second thing to lower your hemoglobin A1c fast When you walk right after you eat, right away instead of making insulin do One study looked at 100 adults with Group A walked for 30 minutes in the morning. After just 15 days, participants who a 20% decrease in their fasting blood The group that walked 30 minutes once a day So walking in general helps, but to all at once helped lower blood The third thing to lower your hemoglobin through daily calorie restriction, Intermittent fasting is highly personalized levels. And if you don't need to lose weight, A great place to start is 12 to 14 hours a day. hour daily fast with 2 meals and a high protein One study looked at 137 adults with type 2 to either an intermittent calorie restriction non-consecutive days per week and or continuous calorie restriction consisting The researchers concluded: "Intermittent for weight loss in type 2 diabetes and may However, careful medication management is required The fourth thing to do to lower your hemoglobin A review of 14 studies found that seemed to be as effective as common blood sugar Research suggests berberine may help support diabetes medications when taken alongside them It's a powerful plant compound and enhances insulin sensitivity. for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease Begin with a lower dosage such as 500mg increase the dose over time under the To optimize absorption and split your daily dose into two or It's crucial to consult with a practitioner to determine the ideal unique health needs and any existing This is especially important if you're already to prevent overshooting and experiencing The fifth thing to do to lower sleep per night. I know this is Poor sleep and diabetes go hand in hand. Poor poor sleep leads to poor blood sugar regulation. a shorter sleep duration was associated with your body. Stress raises cortisol, and We have an excellent video with 15 here. If you enjoyed this video and want more Be sure to check out our insulin here for more detailed information on And if you haven't already, to this channel. . .SHORT to lower your hemoglobin A1c fast is to One study looked at 100 adults with diabetes for 30 minutes in the morning. Group B After just 15 days, participants who a 20% decrease in their fasting blood The group that walked 30 minutes once a day So walking in general helps, but to all at once helped lower blood Learn 4 more tips to lower your