Hey, it's me, Destin. Welcome back to We're right in the here on Smarter Every Day We're investigating all about how nuclear and we're trying to learn about each individual thing. Today we're going to which is fascinating to been down range from a torpedo This is me in a as the part of my job, which was I'm filming the USS Racine to impact. And when it did, That was a part of RIMPAC, the That activity took place at Missile Range Facility. And what's so interesting test missiles there, but If you looked off the coast you could see a helicopter that it had picked up out in and they did some kind But here's the deal. Even though torpedoes are super and they're constantly they are very old technology. In fact, they were used to So this technology needed to is very old, but generally know how it works. Today we're literally inside the torpedo tube of a US Ocean under the to be able to look and try to understand how All right. Let's do it. Let's go get Smarter Every Day. [THEME MUSIC] That's running down DESTIN: Torpedo room. That's what I'm talking about. Oh, yeah. MAN: It's a thing. DESTIN: This is the party. And so one of the places this is one of the But that's the most DESTIN: Oh, well, There we go. And there it is. DESTIN: And there it is. OK. All right. So what we got here is-- Going to touch it. So my name's Alan Howell. I'm the Torpedo Division on the USS Toledo. DESTIN: Oh, awesome. Rock and roll. So you're over the torpedoes, Yes, sir. That is correct. DESTIN: OK. So right now where So torpedo are forward the side. So we currently have on the 688 class submarine. Two over here on the starboard So that's what I'm Yes, sir. DESTIN: OK, and then-- What you're seeing DESTIN: And there's ALAN HOWELL: And there's DESTIN: Two on that side. Yes, sir. DESTIN: OK. Got it. So what you're seeing And when we're done we can open them up want to crawl down in there DESTIN: In the torpedo tube? Absolutely. DESTIN: Crap yeah, I do. Yeah. Good. DESTIN: Let's do that. We send our torpedo once a month for maintenance, so So we're in there all the time. DESTIN: I like you already. So you're in. DESTIN: Rock and roll. I'm going to set this So, well, now I guess it's going Can I prop it on this? ALAN HOWELL: Sure. We got a green if you It's probably going So this is-- TM2 Knight. DESTIN: TM2 Knight. What does TM2 mean? That means torpedoman's mate. DESTIN: Torpedoman's mate. Yes, sir. DESTIN: OK cool. And my understanding is Yes, sir. DESTIN: And there's a thing Yes, sir. So we're going to open and let you crawl down inside or at least try to sign your DESTIN: This is the standard I guess. TM2 KNIGHT: Yes, sir. DESTIN: And it's hydraulically TM2 KNIGHT: Yes, sir. DESTIN: OK. And this is a torpedo, right? TM2 KNIGHT: Yes, sir. Mark 48 ADCAP. DESTIN: What's ADCAP mean? TM2 KNIGHT: Means DESTIN: And so this yellow that is a live torpedo? TM2 KNIGHT: Yes, sir. DESTIN: That's amazing. If you think about you've got this long torpedo of this submarine. How did it get there? Because we barely have OK, so this is Jacob, the I'm also the diving officer, biggest responsibility rig for dive, which But this is the Naval tradition kind of thing. It's a area where you're Only certain people are allowed Right here is the And it happens to be to get into the ship, but it's we load torpedoes, actually. DESTIN: Really? JACOB: Right now so I can't just open this But if you were to open this, You can see that hand wheel DESTIN: Right. JACOB: Turn it and it You'll see that it's and that's so that torpedoes and you wonder where Well, these plates right you take them out and there's actually swings downward. Its hinges are on this side. DESTIN: Coming through, captain? No, I'm good. And likewise on take the deck plates out, goes all the way down And when we load What I think is is the geometry of and getting it to All this was figured Like the first Los were laid down in means all the decisions those affect what types of Now, I couldn't find any into a Los Angeles However, I did find footage of Now, that has the factor as a Mark 48 torpedo. But what's interesting is if it's like a choreographed to the bottom floor. So it doesn't matter what make in the weaponry or the guidance or It doesn't matter. You are still constrained of the torpedo tube and how you to the bottom deck of the boat. When it comes to actually into the tube, there's either Number one, you which basically pushes the Or number two, they can with snatch blocks because snatch What do you call this This is the door of the torpedo? TM2 KNIGHT: That's the door for the torpedo tube. DESTIN: OK. And so if I you're going to open that. And what you would normally and you would clean it? Is that right? Yes, sir. DESTIN: OK. And you're going to let me try? Yes, sir. So how do you open this? All right. So first we're going to verify and there's nothing interfering hydraulics. We're going to go on one. Clear. All right. We're good. Just pull this plug. DESTIN: Wow. Make sure it's latched. And there's the torpedo tube. DESTIN: Oh, it's awesome. OK, I'm going to level with you. This was the moment I realized I was to crawl inside a torpedo So side note, how the But when it comes right of what's about to go down, I did not know how a torpedo No clue. Before we crawl I want to try to explain so you'll have a better idea This is a model of Just 3D printed this, I'm really proud of it. Anyway, there's something I want you to see. If you look really close you can see there's this little So those little tabs right there If we open the back you can see that on top and that Y guides that so the torpedo will always align Up will always be up. But there's other things Not only does it give but it can give you axial of the tube. I don't know if I'm saying that So as it goes in, if you have inside that little Y slot, as it'll bump right there from going any farther. If you have something that'll keep it from So at that point, you have in six degrees of freedom. Roll pitch, yaw, X, Y, Z. Just little lugs on each side. Before we go down you to understand exactly system works. So the first thing the locking lugs are in and that's that little would keep the torpedo from So the forward to be in the load means it's going to be down, but Next, we open the can slide the torpedo in. Again, we can do that with snatch blocks. Once the torpedo is in and the has moved up against the the aft locking lug the torpedo in the tube. In case the submarine you don't want it to slide At this point the breach and now the torpedo is stable and ready for use. In the event they actually the following First of all, you have There's a tank full of or Water Round Torpedo tank. A valve is open to allow but because there's air in there you also have to open a valve up as you fill it up with water. So this venting of the air is critical because air You're a submarine. You're a set volume. Now, it's cool to in different compartments but you never let it have the air that you when you're under the ice. And you don't want to have or in this case you can't go So it's important to OK, so the water is filling up the And at some point it and starts to go up Up there there's senses the seawater, and on top and the valve on the and we have a torpedo tube When you go to fill up the you can't take water because if you have that you need to fill that's like putting thousands corner of your boat which would So in order to do this they had buoyancy ballet where they on the ship-- in fact, and they fill the So there's no mass exchange and inside. That way they can carefully trim trimmed throughout the So at this point we that's filled with is it is at a lower pressure Because as you know, goes the higher and higher So what we have the system, and that's the here, the equalizing valve. Once we turn this thing, will now be the same as the Now that we have on the inside of on the outside of can open the muzzle door because But it's also time to move The slide valve of the tube that's about that concentrically covers all ports through which So the slide valve those rectangular ports, into the torpedo tube. At this point we are And when the fire command back in the control room, which frees up the and pressurized water provides a tremendous which is then introduced from all those rectangular holes valve, and this additional pushes the torpedo out the OK. What I'm about to tell you, But think about it. We had a huge torpedo in and it is no longer The weight of that which tells me that in order to an ideal torpedo is Anyway, so at this point we to its original state without How do we do that? OK, so the first thing is we're going to and close the slide valve valve. At this point the tube is And this is the How do we get all this without changing the We open this three-way valve and we divert the water from But because it's going to and you have to back-fill we might as well So we open this and we have a to force all that water out At this point, when we close both of are left with a That's unacceptable because So what we do at this point on top and we vent that into the people part And there you have it. All you have to do is unlock the front locking ready to load another That plate right That's the slide valve there. That's where once the if we would open and there was flow slots inside. So that tank is basically on the other side of Where is the valve? TM2 KNIGHT: It's this That would slide forward DESTIN: Got it. Got it. So this thing moves holes around the outside TM2 KNIGHT: Yes, sir. The torpedo gets loaded We flood down the tube. We equalize it with And then that slide valve, will open, and that the weapon out of the tube. DESTIN: Got it. OK. Cool. So just crawl down there and TM2 KNIGHT: Yes, sir. Am I still rolling? You're still rolling. DESTIN: So what can TM2 KNIGHT: You don't DESTIN: Can I step on I would step right here-- DESTIN: [LAUGHS] OK, thank you. There's sensitive OK. Here we go. Put your foot on here. Thank you. [GROANS] Yeah, you couldn't be could you? No, sir. DESTIN: So these valves here, Those are just that whenever we drain the gets into the system. DESTIN: Gotcha. So there's seawater on Yes, sir. DESTIN: That's crazy. So sign my name right here? TM2 KNIGHT: Yes, sir. Anywhere you like. DESTIN: Oh, a lot of It's really, really cold. I guess because we're Might have something DESTIN: There's no way this It's literally ice. Well, there was an attempt. Sometimes that's DESTIN: That's all Let's see if I can see you. That's awesome. You're a really long ways away. About 20 feet. DESTIN: 20 feet? Yes, sir. DESTIN: That's pretty cool. Sweet. Coming back. TM2 KNIGHT: All right. Apparently there's MAN: Ice? Yeah. [LAUGHS] MAN: [INAUDIBLE]. DESTIN: So is that Say again? Oh, yeah. So what you're looking at DESTIN: Yeah. TM2 KNIGHT: So when we it's got a little So we load that in, and that So that stops it. DESTIN: Yeah. TM2 KNIGHT: And we roll it so well, and that locks so that it's not going to come door open. DESTIN: Oh, I see. So it's a can that rolls. Yes, sir. DESTIN: Did you grease it? TM2 KNIGHT: We have greased it. DESTIN: That's awesome. It looks like it's riding or Delrin or something. Yes, sir. That's the sliding surfaces has something to slide on it. That was awesome. That was really cool. It was ice. Yeah. DESTIN: Is that normal? That's just the arctic, I guess. Yeah, no. Just being in the arctic DESTIN: That's amazing. Well, that's something I There was an attempt. There was an attempt. All right. So that sliding down a torpedo Thank you. No problem, sir. DESTIN: Appreciate it. It was freaking like ice. MAN: Like real cold, I know. Ice at the end, yeah. I didn't expect that. This video is a part of the series into nuclear submarines. We're going to study a whole and I would love it if you would about this stuff with us. It's fascinating. There's way more to come. This episode is If you've never used These are called And I want to show Check these out. So this black pair when Raycon was interested in letting us be a Checked them out. I absolutely love them. These things are like half the audio brands, but they They're very comfortable. When you buy these things, of the little rubber You can get the exact size They're fantastic. You get 6 hours of And you're going to dig them. I highly recommend these. I use them when I As a matter of fact, about If you want to try these, You get 15% off your order. I recommend the Everyday E25s. You're going to dig them. You can pick whatever I like the blue ones myself. But you know, whatever you like. Big thanks to Raycon. I like your products. In the last episode I showed and said Dad and I don't cut like it. Turns out it's called People told me that There it is. Told you the butterflies Isn't that pretty? Thanks for making me Smarter I'm Destin. I hope you stay tuned for the deep dive into submarines. We're going to learn How do you make What are the bathrooms All kinds of stuff like that. Please consider subscribing. There's a lot more to learn. I'm Destin getting Have a good one. Bye. [MUSIC PLAYING]