(audience applauding) And we're with the cast of Red One, in theaters now, and that's what we've been talking about most of the holiday season, woo! (audience laughs) Most of the holiday season is-- I need what you're having. It's about being there for each other and there for everyone. So, Jelly Roll was on this show. We had to show this because he was here recently and he talked about how much Dwayne's So, I wanna show you this. - He was a fan when I He encouraged me at a time when I, I really wasn't sure if I - Yeah. that he encouraged me. By him being a fan, I was like, if one of the greatest one of the greatest if he sees something in this music, maybe I'm onto something. (audience applause) - So, here's why I wanna play that. Because I do feel, sometimes we lose, like to remind people we love them or, &quot;we support you, this &quot;thank you for doing this,&quot; For some reason, around Christmas time, I feel like we're better at it, right? - Yeah. no idea the impact you're having? That was before anyone This was before he blew - This was about almost I was going through a He didn't even know it, 'cause And I happened to, on a and a song came on. And I was going through a hard time then. That was one of my bouts with depression, and I was struggling, And I was trying to balance a lot, we were pregnant with our second baby, and my little one was, I My older daughter was... She was long distance, and I was trying to film a movie. There was a lot going on. - And then a song came and the song really moved me. And I looked, and I was like, &quot;wow&quot;. And I played it again and And it was Jelly Roll, never But I knew that you were and I just wanna... Just read a line that really The song is called, Only, from Jelly Roll. And it says... What moved me is, &quot;what if &quot;has finally taken my soul? &quot;What if the angels in heaven &quot;Would they fight through the &quot;Lord, I'm believing, And that really moved me and touched me, and then we got in And I told him what it meant to me, and we didn't know each really good friends and that's my boy, and I love that guy, and because you think... I love when good things happen - [Kelly] Mm hmm. (audience applause) to turn it around. - 'Cause he was saying his and to turn it around and show people that light at the end of the tunnel is, kind of, very beautiful as well. - Yeah. do you have anybody in that something has impacted Have you had anything like that? I mean, I'm sure you have. - I'm sure everybody has. - Just kindness, my there's a ripple effect. - If I wrote something or &quot;just remember, when you &quot;and it goes out,&quot; so you put into the world, it has an effect. - Mm hmm. there can be a lot of people that mentor you in this business. You meet so many good people that support you, or give or say, &quot;I get what you because you don't know if Because we all have that are important to us. But I think, too, it's that family stuff, you know. I think we, I, at least sometimes, not always aware of the impact that we could have on We were doing a press thing in London. You sorta take turns going through and talking to all the people, and I'm over here doing my thing 'cause I've already done that thing. And Dwayne says, &quot;hey, come on over here.&quot; And I go, &quot;no.&quot; But then I go on over there because he had encountered who was an actor and was and enthralled with Dwayne, - Yes. we spent a few minutes with this kid and-- - Oh my god, he was freaking out. - He was bawling. - He was bawling. - And his dad was, you know, beaming. I mean, it was fantastic. Just a beautiful thing. - Bonnie was saying, I feel like in... Yes, during the holidays, we all wanna, we should operate in that way, but man, I heard a quote when I was 15. &quot;It's nice to be important, You're absolutely right And especially, today, now. - A lot of stuff going on in the world. A lot of pushing and all that kind of stuff that's happening, but, man, I always find, and we find, especially making a movie like this, like a Christmas movie, that-- - [Kelly] I know, that's gotta feel good. - [Dwayne] It's so good. - It's such a beautiful but it's also fun, 'cause You two's chemistry is hilarious... (Dwayne and audience laugh) just a very good villain. I was maybe not in the Christmas spirit 'cause I was planning on but... - But that has its own - It was very fun. It was very fun to be the villain. (audience applauding) for a Christmas movie, we wanted to see where each of you stood polarizing Christmas topics. Because why not? We're just gonna go down the so here we go. Let It Go, and, My Favorite Things, do you think that that's a Christmas song? Do you think those can - No. - I don't think they're Christmas. - I'm backing you up, they don't feel-- - They don't qualify Does not sound like Christmas to me. - [Kelly] Okay, you are not gonna like my first Christmas record. - Oh no, Kelly. (audience applauds) (cast laughing) - I'm just kidding. Let It Go isn't on there. It's My Favorite Things, because she started Favorite so that's why it is, but of My Favorite Things, - Well, I was still listening You can sing anything. - [Kelly] No, I do agree Neither is... Like, White Christmas, to White Christmas. - But I still would record all of those, like Count Your Blessings. - [Kelly] All the songs, I love those. - [Dwayne] You've done a - [Kelly] I've done a couple, yeah. - You've done a couple, okay. - You love Christmas, right? What's your favorite Christmas song? - [Kelly] And the soundtrack - It's good. favorite Mariah ones on there. And it's not the one everybody picks. - [Dwayne] Yeah. it's really good, yeah. Christmas-- Is that the one you're talking about? - I'm just getting you to sing. (audience laughs and cheers) - I was like, &quot;wait, what?&quot; I think it's her cover But anyway, I can't remember, but I remember going, that was really good. But, yeah, so anyway, don't (audience and cast laugh) Oh, Christmas music should (Chris exhales) - Wait, what's that? - [JK] Too early. - Really? - I think it's okay. - When I was a kid, I was a big on TV, Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. That's when Saint Nick shows up. Then we can start Christmas, - [Kiernan] I agree I is a good thing. It's good to push something - [Bonnie] Yes. - It's connected to the weather. If all of sudden, you get it used to be cold in (audience laughs) 75 degrees today, but when and you can smell it in the - [Kelly] Yes. I think October is too Here's a next one, I've never had, fruitcake is a delicious Agree or disagree? I've never had fruitcake. - It's gross. - It's just so preserved and - [Kelly] Is that the thing that moves? - It's like gummy bears. - [Chris] I think it does move, yeah. - It is the moving thing, okay. - Good for tuckpointing, I think. - [Kelly] Okay, oh my gosh. - Do you find Secret - I think it's fun. - I love it. - [Kelly] I love it. - [Kelly] And do you get to then everybody starts that everyone really wants? - By that point, I'm drunk on tequila, so I don't care what happens. - But you make a great tequila. - Thank you. (laughs) - All right, all right. Going somewhere warm for Christmas. Okay or not okay? - No. (Dwayne laughs) - No disrespect to anyone who's celebrating in a warm climate, but we went to Hawaii &quot;what is this?&quot; - You didn't like Christmas in Hawaii? - Abomination. No, I need the cold - [Kelly] Yeah, me too. What about y'all? - You like warm. because I've had a lot but I do think white Christmas is ideal. Like that's gold standard. - [Dwayne] So, I gotta say, I was saying let's take Santa's gonna come to Hawaii, Which meant a lot of gifts had - That's always super fun. - By Santa, of course, no, yes. - To be clear, yeah. can clear it, it's good, yeah. (audience laughs) You know, we've been on this tour. Santa's real and he's coming. (audience laughs) - Like you, Chris, like, &quot;We'd like to be in colder weather.&quot; Wake up in the morning, kids they're going crazy, Santa Reindeer made a mess with all the oatmeal and things like that outside. We look outside and there is - [Kelly] Oh. - All right. (audience laughs) - I guess I'm the jerk. - [Kelly] That's pretty, okay. That was nice, I still want cold, though. (Dwayne and audience laugh) atop your tree? - Star. - You go angel? - Look at him, he's gonna fight about it? (audience laughs) - [Kiernan] It's been building, the tension has been building. - I still have, it's been but I still have the angel pre-Christmas, bizarre... Make-your-own ornaments. - Oh, we do that at my house. (Chris laughs) (cast gasps) with how you pack that angel every year. - [Chris] Wow. It's got pieces missing. And that goes on top - [Dwayne] Is that this - [Kelly] That's special. I did that with my mom and dad when I was like six years old. - [Lucy] That's so sweet. That's a memory. - [Kelly] I love it. All right, before the cast goes, you know what that sound means. It's time for another Ambush Christmas! (audience cheers) Bed Bath &amp; Beyond has everything you need this holiday season, to seasonal decor, to thoughtful gifts. And since they're online, you can shop from the comfort of your And everyone in the audience is getting a 300-dollar Bed Bath &amp; Beyond gift card. All right, y'all, be It's in theaters now, it's so good. Go see it with your family,