Hi everyone, my name is Kevin. Today I want to Microsoft Excel, and as full disclosure before first off, why would you possibly want to write let's jump on the desktop and I'll show you a Here I am on my desktop, and I have Microsoft Excel. This is what comes with Office 365. If you macros have been around for a little while, hey, you should get the latest version. A Here I'm going to click on Microsoft Excel, and that every single month my manager gives me this and then the balance due in the other, format this data in a specific way, so I'm going my manager wants to get the data back, so you see name into two separate columns, and then I have I've done is for any customer who has a balance So, you'll see, you know, here's my customer data, I could do is I could just manually do this every I apply the formatting, and it's lots of manual but what we could do is instead of me manually the computer and I could have the computer do You could take those repetitive tasks that you do have a macro do it for you. So, sound good. Well, thing that we want to do is we're going to want to you could jump through all these different pivots related to macros, so what we need to do is first that lets you add a macro, and how do we do that? click on the file menu, so that'll open up file the file menu to options. OK, so let's click on ever wants to go. You just land in this view with controls. You probably have no idea what half of what we're going to do is we're going to scroll ribbon, so let's click on that, and what you'll different pivots that you see on the ribbon. The to check that box, and then we're going to click a new pivot called developer, and so I'm going to here you have something that says macros, so I that currently exist as part of this workbook. I What I could do is I could record a macro so we're going to walk through a few of these as is we want to learn how to record a macro, the formatting here to get it to look like this I'm going to first click on record macro, and I'm One of the things that you'll see is for the macro to just connect all the words or you could use that. I'm just going to use underscores here. macro is recording and so I have this button that but I'm not done yet because I haven't done do is I'm going to insert another column here and we're going to call this column last name, and all these names and what I'm going to do is go to columns and I'm going to say delimited, next, and click on next and finish and there you go. All my and then for the balance due, I'm going to We're going to go to conditional formatting a value greater than 0. So, we're going to say what you see is now this highlighted any single you'll see is, so I've matched the formatting, I'm going to go back to the developer and So, what I'm going to do now is I'm just going so we're going to go back and I'm also just sheet just so I have a copy of it, and so what and so you see, I have this existing and now I could run it, and when I run it, it next month when I get a different set of same macro again and that'll apply all the Now what I can also do is there's an option let's say that I had my customer data sitting over run the macro, it's not going to do anything because it's in a different position. If simply use the starting point as the position let's say I recorded that macro and I use relative it would simply apply all the formatting in this I'm going to get rid of the formatting for just a and I want to show something else that So, one way to run your macros, you could click What you can also do is if I click on insert, so we're going to insert a button, and I'm going this macro. The format customer data, so I'll I maybe I for the button I change the text to check out this. Now when I click on the button, kind of cool. You could use a button, or you could You can either use a button or simply run it from One of the things you could also do is what we're going to do is I'll click into that I created. So, this is the actual code could kind of work your way through it. Let's say first name of customer and maybe you want to you can modify some of the details of the macro, you know, select more cells instead of going Or maybe C100. So, let's say your data always that, so you just always capture however much data That'll just automatically be saved then. I'm what you need to do then is if you want to save Excel spreadsheet because it has a macro in it. within the save as list, you have your typical something called an Excel macro enabled workbook. workbook, you're going to want to save it as and so this is how you create simple macros especially if you're doing those repetitive tasks draining than having to do a task many, many, and instead what you could do is, why don't are great at doing that. You know, predictable, all you have to do is you just have and the computer will do it. For you now, manager that you came up with this awesome or you can just kick your legs back up, tell macro do the work for you and get a little bit Well, that's all I had. I wanted to give you a in Microsoft Excel. If this was helpful and this video a thumbs up. You want to see more and if there are any other videos or any feel free to leave a comment down below, and videos to create in the future. That's all I had.