Control to unit 68B, Control to unit 68B, Unit 68B, you have been Repeat, you have been Repeat, you have been deact-- Fuck 'em, we ain't taking orders from an integrated circuit. Deactivated my ass! 68B is gonna keep right on in this shit-hole We'll show those what a couple of real - Right, Phil? Goddamn Francis, the freaks. They can go yodeling as far as I'm concerned. Is this how they taught Okay, let's have a look at Hey, you fucking deaf Wow, this couple is I think they're drunk, Bill, Jesus. I'd say there's one Sure thing, an Dammit! Move it, back to the car! You can thank your That might have been your head. He's got to come He's just got to come. There he is! Tommy! Hey, we're going to Why don't you No, I don't feel like it. It's no good sitting here. Your pa won't ever come back. Yes, he will and he'll Well, I bet he just ran away and any water he You try and say that and I'll break your face! It's common talk. It's not true, it's not true. They're all saying he's It's not true! Your dad's a coward. A coward, a coward. It's not true, it's not true! - He's a coward, a coward. Mommy! Mommy! The temperature is at And humidity reads 12%-- Mommy! What is it, son, what's wrong? Is it true that Who said that? The other boys! No, it's not true. Your pa made that journey risking his life to and to give a future Then why did they say that? Because they're Scared and worried. But it's not right. They're making a scapegoat And it makes me angry that Pa'll come back, won't he? Yes, of course he will, Tommy. And he'll bring all What is the humidity reading? 12%, Senator, down It's a steady decline. If Fred doesn't get then I'm afraid all the work we've done to date'll be ruined. Don't worry, Senator, I hope and pray that Still, I'm very worried, He should have been After all, you know he's Senator, why don't you let me-- Oh, John, forget it, we've already been through that. I am not risking any And what if Fred doesn't Have you thought about that, That's a possibility Listen, Linda, don't get Fred's my best friend and But it's a trip of over across dangerous and There are bands and hunting for water day and night. And he left without an Senator, I know the road to No, John, you're to stay here. Senator, Senator? What's the trouble? Look at this, there's no water The moment that I have But we must not despair. We must keep our faith And hope for what, Senator? That God puts back the we destroyed with nuclear bombs? Hope for what, for the Nothing's impossible including miracles. Fred could be on his way You're just kidding yourself, Senator, and you know you are. The fact is that the plants we've managed to save If we wait for your miracle, we won't even be here to see it! We've got to do something Please, Senator, may I try? Well? Yes, you may- At this stage of the game, we may as well just What do you need for the trip? A tanker and two I'll have Taylor call his men, they'll prepare them. Hey John, good luck, John, I want to come with you. Tommy, you can't! I want to look for pa! I can't take you along It's gonna be rough, Hey, don't worry, I'll come back with your Okay, this is where we are now. After the stone quarry, we until we reach the for 20, 25 miles until The underground spring right next to an old station. What's that? I don't know. Tommy! What the hell you doing here? I just got to know what That's all we need, now what? It's too late to go back. Just have to take him along. Do you realize-- I'll be as good as anything. And you won't even If this were a picnic I'd but it's not! The Exterminators will I brought my mascot. I hope it works, Yep, we're gonna need it now. Hal, it's Crazy Bull's They believe there's That's what we want If they find out we're they'll want to know where it is and that'll be the end of it. The one thing they Charge, once more into the Let's purloin that water! Cover our rear, Hit their plank, you You go, it's their turn. Look out! We've lost the others, All right, mother-grubbers, Tommy, you take the and keep hidden, huh? Water, water, water! Empty, it's empty! By the beard of the prophet! No, Shadow, I want him alive. Is the nice pretty little birdie gonna sing a pretty song exactly where the water is? Go jump in the lake! Humorist, huh? Then let's have a few laughs. Come on little honey parrot. Sing Crazy Bull a pretty song. You are trying my patience. Now, I'll give you just Where is the water? Go to hell, You think that other poor fool who went out with the Well, he's not, he's a pile And that's what you'll Here's your water. Have a good day, you turkey! All right, make haste you Mount thy steed. and we'll find the water. Your pa made that journey, risking his life to And to give a future Let's hope he gets back with that water soon Don't worry, Senator, You like that, huh, JoJo? Did you hear that? What do you think it is? It's not good for you A sip, just a sip. And what will you give In return? Sure, I don't go around Listen, kid-- My name's Tommy. Okay, Tommy, keep But hand me that jack over I want to get out of here. What will you give me in return? I promise not to kill ya' That's not much of a deal. Have you got a tanker? No, but I have a car. The most powerful in The Exterminator, I need a tanker. What do you need a tanker for? I need to carry water. I know where it is. If there was any water Well, have you got a No. But I can get one. You give me that jack over there and I'll take you to it. That's a deal! Well then, where is this place? Hey! That wasn't in our deal! Alien doesn't do deals You owe me your life! There you are, now we're quits! Listen, kid, stop following me. I'm not following you. We took the same road Which way are you going? East. That's fine, I'm going west. That took you long enough. Weren't you meant to be I changed my mind, Nothing against it, Listen kid, do you really Where, is it far? Not very. To the west, is that right? No. To the east then? Maybe. What's the matter, Are you afraid I'll My father died for that water. I've got to get them 'Cause a lot of people Okay. But if I take you, besides a day's outing? Perhaps they're able to thanks to our water. And that'll be thanks Isn't that enough? No, not for me. You're a barbarian, that's the difference Yeah, well in this shit barbarians have to be around. And seeing that without me, you'd never get there you should offer me something. I'll see when we get there. All right, Damn you and the Now, let's get going, come on. Okay. How now, Alien! How now to you, Crazy Bull. What's this walking shit? You stole my car from Well, you'll never someone stole it from me. The only think I in this entire world is the only thing! I can believe that, Is that all she was to you? You know what, are crazy to show your in this territory after This is my home, I Then I imagine you came back Not exactly. Take them! Chain the infidel Alien Let's see what splitting the Move it! If you let me go and give me any old kind of vehicle I'll let you in on a What secret? Well, will you give Here he is on the brink of death and he has the audacity Be prudent, this golden Water, water, Crazy Bull. So much of it, You are making me angry, Alien. You don't joke about the element that's most important in life, that's life itself! I know that, Crazy I know where there's water. Speak. Hold it. I'll tell you where the water is only when my ass is that'll take me as far You'll get it. Right now. What's wrong, no faith in me? Would you trust a snake? There you are, it's all yours. Where's the water? Ask the kid where the water is. Stop him! Let go! Let go! Where's the water? I don't know anything. Alien lied to save his own skin. None of it was true! Yeah, well the main it could just as easily Tough little brat, go on, Kid, tell me about or he'll break your arm in two. It won't break. You asked for it, kid! Ball breakers, get him! Hold on, Tommy. Come on you mothers, My arm, don't forget my arm! What the hell you I'll tell you later. Hold tight, kid. Well, Senator, There's nothing more we can do. I know, I know. Our only hope is that and that they've got Who knows if Tommy! Come on now, Linda, stop it! We have to keep faith, my dear. We have to keep on hoping, Now, get back to work, it'll Why don't you go see to what's I'll do it at once. Edward, I want you toughest rationing A program that'll keep us alive Right, Senator. There, now let's get going. Are you sure the tank is empty? Yeah, come on, we'll There's nothing else we can do. Is this Papeon a mechanic? Something of the kind. In any case, he's the only who knows something Just pray that he's still alive. You think he'll be able We can only ask him, bionics are a bit more complicated What's the matter? My arm, it hurts terribly. Come on then, up you go. If it weren't for that water, you would have left me Isn't that so? You know something, kid, I That's what you always say. Shut up! Let me down, Alien, we're Just shut up will Another step and you're dead. Hey Papeon, it's me, Alien! Keep away from me, Alien. I thought we were friends? I have no friends and I What I got left is only I don't need your water. In fact, I was gonna in return for your help. Okay, come on out. But don't try What do you want? Quit pointing that All right, start talking. I need... Hey, what's my car doing here? That hunk of junk belong to you? What are you calling Call it what you want, but if I hadn't put it would still be a Do you know what I've Do you know, I've added and four valve heads, 32 valves! Changed the carburetors. Do you know many Well, do you know? Do you-- I don't give a damn I just want to know why So, you've come all this No, I've come for him. Now, what's his problem? They tore his arm off. His arm? It's biomechanical. I tried to put it back together but it doesn't work right. You're the only one I know that can possibly Are you crazy? You know perfectly well of doing anything like that. And this arm is not This is an imitation. Shit, weren't you That was so long ago, I can't even remember And anyway, what the that I was a Space Rover Don't you know it would take me at least two months and to put that arm right again! You're almost making me cry. Let's do a deal, You know what I like about you? You always say &quot;please.&quot; All right, my boy, we I'll bet you fix it Come on, it's not that Yes, it's true, all we is how this carburetor works. Now then, pass me that pincer, the screwdriver and those wires. And bring me that Biomechanics, what shit! Hey, what do you You never know. With all the oddballs Where the freak are the pincers? Just a sec. You got beer. Go easy on that, You can't find it anymore. Anyhow, I need it Give it to the boy to drink. Sit down, boy, come on. This won't hurt him, will it? How the hell should I know? - What's your name? Listen to me, Tommy, drink. To be honest, what I have to do you tell me, drink some more. Did I hurt you? No, you were tickling me. Hey, were you really Sorry. Sure, one of the best. And you went up into space? I've even been to But that was before and the Earth turned There were clouds in the sky You've seen rain? Sure I have. The Earth was green and lush. There was grass and trees and We even used to take I'm nearly through. - That's not too good. There are two joints and a So, get some replacements. Where am I supposed to Can't you find what Wait a minute. You don't mind it I modify So long as it works. You better go outside. When I'm working I can't Okay, I'll go out and Yeah. How come you're with a We're partners. You'd be safer with a snake as a partner than I know, that's why I chose him. Go on, drink some more, kid. Don't turn around, Now get out, slowly. Who are you? Shut up and walk! I didn't tell you to stop. There's a snake in front of me. Come on, not that old trick. Maybe it's an old snake. Trash? That's so you don't get I should have let the A snake bite is better &quot;I'll be back in a few minutes,&quot; And you leave me alone of the desert with Nevertheless, I see So, if you don't mind, You're welcome. The old man sure If you're looking for it's that knob there. Well, you know one especially with all these There. What's the matter, No, I'm just fine. Fine? I've never felt so Tastes okay. Is he your son? Good God, No, we're partners. Partners? What does he have so Water, so much water, We can own all the How's the kid? Well, he's drunk. - Drunk? Tommy? Hi there, partner! How's the arm? The arm? Just fine, look. Come on now, not that arm. The other arm, Oh, this. I haven't quite figured Jesus, what the hell Lots of beer. Hey! Tommy, don't, that's dynamite. Did you see that? I can control everything now. Sure smells good. Yeah, everyone knows with cactus is the best in It's delicious. Hey, Tommy, after we've This time in the comfort I'm not coming. What? You heard, I'm not coming. Papeon is gonna give and you and Trash will Me, with her? Do you have something Yeah! Until I'm sure the arm We'll catch up later. What's all this about? What the hell does she I told her where the water is. She'll take you to it. But you wouldn't tell me. - I trust her. Tommy told us why he Trash and I are on his side. I'm on his side too. You have a rotten reputation, Why should anyone You mean you trust - Yes. After that peak, we've and then straight on until You mean, At the old central? That's what Tommy told me. Listen, I have that water for the kid, You go on ahead. We load it now, then you and I go out and sell it to the What do you think? Huh? Well, what do you think? I think you're a bastard. You don't agree? No. Well then, I'm real sorry. Because your trip You're rotten, Alien, Don't go moralizing with me, especially a common Tommy and his people are God, don't you really care? No. You've got the feelings Listen baby, I don't I won't be there. I'm here right now and the If you want to survive, All I'm doing is going That's a hell of a life. I didn't choose it. I'll be back this way later. If you change your mind, I wouldn't count on it. Farewell, then. I don't think you'll We'll see about that. I told you that you All right, Trash, Now, you'd better untie me, and we'll continue our trip, and go get the water for Tommy. So, that's what you think, huh? Why? I'll be able to take and continue the trip to To do what, Alien? In this period, offer us too many choices. Tommy should be given Ready? That is more like it, kid. Now, see if you can throw. Great heavens! Listen to me, I wouldn't even if you gave me a whole Good, good. Listen Papeon, tell me It was marvelous, Lovely flowers, birds and bees. And the women, Doesn't sound like Trash. Trash is a modern woman. So, you're not worried Not for us, no. But I'm not sure about Alien. It seems deserted. I don't like it, it smells. Are you sure that's That's what the kid said. He said it was a reservoir, a tank, supposedly The problem is, who Right, how do we do it? Come on, I'll show you. It really does seem Let's check down this alley. Yeah, come on. Listen. Come on. Sounds like a big engine. We need something to get in. I'm your girl. What is that? An ultrasonic key. That's it. Be careful. Hey, look! I'll be damned, We won't have any And as much as we want. Right from the The door! I don't want to frighten you, Look out! Who ever it is, I don't I wonder how we're gonna There must be some - Don't move! I just want to turn I don't want to die in the dark. Hear me, You have profaned entered the forbidden shrine. And what's more to the point, you have found out about And thus, you will die! Wait! Watch out, Alien. - You okay? Come on then, let's go! Okay! Get down! My God! Stay right here. Alien, water, Alien, it's water! I've forgotten what it was like. Water to wash ourselves. Water to cultivate the earth. We're rich, we're rich! We can sell it to people Don't try to stop me, Not this time. I'm not hassled about it. Good girl, because It'll be like crude oil I was just a little boy that this crude oil made Don't you want a bit of Son of a bitch! That sneaky little beaver. All right, If you're coming back for me, As you can see, I'm all right. This is no time to joke, Alien. I have Crazy Bull right Okay, honey, if you step on the gas and go, I'll You? Yeah, even a son of a bitch Go on, Trash, Do I see Alien and my Make weapons ready for battle. Alien, the Ides of March Take your time, Crazy Bull. I'll take care of the tanker. Go back the other way, Section one! Into battle my merry Unleash the Dogs of War. Turn around! There's no one here. Nothing, she can't have got far! I'll check along the rocks. Right! She's here! Come on, move your ass! Don't let her get away! It's the end of the road, So long, Trash. Good boy. We got here just in time. Hold it, throw it down, go Do as she says. Now then, just don't do nothing. Stay right where you are And don't try following Go, Trash! Papeon! Papeon! Bitch! I'm finished, Trash, finished. Shut up, Alien? Where's Alien? About a mile down Crazy Bull was after me and Alien stayed to fight Tell him that he's But I love him like a Come on now, Tommy, we've got to change the and get that water And Alien? Alien has his own war Let's go, we don't have Hey, move it, Tommy, come on! We can't leave Alien alone. Men like him prefer Don't you worry about a I don't know if you're but the point is he And I have to return the favor. So? So, let's take Papeon's truck. We'll get there a lot quicker, If we cut over the hills, Trash, it might be a lot faster. Will this old machine Let's try. Okay. Thy end is nigh! Blow the mother-grubber Come on, surround the bastard, Retreat! Let's get out of here. That was a good throw! Go on, throw another one! Okay. Come on, fall in! Alien, I'm gonna make you Die, unspeakable varmint! Bastard! Oh no. All the water is gone. What if we go back for It's the only choice, - Christ! I don't believe it. I never thought I'd Who's crying? Don't tell me that those It's water! This is water. Water, it really is-- Water, water, yes, water! Water, water! I can't believe it! Yes!