Some day in the future, this plane could president of the United States around If you're anything like me, you're probably I got a phone call from Hermeus, the company A passenger plane capable of flying at Mach 5. To say I was skeptical would be an understatement, Hello, is that a working turbo So I reached back out to Hermeus to take a and honestly, I was blown away by a company that What I saw and heard changed me from company. A company that according to their Can you tell me what those early days were like when it was just the four of you in We were literally, yes, literally in my exciting. So when we left our relatively a cliff and try to build an airplane together and our family six months to figure it out. idea that we've got become a thing, can we speed passenger travel in some reasonable Can we bring really strong people in to support plan? Can we bring customers? All of those Saying you are going to build is easy. Actually doing it is Software startups have a massive advantage in that possible to bootstrap a software start up in a Hardware startups don't have it as easy, and it's why I didn't take Hermeus overly building. Pretty renders of futuristic planes Designing a hypersonic passenger but to actually start prototyping Raw materials, manufacturing machinery and the software startups do not have to contend short supply of talented design engineers, hardware companies like SpaceX, NASA and Apple. One of the first challenges is to demonstrate to and for that you need customers. The aviation industry is extremely tightly dollar companies like Boeing have tried when introducing new engines because Even government backed ventures like mach 2 are no longer around, even SR-71 and XB-70 with max speeds just Trying to go from nothing passenger plane with a max speed revenue sources is going to require some However, Hermeus's founders, when they were were well aware of this We knew from the very beginning we couldn't a really fast passenger airplane. We knew that de-risking and development along the way customers. So it took us a while to sort out security space and they're very, very important. really got us to the first round of funding is there's this long commercial roadmap to but the way you get there is by So, Hermeus plans to solve problems generate revenue there first. So what One of Hermeus' leading investors technologies are a hot button topic " What were your most surprising findings on the threat environment, in "They are moving SO fast. I think other thing we should bear in mind is that the very high quality, they are ahead of us and in regard to these very very The United States government is keenly aware terrifying prospect of mutually assured evade detection until it's too late to react. Intercontinental ballistic missiles are designed quickly at speeds of up to 7.8 km/s through They move quickly, but their lofted time to detect and aim anti-missile defenses. Hypersonic missiles are designed to at about half the speed of an ICBM. but their low trajectory means they suddenly by the earth's curve, giving their targets This is the national security but not necessarily by building those weapons. One of the major challenges in developing visited the hypersonic wind tunnel in UTSA last go hypersonic for the laugh, and while we were "One of the things I found interesting cheaper to build an airframe and make a a hypersonic wind tunnel. How There's, so there's a broad spectrum of test, even there's facilities like ours where the smaller and the flight temperatures are low. So run in for, you know, relatively low cost where test being more expensive than a flight scale But on the other end, if you go into one of where you could, or at a NASA facility where you um, yeah, that might be the case. thousands of dollars to million dollars a it kind of depends on, on how you set would probably be about 10 million. And we're still talking about scale. Uh, so it, you're trying to test. Are you trying to test tunnel conditions do you need? There's a bunch if you wanted to do a full scale vehicle fully where you can actually do that on the ground. And that's the first market Hermeus is planning Hermeus' first aircraft, Quarterhorse, will test bed. Providing flight testing services for It will be an autonomous hypersonic aircraft lessons in developing a hypersonic vehicle, Competing with the likes of those while being able to provide much more the desired flight regime for a very short This is a valuable market with deep NASA and even SpaceX could use. Helping bridge that revenue gap to passenger aircraft and gaining the confidence a 60 million dollar jointly funded contract from 100 million dollars of series B funding with With this money they have been busy working on the next critical step in developing Boom, the commercial supersonic aircraft start decided that the commercial supersonic market was manufacturer, and have since had to scramble Hermeus wisely skipped the step of relying on a first goal with that early seed money was to Skyler Shuford, Hermeus' Chief Operating Officer, So this was our humble beginnings. So the first And so just to take a step back, our engine just an off the shelf jet engine, which high speed bits around it. So everything from but could have been traditionally manufactured ramjet combustor. And then up front we have our pretty battleship rugged scale what allows the jet engine to get up to the Okay, let's pause for a second because possible to people that aren't experts in or whatever the hell battleship By that Skyler means the prototype are not built with low weight in mind. They the shelf components where possible. They are iteration. Spending a lot of time optimizing make sense this early in the process. So if a battleship instead spending an extra few intended for something like the SR-71, To understand that we first need to understand what causes normal jet engines Jet engines need to compress air before it enters much energy as possible from the fuel. A normal Where air enters the engine and is squeezed down The compressor is driven by the the energy released in the combustion This type of engine has a speed limit parts. As the speed of the aircraft increases, as it's forced down the inlet of the engine, which can eventually exceed the material Ramjets get around this by using the forward the combustion chamber. So we don't need any of the plane provides enough compression The plane needs to be traveling fast enough to A pure ramjet needs some other method to get up to However, we can create a hybrid engines. A turbo ramjet engine. The same It used a conventional jet engine with an fuel injector at the outlet of the turbine to breathing rocket nozzle. It used this to get air was channeled around the compressor into the after burner and began what Hermeus has built and there have been Making the transition between turbojet engine and ramjet engine is not easy. Several things need to happen as the engine that time the aircraft is going to be rapidly aircraft. If this transition isn't fast enough to light up the ramjet, or for a passenger plane A lot of first time flyers find decreasing thrust after takeoff a little To ease the transition we need to getting as fast as possible before mode switching. To help with this Hermeus have installed have. This cools the incoming air and much faster velocities before the blades An engine created in the Japanese Space a liquid hydrogen precooler placed in front of the air intake spike. The liquid and combustion chamber where it absorbs heat pressure hydrogen is then injected into the The details of Hermeus' precooler are secret, but they are using a precooler to push So that's what we did here. So we took an off using our pre-cooler, we pushed it up to the SR 71 flew in terms of temperatures. So it down to about 150 F. The jet engine had our afterburner combustor was running during that connected the Ramjet combustor directly to the What do you mean by the facility? So yeah, so to be able to test the associated with HighSpeed flight, you So there's full tip to tail free jet testing mach conditions, but for us, because we can do direct connect so it's not flowing high into the engine. We did that testing up at Purdue high temperature air associated with high-speed Is it just high temperature? So like I said, everything after so it doesn't have to be high speed. Now you're decoupling the supersonic inlet from the to do it. We did all of this with a team of You heard that right. They developed a million dollars. Now of course this is a it's a proof of concept, but Once this concept was proven they the engine that will be used in Quarterhorse. We took a quick drive from Hermeus' at Dekalb-peachtree airport, where Everyone Ready? Ready Ready Ready 50 90. 90 Now if you can't tell by the I was having a great time. It felt like the This was a test of the inhouse afterburner which After the debrief Skylar gave me a tour of the same engine used in the Northrop F-5. But yeah, so as with talking down the other the turbo machinery core right here, and of our custom hardware. So obviously these going to be something that we fly. It's going core pieces here that we need to test on the is. So everything is currently, the designs we're using it as a test bed and iterating a went in two weeks ago, and so that's what the design modifications for life for endurance test bench to just rapidly turn through things, some stuff, and then get the performance With these valves, they're in Yeah, so these valves are to differential blowoff that we're going to Right, kinda like bypass? Exactly. So when we transition from to be a set of valves that move some of and this is the ground representation of those. Is there a pump involved with that air from normal bypass air. How do Yeah, so that's why some of this is blanked So you're just kind of relying on the Yeah. So you still have all doing all the work against And you're testing the nozzle as well. Do you think that's what your nozzle Oh, definitely not that big. It'll Right, but just the two ramps, are you just going to a two ramp or is it Yeah, so the flight vehicle, the high but when we're flying with the off the shelf of the earlier flight vehicles, we'll just use the Back in the factory I asked Skyler more So these are out of production, the J 85s. So us working with, we were really working with them. That's really where the expertise I think originally designed in the fifties. There's no firmware we have to work through. And system for all the controls. So really it was you can kind of chase down all the different tubes then there's a suite of documentation out there. I would've assumed you were engine manufacturer since I imagine it'd We certainly will be with Pratt and Whitney control. It's a much higher performing details of that a lot better. So that one around for a long time. There's a lot of performance needs out of it are a lot less than Uhm we'll talk about Quarterhorse but this will power, and then over here And that will power darkhorse. So the How many, is it just one engine? Two engines? Two engines. Two engines on on Quarterhorse depending on the test that sense of scale. So this puts out about 5,000 So it seems Hermeus are well on their engines with both the J85 and much larger So, what's next for Hermeus? Well, they just tested Quarterhorse Mk 0. The factory. This vehicle was intended to help Hermeus lot has changed since the days of the SR-71 and that the engineers in the 1960s could have So we're also investigating large very precise. But with large format additive, you can build larger structures a lot a bit worse, but you can put down a lot There's no real grain on the Polish? So it's like a weld processed, properties throughout and so that's what What material is That? This is Inconel as well. It's so much heavier than I Yeah, it's steel. Yeah, it's high nickel steel. It's just one of those things that you read about in my head I was thinking it would be closer It's heavy. Its kind of less exciting too when I mean I'm just nerdy about this sort of excited. Material science. I just think So this is a very large weld process. So wire yeah. And so that's actually in here. You it. I'll take that. So it's not active right At this point in the tour extremely loud high theme on these documentary shoots, so I am going Hermeus have been manufacturing much of the of small and large format 3D printing However, one of the most exciting mentioned was with Machina Labs new AI driven could form the outer skin panels of the decrease the cost of development. Body panels frequently manufactured by huge hydraulic Those molds are expensive to make and making making an entirely new mold. This is also alloys like titanium and inconel, something the The US didn't even have hydraulic presses The best forge in the United States at that needed to form these titanium parts. Clarence time pleaded for the development of an adequate a 250,000 ton metal forming press.Because of the final forging dimensions were nowhere forming process had to be completed through cut away to form the part, resulting in 90% material is extremely difficult to refine This also makes design iteration extremely titanium and inconel parts. This to me is a key most advanced manufacturing techniques don't solve why Hermeus have limited themselves to mach 5, And you'd mentioned earlier that like Mach aiming for Mach five. What is the advantage most people say Mach five is where hypersonic buzzword, although that does help sometimes sometimes too. But it's really about that is where it's where you can use RAM jets rather than where you have to go to SCRAM because your become too much to have net thrust going the temperatures that the gross acreage sit at are Does that mean gross? The acreage? Yeah, the primary structure. So the primary or 900 degrees versus the 1900 degree leading can use metallics for the primary structure the development phase or the early researchy at scale and is relatively available. And really at just the very, very low end of they're like, oh, it could be up to Mach 25. Yeah, that was overwhelmed by the amount of going bare metal for the actual skin Of the brain. There is going to be some judicious places that you might imagine. But for most of What's the reusability like there in canals I mean, it's definitely going to be a challenge. incremental about that. And our first vehicles it's about accessing these flight conditions and later vehicles will start to solve it. But really life of the vehicles because most airliners or is time under wing hours of engine operation, us because you're not in the air that long. It's going to drive the life of these vehicles. And to really anchor the long-term maintenance, Could you see yourself using, would ablatives I mean it's definitely possible. long-term vision that we have of being aircraft you have to use things that don't ablate or The X 15 had a lot of issues with the Things like that. So that was when they started like six and a half towards seven for the first on the outside and that thing, I think they flew that was highly reusable for the first time they a human rated craft rocket base. So a little bit Point for this power speed. What's the biggest the opportunity to test the actual airframe and That? Not yet. So I mean, that's part of of other risks and problems that we have wanted to focus. You can't find aircraft started and has spent basically all of the and now we're at a place where the major de-risked in terms of the mode transition. And high speed takeoff and landing of a remote piloted simultaneously. What's the challenge with, so want to have very short stubby wings because you That's really, really bad for takeoff and landing. able to have a vehicle that can traverse all of one where you want really big wings and you that. And so by adding the speed component, all solvable, but not something that we have done focusing mark one on. So our first variant of the jet engine up in flight to the mode transition to the engine, making sure our pre-cool works mark will be the mode transition capable high so being incremental about that. So we're not considerations in flight until mark two, but the way to be able to understand that where we're that the joints and everything move the way we Assuming each mark of the Hermeus will be moving on to build which will be a fully reusable uncrewed vehicle missions. It will be Hermeus' primary defense the SR-71 did before it. Avoiding interception Then finally we have Halcyon. It bears some similarities to the which could actuate downward for supersonic wedge air inlet increased the amount of Compression lift occurs as a result of the underneath an aircraft as a result of shockwave extreme high pressure after all. The triangular travel underneath the wings. The folding wing tips underneath the wings to increase compression lift the range of the XB-70 which was designed as a The lowering of the wing tips also which helps counteract a phenomenon backwards in supersonic flight that No crewed aircraft has used so it's quite cool to see the Halcyon It could potentially fly passengers from half. Practically commuting distance for could unlock 4 trillion dollars of GDP for Yeah, so looking back in history when we've like when Rome built out the roads, we switched or in China built out high-speed rail in the by multiple single digit point G D P growth of behind it is when you reduce the barriers to you increase trade and that increases G D P. but it's happened in the past and we have kind moves around. So that's what I mean by this the pandemic taught us quite a bit about how much the early days of bringing complex goods into If you're selling a commodity, do you need to be a nuclear reactor or a hypersonic airplane, How important do you think accessibility to the how accessible do you see very far down the line This? Yeah, so the kind of math that we've done business class and first class travel only because market now. I mean, we've had seven or eight and we're incredibly efficient at them and coming down, safety improving, of course. Is going to do that? No, it's going to take time to very difficult to operate a service like this economy ticket makes sense with the technology are additional technology sets that are less specifically that can really kind of rewrite But it's not something that I want to sign I think the approach here is very much a kind of if you want to call it that, get that into the system or as a decade's worth either energy storage or energy production. that actually enables that flip to operating AJ mentioned energy production and energy storage being two key technologies that could and that's because one of the largest costs Ignoring profit margins on a 100 where your money goes to cover the about 19 to 21 dollars goes to fuel, For a hypersonic plane that fuel cost is with the square of the velocity, although lower air densities at a cruising altitude Regardless, these aren't going to be compounded by halcyon's relatively small maintenance for a plane dealing with extreme The reality is Hermeus won't be selling these Perhaps one day we will see a hypersonic air States to appear first on the scene when it I often judge companies by the and it's hard not to get invested in the Tonio Martinez at leading it, Hermeus' experienced engineers in the world in this the SpaceX Crew Dragon, and Divergent's 3D to developing the machine that builds the efforts on ensuring everyone in the company Not a lot of engineers get the opportunity and the actual manufacturing process. That's a good question because a lot engineering and manufacturing oftentimes aren't important part of establishing this company the same building. And what that allows for is they can come out and work with the technicians what about this? What about that? Make sure that thing with the machine shop design engineer has the machinist who's going to make their part and radius and these cut types of things that the can get that information from the technicians to And then when the parts get made and they're you'll see the engineers and the technicians and put them in. And so the engineer gets the I designed this thing and this is what terms of how this thing could go together of things. And then when they actually see then they get to, oh, you know what, if it would've been a little bit easier. And so you like this where a lot of other companies, Feel like that's the most, I've had a I worked in a biomedical device startup machine shop for the first time. They're it was the most fun part of it of seeing but you never fully understand it until you Precisely. And that's been I think a lot of me is seeing the look on the engineer's face faces as they're collaborating and working parts on and either it's like frustration or especially with some of the newer engineers that it's pretty awesome because you can feel the the team and the cohesion and just we need and within all the processes that we build in It's funny, I think most engineers actually become pretty discontent when they're a creative field. I think engineers are so they like to be thrown into the thick of it. Yes, and that is absolutely correct. I think some that the engineer really gets pretty boxed in environment to where sometimes you can go up to an at for? And they may not even know because it's We really encourage critical thinking across the they should have a good idea of what this thing is are installing stuff on the aircraft and working between these two different disciplines doing because you actually get to do that critical on that critical thinking because again, we are by doing that, we eliminate a lot of bottlenecks that the decisions are being made in the hands those decisions, which is usually at the front around enabling the engineer and the machinist solutions and then just execute without any overly I know for a fact that any engineer listening to that conversation has their So many companies pigeon hole their engineers point it's hard to see the forest for the and evolving. Every ambitious engineer where your creativity is not only company with people as experienced as Tonio I realized the opportunity I had with this with companies like this last year. Helion last year that they actually hired a of our video. I feel incredibly proud and help develop new technologies, and I So, to help even more, I'm launching Propeller is our new engineering hub, where you can find the coolest jobs Hermeus currently has 40 job roles open. And they a Principal Thermal Engineer, a a Senior Mechanisms Engineer and many more. Relativity, who are a rocket company that launched currently have 171 roles to fill. With roles like Engineer, Propulsion Test Engineer, Senior Go to StartPropeller.com and take a look. If make sure to sign up to our newsletter. This adding many more new features and jobs to newsletter we will keep you posted on all the most If you are a company that's interested reach out to us with the contact