This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. and get access to my streaming service, Nebula, The Transaereo was unlike any aircraft ever 100 passengers. And it was going to do what all the way across the Atlantic, when ocean But in 1921, flight was still in its infancy. to do the impossible. For centuries, travelling from Europe to North a ship. And in the 18th century, it took a the 19th century, faster and more reliable over a week. By the 20th century, enormous Atlantic in a matter of days. But after centuries of progress ships had weren't going to get much faster. And it was to look to a new technology. In June of 1919, Arthur Brown set out to cross the Atlantic Taking off from the tip of North America aboard pilots barely survived fierce north Atlantic landing in Europe. But they made it, completing Atlantic in just 16 hours. They received a hero s welcome. But despite flights across the Atlantic were at least about aerodynamics and the mechanics of flight But a pioneering Italian aircraft builder to wait around. In the same year Alcock and was already overseeing construction of an boat he dubbed the Ca. 60 Transaereo. While Alcock and Brown s plane carried just would accommodate one hundred passengers along numbers for 1919. And while Caproni had already made a name and many successful military aircraft, many as a complete fantasy. But as photos of the enormous aircraft appeared s ambitions more seriously. Because in many about the potential of large passenger aircraft. infrastructure was still underdeveloped. But no one had ever attempted to build an philosophy seems to have been. to take whatever it. Because with nine wings, the Transaereo And also had eight of the most powerful engines engines pulling the aircraft forward while together were more than 250 meters of struts Inside the Transaereo were benches for one in panoramic views. Operating the aircraft in an open air cockpit, and two flight engineers To communicate, the pilots and flight engineers system of lights and indicators. The Transaereo was an extraordinary machine, The Transaereo made its first test flight to reach 80 km/h before briefly lifting out actually fly. But there s a reason why aircraft aren't built set of wings interfered with the ability of struts and wire rigging produced enormous looked to be way above it s center of mass, difficult to control. So you can probably On it s second test flight, things didn't off, reached 100 km/h and then promptly smashed mess. In an instant, Caproni s dreams of transatlantic But even if the Transaereo had been airworthy, to make it all the way across the Atlantic. hour and a range of about 600 km, the journey Requiring at least a dozen refueling stops. of the Atlantic, where taking on fuel from if not dangerous. But Caproni firmly believed that mass air idea, but at the wrong time. Because the Transaereo impossible in 1920. And it would take another catch up, allowing for regular transatlantic But a decade after the Transaero, Caproni what many claim is the ugliest aircraft ever But in many ways, the Stipa-Caproni was even that this plane helped pave the way for turbofan this plane so special in my latest video now Nebula is a streaming platform I helped create. educational creators. The idea was to create being interrupted by advertisements and sponsor to worry about YouTube s algorithm when deciding But my favourite part about Nebula are the possible without your support Like long form And you can expect more Mustard content on The best part about Nebula is that it s free site featuring thousands of high quality documentaries. design, CuriositySteam lets you take a deeper And just for Mustard fans, you can get an for less than $15. Watch high-quality documentaries, creators by going to curiositystream.com/mustard