Many languages are available for machine translation. This time, we visited &quot;Okada Brick Factory&quot; to cover their brick-making process. First, they collect the raw material for the bricks, &quot;Mikawa clay.&quot; The collected clay is sorted by particle size before use. Next, we will introduce the process inside the brick-making factory. The &quot;Okada Brick Factory&quot; was founded in 1897. The word &quot;Okada Brick&quot; is engraved on the chimney. The inside of the chimney is also made of bricks. They produce bricks in various sizes and colors. Let's take a look at the brick-making process. First, they supply the raw material, &quot;Mikawa clay.&quot; The Mikawa region is known for its high-quality clay. The clay is sent to the ground floor through a device called a hopper. On the ground floor, they place the appropriate amount of Mikawa clay onto a belt for transportation. The first batch of Mikawa clay. Next, they supply Mikawa clay from a different excavation site into the second hopper. The purpose is to stabilize the quality. The second batch of Mikawa clay. The clay is transported on a belt to the first crusher. The two types of Mikawa clay are mixed and crushed. A smaller roller is used to further refine the clay. Next, the clay is transported to the second crusher. A larger roller is used in the second crusher. The larger roller crushes the clay into finer particles. The clay after passing through the crusher. Next, the blended clay is supplied to the third hopper. Blended clay. Both the Mikawa clay and blended clay are transported to the same location. Screen feeder. The clay is kneaded to ensure uniform composition, moisture content, and particle size. The kneaded clay is extruded from the inside. The kneaded clay. The clay is transported to the second-floor brick molding area. The second floor. The clay is placed into a vacuum pugmill. Air is removed from the clay in the vacuum chamber. The clay is extruded from a narrowing exit and molded into shape. It is cut into rough sizes by a cutting machine. The clay is cut into brick shapes. The thickness of the bricks is adjusted by changing the width of the wire. The size is determined by accounting for shrinkage during drying and firing. The irregularly shaped ends are sent back to the pugmill. The cut clay is transported to the drying room. The bricks are spaced apart for drying. Since they contain moisture, they are still soft. Next, they are transported to the drying room. The bricks are dried using residual heat from the kiln on the ground floor. The entrance is around 40degC, with high humidity. The bricks are dried for 7 to 10 days. Large mobile fans are in operation. The dried bricks. The dried bricks are pushed out on carts. There are 36 carts lined up side by side. At the exit, the temperature is about 80degC, and the humidity is lower. The moisture loss during drying results in a weight difference of 500g before and after drying. The dried bricks are unloaded from the carts. The moisture has been removed, making the bricks hard and shrunken. They are transported one by one. The bricks are lowered from the second floor to the ground floor. The bricks are loaded manually onto carts for firing. They are stacked to ensure even heat distribution. Cracked or chipped bricks are removed. The removed bricks are reused. The bricks are stacked evenly by hand by skilled craftsmen. The bricks are placed onto large carts for firing. The bricks loaded onto the carts are lined up, waiting for their turn to be fired. Before firing, the bricks undergo a final drying process. Inside the silver doors are carts with bricks ready for firing. Beyond the iron doors, the bricks are being fired. Bricks being fired. When the time comes, the iron doors open, and the fired bricks are transported out. This time, we were given a special opportunity to see the kiln ignition process. The gas is adjusted, and the kiln is ignited. The inside of the kiln. Heat is applied from both sides, and the heat rises from the bottom of the bricks. The maximum temperature when heating red bricks is 1120degC. The kiln is 60 meters long, and about 24,000 bricks are fired at a time. The carts move 2 cm per minute. The firing temperature and method vary depending on the color and shape of the bricks. All the bricks are fired for about two days. The fired bricks are cooled. They are unloaded from the carts and prepared for shipment. The bricks are visually inspected for major chips or cracks. The completed bricks are bundled together. Packaging. The bricks are wrapped to prevent collapse during transportation. The completed bricks. Next, we will introduce buildings that use bricks made by &quot;Okada Brick Factory.&quot; The Handa Red Brick Building was constructed in 1898. Bricks from the founding days of &quot;Okada Brick&quot; are still in use today. Finally, we have an interview. Please take a look. What makes bricks so appealing to you? Bricks made in 1897, when the company was founded, still remain in buildings today. For this reason, bricks are highly durable and continue to be loved by many people. I think the charm of bricks increases as time passes. What is your Kodawari (commitment) in your work? Since bricks use natural materials, it is very difficult to achieve the desired color. I believe our commitment is to deliver bricks with the color and shape that our customers want. Our Kodawari (commitment) is to faithfully reproduce the desired color and deliver it to our customers. Thank you for watching until the end. We wish continued success for &quot;Okada Brick Factory.&quot;