For many, Aardman might be known as the characters. But be warned, there's a its villains being able to stand toe-to-toe I'm Kifinosi with WickedBinge, and this Now, while we won't be touching on EVERY have actual villains - we are going to try including those that may have only been in a Kicking things off, our Least Evil Aardman of Alien Detection (or M.A.D.) Honestly, it makes like Shaun the Sheep would have such a lowkey and proving the existence since childhood, Red quickly its UFO. Once there, she ends up accidentally the crashed UFO back to MAD's base. Although she friend when they escape back to the farm - even does eventually back down when Lu-La's parents she saw as a child and welcoming them with open or kill any aliens, she only wanted to prove they forgiven for any inconveniences or worries she Following Agent Red is another pretty minor oldest rival, Black Bellamy. Now, given that he's, of plundering and murdering in his time. But in Bellamy isn't exactly much of a threat. He's like when he rides a whale filled with gold right also a bit of a jerk, almost constantly making but this puts him more at the level of a high so-called 'crime' is when he exposes the fact that - but the Pirate Captain kind of brought that on (selling out his beloved pet bird, Polly) to earn barely an antagonist, with even henchmen being Speaking of which, next up we have Flushed Away's gang, these two are mostly seen either chasing the two of them, Spike is definitely the committing violence. However, he isn't actually anything, he's usually the one getting hurt meanwhile, is incredibly soft-spoken and patient. pretty decent guy, being one of the few characters as more of the Muscle and often has to man-handle sees it as anything possible and states that he's guys, like Bellamy, are more 'bad' than outright unlike their amphibian boss, these guys don't have said, they're simple henchmen and are just using that - after the Toad gets defeated - there's a Well... Okay, maybe Whitey will go straight, hey, we don't think he'll get very far without Following them is one of Aardman's most recent the Nugget. Now, Dr. Fry is an interesting case, might not be seen as a villain at all. He is which certainly doesn't earn him any good points, Dr. Fry's 'mad scientist' tendencies take on On its own, forcing creatures to be happy and but it could also be argued that granting farm a blissful death through his collars he's still forcing innocent creatures to their even if it is technically 'nicer' than inevitable like the Tweetys were at the original we'll acknowledge that Fry is certainly still Keeping with the sidekicks is the French ninja, Le the ones that the Toad calls in when things start sympathetic to his cousin's tragic past, he and tracking down and briefly capturing Roddy and to the point of calling him "cuckoo", not caring THAT much about the innocent rats ultimately still siding with his own kind. He Toad is because he is family. He also cares the Toad to just give his kids a puppy after his the end of the day, but at the very least, Le sharing a dinner with his men before going out on an empty stomach. It's a small thing, but it's Similarly, Mr. Tweety is a pretty normal when compared to his now-ex wife - but care easily push him into villain beyond his paranoia about "those chickens bein' because he's taking out all the frustrations he treated by Mrs. Tweety on them. We aren't but it certainly doesn't excuse his into solitary confinement multiple times for out when it's time to test out the pie machine. the chickens from making their grand escape by the fact that he's able to fully acknowledge that and STILL wants to stop them from escaping to not be as iconic as his ex-wife, Mr. Tweety But while complex or morally-gray villains a simple bad guy - or a penguin with a gun, Aardman's very first villain. Despite his humble from just an innocent animal. He's a criminal faces" who's able to be pretty manipulative when rent a room at Wallace and Gromit's place, he Wallace's new Techno Trousers to help him steal how selfish McGraw is, not really caring about to jail in his stead. When Gromit tries to fight him and the two get into a mini train-chase when to put a diamond-stealing penguin this high up on incredibly efficient antagonist, being both clever intimidating when he wants to be, not caring about long as he still gets the prize he wants. Really, at Aardman, if all the cameos they give him are We've finally arrived at the first of what could with Early Man's Lord Nooth. On the surface, greedy emperor who simply cares about taking assuring that he can be the richest ruler around. forcing them to pay outrageous ticket prices in and he certainly doesn't care about the cavemen When Dug challenges him and his city to a soccer underhanded. He first tries to undercut Dug's terrible at soccer and reminding him of the cruel lose the game. When Dug and his team decide to becoming the game's new referee and showing team. While he may technically be powerful, Nooth is still a cowardly and selfish weakling He's still an awful person who certainly other Aardman baddies who outclass him both After all, taking hostages or prisoners is one well as a pretty cruel hunter on the other Victor Quartermaine. Being the main rival to Quartermaine takes a more violent approach to essentially seeing any humane means of capture his way to try and antagonize Wallace out of pure guy who really didn't do anything except charm towards Lady Tottington, this guy easily earns Quartermaine takes his villainy to a whole new where we see him try to kill Wallace while he's that the Were-Rabbit is actually Wallace - and anything, he sees taking out the goofy inventor the town's hero AND he gets rid of his rival once Aardman version of Gaston, but this doesn't stop But if you thought Quartermaine was crazy, whole other level just out of sheer scale. Coming this former actress went from being a simple eating too much to a full on serial - er, cereal - Though she may come off as sweet, Piella is in even towards people who never wronged her, all sort of vengeance against the bakery products that with taking out the final victim of her Baker's we should note that Piella was still able to just... okay, seriously, what is with the Wallace as its villains?! The fact that this lady any other Aardman villain is honestly kind of just how delusional this lady was, Piella was so methods fell through - she was ready to finish showing just how little she cared about her a high spot near the top of our list, and For our Bronze Medal of Evil, we're giving it was any Aardman character that truly earned Hate Pirates" without a doubt. Seeing pirates wipe them out for good, whether that's through them with her own two hands. It's implied that making the crew's fear of her all the more is that her selfishness actually overshadows the Pirate Captain to get what she truly wants, of the best villains out there, Victoria is not extremely manipulative towards characters acting charming for as long as she needs to before mention the final twist with this character, other royals and leaders who exclusively feast if being an awful, hostile and manipulative cruelty towards innocent animals would put Earning the Silver Medal of Evil is our final Toad might have just been your typical off as that in the first half of the film. He taking pride in his collection of royal items and he's from the surface, but it doesn't take much and willingness to be shady, whether that's get in his way. After Roddy and Rita inadvertently learn just how evil the Toad truly is. Using both the Toad's grand plan was to completely wipe opening the gates and flooding everything before own tadpoles. So, yeah, rat genocide? even if he wasn't able to get away with it in the killed) quite a few rats, not to mention all the Toad is driven by hatred and rage, that he seems to be a fairly loving father, Finally, our Gold Medal of Evil goes to the predictable choice and all that. But honestly, Aardman ever brought back for a second round, we really couldn't give anyone else this top with a capital C, willing to do whatever - and While we do see her care quite a bit about money and status remain her prime motivation, (and earning her our Greed medal). It could his family. Mrs. Tweedy on the other hand, as truly doesn't care about anyone but herself. Fry's mind-control collars was to help assure that at her new factory farm, and once this plan falls delight out of grabbing her trusty ax and trying refusing to let them escape with their lives. She to intimidate Ginger into surrendering. While of pure evilness and just overall being a true