My name is Alastair Morgan. My younger brother, Daniel, and I have been fighting Hi, I'm Neil Woods. I'm a former undercover police officer. And part of what I do now is I investigate This is how police corruption works. Woods: We rely on our but often, our police get corrupted. And what this means is that they are no longer They are acting on or their own interests. There is no more important than a corrupt police officer, because that corrupt police officer is useful in so many ways. Morgan: Criminals need corrupt officers. They want somebody who or who can alter a surveillance log, or these tiny things. Corrupt police officers also can interfere with an investigation and make a case fail at court. For me, police corruption is anything that deviates from the oath to police the public It's quite a neat little phrase, that, &quot;without fear or favor,&quot; but it means you don't take bribes, right? Without favor, you don't look after people who are important to the exclusion of people or seen as less important in our society. &quot;Without fear or favor&quot; is a good way of compressing all that. So, a corrupt police by getting somebody who's They have no previous convictions, and they are coached to join the police, and they remain an asset. And some of them will where they're not put at any risk. So they're only used for Sometimes they are used to help manipulate a third party who is another cop to help use information to blackmail them. Other information that is really useful to organized crime is information about someone's movements or a phone number or something like that. The more sinister use is to target rivals. Organized crime always have rivals. Violence is never very far away, because control of the And if someone is a threat to that, then violence is used and corrupt police are used to help facilitate that violence. That is something that is a The most common form of is what we call noble-cause corruption. Now, this is where police do something which is corrupt, but they do it not for not because they're involved but because they want And they see that the and if they'd just tweak they've got more chance As a undercover police officer, I saw myself as fighting but I am guilty of some These police approached me and they said that their target for the operation was committing burglaries on old people. And he was doing some very sinister things when he came into their bedroom. He also happened to be a drug dealer. So I was being sent in to quite legitimately investigate him and catch him for dealing drugs. Now, a fundamental part of the rules was that you must not act which means you must not cause if they wouldn't have done anyway, but you must also not cause them to commit a more serious crime than they would've done. Now, this guy wasn't capable of kilos. He just wasn't. But I talked him up. I said I need larger and larger amounts. And he would not have He ended up adulterating an ounce right down to a kilo. So it was presented as a kilo, and he was caught with a kilo, but it was less than 1% pure. But he pleaded guilty and got substantially more time in prison. Now, that was wrong of me, but it goes to show how by the need to catch dangerous and how noble-cause So I'm guilty of it as well. Now, the problem is that leaves the officer or officers open to where they become puppets Now, I know that I upset a lot of police officers when I talk about corruption, because, it's understandable. Most of them, they're good people trying with some pretty crap laws, really. But we have to understand and we have to be clear-eyed about this. We have to be honest about this. It's the only way we have a Sorry, I -- you know, this narrative is something I've gone over so many times. Daniel was my younger brother by a year. At the age of 37, he was murdered with an ax. So it was vicious, brutal, savage attack. Within three weeks, I was convinced, because of the events that took place, there had been police which was a terrifying prospect. My brother expressed concerns about a month before his murder, which was the last time I saw him alive. And he said, &quot;Oh, it's a bent copper.&quot; And he named a name, which It went out of my mind. And then he said, &quot;Alastair, they're all I learned later, a year that he believed his partner and Sgt. Fillery from the murder squad had been involved in a robbery. And he was thinking of And then two days later, he was dead. Sidney Fillery, who had been accused of involvement in the he'd left the police force and within a year was with Jonathan Rees. After years and years of investigations, some of which, in retrospect, an exhibits officer in he was disciplined or And I think that is the only penalty that anybody has suffered. In 2021, I took the decision I do all of everything in who has stood by me for decades and advised me, helped me keep my sanity A, he said there are grounds, there are legal grounds to do it. And, B, it's probably the you are ever going to And I think accountability, I've been wanting that for 35 years. The UK police have one of the best records in the world for solving murders. The systems that we have They're like a well-oiled machine. I've been part of murder-inquiry and it's incredible how they function and how efficient they are. Traditionally, in the UK, and certainly around the the murder-detection rate, the percentage of murders was 90%. 90%. The ones that you don't solve tend to be organized-crime murders. It's shocking it wasn't solved. It's quite clear the whole And it's quite clear that it because of police corruption. And then when there were inquiries set up, those inquiries were inadequate, to the point that it's that corruption was preventing An informant is somebody to the police, often referred to as CHIS, a covert human intelligence So, an informant will with the police when they're Organized crime know has just got caught. And they know that they by the police to be And so then it becomes a in how that game, in how that plays out. So often, informants are Because the market is so competitive, so competitive, that if you actually can make more money. That's the way the market works. Other ways of informants is they can be paid. And there are some informants who actually earn a living doing this. And informants can get financial value of certain The trouble is that the majority of informants who present that way, act that way are also working for organized crime. All of the accountability for the use of informants, All of it. The tasking of an informant has to be authorized by senior officers. But there's nothing to say that those senior either through noble-cause And we know that some of them are. If a police officer wants they get a search warrant. In order to get that search warrant, they have to go to a magistrates' clerk and prove to the magistrates' clerk that there is a The magistrates' clerk will to apply to a magistrate, and the magistrate will If a CHIS or undercover operative wants to come into your life and if that CHIS, that informant, or undercover operative into doing something different, It is the most intrusive And there is no external oversight at all. It's cops judging cops. And those informants that have that power to come into your life, they're usually criminals, because that's why they're useful. Whistleblowers do not get in the United Kingdom. My friend [redacted] was for trying to be a whistleblower. He was whistleblowing about And his colleagues turned on him. He was bullied. The corrupt cops have a and they will use and manipulate them to fight against the allegation. They will bully them. So there's a directed response But also there is a culture where cops don't want to and will be very suspicious of anyone who is saying anything critical or suggesting them a wrongdoing. They just won't believe it. This is someone that This is someone who's had their back. This is someone that that they've done long night shifts with. I mean, I know a police who came upon serious corruption. He knew about stuff. He A man who later became [redacted] for the Independent Police said to [redacted], my friend, the former police officer, he said, &quot;Well, I'll just drop this. You can get the job that you want.&quot; Bribery. Offering to say, you know, you'll get a promotion if And he wouldn't. But bear in mind that there's also an because the police have a duty to maintain public confidence. So that means that they don't advertise the extent of the corruption. And they don't want to find out. They don't want the public to think that they're corrupt. [Redacted] is one of the most energetic and hardworking cops. And he's gone up against organized crime, including transnational but he'd never been in fear of his life until he started He had to go into witness protection from the corrupt cops in the Met. The last defense that the police can have against corruption is Where the police fear that those people are not safe, then they are put into a which means they are given a false name, they are moved to a different place. And it's a really brutal thing According to the rules of the system, you cannot have any contact, forever, with your friends, your family, your community, anyone you've ever known. And the reason that this is because of how insidious and ubiquitous police corruption is. But of course, even that I know someone who worked within the witness protection system. They told me that at were actually corrupt and The database for the is completely isolated from They're not connected at all. So theoretically, they But of course, any system as the humans operating it. And gangsters don't corrupt computers. They corrupt cops. I myself looked after five protected witnesses. I was acutely aware of the fact that we'd been told the couldn't be trusted in this regard, so that we took the view that we couldn't even necessarily trust the national witness protection system. And we very carefully for a long time outside that system. The Met, or the Metropolitan Police, is the police of Greater London. So all of the wider city of London. The Met operates in a different way to every other police force in the UK. It has various centralized that other police don't have. So, for example, they are in charge of They have the National Crime so they work closer with And they have other central The Met gets a lot of bad press. They get most of the attention for anything that goes wrong, and people want to bash the Met. But I have to say, in this case, the Met does have the biggest problem with corruption in the United Kingdom. It does. I mean, it's hardly surprising. It's by far the biggest police service. There's more organized crime There was a internal investigation, an operation called Operation Tiberius in the Metropolitan Police, and it showed the sheer And most of those corrupt and corrupted by the informant system. Now, part of the response to that, although there's never been any public response from the Met, that report's never really been addressed, one response to that was the idea that you can defend against corruption by limiting the number of years a source handler can work in that role. And it's limited in around the country to five years. And this was seen as a way of helping prevent this corruption that was this development over time, this corrupting over But all that's happened is it's actually cast the net wider for organized crime. It's given them more opportunities and more people to come into contact with. It's completely gone against the Met. And I do know that that I have to make something really, really clear about corruption. At least 99% of corruption is caused by the money from There isn't enough to cause the kind of The black economy with drugs, et cetera, is vast. And the amount of money that these drug barons and to use to bribe, their tentacles reach into every level of the judiciary, the police, politicians. So that kind of money, I have had very personal experiences and come up against this corruption. There was lots of pressure and find out about a particular gang called The Bestwood Cartel, who at that time were at war There was daily shootings. And I'd been on that operation I'd just got a really I'd managed to buy some drugs off one of the lieutenants of Colin Gunn. The next day, we'd been and two of my backup team went off sick. And so I was introduced that had not been involved I met the first one, shook his hand, had no problem with him. The second one, I shook his hand, and the hairs just went This guy was just wrong. So I went to the senior for the operation and said, &quot;Look, boss, I cannot have this I just can't. I don't trust And he said, &quot;Fine.&quot; I didn't think much more of it. But then 12 months later, when Colin Gunn was actually brought down, it turned out that this a guy called Charlie Fletcher, was an employee of Colin Gunn. As I say, he was an employee, but he was paid to join the police. And he was paid PS2,000 a month on top of his police wages, plus bonuses for good information. He'd been in the police for seven years by the time he was caught. When he was introduced to And he was very, very close to finding out exactly what I was up to. Now, at the start of that operation involving that corrupt police officer, Colin Gunn was letting that if he ever caught an he would be snatched off the So those were the stakes The biggest sums of money, black money floating round, are from the drugs world. And that is a major, a major influence on police corruption. Has been for a long time, I think. My view is that drugs are They should not be criminalized. And that the supply should be taken into the hands of the state in order to deprive organized crime of the funding to corrupt. I think our drugs policy I know I upset a lot of British police by talking about the but we still have at least a claim to the best police in the world. We do. There is a lot to be proud in our police, but we have the same problem as the rest all around the world, is that organized crime So in that, we have things in common with every other police There really is nothing we as long as the power is in We can try and tweak our We can try and increase our vetting, but it really won't make because this is about the fact that organized crime are rich, and they are rich because they are in And as long as that goes on, police corruption is not only inevitable, it will be ubiquitous. Producer: So, in the police corruption that was happening that Why was that happening? Well, I think that there were drugs involved in that as well. I suspect, strongly suspect that there were police Yeah, corruption and of the same thing. How widespread it is, I really don't know. I think you'd have to ask My name is Sayce Holmes-Lewis. I was first assaulted by Since then, I've been This is how police racism works.