- For all of my Mediterranean food lovers, I've got a creamy Tuscan that you are absolutely Juicy chicken breasts are seasoned in a classic Italian spice blend, then seared until golden, and paired with sun-dried garlic, and onions, in the most lusciously creamy sauce. And since we're talking about the sauce, I'll give you both the classic option, which is a Parmesan and and I'll show you how to make because the more options, the better. So without further ado, let's dive into this To get started, you'll need about 1/4 cup I like to dice the onion so that it sort of melts into the sauce, rather than there being but that's just my personal preference. And since I'm already going about chopping 1/2 an onion today, after I've measured out the amount I need for this recipe, I'll go ahead and save for recipes like scrambled to enjoy throughout the week. Because you know I'm all and chopping onions the least Next up is 4 garlic cloves, and I think this amount gives a good garlicy flavor to the sauce, without it becoming too overpowering. In terms of where this some say the classic Florentine sauce of white wine, cream, and spinach was given a Tuscan twist with But let's be honest, what really popularized was Olive Garden's Tuscan served over fettuccine. But we'll leave off the fettuccine today, and I'll give you some other The sun-dried tomatoes give this recipe that unmistakable Tuscan flavor, and you'll need a 7 ounce The tomatoes will be in a jar with oil, and you can either pluck these which isn't very efficient, or you can drain them over a colander. But you might wanna save the oil, because if you really love the you can actually replace with some of this for a little extra zhuzh in the sauce. And for the tomatoes themselves, all you've got to do is slice and then place them in a bowl so you can take them over to the stove. (gentle music) For the lovely pop of green color, you'll need 2 cups of baby spinach. And as you can see, I like so it's 2 really full cups of spinach. If you've ever sauteed spinach, you know it wills down I mean, I could probably of spinach into the recipe So if you're a spinach All right, let's talk This recipe is classically and if you do dairy, But if you're dairy free, you can choose from a which is not the same as coconut milk, it's actually much creamier, or you can make my recipe for cashew cream that's listed on my website. And to make that, it's as easy as blending up raw cashews, water, and a pinch of salt, You definitely have options and whichever version you make, you'll need 1 1/2 cups of cream. I'm making the classic so I'm adding 1/4 cup of which gives the sauce a nuanced But if you're dairy free, you can swap in 1-2 tablespoons of nutritional The last little bit of prep work is seasoning 4 chicken breasts, so season both sides of with about 1 teaspoon of salt, 1/2 a teaspoon of freshly and 1 teaspoon of Italian seasoning. If you don't have Italian seasoning, you can use a mix of thyme, basil and rosemary. And pro tip, try to make are all about the same size, so that they cook evenly All right, now that let me show you how to Heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a large pan on medium high heat. If you save some of the oil you can use that here instead. Add the season chicken breasts for about three to four minutes, They should flip easily and once they've gotten that golden crust, but if you try to flip them at they're far more likely Once they're cooked through, or about 90% of the way cooked through, remove them to a plate. You'll add them back into the pan shortly, but first we need space in If your pan is dry and feel free to add some, Stir that around for about or until the onion has softened, and the moisture starts to release some of those brown bits Add in the sun-dried tomatoes and mince your 4 peeled garlic cloves straight into the pan. Stir these two items or until fragrant, which essentially means you permeating your kitchen. Add the baby's spinach, and stir that just until which should take another minute or so. I know it's harder to stir when you first add the spinach to the pan, because it's easy to chuck but it wilts sound pretty Add in your cream of choice, along with the graded Parmesan Give that a stir, and let the sauce come back to a simmer with lots of little As you can see, the sauce and you really just add one Using tongs, add the chicken and let them simmer or until they're heated through, and the sauce has reduced slightly. You also wanna make sure to spoon the sauce all so that they're fully coated in the abundance of garlicy, in this recipe. And you can do that or as soon as you remove Now if you're using dairy as I am today, the cream sauce will be more white while it's hot on the stove, but as soon as it starts to cool, it will turn a more golden sunshiny color. And I promise you this, making this recipe will or re-watch the movie And even though I was just in Tuscany a couple of months ago, this recipe has me wanting because these Mediterranean flavors are definitely my love language. (gentle music) Okay, to serve this up, you could top it on rice, quinoa, mashed potatoes, mashed cauliflower, or lentils, as I'm doing today. I actually really love of the black lentils with but any of those options will This is one of those dinner recipes that'll wow your family or guests, and it only takes about 30 Now, normally I'd give you but to be honest, there's never any someone always goes back for Although side note, as always, I've listed the saving on my website. I hope you guys enjoyed this recipe today, and if you did, make sure as that helps to support my channel. And leave a comment if you of Italy or somewhere else in the future. I've actually been approached about that, and it's something I'm pondering. And on that note, I'm gonna finish off this and I will see you guys (gentle music)