- So I've been getting emails messages from viewers to make have all been waiting for. So here we are, the one on Windows 7. The operating system Microsoft widely been considered the best version of Windows ever made. And this isn't just of nostalgia talking. This was quite the popular opinion when the OS was released. Many critics praised the easy to use desktop interface, and its implementation of similar to other competing such as Apple's Mac OS 10. In fact, NBC News columnist experience with Windows 7 as clean, clear, and just a pleasure. He went even further to was a terrific, terrific operating system and that it apparently took for Microsoft to finally get it right. Now, if you've seen my you may know this statement to Microsoft's previous which at a superficial glance identical to Windows 7 with the famous Aero Theme, yet Krakow had described Windows operating system experiences I mean, surely they can't Actually, yes, and don't (upbeat music) Now, all this might and calling Windows 7 version of Vista would be the full story, but still does play an integral but at the same time, it's really hard to see When we look at an operating in retrospect, we can really how many great features it introduced that we take for granted today. When Vista was first released in 2006, Windows XP was the most commonly the world, and Vista solved a more contemporary design, a super fast search bar being master file navigation, yet Vista would become an while Windows 7, which possessed all these same features, would be and praise two years later. Why? What happened? Well, that's what this video is about. Today we will be diving into Microsoft's most revered designed with Lay the foundation releases, including the (keyboard typing) And you're probably wondering why I'm in front of the Well, I'm lonely and I need friends, but also it's because I just for &quot;Ground News.&quot; Now, looking at the news can people are so busy shoving rather than telling you the full story. But Ground News is a platform articles from multiple news that has the least amount of bias. Now, I know we've talked in really wasn't a fan of Windows Vista. Well, during my research, I came across this article where he describes it as What Gary? All right, how much did Bill (audience applauding) No, but what's really great is a homepage of all the latest of where it sources lean politically. In this case, 74% of them are politically in the center. And when I click on this, it bias, which ones submitted of credibility, et cetera. I can also compare other but politics can get annoying. Well, &quot;Ground News&quot; also to choose your own topics, to be political. Here I am looking at articles on Windows 7 and I can find other sources They also have a browser the level of bias on an and now you too can get access by visiting ground.news/nation squid. You can sign up for free or to the latest news while Be sure to check it out. In the simplest of terms, relied on three big components. It came out at exactly the right time. It facilitated the Windows well nostalgia. But obviously that leaves and there's a lot more To fully understand how these requires diving deep into Windows 7s development history. Which not only started but even before the release of Now, Windows 7s development started at around the same time as Vistas, but Microsoft wasn't In a lot of ways, Windows on accident, at least the version of it that we recognized today. You see, back in the 90s, vision of what direction to head in for the next decade. They were going to release throughout the 2000s, Windows Whistler, Windows Longhorn, and Windows Blackcomb. Now, I've already gone into with these three versions on Windows Vista, so I as quickly as I can, but about that, go ahead and if you haven't already. You might notice that I am in this video, and that's no coincidence, there is a ton of overlap In short, there were a ton with this vision for Windows primarily bad planning and perfectionism. First off, two of these entirely new versions of Windows Longhorn was an incremental update, of Microsoft releasing Windows 98 SE a year later they're different, but Whistler would go on to be And now the next big version Blackcomb, scheduled for release but Windows XP had Did it really make sense to of Windows only to come out hardly a year later? That just simply isn't enough time for the public to get Not to mention that to complete Longhorn. Microsoft realized their and that they were moving to postpone the release more on their smaller and that was their next problem. Keep in mind that in the 2000s, computer software was So Microsoft had a lot of fun features for Longhorn, a Longhorn essentially became a the version of Windows that fad of the odds. Word was now getting around some leaks of it surfaced adding on feature after feature, to push Blackcomb's release until it was pretty Eventually this would as the more features they added, the more time they needed The Longhorn project got way too ambitious to the point where what direction they They even completely this time leaving in and changing the name to Windows Vista and it would finally be Given that it took Microsoft supposed to be a small update to completely scrap the project altogether and then released something on your average Joe's computer in 2007. Yeah, it no wonder that Windows Vista. The entire ordeal was a and now nearly a decade later, people were still using an They had to figure out before Microsoft fell It was time to finally which had just been renamed that name wouldn't last very would be canceled altogether. Microsoft felt that the features for it to be So it was then replaced with Windows 7, it would later that this would be the not just the codename. And Bill Gates emphasized designed to be a user-centric and that means what you think and even XP, Windows 7 was easier to navigate. It was also going to be even if you ran it on the same hardware. Which means stronger performance, and most importantly, it Your overall experience more superior than any because these are the exact We will get more into improvements were, but in the right direction, rather than just arbitrarily throwing what would stick, they that they knew would for the operating system. Just like always, Windows improved upon with new over time during its development. Many of the early ones to Windows Vista, and that's when a new version of Windows is created. Early builds of XP resembled resembled XP, and especially in this case, early builds of Seven A beta version of the OS by Microsoft, giving the public a taste of what the next Windows would be. The release included as the wallpaper and the build everything was finally ready. And on July 22nd, 2009, (welcoming music) And it did extremely well. In fact, sales for than Windows Vistas during It even surpassed &quot;Harry as the biggest grossing Microsoft was obviously hoping but they weren't expecting But from looking at the OS's development, we can see why this was the case. The development of Windows 7 quicker than Vista's development It didn't take, you know, five years Anyway time like this makes By late 2006, early 2007, releases of Windows at that time, people were already very accustomed to XP. On top of that, Windows the best marketing during Many of those who were following and saw the negative reviews beta release just didn't was worth it, and for the rest did want a new version to pre-order Vista, well, That's because Microsoft for Vista, they argued that on doing Vista pre-orders level the playing field for So yeah, if you combine these factors with the fact that Windows 7 just had a much more elegant entrance and was being offered for it's no wonder pre-orders did so well. Windows 7 would very quickly and market share and even later looking back at you can make the argument succeeded in the way that it did, if it hadn't come out As we've mentioned before, did have its problems, but a big part of its tarnished legacy was just, bad luck. Windows Vista was both ahead Let's go ahead and compare for Vista and Seven, notice requirements are only marginally higher than the requirements for Vista. Now, compare Vista with the we see an astronomical difference. The point is in 2007, bare minimum requirements considering that the were still on XP, they much weaker than this, and let's face it, the average person doesn't they need before upgrading So when they upgraded their it was just a disaster. But remember, technology So three years later and 2009 systems with these but a lot more common, the doesn't sound as impractical is way too ruined for it to recover. So people just buy the new So what do the Rolling Stones in Windows 7 have in common, time is But Windows 7 actually did only existed in Windows Vista Vista was a byproduct which tried way too hard This alone gave Vista a it was trying to be. Windows 7, however, was of solving a problem, the So what problems from Vista did it fix? Well, to give a non-exhaustive list, Windows 7 massively improved a feature designed to prevent system by giving the user But often it was just very all the time, Windows 7 for how often and when they Because of this, these a third of the time within But this by no means if something bad did end up going through, You had Windows Defender, a built-in antivirus program for Windows, to quickly put a stop to it. Now, keep in mind that Windows Defender only monitored spyware but still it was better than nothing. Users could always install free Malware Bites to be on the So at the end of the day, to adjust their user account control settings wasn't that big of a deal. Of course, it is safer to keep but at least users now Although Windows Defender was Windows Vista, given everything Windows 7's much bigger presence was what ultimately introduced it to the masses. Many people for the first time would otherwise be typically with your typical antivirus program. Another great feature was Libraries, although a pretty small extremely helpful in the long term. libraries was simply a that contained your documents, music, pictures, and videos folders. Users could also add their own This made organizing and navigating files so much easier than ever before. And so did Gadgets, while Gadgets allowed users to where they could look at their use a calculator, et cetera. They could even manually install their own third party gadgets. Windows Vista had introduced sidebar feature, but this and not as customizable. Instead of having to find through the Accessories tab all they had to do was and it would show up. And now my personal favorite the Super bar, not only does ski Morphic look to a whole new level, it now shows your programs in making it much faster to find things if you have a bunch of programs running. But the best part of all the Pin to Taskbar feature. One of the great decisions that Vista was that they introduced little after the release which introduced Spotlight Search, and now with Seven Windows version of the Dock. The ongoing competition was really getting strong here similarities between I'll speak for myself here ultimately what made me more I was a Mac user when Windows 7 came out, and although I didn't hate it, I was never the biggest fan at XP, especially that horrid At least the dog was I didn't really use Windows around, and Windows XP just I remember in 2006 thinking I never felt that way with Windows 7. So seeing the striking was a big deal for me and and less of a headache, while I would not be surprised to a 2001 operating system to Windows Vista caused many people to embellish the features of Windows 7. It basically just got all Vista already had. Consequently, people perceive Windows 7 as a much more amazing operating And that's when we get to It may not feel like it was that long ago, but Windows 7 is already sentiments around it. Maybe not at the same level While I personally am not there is a new generation of and do feel that way. For some of them, using of their earliest memories just takes them back to simpler times. And in some ways they literally were. Windows 7 was pretty much from the &quot;PC&quot; Era as around the iPad would come out. And now tablets had officially degree, and so all versions were built to be more and a lot of people didn't like that. It's a big reason why Windows had a pretty rocky start. I remember upgrading from Seven to 10 when it first came and I hated it. Now, yes, there were ran Windows 7 even XP in some cases, but the point was still made clear that these were PC operating systems. You know, the ones that But now that dynamic So because of that and the to last a long time like XP, and didn't really worry about it until support ended in 2020. And when it did, that's they had no choice but to switch now and they had to learn because they spent all that time on Seven, they had developed a relationship with it, and this had signified the end of an era. And for most people, that is a feeling that is very bittersweet. Yes, it's an opportunity to but it's now also the time So in short, what made Windows 7 so great was that it was similar but It took something people and re-transformed it into Microsoft created what and just the name Windows to make that happen if as just another version of Windows Vista, without changing anything sales undeniably wouldn't That's because the Vista beyond repair, no matter We saw that with the Mojave experiment under the name Windows 7, that this was a new it was really just a just with most of the problems It was a bumpy road. But Microsoft finally There was a YouTube comment sums it up best, Vista walked What was your favorite Did you even enjoy it? Let me know your thoughts Thank you so much for watching, please subscribe and click so that you never miss a future video.