In 1977, two pioneers embarked on what might be undertaken. Their goal? To unravel the cosmic place in it. Not only did they provide us with system's outer planets, but they continue to universe from interstellar space - some The Voyager 1 and 2 probes are more than just of humanity at its best - curious, audacious, capture dazzling photos of our gas giants minds of generations back home on Earth. furthest that any human object has travelled. is their unique opportunity - and their peril to capture images of things we have never seen &quot;When I look back, I realise how little we Voyager,&quot; says Voyager Mission Project Scientist were there to be discovered, time after time.&quot; I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. might ever want to know about the Voyager missions to their impending, tragic finale. that it is not new, cutting-edge technology the edge of our solar system, but old machines. than the one inside your car's key fob. To this from the 1970s - which makes them older than the conundrum of deep space exploration, where can mean that technology is antiquated by the Of course, Voyager 1 &amp; 2 were not initially meant were instead built for a 5-year mission to moons, which was only possible thanks to a rare, after completing all of its initial objectives team added flybys of Uranus and Neptune to were completed, so NASA announced the start of the with the purpose of exploring the outer limits This final journey would take both probes off the such as the termination shock and the denser the heliopause into interstellar space. to accomplish so much beyond the scope of their but incredibly effective technology. NASA design choices that allowed the probes to far simply; they were built different. Here's how: decisions: the fuel source. Each probe is equipped generator, which converts heat from the decaying generators were capable of producing 157 Watts to power a laptop and charge a mobile phone too. Voyager needed. While a radioisotope generator decline (it would halve in strength every 87.7 the essentials on the probes running until at accident. You see, when the Voyagers launched the planets would soon be in that one-in-176-year first reign! This rare alignment would not only with minimal course adjustment but also give the outer giants they visited, thereby increasing could get from their own rocket propulsion. having been only attempted previously on NASA's However, this narrow window gave NASA a strict deadline. There wasn't enough time Congress wouldn't earmark enough funding for a proposed). So, what did Voyager's team do? They the probes for a potentially longer mission and Each of the Voyager probes is equipped with redundancies in case of machine failure, which adjust course and orientation, the probes are referencing instruments and 16 hydrazine Backups - and good backups at that - were key to vital as Voyager 2's main thrusters stopped had to engage after 4 decades of idleness. And the excellent engineering that went into them. The which are antiquated by today's standards wide-angle and narrow-angle lens cameras are which has fixed programs like fault Another key to its success lay in its computers. Articulation Control Subsystem, and no, it doesn't refers to the probes' orientations with respect to would be unable to send or receive signals from as the probes' transmitters only have and at such immense distances, their radio communicate with the Voyager team and vice versa, the Deep Space Network must in turn know exactly like a needle in a 287 billion km haystack. antenna for real-time transmission and an 8-track megabits for future transmission, enough to store from the earlier Pioneer probes, which had no of what the smartphone in your pocket can store built to last. Odetics, which manufactured over 4,000 kilometres of tape without taking the harshest environments imaginable and undergo the Voyager DTRs performed without data loss taken offline to conserve power. Not bad for Durability was a chief concern during Voyager's of this magnitude. To get to Jupiter, both belt. Scientists once believed that this region pass through it. However, Pioneers 10 and 11 had belt, which emboldened Voyager's team to repeat disaster before the probes had even reached their the asteroid belt unscathed (and we now know Even with all these successes, and with the probes possibly have hoped for, as the two spacecraft there was still at least one more hurdle in the extremely cold temperatures of interstellar machinery operational. Nonetheless, as the probes' heaters to conserve energy. When the cosmic-ray its temperature plummeted by 70 degrees Celsius. kilometers into space isn't an option. So, but... it continued to run smoothly! The fact that testament to their resilience and engineering. see? Let's go back to the beginning, and follow On August 20th 1977, NASA launched the Voyager partner in crime, Voyager 1, was launched two both probes were Jupiter-bound, Voyager 1 so taking off second made sense. It and exited the asteroid belt first. take a &quot;dazzling parade of pictures&quot; that But don't take my word for it. Let's Thirteen days after launch, Voyager 1 sent of thousands it would send back over the next 5 it's a sentimental place to start our journey. by the Apollo 11 crew from the moon just and its moon in the distance. I don't know beautiful - especially knowing how far this probe But we've got a long way to go, so let's move on finally makes its approach to its first it's 714 million kilometres away. Voyager 1 it travels at 17 kilometres per second, 2 despite leaving Earth first, arrived four because the trajectory Voyager 1 took allowed Now, Voyager 1 was not the first spacecraft to years prior in 1972. And while the Pioneer mission didn't quite grab the imagination of the public. Voyager certainly did. It's kind of hard to accept that these are actual image. If you look closely, you can spot two of one on the right - but more about them later. approach to the great gas giant. every 10 hours - or one Jupiter day. This means in all the photos. The 66 photos were spliced spanning Voyager 1's approach to Jupiter from distance of 27 million kilometres. I personally But let's get a closer look, and see Something that immediately stunned scientists see east-west and west-east winds in But what caught them by surprise was the amount which are super clear in this image. the atmosphere over Jupiter is. Jupiter's most notable characteristic - its Great formation. Not only did Voyager data confirm this, phenomena in other parts of the atmosphere. Red Spot is one example of these surprise littered with them - and we had no idea. but thanks to Pioneer data, scientists have long Voyager data not only confirmed the existence image them. This picture taken as Voyager leaves glowing orange line protruding from the planet. I did promise we would come back to its moons from the Voyager expedition is the discovery Prior to Voyager, geologists thought Io like our own moon. While they did find circular be from craters. The dark spots you see indicate This photo shows lava flow from less than 1 and totally unexpected. We now know Io as the At the time of these images being to capture Io mid-eruption. Imagine and then stumbling upon a sight like this. shot material and gas 100 kilometres into going off relentlessly every few hours, The next moon out from Io is Europa and it Voyager 1 was the first to show us that Europa is supposed them to be some type of ice fracture Voyager data that first suggested there might Today, we know of 95 moons orbiting that number was 13. Voyager discovered three new the total to 16 moons by the early 80s. Sadly, though they have been imaged since. Tour was Saturn. After 21 months of travel, Planet in November 1980, closely followed by Like I said before - you think rings, Prior to Voyager's mission, Saturn was Voyager 1 showed us that these rings are actually the closest flyby any probe had undertaken back Voyager discovered a ring too, the G-ring, F-ring discovered by Pioneer 2 one year prior is kinked and multi-stranded in nature. It the F-ring - Prometheus and Pandora. This was big theories that shepherding moons exist around Voyager also introduced us to some ghostly scattered around the rings in this photo, and They seem innocent, but they actually caused quite You see, up until 1980, we thought that Saturn's forces. That's all well and good, except of that theory. Their existence is orbital mechanics. We still don't know what electrostatic repulsion separating very small Sadly, as much as data from Voyager it also taught us that Saturn is losing its rings. turning them into a kind of dusty rain of ice Saturn's rings to disappear in 300 million years. that a dedicated mission was mounted in planet. Cassini probe launched in 1997, and out a video of mine on what it found here. Voyager provided some decisive breakthroughs knew of 14 moons, but Voyager showed us the time up to 17 moons. learn from Titan and Enceladus. image Titan, Saturn's largest moon, and the researchers. So, Voyager was sent to follow up. atmosphere - the first and only encounter of Enceladus also turned out to be exceptionally is visible out in the distance, with it's tricky to see, but that moon is erupting. up to 10,000 kilometres above its surface - 20 frequent plumes of water vapour that erupt leave Saturn's icy rings. This data was suggested by out there that we could confirm it to be true. Enceladus' terrains are an unexpected mixture smooth is the newer side, and the right side older side. This suggests Enceladus which it wasn't previously thought to be. of Uranus - we have to say goodbye to Voyager its path was bent upward out of the ecliptic for interstellar space. Of course, it would be But not to worry, Voyager 2 took a slingshot Uranus and Neptune. These would be the first Five years after arriving at Saturn, NASA's 1986. At its closest, the probe came within 81,500 revealed an absence of visible cloud features in Uranus displayed a serene, featureless cloud about the atmospheric dynamics of gas giants. subtle differences in the atmosphere of the polar But it was another tilt that It was previously unknown whether Uranus had a not only does Uranus indeed have a magnetic field, That means its magnetic and rotational Until then, it was thought that these poles on Earth - our magnetic and rotational poles are found on Uranus defied conventional forced scientists to rethink their assumptions. that as the planet spins, its magnetosphere field -- wobbles like a poorly thrown football. but it might look a little something like this |. about the known rings of Uranus, and to capture images of these dark rings, like rings are composed of fine dust particles. orbiting one of the newly discovered rings, F-ring. Here, they can be seen from 4 million This mission significantly increased the known we only knew about five moons orbiting Uranus. moons, which you'll see in a second, but it also 16 moons. Voyager's discovery provided compositions, and orbital characteristics. OK - back to Uranus's five OG moons. They similar to the moons of Saturn. Oberon and are riddled with impact craters. They judging by their old and dark surfaces. 4th furthest from Uranus, is marked by huge degree of geologic - and probably Ariel has the brightest and possibly youngest taken from just 129,000 kilometres suggests to many fault valleys and extensive flows of Miranda is the closest of the five to the the little rocky satellite discovered by Voyager Voyager flew by Miranda on January 4th, 1986, at moon turned out to be a captivating puzzle history. Voyager 2 identified traces of internal manifesting in extensive, canyon-like faults The lunar canvas is further adorned with oval, scratches. Voyager also saw &quot;terraced&quot; regions, and heavily and lightly cratered terrains coexist. Miranda's original surface fragments forcibly re-aggregated back together. 2 departed Uranus, and snapped this wonderful set off to its final planetary target, Neptune. kilometres per hour, Neptune finally came into in our solar system on August 25th, 1989, just It produced the first up-close images we passing only 5,000 kilometres above its Hydrogen was found to be the most although the high abundance of methane is Voyager 2 measured extraordinary wind speeds in blowing at speeds reaching almost 1,100 kilometres surprise and highlighted just how dynamic Scientists also discovered a massive storm This turbulent storm was seen to be rotating on Jupiter, and exhibited winds reaching up recorded in the solar system! commented on the findings in 1989 saying, nobody's ever seen it, it's just an incredible on Neptune that happen very, very fast.&quot; first time. Up until 1986, scientists suspected certain. Intriguingly, the spacecraft identified arcs -- within Neptune's ring system. These arcs for their formation and stability, since they A trip to Neptune wouldn't be complete without a coldest known planetary body in the solar system, complete with erupting geysers, and a pinkish Scientists also identified dark plumes, which Voyager 2 also discovered 6 new moons As Voyager 2 turned around to snap it had officially completed its &quot;Grand downward out of the ecliptic plane. From here, just like its counterpart Voyager Speaking of Voyager 1, let's see where it's One year after Voyager 2 finished up with kilometres away. In order to conserve power scientists were going to switch off its cameras the team decided to turn the camera around for one had come. And so, on February 14th 1990, Voyager billion kilometres away. The result? In the immortal words of Carl Sagan himself, home. That's us. On it everyone you love, every human being who ever was, lived out their thousands of confident religions, ideologies, every hero and coward, every creator and destroyer young couple in love, every mother and father, teacher of morals, every corrupt politician, every and sinner in the history of our species lived &quot;There is perhaps no better demonstration of image of our tiny world. To me, it underscores another and to preserve and cherish the pale This sentiment rings with as much But what came next? What did the Voyager In 1981, Voyager 1 escaped the ecliptic, which heading 35 degrees to the north. heading 48 degrees to the south. the Voyagers' journeys. To reach interstellar termination shock, a region in which hypersonic interstellar wind. Beyond the termination shock, where slowing solar winds pile up, by the heliopause - the final boundary between in spite of what you may think, the start of the of our solar system. Indeed, it will be another the vast region of billions of icy planetesimals and another 30,000 years until it exits the When the Voyagers travelled through the Because the Sun's magnetic field spins in opposite spin creates a ripple where they meet called the created by dropping a stone in water. However, it compresses, as though the ripples were hitting that after the termination shock, these stacked-up boundary of the heliosheath is not as smooth it is a fluctuating and magnetically bubbly complete revision of our model of the heliosheath! the first manmade object to leave the Sun's travelling at an incredible speed of 540 million an astronomical unit being the distance between crossed the heliopause was about 120 Astronomical it was unknown where, exactly, the heliopause it as close as Jupiter, and others much farther. the Sun's solar wind is stopped by its collision crashing of two powerful bodies of water against charged particles, such as electrons, protons outer layer. The interstellar medium, by contrast, dust left over from the Big Bang and other ancient other, they change course and form a region of At first, NASA wasn't sure if Voyager 1 had truly space. As models predicted, the probe's plasma density, 80 times what it had registered in cosmic rays. But something strange didn't happen heliopause, Voyager 1 detected no change in surprising? Well, theoretical models assumed change in a region dominated by the magnetic 1 detected no discernible change in the ambient nearly a year before announcing that Voyager On November 5, 2018, Voyager 2, travelling at the (or 3.3 Astronomical Units) per year, joined to enter interstellar space. The crossing also like the Voyager 1 six years earlier, the probe But something else surprised scientists. You during which its activity waxes and wanes. Voyager were peaking. Models predicted that the size of cycle, meaning it would have been expanding when the heliopause at exactly the same distance models were wrong. Like the magnetometer finding, models with field data. We now suspect that the medium is much more twisted and filled with leading idea is that our Sun emerged billions of following the explosion of one or more supernovae, near the heliopause. If so, the probes will likely travel farther away, but their instruments After all, the probes are In early May 2022, Voyager Imagine you are a NASA scientist. You arrive through the Voyager 1 telemetry data. Voyager letting you know whether everything is now for a signal to reach Earth from Voyager 1, and the craft you're overseeing. Currently, However, today, something is wrong. gobbledegook. Instead of precise data explaining and what orientation it believes itself to be at, you get long strings of 0's, or 377's. It suggests that Voyager is doing things You quickly check your computer again - yes, you did just receive a signal from Voyager 1. the same as it always has. It cannot be pointing or you would not be getting a signal at all. but it's at the exact same strength too, so And, ping, onto your computer comes Voyager this is all normal. While over the years 11 pieces of scientific equipment - and general degradation - the remaining 4 continue magnetic fields and cosmic rays. You check its other systems. Voyager but that's to be expected. The plutonium half-life of 87 years, but Voyager 1 has been efficiency has started to decline. In fact, last past 2025. But that is some time away. After checking its other systems, it The AACS - the Attitude Articulation and on Voyager 1, and remember, its job is 3m antennae continues to point towards Earth. You lean back, puzzled. The situation but it is troubling. It's kind of like hello to you every morning, only for language one day. The packages he delivers the same address. It's just the words the To further compound the strangeness, Voyager at all. The spacecraft comes equipped with go into if it detects that anything is not these involve powering down until scientists can not activated. So Voyager 1 believes that all The data is given, the scene is set. This was the single fault like this might not seem like a big with further systems. And if that is true, Voyager 1 is by now 23.8 billion km away from you. alongside careful, 22-hour-each-way questions By evaluating the rest of the systems and finding unusual explanations. No, this probably is not the NASA scientists were open to the idea of the by alien life, as evidenced by the golden disks us for aliens to read if ever they stumbled across it seems that this would be a strange And no, the laws of physics have probably a wormhole that is skewing where it thinks back to you. Given that the scientific data it's much more likely that the For four months, scientists and engineers testing theory after theory and trying to without causing any further damage in the system. It would not be the first time they'd the old one stopped working. Voyager 1 even the first AACS computer that's been used They also contemplate just leaving data is still coming in. Would it 1 simply carried on speaking garbled the new normal... except it implies that Can you figure out what was going wrong? If you It turns out that in the intense, radiation-filled made Voyager decide to start using that back to Earth. Because of the faults in this resulting in the strange numbers. So actually, in fix it was to ask Voyager to start using did that, the problem was resolved. It still took a couple of months for Voyager 1 in November 2023 another of time the Flight Data Subsystem - underwent a home usable science and engineering that particular problem was fully resolved. to travel through interstellar space, it may a routine series of commands sent to Voyager 2 degrees away from Earth. This seemingly massive distances involved, NASA completely or hear back from the probe. It was only through Space Network facility in Canberra, Australia that it to reorient itself back towards Earth. The 37 the probe to signal back that it had followed the The probe could have been lost forever. the Voyager probes' will stop transmitting back or simply running out of power, the end is this incredible mission. But even then the twin In 40,000 years, Voyager 1 will likely drift while Voyager 2 will pass 1.7 lightyears it will pass 4.3 lightyears from Sirius. These the Earth itself as they continue their solitary they encounter intelligent life in one of the far to mankind's ingenuity and resilience. [Remember I to the stars? These golden audio-visual discs are of Earth and its many lifeforms: the sounds of and Chuck Berry and dozens of indigenous peoples; distant stranger a glimpse of who we are, and say goodbye to these old familiar friends and the Voyager Mission will not be our last Thanks for watching I was honestly Blown and messages you've sent me and by the Patreon like I said in the replies to your DMs so grateful to have such an amazing Community we're still on our long-term thousand Patreon pin comment to become a part of that effort whole video add free see your name in team meanwhile click the link to this playlist for