Hi there Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video we're gonna look at the operation of a cooling tower. So just as a quick overview of what to expect from at the operation of And we're gonna look which is being sent from the chiller and contains the heat from the building, which needs to be rejected. That's going to enter this header, pass through this spray nozzle and be distributed over this packaging. That warm water will then loose some of it's heat as it makes it's way to the bottom here. It will drip down and then And the cooler condenser water is then collected from the basin, sent back down to the that heat again and be sent Meanwhile cooler air / to this cooling tower. That passes in the opposite and that picks up the heat from the water. But as it does that of the water making this So we've got this drift and that will condense some of that water so we can reclaim it and And that humid air, you know that is then rejected by this fan and pushed out into the atmosphere. We're gonna look at each part so you can skip through to just see a certain Cooler towers are, I've but these are really used large building. Just the type of cooling Some will be kind of and some won't. It all depends on the design criteria. So as you can see on the of a cooling tower which I've made here. In a real world example of cooling towers will This is Belty Aircoil We're gonna run through and what it is used for. So in building services these are used on almost around the world depending on it's size. They're very effective at rejecting heat. So what happens is; you use these to reject the heat from the building. So all the heat gets computers, machines, all of that heat needs to to keep it cool. So that's picked up by a chiller and it is sent from the which is a cooling tower. And the purpose of this plant item here is to take water in at a certain temperature and put it back into the building at a much lower temperature so that it can pick up more heat again and send it back to be So let's have look at some You'll see on the top we've got a fan. So this fan obviously spins and as it does so it pulls Air flows in, fresh air, ambient air, air around you flows in which it just filters. They've got an inlet shield just to stop sunlight and dust and bugs, maybe animals, even (laughing) So the air comes into this point here and then makes it's way of the cooling tower at the top here. And on the outside we've got a motor here. And on this example I've just made a simple belt drive system which pulls that fan. But the motor could be mounted inside or it could be a gear ratio But we're just keeping it so I've put a belt system on there. And actually let's have a So, this is a peek inside the unit. And as you can see we've with some funny looking And a few other little pipes. And let's just change view there. So, the condenser water that's being collected from the building and being sent up by the chiller, that enters through this pipe here and it enters into this header and that warm water is then sprayed out of these spray nozzles. In the real world the spray nozzles coming down onto the packaging So these nozzles here kind of this and they're just spraying down On to this which is known as In the real world the packaging will look something like this. And the purpose of this fill is that the water, the as it sprays in really fine particles and it collects and runs down the sides Now the air which is picks up heat from this because if you let it just kind of run out then it's got a small surface area, but if you spread it out and put across the really thin film, across all these packaging sheets, which is made of a type of plastic then that increases the surface area. And so you're maximizing the area that the air can reach or can touch. And so once it does that it pulls the heat out of that water. The water, the condenser water will and drip down and collect And that warm air will or these panels here, make it's or the fill packaging, up out through the drift eliminators, and then out through the top. As that water pours out and it sprays and becomes a thin film along what we're gonna find is that some of the water will evaporate, which takes some of the heat away. But we're gonna lose So the purpose of this which No it's not sorry it's What happens is the air enters into here, it's being pulled by and the air is coming and it's impacting, it's It's gonna make these really sharp turns to get out of the system and get to where the fan is trying So as it does this and it's and that's giving the to condense on the So the more impact it makes that vapor in the air and allowing it to condense and pour away. So we'll reclaim some of that water, which would otherwise have lost and be sent out to the atmosphere. Down in the basin here we We'll see the biggest pipe here. It's about a six inch pipe So this is the condenser water return, which is gonna go back and down to the condenser of the chiller. Over here we've got the water inlet and that is connected to a ball valve. So as the water level gets too low this will allow more And keep this filled to a certain level. Over here we've got the over flow. So say this was to have got stuck, something like this water would but there's no where for that to go and you don't want it to fill up and start going through the So we've got an overflow here. Just to take some of that flow away. And then the last part here So the drain is quite important because in the water that's the water contains salts and bacteria and stuff like that and as this water evaporates that salt and the gunk and muck that's contained And that salt won't evaporate. That will start to collect or up on the fill packaging etc. And so once it reaches a certain level this will need to drain, so the cooling tower will be told to dump a lot of the water to drain while they add fresh water. Not through that one, They add fresh water to or through the condenser And once that has reached a certain amount of parts per million that drain will close and it will continue in And that's really it for a cooling tower. Well for this type of induced There's lots of other and we'll run through some Thanks for watching.