[Music] Hi! This is quite amazing. I'm really excited to be here at this conference. I'm so excited to be talking to all of you, That's what it says back there on the screen. I assume it's true. How many people in this room have [Audience raises hands] Trick question! I'm just trying to get you to warm up with Everybody raises their hand. Okay, great. Let me ask you a simpler question. How many of you use open-source software How many of you use it because it gives you freedom? Okay, now we're getting at it. Many of you probably work Many of you probably work with collaborative You work on open applications, You work with open libraries. You work with patent-free software and technologies, None of that is because of how much it costs. It's because it gives you freedom. I think that's one of the main things that But if you're as old as me, you probably remember Throughout the '80s and '90s, there was a proprietary software would dominate, whether and used by everyone. I remember a time when I had to persuade the Unix operating system was not only than the closed-source Sun Microsystems I had to persuade them that they could use servers, file servers, network There was a time when Bill Gates from Microsoft of the information super-highway. Just one component. Because what was more interesting, was how and propagated over proprietary protocols The idea was that corporations wouldn't open &quot;too weird,&quot; and had too much porn. Instead, corporate systems would be perfect Secure with quality, curated content that If you worked in a company that actually tried that those systems ended up being insecure, Eventually, most of the people who worked (maybe a smartphone) so they could The internet won. The open, uncontrolled, unrestrained internet But it wasn't obvious that it was going to TCP/IP won. There was a time when people said ridiculous &quot;I'm interested in the technology [Laughter] To misunderstand the power and as to think that the value of that comes from and the ability to link it to other data. And miss the point that the really interesting thing is The democratisation of publishing. The open access to all of the information If it is not accessible, it is irrelevant. Today, people say, &quot;I'm not interested in I'm interested in the technology behind Bitcoin: Two days ago when this conference opened, people &quot;Blockchain&quot; was right in the middle Blockchain. The blockchain is a data structure. It's not even a particularly interesting data structure. From a technical perspective, it's kind of What's really interesting about the blockchain What is the process for recording data in Bitcoin introduced a mechanism to do that and censorship resistant -- kind of like the Web. That's really the interesting thing about that no one really controls all of it, and even there are still parts that are free, Still open to creating incredible It popped out of the internet and no one expected it. Neutral. For the most part, content is routed across or really to the source and destination. Censorship-resistant. You cannot erase the Web, you cannot Bitcoin introduced a way to apply this to important and trusted information, Money. It created a way to have a recording of ownership to have control over who can own money, how Bitcoin made money open, neutral, borderless, The artefact of that technology, the thing that gets recorded on That blockchain is a necessary but not which is a platform for trust that is not controlled after it has been recorded. A system that is open, neutral, borderless, It's not about the blockchain. In fact, if you take the blockchain technology, controlled by one party that can decide which transactions get recorded and which ones do not... [There are] &quot;good&quot; transactions and &quot;bad&quot; transactions, Then you lose all of the interesting properties Whenever I talk about this space, I always and that is 'open.' 'Open' means open-source, open-access, open It means innovation at the edge, not the center. It means no one is in control. It means there is no censorship. It means it is neutral. You don't require any patent to participate It is neutral because in this system of trust, and even purpose of your transaction does not matter. It will be routed and there is no way to stop Almost every day, I meet people who come to but I'm more interested in all the other applications Not even &quot;the blockchain,&quot; just &quot;blockchain.&quot; It's become a generic, abstract word. In most cases, that word is meaningless. What it means to them is &quot;I'm trying to do only now we can do it with something that is a If you create a centralised blockchain, if if it's not open, borderless, censorship-resistant, Microsoft SQL Server Enterprise Edition or Oracle. The problem is, no one is going to pay a consultant That's not going to get you any magic venture [That only happens] when you go to Silicon Valley, turn off the light and say &quot;blockchain, A venture capitalist [will] jump out of the [Laughter] I did a talk which was censored on Facebook It was called &quot;Blockchain versus Bullshit.&quot; Apparently that word &quot;bullshit&quot; is not good which kind of proves the point [about It's about decentralisation, censorship It's about the ability to use a 'bad' word to get people's attention and [hope they] But that's okay, because I don't use Facebook anyway! The bottom line is that this technology is history, it takes one of humanity's oldest aspects of human behaviour (trust), and embeds without central control. This has never happened before. Yes, you could imagine a myriad of applications and not have to trust in the other party that acts as an intermediary. You can imagine many different applications. The problem is that a lot of those applications the first fundamental application: When you turn money into a content type, make from any point to any other point, without reference Independently routable money as a network protocol. That creates the basis for all of the other That creates the basis for applications of an infrastructure to start everything else. If the blockchain is open, decentralised, then it can be used for so many But most of the companies you work for They see the internet of money The natural motivation of a corporation is control. The natural motivation of a government is control. They see this open system and they say, Auditability, forensic analysis, cryptography... Can we have them without the open, borderless, We would like to make it closed, controlled, They will build great intranets of money Microsoft FrontPage / Outlook shit you have [Applause] When somebody says, &quot;I'm going to apply the first question you should ask is, I only have one slide, but if I wanted to do to a corporate environment, as one of my friends It says 'you don't need a blockchain.' The bottom line is that the number of applications censorship-resistant, neutral platform to that cannot be attacked or compromised and giant multi-national corporations... and other censorship ridden hell holes... The only applications you need that for But I'll tell you which application We don't like to think that money is an important Here, money is dirty and &quot;the root of all evil.&quot; It's not the money that's dirty, Centralised, hierarchical, controlled. That is dirty. [We have turned] money into a network protocol [We can] give it to every person who currently to billions of people who are cut off from the financial -- which is a lie. [The financial system] is a system of control the West, to be used as a system Proprietary money is the cancer of modern societies. It has infected democracy. The answer to that is open, neutral, borderless, as a network protocol. As a system that can be [used by] anyone who functionality, which gives them the power transact globally with anyone. Once we have that solid platform, we can build ownership of real-estate, and other assets. Applications like open-source law through Realise that cryptocurrencies today are the of public key cryptography that We have now arrived at the golden age of cryptography. The cypherpunks are finally winning. We can apply that amazing technology to one of a system for the communication of value, For the first time in history, Thank you. [Applause]