Good morning everyone! It is an And I thought I would let you guys follow my mom Anita. It's just like a day long road And we just got this idea last evening, like just I like that. I like when you get an idea and 4 hours and drive more to the mountains. It's actually pretty close to where we have our mountain cabin, but that's not where we're going. We're going to many times and it has really beautiful rocks we want to go there to get some inspiration. real physical store for our art and jewelry this sometime this year. And now we want to get our biggest inspiration for that store. I want the that inspires me in nature. Like the mountains, the And also up there in the mountains, well we're the mountains. I always go to these areas to the colors and the shades and the stones. look here in the woods where I live. Yeah, you know it's a good reason to just get away spontaneous like that something very good will moment. When you just follow that calling you can just go and see what happens. So I packed minute. And yesterday I made a little post on a road trip with my mom and I wanted to ask you this idea that you know I'm going to spend a be a moment when we can sit down and talk and wondering about. I mean as many of you know she she's just like sweeping by now and then. But she business that we built together and all these to get to know her a little bit better, even answering questions. But I'm going to give it a try! She already got so many questions so I think I'm going to try to ask at least some it. And hopefully in the future I can make has a lot to tell. She just doesn't know it. When I to ask her question she was like &quot;There's nothing She really believed that there's nothing to to drive a lot today and I don't think it's a good the sound. Otherwise I would love to have like because sitting in the car and talking that's have wonderful conversations with people when you relaxing you know. Looking out through the windows a way. So Nanook will stay home with Johan today. him to go in a car. So, yeah I hope you will enjoy to come out of it and I have no idea if there's Mom has to sit on a pillow because she's so short that she doesn't Leaving your dog behind is always hard. Not leaving your husband, Mom is already nervous that I'm going to -Yeah, I'm not comfortable with this. -I know, but sometimes you have -Yeah, that's my motto in life. -So you got to live up to it now. Cheers! Cheers for a nice road trip! Cheers! Cheers everybody! and now we're going to start the road trip. -Okay, I can just ask you one -I'm 67 a half. In February I will be 68. -Yeah, February 9. -What's your favourite movie? I'm just kidding. -We have talked about that and I'm not a favorite person. I don't you know... It's so much to see but for the I never watch TV and you know... I other stuff. And if I watch a movie it's violence I can't see it, because I feel -Yeah, I know what you mean. You feel bad for days. -I feel bad for everything so I can't even watch a movie. -If it's an embarrassing scene in a film you go away. You take everything so personal. -Yeah, I feel everything so strong so I need to go out. -We're like &quot;Mom! Stay! You have to watch this scene!&quot; -I can't watch it! We're just looking up the We want to make sure that we roads, because sometimes the GPS up here it's like small, small gravel roads in the -Yes, do you have a question for me? -Yes, let's see. A first question here. Someone wants to hear how it was to grow up in your village and what your childhood looked like. -To grow up in Grundtjarn it was -It's the village that we live in today. -Yeah, until I was eight years. -Yeah, Solleftea the town where -Yeah, and you know it's really life. My grandmother and grandfather lived -Yeah, they lived where my grand -And they had cows and you animals and it was a nice life you know. It was -It was very different from the -Yeah, just everything was fun and you know. -But back then... Because now there's only like 11 people living in this village. What did it look like back -Yeah, a lot of children and we played together even if it was a four year old, they played with skiing and everything. It was playtime every day. -And there was even a school in this village. -Yeah, it was even a school. -And a grocery store. It was a very alive village what it once was. -Because now we are only do in this village? What did they work with? -My man. -Lumberjack or timber man? -Yeah, and my It was a hard life for my father and mother I know It was a happy life you know. -It always childhood. -Yeah, it was really wonderful and I who has learned us so much. Yeah, to feel -To feel gratitude for the small things. I feel that my problem is to... volume for what I mean you know. That's a reminder to all of you that English is not away when we speak English. -Yeah, you will try my best and I think you can understand are very understandable this crowd of beautiful -And also if there is something that you Swedish and I will translate. -Yeah, that's great! -There's tiny, tiny... -I think we need to go bit about your childhood. -Yeah, my father very often. We liked to sing a lot, danced and had fun and laughed and of you are together, because you have three brothers. -So, you were the only girl. -Yeah, I was the only girl because I had no girl in my age. So I had to that shaped you a lot? -Yeah, a lot you know example and I like to do more outdoor things. with the boys in the village you know. -Didn't your you were so thin and skinny? -Yeah, I was really And my grandmother she was so worried cream from the cows to drink To gain weight. -Did it work? worked. Nothing has worked. doesn't work. -You have always been very thin. your body. I was also really thin like you All I wanted was to gain weight, it was really hard. sometimes people picked on you because you were compared to you. I don't know what happened. -Okay, now the flies are getting horrible. Let's -Okay, we are now in Gaddede and we have When you were a child, were you as and designs, the things that you do today? No, -Maybe when I was a teenager. -You did music! -Yes, I was a singer in a band and I played guitar. I was a singer in a band for about... Until I for a while! -Well not quite popular. -But you were get there. Just, you know, we used to play in the and you know. Just an ordinary band, but I and you play guitar really well. People have never to see that soon. -And I used to make art and -Watercolor. -And you still do. -Yeah, I still other stuff to do. -Someone asked: interests. -Yes, my mom is never still. You always the most part. -You are very curious, you want starting a new life I think I would be a Or you know... -Working on NASA. -Maybe, yes! underneath her house. Where she is like some you are doing chemistry. Yeah, like a alchemist very spiritual. You read a lot about everything. knows it first. Before it even said anything about weeks before &quot;There's a pandemic coming.&quot; laughed at me and said &quot;No, no, no, -Then a few months later it was like closed down everything before everyone else. You sit up in the Technology is like your passion a little bit. -Yeah, you are more modern than me I think. -Yes I think so yeah. But that's good, asking about that. They see that you're very website, the webshop website and everything. -Everyone can learn everything, you know. I'm programmer, a computer programmer from the beginning. -Yeah, you're educated. -Yeah, I'm educated like that. So you know then it's more natural to do problems and make it alive. Make something everything from the beginning and you see never give up. If there's a problem she it's solved. -Yeah, I need to solve everything. because you don't just give up or go with the matter if you go through fire or water you're Yeah, I need that. -And that's a from you. Like working really hard for something, famous or nothing it's because you need it inside you of something that you need to do. So yeah, you're a a programmer of interest in learning these things. -But I I have done a lot of things in my life. Taking care of of the all the things around You have been doing a lot of things and you work as a 3D designer with the jewelry. But I just love taking photos of rocks that shimmers like this. So, we have been here by this beach for a coffee and answer some more of your questions now and I'm so tired. -Yes, you had a long day. in your studio maybe? -Yeah, we had an idea some time by my studio and answer some more give a lot more volume to them. -Yeah, exactly! things we want to do and soon we have to drive answer one more question a bit quick we talked earlier about the technology part. for those of you who don't know mom is the one When we have an idea we sketch it up and And then you print out 3D models So how did you learn that? -Yeah, it's so simple YouTube, from a woman called &quot;PJ Chen Jewelry Design&quot; and I followed her and did all the training parts. There is a lot of stuff out there rule I think. That if you want to learn something or a education, you can learn a lot by just reading, books as well. -If you have the passion smithing and everything yourself. We've never done can that's really good. But if you want -I can write it here. -And you can also download a days and then you can try and learn. -This is not &quot;Use Anita 20 to get 20% off&quot;. woman. She's a really good teacher and she is actually just learned this like three years ago so you also just designed a bag. A waist bag you've designed. It's amazing like you learn everything, everything! -Okay, this is crazy! think you can even see them, but they are like Q&amp;A another day in my art studio. Because we -A bit more deeper so I can give you a better Now we are going back home soon, but wow what a trip. And I've seen some nice Hi everybody and welcome back to the not noticed that it has passed almost 2 weeks we had to quit the Q&amp;A video because there was home. My plan was to continue making the video between and I've been very busy for the past have been working on a building project on our well. You know, summers. When there is it's like a birthday party or it's Midsummer the time which is really fun, but it's also thousand times before on my earlier videos that And today it is raining outside and I that now you can have a break. Now you can just do something relaxing. So that's nice and to be inside here today and I am going to have -So Anita, I'm so glad you're back on the show! So, it's a little bit less mosquitoes today. But I will do it for you. I do it -And hopefully we won't lose 300,000 subscribers -So, we have so many questions here so it's hard going to do a part two in the future. So don't was a lot of questions and very deep questions And deep questions need good answers. -Yes, this video is going to be a little bit longer. lot of people thought that you are from India. -Oh, that but I'm not, I'm a Scandinavian. also know that &quot;Anita&quot; is a really common name In many countries, and Sweden. And many women -So now we know, you're not from India. A lot of And have like a lot of happiness and energy. body has always looked like that. I'm never still. -How did you and my dad Ulf meet each 1980 and I worked at the hospital at that time. between studies and I was his mentor. So we worked yeah, it was like that. -You're leaving out all he was a very charming with the girls. -Yeah, -The other girls liked him. -The other girls But in a way we found each other and now kids and lot of love. -Do you have any -Give each other a lot of space. Both of we are very different. Ulf he's very social, people and parties and the city life. be alone. I love to be at home doing a good balance. And we give it each If he likes something than I say &quot;Yeah, me. -Beautiful advice! Give each other space. For you and I... yes! Space is love. -Yeah, check. Are you guys good over there? Yeah? I think we decided for another question for -How did she get into jewelry making and smithing? question much better than I. Because it was you The idea, yeah. -To tell the story very short, where I share this whole story of how it began, we joined something called &quot;Advanced Intuition We have a lot of interest in paranormal stuff and in a beautiful place, in Rhinebeck. It was about 19 years old? And at that event we saw It was like bracelets with some kind of colors you know, they were so beautiful! We really had spent all the money on just getting there. then one year later, fast forward, I was studying in the first day. I cried every night, I was miserable. we had seen in the United States and then and I googled to try to find them. But I couldn't like &quot;No, I have to find them!&quot;. So I went up to the name of this crystal and it was a Swarovski crystal And I bought some of these crystals and I made one sent it to you. Because you lived in Gothenburg and I lived sent it with the post to you. -Yeah, and it go and get it? The one I made for me. You also have -This bracelet, it was the start you know. got it that morning? It was really crazy! -It was I was in bed because I was sick, which I rarely am. part I'm really healthy. But this morning or something. I'm really into colors and pink is something really good for your health. it felt good. -Yeah, you did like a meditation in surrounded with green and pink colors and just 10 I thought &quot;This can't happen!&quot; you know, was the start. -I was at this university and Sweden we have something called &quot;Studiebidrag&quot;. -I for studies and rent, but I just bought maybe start making jewelry with these crystals. started making a website. And then I called you one anymore, I want to come back home to Gothenburg.&quot; down again. And then one evening in the kitchen in We had all these ideas! You know, me and my all these ideas of creating a business, we we're going to make beautiful jewelry!&quot; and that's jewelry in nature. -Yeah, because we wanted -And by then we lived in this dreamed about living in Grundtjarn. That's also another live in this village here up in the north. shared that dream too, to move up here so to create jewelry inspired by this. But the silver smithing because you found interest in that. -Yeah, know. I had so many ideas in my head and bought all the tools and a nice little bench don't know what he was thinking, that we were crazy? He's so lovely! -And today I'm like &quot;What were started YouTube and we didn't have any followers, create beautiful jewelry and you became really learned through books, through YouTube and -Yeah, I think so. -Yeah, and then 2010 months after that you moved up too even or anything. But we brought the bench and we we started joining small events where we after that we started a website, a webshop and -We just shut it down every time... -Many times! we got all the orders and we were like &quot;We can't handle this!&quot; Sometimes we say that it's hard to years almost. Yeah, almost 15 years. So that's why I think it's important for people you follow a dream. -It takes years for the the goal to become a big business and that's why I think it went so well because we just and fun! -Yeah, it was fun! it takes 15 years to arrive at that place where about how I was as a child and if you have any question. I have a lot of memories with you as a child. beginning you were born. I have one memory from your child in the bed and imagine if you need know you would lie like this and not move or like she didn't like to lay felt like we were strangers you wanted to be alone for the most part. of space. &quot;Don't disturb me in anyway&quot;. And every night. And as soon as it was bedtime she said, two you know. She always said, as soon as she the door&quot;. -I remember that too so well! -And now it's Jonna's time. Now it's Jonna's time. We heard her talking, playing, was to escape. -Yeah, and you did many times! -There was like a we lived, when we lived in Solleftea when I was young. And I So I don't know if I was three, four maybe. take this little bicycle and just go to that -Yeah, and I hated when you noticed that I had by myself at this playground by the school, that I liked to be by myself. Were you like that as a kid think so. Yes, I think so! Yeah, I have a I wanted to be by myself. -So we are very escaped a lot of times, a lot of times! a big shopping mall. And Jonna was I had to keep an eye on her all the time but to... -Yeah, ask for help in the call out the message to the whole mall. maybe and I found you. -I remember were I was, How do you say, underwear. I remember the white, I wanted everything. And I played that most beautiful thing I ever seen, the bra section. -We always had to have an eye on Jonna, all the from us. And you played a lot outside, you things. -Yeah, I've been playing a lot. -Yeah, with everything. -When I started getting to These horses on a stick. I don't know if you until you were 15 years I think. But I thought you would be fine. But I remember one more Oh, but that's another question. as a child you were a little bit I think every child is. They are very open to things. which hadn't been an apartment before. It was an live there. It's a really big apartment. -Yeah, it was huge! It was bright and it was like... -A tower! question, just to be clear, this question is also emerging -And this was a paranormal experience. It was from the room where she was sleeping. And she went the kitchen but this was an open area so you could to the wall and she said &quot;What are you doing? Are couldn't see anything, but I felt my hair standing it got cold you know. But your body language And it was so scary for me but for You just went to bed after that. But -It was the day after? -Yeah, the day after some of you won't believe in this experience. -It happened. The day uncomfortable because of what happened the but this time Isac... -My older brother. -Yeah, he was time and just be together this evening. So we sat snacks and something happened. -The door to the fridge went up. bang! And everything fell out. Ketchup and milk Isac he was seven at that time and Isac and I know what happened. And then... We had a lot of all around the walls. And then every painting all of them at the same time, just one It was glass everywhere and it was a mess. it was so scary! -Like a horror movie. -Yeah, it was for Isac because he was only 7 years. But we just we went out to my parents because we lived in only a year or so. Or how long? -Yeah, maybe we bought a house after that because that was so too that I had a lot of nightmares. -Yeah, you had It was really scary. -I really clearly remember but I got really scared. I woke up and my angels on the walls. They were everywhere and was like &quot;He's going to walk on the angels!&quot; but he was a lot of feelings waking up and I was And I would love to go back to that apartment. someone told us that in early times long an artist had lived there. An old man, your paintings! -No, he didn't like our paintings. So that apartment is still in go there one day and make a little film. And had similar experiences. -It's a horror movie! -Yeah, people won't believe it, but it's also something was with me there too. We have know. What happened? Well that was -Yeah, and a little bit about an experience we had. stuff, because you are a mom of three. Me, Isac my ask if you have any advice for raising children? -Oh hard question you know, because we haven't done anything raising thing? -No, most of the time you are lucky parents do the best for the children. -Yeah, ability. Most parents love their children and want you think is important? -I think that before 2 years old They need to be empathic. I think that's know that words can hurt and hands can hurt. -Yeah learn that then? It must be hard. How do it's hard to explain it in words. -It's really hard to sad because they have said something bad. -Yeah, you can show your feelings. Not You need to find balance, a good I think you had a very good balance worried about us. Like you always wanted to make out you never went to bed. You had this But then at the sime time also letting us follow our dreams. It's not like you controlled us in what we wanted to do. Whatever we wanted to do in case we fell. It was a good balance but that I also had freedom. I think that's important, or if you're too free maybe you don't whatever happened, maybe especially when I was both you and dad would always be there. Whenever I you would, you know, catch me. And I think You talked a lot with us, a lot of discussions when before when we talked. -We always had dinner together and had a lot of discussions. And for the most part it many times, because you had many ideas. it's not until you are grown-up that you can look good or bad actually. -Yeah, I think so. -Yeah and have a good childhood. We had the perfect children in the world would have. Living in a good all the way. But it's hard to say in words how natural for us. -Yeah, it came natural! And when we had crazy ideas, because you have never said &quot;No, you should study have never done that. Every time I wanted something you didn't believe it, you let me try. So all alone when I was 21 years old you could a job&quot; but you never did that. In that If you would have said to me &quot;Jonna I don't think you. So I think it's so important to support. sometimes you need to be two steps maybe she will fail. Be there then. They are scary you know! -If you can As a teenager it was scary, because you were everything. Also something which children's friends, because at some point in the parents. If they have good friends is, but I also think when you're friends you can meet a boyfriend or girlfriend -It can destroy everything. -It's a sensitive time. have destroyed everything. -Yeah, it could have good that I had this support from home, I was in love with a guy that was really things. And I was in a dark place for maybe was always unhappy and he had like a power over see it from another perspective. I was like... -Yes, you couldn't handle me talking So I pushed you away all the time, but you never this mother bear. You continued to try to help in you could grab me you did! And then you saved me. interest you can share with your children. when we went to New York. -And then we started that we could share as an interest together. -To do something with me because that wasn't possible. You couldn't never said that. I never said that he was bad. time it felt like you walked into a wall. -Yeah! he was really dark. -I felt the dark energy, I felt -Yeah, you said that you cried every evening almost. talk about it. -I now understand your through that. -No, I think every parent part of being a parent. You have to handle It is! -Yeah, that's good! Cheers! We survived the if it's scary living outside a big city, we are growing old both me and Ulf and hospital. -But how far away is it now to the emergency? it's not scary at all. -Why? -Because if you die, you said that. -Is it meant, then okay! -Yeah, you been afraid of death. -No, it will be so exciting if it's something after you know, to see what this life. -Yeah, you always said that. -Yeah, this Explore and have fun, don't take life so life advice. Someone asked that, what's -Yeah, I would say that. Don't take life so seriously. also said that this is just a game. -This is just a no death, it's only a transition to something because we have talked about that ever since I the day you will die. -And I think that that's then they know that my mother... -She's having fun now! Yeah, your favorite book? Google translate... Non-fiction. -Nonfiction! -Or about how to program something or coding, change something in your life what be different. -I don't think I want to change if I change something, something else would have I regret. I regret something. -Okay, I didn't Denmark when you were a young kid. -No, you because I felt how scary it was for you. And -If you don't know what we're in an earlier vlog, I can link it down below or story when we sailed and why I became very also have so many good memories from that Denmark going to die and then you survive. That's I felt the same when we had made it. -That was nice feeling! -We got away from the heavy storm so nice! I really tried to stop that trip. it's an island. And I felt that this is not really big waves. So I asked you and I asked Ulf and Because I felt it would be... The waves you were sick already. -Yeah, we started feeling pale and I could see in all her face that -I remember that you asked us &quot;Maybe we should stop?&quot; to Denmark. -&quot;No, we want to go! Continue!&quot; keep going.&quot; And I really felt that no, it's not a should have trusted it. -I should have listened when nobody agrees with you, then it's hard to should let go of that regret. I think so that even better things can come out of it. I &quot;Bleikstranda&quot; when I ran around if it wasn't because beautiful moments in my whole life. And that So please don't! Just let go. Here, we cut the regret! the boat. But I think so, regretting things is to forgive yourself I think, otherwise you're going it's gone. -Now it's gone! Cheers for that! a long video. -It's so many questions! -Yeah, but was it to grow up with only brothers? -I didn't the only girl and this was many years ago, did you brothers? -Yeah, my younger brothers yes. when he was a baby. Because my grandparents, what was their names? -My father's -And was it to grow up with them You know I miss them so much. I don't -Me too! -You're making me cry again. -This painting it's a sewing... But they were nice with my mom. She was so intelligent. -Yeah, she's old you can talk about everything! Technology. She really sharp mind and a lot of laugh. -She always Yeah, I miss them. I miss my father when you were a little kid you know. -He was a too like the stories he told me about the forest miss them a lot. -We do, but that's life. -Yeah, it is. and we get to borrow each other for some time now. And be grateful for what you have and thing. That's the biggest thing. To be kind and you know try to live a good life. -That's some job! -Oh, I feel so embarrassed for my language there's so many also in your age that would never you know so much English. I'm sure that most people it yourself. We might do a part two someday haven't answered. -I really just want to say followers, because you are all so very nice -That's so beautiful! Yeah, me too. I also