[WHOOSH] [MUSIC PLAYING] - Hi. My name is and I'm the game director We're here today to talk The pain elemental. wanted to definitely bring from Doom II back I think we've Kind of queuing off elements that were in of 2016 with Predator-like mandibles. did this awesome concept steered into it, and it has, two fangs like the it has, you know, There's like six or seven. I feel like it's important that like a person, like personality. Like if it Would it have like an accent? old person, a young person? if you look at the I kind of think of him And a lot his animations looks very crochety if you And he has this one where he kind of like, It's really funny. It's kind I think all the best whether it's Jabba, fat gangster, or Like all the great stand the test of time. a personality. And concept is there when hear it, like when Jon I feel like when you looked the sounds that he would make, From a design standpoint, and myself, we really that he was definitely really, really strong, Just sometimes I that that's not enough, cool attacks, they throw original. But as a Doom, if they can just that alone can valuable chess piece in that it's not so much by themselves they're that they create openings Now it gives them a chance. stomping on earlier in pain elemental is pursuing to look up and soldier, he's not such He's got a open So those kind of chess pieces important, and the pain elemental [MUSIC PLAYING] Arachnotron. Arachnotron, designed modeled by Jason Martin, a very good friend I've worked with for DANNY: No relation? - No, no relation. And we Really wanted to infuse UAC tech in with him, kind of like update characters is just so much And then to have a modeling phenomenal. I think if you're just going to have He has his grenades out of his side canisters, his area of effect he's pretty nimble. stick to the ceilings is really cool. We kind like a mobile turret. down and just His number one attack top of his head. to be crazy. want to pressure the attack, and we that thing. We're cool so long as we have So long that we you allow yourself the style of play that we The way we want you to have a good time. fun things in Doom Eternal arachnotron's turret, he's going to mess you up a skilled player, you'll easily in no time. the horoscope or We have specific mods on that are better at than others, especially precision mods that we you see him, the to take out the otherwise he's really, really And then you'll pretty that AI behaves. Now the do is drop grenades. changes the way he operates, cool, and you can combat dance based on the And he looks awesome. brain, all the parts come out, rib bones in his brain, which rib bones in his brain, [LAUGHING] his little arms and stick kill him in some of the glory It's one of my [MUSIC PLAYING] Archvile. Definitely knew from the to try to bring him insider information, the was basically the archvile In terms of a chess piece, role this time around, but this He functions very much the to get the poses to be Yeah, definitely an homage. a lot of the designs we just knew that we to bring these 1994 AAA graphics. We felt be the most fun. to the guys who designed those, because they still hold up. he's illusive, and with we use them to drag space. Anytime that move in Doom, it feels And also another key component fun zone in Doom, which list of activities that doing these things, then they're And moving is one of them, is definitely one of them. That keeps you engaged. comes up, you can hear you can see that he's starting the screen, and it's a ticking You have to go and in those guys, 'cause he's really, really That really changes the game on the fly, fire wall that he puts up, and he shoots these fire The AI team worked You're going to love this guy. the guys you [MUSIC PLAYING] The hellifide soldier. The hellifide soldier, make a soldier the original Doom green hair, because we He was brought back but we changed up to make him look more like And I think the guys the shoulders of giants, designed the original That sprite looked awesome. was translate that which was really Some of the new things with him when you play the a chump this time around. and he is there to be management game and it's a big part It's what helps you get in that the best guys to farm But if you just mosey all lackadaisical-like, an eternity to put that he is going to blast He's got a really, swipe this time, as do AI. We think of if you're going to and want to try to range, you've really got to think about it a little bit that with him. He's got [GUNSHOTS] So those are some of the from Doom II, but some of the demons, the new see in Doom Eternal. [MUSIC PLAYING] Whiplash. Man, this AI is a I gotta be honest. So she's actually our She's not entirely correct because we want to marketing images, and so, keep things sort She gets down on the around. And anything that take crosshairs off the within reason, if you too much, it's going When she drops to the ground across the floor, and she tries and get behind you. and rake you with her really devastating attack. 'cause we know one the fun zone is to get We know this will make the You're going to track this And she pushes the player anybody else, and anytime like that, it just feels going to prioritize her, which important things of the feel really good. So she You're going to track her She does kind of use certain weapons, weapons like tools, problems, and you want tool for the job So when she comes using the shotguns or definitely probably going to good for tracking something We had mods for that microwave mod, for example, in place and fry her. that can freeze anything. purposely designed to motivate the in more mods and that maybe they haven't been I asked to talk about her because in the game. It's really chess piece for Doom it's going to be a lot of to shoot and murder And she has one of in the game. If 43 Steven Seagal movies they were awesome. maybe not so awesome, He would always do this like hyper-extend and just do awful things So we had to put in glory kill. So there's you hyper-extend it, the sticks out, and then in the demon's head. It's like one of my favorite I can't wait for [MUSIC PLAYING] Tentacles. The tentacle is one of But it's actually, we're It's not really a full AI. AI that do the craziest all over the place. This is pest level AI, like It was a fair criticism that it relied heavily And we thought our arena it's even better this time to do more to in between the arenas. that the time you spent was just as engaging were, maybe even developed like a pest that, which is the they're hiding underwater And sometimes they're in kind of scattered throughout really tell which wormhole It's kind of like whack-a-mole. if you don't pay attention, but they them, 'cause there's a So the player has a window to And it's fun. I think The main thing as a designer to keep you thinking. kind of the whole point. run through a hallway or we could fill the hall-- lights and fill the hallway And that'll make that just a little bit really kind of keep you really the goal with Doom Eternal, engaging you in the experience [MUSIC PLAYING] The marauder. In Doom, you're be kind of leveled artist. In the first hour, Couple hours in you get your way up, and at going to become a black belt. in the third act of about showing off you can be. And the game black belt, and there is out there waiting You are Obi Wan, and And you guys are going to You're going to fight a couple He's going to hold you accountable. just how good you are And when he's there, the queen chess piece And he is going to as I said, with the other the other chess pieces that you've been kicking their So it makes for this meta where you're and get rid of kind of like in a good When the grand master comes of the white belts first, the grand master, so that with anything else. makes for a really dynamic So I don't really want to but hopefully it's intriguing to dive into the lore. try to expand the He's awesome. Doom hunter. We try to find give the characters ways new approaches to So that way it a little bit more variety You know, we consider sees while they're and if everybody just has around like a man, So that's why we have, like, like a bull, and other fly around. But the floats around on And on his tank strongest attacks tank, the sled that But then you're got which shoots this cannon So what's really cool could disable one of his actually disable and make it so he can't attacks, again, just making him far Huge shout out to the 'cause this stuff is It's kind of a two The first stage, you work Once the sled is actually pull himself off hover around just of him. And then he changes. He goes from like a hummingbird. He'll attacking you with his with his chainsaw. It's that we just feel cool that through the as you disable these weak change the behavior which is something we worked [MUSIC PLAYING] Carcass. Again, we're comfortable with just so long as we have What we're doing is fun style of play, And we know that and using a variety will help keep for hours, so that way same thing again and again. very long if that's all you're this time around is messes up It also does damage to the player. way higher, and it High risk reward gun. you kind of don't want like it's a rifle was kind of what you could do The carcass was designed take that gun out So he'll throw up electric shield right And a lot of times are relying on the rocker too much, they'll actually-- right in front of their So as soon as you and you see his shield pop up, away from your rocket launcher. you could just dance around to be able to create with the rocket launcher. So we're use the rocket launcher, specifically is design to kind of a bit more when And thinking is really in Doom Eternal, more Because when you're And when you're not And you'll go play [ROAR] [GUNFIRE] [ROAR] [MUSIC PLAYING] So those are the demons Those aren't even all the I don't even know how They're some of the best chess has even made, and fighting them. They're going strong. They're going to They're going to give you Overcome all the different to you. Look out om March 20th, 2020. [MUSIC PLAYING] [TYPING SOUNDS]