A portion of this video is brought to you Hey, want to hear the most annoying sound Okay, "most annoying" may be subjective, Langley branch, humans find the buzz of a any other machine-based sound on earth, which use drones in big cities. But just by changing the shape of the propeller, a lot of other things that use propellers--not Can this propeller really help everything sail further with less fossil fuels? And if just changing the propeller shape makes something like this sooner? I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. Drones: love 'em or hate 'em, they are modern world. Though they're probably best known for their weapons platforms), there's truly an astounding exploration, forestry, treating weeds on farms, excellent video on Zipline's drones delivering of Rwanda and eventually other cities around Speaking of deliveries, one often promised can be found in cargo and shipping services. Amazon has been working for almost a decade , but concerns about safety, theft and noise As I mentioned at the top, humans are very This is because the buzz they make falls into the same as a crying baby. It could also be compared to the sound made which we're already accustomed to avoiding. This is a shame because drone-based 'last gasses, and consume up to 94% less energy deliveries. Cargo ships are in the same boat, pardon the When shipping large amounts of goods, ocean it's so much cheaper to ship items by water Maritime shipping plays a critical part in global trade by volume. These large ships rely on the dirtiest kind difficult or expensive to retrofit for clean As a result the maritime shipping industry Now that might not sound too bad, but if maritime sixth largest CO2 producer in the world. Normally drones and cargo ships would be two simple innovation might kill two birds with But, other than shipping us stuff, what could ship possibly have in common? Well, they both use propellers. Interestingly, both MIT's Lincoln Lab and different propeller shape: the toroidal propeller. Instead of the traditional blade design used these use softly slanting donut shapes, called We'll get into all the benefits this weird two different institutions working on very solution. Before we get to that, I'd like to thank video. I always recommend using a VPN when using when you're home. A lot of online services use some pretty sophisticated apply very targeted advertising ... a VPN SurfShark's CleanWeb does a great job blocking it safer to use the internet even at home. And you can even make it look like your IP country. This can come in handy if you want to stream location. One of the best parts of SurfShark is that whether that's iPhone or Android, Mac or SurfShark is the only VPN to offer one account Use my code to get 83% off plus 3 extra months SurfShark offers a 30-day money-back guarantee, Link is in the description below. Thanks to Surfshark and to all of you for So, how did those two institutions stumble In both cases, the path to the toroidal prop Sharrow Marine's founder, Gregory Sharrow, in video production, when he started tinkering on film sets. He knew the propellers' tips made most of blade with no tip? This initially lead him to the toroidal shape and modeling, he thought it would be a better And here we are ... with their prop now on Conversely, according to Lincoln Labs' Dr. propulsion for fixed-wing aircraft when they ring-shaped wing design. The shape didn't work well with fixed-wing of shape could be applied to a propeller, in a few days the team had developed some After testing, they found some surprisingly efficiency. What were their findings? How did simply changing the shape fix both As you can clearly see in this test from Sharrow small swirls, or vortices at the tips of its Surprisingly, the loudest part of a propelled the sound made by these vortices and cavitations. Look at this example from Sharrow Marine, Propeller create noticeable tip vortices, concentrated manner as the sharrow prop does, Here the toroidal and standard propellers Sharrow's toroidal propeller is not just dye being pushed out behind it forms a tighter That equates to more power and efficiency This quote from Dr. Sebastian really helps "The key thing that we thought was making you're now distributing the vortices that the whole shape of it, instead of just at dissipate faster in the atmosphere. That vortex doesn't propagate as far, so you're In most cases we have to sacrifice some level but that's just not the case here. MIT's best-performing B160 design was not the best standard propeller they tested, but drone is about twice as quiet as a traditional sounds - that's 1-5 kHz range - were the One of the reasons for the sound is the high As it passes through the fluid (water or gas), For ships, this means a poorly designed propellor turn it into vapor- it's possible to boil When these gas bubbles burst, called cavitation, actually damage the propellers. This problem is also found in pumps which in the chemical processing industry. As you saw a second ago in Sharrow's tests, it comes to hydrodynamics. The toroidal variant sucks in more water than amount of water that &quot;slips&quot; out the sides. The result allows the boat to be not just In testing, Sharrow has doubled the speed RPMs. This broadens the effective rev range of the around 20% (that's significant when we're Boats also tend to spend the majority of their RPMs. As you can see in this graph, the boat equipped efficient than your average propeller at this If just changing the propeller shape made about it now? Surely, someone else must have been experimenting The answer is, of course, yes. The potential energy savings means that almost with its shape. Just like Zipline's seed-pod-esque propeller Airbus, a giant in aviation, is testing their they claim reduce a passenger plane's CO2 And those are just some of the recent examples. I mean ... just look back at the Cold War and the Soviet Union continually sought to and quieter. This culminated in the Toshiba-Kongsberg Scandal. Combining Toshiba's precision machining control device, the Soviets were able to craft The US could detect the older, louder subs new propeller were only detectable from 10 So, if practically everyone has been working then why are we only hearing about these developments Sadly, it's just one of those things that And yet, coincidentally, both Lincoln Lab awards in their respective fields. And when a similar design starts making waves to take notice! As exciting as it is, you probably don't on a drone to deliver you some lifesaving So, you might be wondering, "Why should We've already covered the benefits drones the potential of toroids and larger aircraft. Airtravel accounts for 2.5 - 3.5% of global it. If this tech can be scaled up it presents ... and we've already touched on just how diesel-chugging cargo ships. Now, ideally, we'd be able to replace these but in the meantime Sharrow Marine's toroidal A radically more efficient ship means a lot being pumped into our seas and skies. If and when these kinds of vessels do make efficiency of toroidal propellers is going As the pandemic and so-called "port crunch" big boats move around the world faster, cheaper prices on all kinds of goods. As good as that sounds, we just won't know be scaled-up for big ships and planes until And the same unique shape that gives toroidal drawbacks. The novel shape means they're more complicated and this issue only increases with scale. It's not a huge problem for a drone hobbyist job, but when we're talking about a 43 ton the manufacturing process is bound to be very And before we get too far from expenses, as these propellers are initially very pricey. Sharrow Marine's toroidal propeller is going boat, which is a full ten times more expensive Of course, thanks to the fuel-savings, the time, and a $5K investestment for a minimum we're just trying to maximize stats. Still, a 1,000% price hike is going to be Then again, as the technology matures and that price will likely come down over time. Same goes for 3D printing, which was critical 3D printers have vastly sped up the development continues to proliferate we might see tinkerers At the moment there's still a lot of testing are right for this tech, but it's very cool an outsized impact like this. So what do you think? Jump into the comments and let me know. And be sure to check out my follow up podcast your feedback. Thanks to all of my patrons, who get ad free And thanks to all of you for watching. I'll see you in the next one.