Good morning, Anazala family. I hope you guys are doing good. Yesterday was a crazy night. So, there was actually an earthquake And guys, like I know earthquakes but that was the first time I think it was like a 5.7 magnitude, and Mila was freaking out. I felt like somebody was I got so scared, I like called dad. Okay, okay, well, we're not We'll tell you guys what but here's Noah, he wants to say something. Okay, what do you want to say? We had to be with our mom for a little Show them in my room and When daddy comes down. We'll show you all of but aside from that, I know you I don't know what's going on. There's like So, our birdie Skye... Anas! So, she's been feeling not too good, and Anas, hurry! Come down! There's something wrong with her. She's not moving. Mom, Her eyes are open. Is she still good? Can I see her, Dad? Let's put the camera away, dude. Put the camera away. They said they gave her medicine. The next day: Oh My god, good morning guys We left you guys on a weird note yesterday. It was really sad Very very sad. Asala is now sleeping and I Yeah, do you want me to tell them the story? So like before yesterday we took they gave her like medication she was She was like laying down We stopped filming because sky-, so obviously guys we stopped filming and especially Asala I know some but it's actually a lot more for Asala, it was the same bird we got remember Noah That's the same birdie. We had her for like two years Yeah, so Asala is now sleeping usually she wakes up makes but today I was like, okay, no, babe sleep to Target I'm gonna get them breakfast What do we do guys on Sundays? We get toys! We give them toys if they and they were really really good But obviously after what happened and just making sure that Asala's better So we're gonna go do that now and then and tell you guys about also the earthquake You know we didn't even so basically two days ago. There's an You should show them the Can you show them the one in my room now? No, we're gonna show them after we comeback. So now we go get breakfast get them a toy and then come back see then we'll tell you guys about Oh my god What a sad day and by the way guys Mila was as It was a sad day We'll miss you sky So now he's putting on You feel better today? I started crying. The bird's in a better place right now It's in dad's office right now. It's not in the office. I meant with God baby. It's in a better place with God Her soul. Yes, exactly. But her body's with us. Okay guys next stop is Target and breakfast and after that guys will and hopefully Asala's by then feels better. I feel bad for mom. What are you saying Noah? I feel bad for mom because But you know Noah, maybe she feels I love you mama. Are you guys excited for the toy? Yeah. First we're going to Target to get our toys. Yes, and we're gonna need to get I know what mom wants. What does mommy want? a earring. Earring? I think we should go to Cartier. Okay, we're not going to Cartier right now Okay, so we just got to Target. Here's Noah. Here's your daughter, Mimi. Okay, I have no idea how they convinced Dad, let's get flowers for mom. Oh, you're right, we can Okay, listen, on the So guys, you have 10 minutes Okay, we can get as much as we want. No, only one. Okay, go. This is nice, but it's not for kids. Over there! Okay, what do you want? I want something like cool with Mario bros Like all of the people. Dad, look at the same one we got! So this one? No Okay, you have to pick very quickly. What does this do? I really don't know. Look this is a Mr. Beast toy. Is that a Mr. Beast toy? Noah, what are you doing? what is he doing? okay all i'm gonna say Dad look! Ninja kidz. ninja kidz little balls. i think you Is this ninja kidz toy? yeah it says ninja kidz mystery set I will buy this. okay Noah is this your toy? yeah so you're sure this is your toy? yeah okay Noah picked his toy yeah because i really love them who's your favorite of the Ninja kids? Paxton and everybody else. You can only choose one, Peyton and Paxton. okay Mila come on, ok now I feel like this one but I don't know. Time is ticking. Okay, you have to pick. Let's go to the girls section Bors. I love playing games like you want board games? dude why are you acting like This is for the Halloween. You should dress this no we're not oh my god! what's this? Oh my god, they want this for Halloween mommy's gonna be mad if Asala doesn't let us have scary stuff why Noah why doesn't mommy Because I have scary dreams every... Mimi, we have these. He can't finish a sentence guys we have to go back let's Let's go, let's go, Hurry up, Mila, the time is ticking. Come on, the time is ticking. Oh my God, these kids. Mila, it's here, toys are here. Is this the girly toys, daddy? This is what Salish had. Buy this one. Oh yeah, Salish does have this one. Get this. But I didn't really want it. Why are you choosing it? Why did you not let me Because I love that toy. Okay, Mila, you have to pick. Come on, come on, come on. How much time do I have left? You have three minutes. Oh my God, hurry, I gotta hurry. I ain't giving anyone a haircut What's going on? I leave them for a week with their Dad, let's go to the back to school section. We can't buy back-to- because she has her own plans for this okay? cuz mommy's going back to university too University? what's that? She's going to college, mom She's going to college? Yeah, so she's also buying Okay guys. I'll tell It's a big day for Asala okay guys quickly. You have one minute left One minute Mila. She's looking at these now I like PlayDoh This is on sale. oh wait. There's nothing that's on sale here Look some barbecue Mila I'm gonna count to 30 30 29 28 27 25 24 23 22 19 18 17 16 14 13 This game. Are you sure? No Okay, 10 9 8 Okay. Oh, okay. Okay. I'll pause the timer Oh my Bring it bring it back I'll give you 20 more seconds. If you want to go to the girl's Take me to the section that I like the most. What is it? you should know you're my dad I don't know is it the girl's section? We'll see. Okay. Why are they so sassy? Okay, this is your best, is this your best? No! It's not your best aile? It's my least favorite girl thing. I thought all girls like Barbie stuff. Okay, so what do you want boo boo? Oh, you're so picky I'm very picky just like your wife. Just like my wife. Okay guys, so look what Mila just picked so she decided to get a This canvas And this will hold the And I got some brushes. That counts as one, Oh dad, we forgot to get the flowers. right Yes, you're right, we're And look who just came. So guys, guys, you won't Liam, do you want to Yeah, because you forgot your credit card. I didn't, Asala had my credit card. Guys, so I have this wallet that And today I only have my ID. You don't have Apple Pay, nothing, like Yeah, we would have been in trouble. Oh so, what I am paying? I think I've seen like 30 paint Listen, they could get As long as they're good for the week before yeah, but now i'm paying for it. I'll give you your money Thank you liam for the credit card It might decline on you Come on before mom wakes up. Okay, let's go before mommy wake up so now we gotta get the flowers Why flowers? For my mom because she's Asala is very sad the bird, sky? Yeah, yesterday. Yeah, Asala's really sad about it too so it's like it's been a and you know what's funny Happened like we were and then suddenly she saw the bird and it was like really really bad man That's her favorite. That's her favorite. I know, I know. that's her only animal Okay, okay, okay. Okay, let's go get the flowers Does she know you're getting the flowers? No, she's sleeping she has no idea what's Wait, wait, wait. oh my god who taught you how to do this? Salish Okay. Yeah. Look look what you're teaching my kids Oh my god, we love you We love you Salish. And guys we didn't even tell you what so that's also coming up. Oh my god I don't know how this just We had a plan at the beginning and but you know what it's real life That's the beautiful It's like you guys are the good the bad the ugly and today but hopefully it turns into something Okay, Noah Noah got this okay It's watering. oh wow okay Mila is that the one you like? i think we need more yellow she's a really happy mom okay this is a lot of yellow Mimi but that's not yellow she loves all of these cute stuff, look she loves the sunset so let's go get it. so what we're getting both yeah wow Liam you're paying for both they're ten dollars a pop oh my god oh okay kids if they're ten let's just take care of them this is good money here. You got to take care of them. I can't come back here. I Daddy.s gonna give you the money back. How do you know I'm gonna Actually, you got a lot of I'll just take the money I only have $200 $200? You didn't spend anything Well guys, she's been saving for like Okay, let's go. Let's go. Wow, Liam. Well, that was an expensive day Let's get it over with. Yes. I'm just watching to see if it declines. Oh, is it going to decline? Here we go. Is it going to go in? Is it going to be approved? Is it going to be approved? Oh, OK. OK, we're not going to OK, Liam, is it going to be declined? I got to hide it from you guys. I'm not worried about other people. You should be worried. Oh, OK, wait, wait, wait. OK, remove it. Thanks! OK, guys, so we just got home. So we're going to give Mama! Let's go give it to her. Let's go put it in her room. But don't go crazy. Slowly, slowly, slowly. quieter, quieter. Mama! We got you flowers! Hey, she's here, she's here, she's here. Mama, we got you flowers! Good morning, mommy Mama we got you flowers. Hi mama Mama, we got you flowers. We got your flowers We got you flowers mommy. We didn't want you to get Mom I wanted you not to be sad now, Oh my goodness I cvhoose the color. It's so beautiful like you. What's all this for? I love you honey, how are you feeling? I'm so tired. Aw, she didn't sleep good. I don't think anyone would understand I know, they're probably I don't think so. You're good, bubu? Yeah. I love you. I love you. Hey babe, you know what What? Oh yeah. Another great news. Hey, I was supposed to but then they figured out a way to take Okay, honey, she's here guys Good morning Anazala family. I don't know where to start. Listen, we're gonna talk about it's probably the reason But then everything just switched around. I'm sorry. I left you I don't know the day just took a turn and then I felt it was gonna be a weird I just want to say sorry and I'm here now I'm freshened up. It's a new day. You feel better though right? It's okay baby I know I feel a little better, but yeah Listen this bird means a lot to Asala. You were telling me some yeah Maybe some of you guys are gonna It's just a bird It's not like some people put dogs and cats but to me this bird like birds in They're like a spiritual They remind me of this and they just send message. I don't know. I feel like they Asala called her her daughter. Yeah, like every morning. I wake We go. Good morning, daughter Say hi to our bird sky. She's very kind and very cute and so anyways like for because we've had her for and she was even guys She was the bird that you It just feels like I think I because it reminds me of two and a half you know through all the emotions and I would go to her and sing. Yeah we had a really bad time at She would literally sing with or like I'm singing in the kitchen when Aw, I miss her. Anyways, guys, so long story we started noticing that she was sick. We took her to the vet two days ago. And I think I'm mad more than sad because when we took her they told us, she's not even sick, and I don't know, they gave her medicine. and I was like, okay, everything is done, we're good, we go to bed, We left the box for her inside and I was like, that's and then I woke up and we didn't know anything and then I think Asala while you were yeah I was filming to originally that happened that night before but the minute I turned I was gonna tell but then I come and then I get to the and then I noticed that the yeah and then yeah and that's where my heart sank and you guys saw everything after what broke my heart the most I don't even know that you knew but when you were walking and the ring camera was filming you it just I was just honestly at night and I was like I just started crying it's like the way you Why are you crying? Don't cry. It's ok baby. It's ok baby. So yeah So that was it, rest I'm not getting any other pets No I think you will I think we will I always say that and then I get emotional. I'll just take care of my kids anyways. We just felt like telling you guys because and now more than ever I've been And I feel like I can kind of open up And I don't know you guys just make me feel you guys really like you don't I don't want to say like But honestly you guys really and I know that you guys are So leave some comments for I love you guys so much. I love you honey. I guess that's life. like The beauty is that we're gonna But the earthquake Oh the earthquake. We almost forgot to tell you cuz I know you guys are probably Yeah. for those of you guys who don't know There was an earthquake that hit Los Not yesterday. You're right now two No 5.7 magnitude 5.7 magnitude.I was not home. I've been living in California for so long, but that was the first time I dude It was so crazy. So I was not home. I get a notification on my phone and of all days you decided to leave. I know and then Mila calls me and guys we because we have a camera in Mila's room. And so Mila calls me and she it felt like Allen was shaking me. So you thought he's like up on you So I was like Mila quickly quickly go What's it called to the lower bunk guys just rule of thumb the You're supposed to go down under this is what we mean when we say in case so guys in case of an earthquake is get under something like a table or like a desk or you yes if you're able to run but you might not be able to so so this is what you're supposed to do literally that's what it said on the alert exactly But guys before we show you our friend Liam you guys know Liam, right? he lives Literally, right next to us. yeah him and Hisham live really close and Liam just like was very quick He He's so funny when it comes to So he just goes boom very quick. So he just filmed the whole then we'll show you the All right. ready? 3 2 1 Bro you feel that? Of course I feel that bruh. There's an earthquake. Yeah Yeah, I got the alert, Bro, that's crazy. No, I was just lying in bed, and and then you feel the bed start It's like, what the heck just happened? Get up, walk out, I say, what in the world? I woke up, bro, literally It's done now. No, sometimes there are like aftershocks. No, that's crazy. I don't know if it happened, but Bro, that's crazy. I wonder, I guess we'll like what magnitude it Okay, and now, Mila. Okay, now you guys have to see the yeah so that's literally 10 to tell me that the whole bed is shaking I was like you should see what happens like okay three two one Daddy, I feel like there's Go down under the bed Mimi. Okay, I'm gonna call mommy. I love you. Did you feel the earthquake? Yeah it just moved my bed. Don't be sad, it's okay. That was so scary. How much was the shaking? Like a lot, I felt like like three people like shaking my bed. It was so... Okay, so that was it guys. This is what happened. We obviously were good. I ran back home. Everything is good. I hope everyone was safe. Well, that was it guys. It's been a crazy couple days and We'll be like more energized more positive. I know it's been like a sad You're gonna have the good the bad the ugly I think what means a lot to us And it feels like we can almost like We're all in this together Okay, well, this is Anazala family we love you so much, and we'll Hopfully the next video is better! Bye!