Neils Bohr said, "It is wrong to think that the Physics concerns what we can say about Nature." subtle difference, some of the most mysterious What is physics really trying to do? Is it to find Not quite - no one has to solve the Schrodinger its thing. Our laws of nature are just models. So come up with laws that do the best job at that we can infer truths about the universe based founders of quantum theory were convinced that still. Neils Bohr insisted that what we actually itself. His student and closest colleague, Werner we formulate mathematically in quantum theory deal our knowledge of the elementary particles." physics don't govern reality, they're not even physics are models of our experience of reality. In a recent episode we started talking of quantum mechanics. Then we discussed John Archibald Wheeler's idea that information gives rise to the physical - a notion he pithily Quantum mechanics tells us that asking questions Wheeler followed that simple fact down the conclusion - the most fundamental existence is between the relationship between the observer and the observed. Although he was careful to note that observer in this context didn't necessarily need to be conscious. Wheeler may have been right, but we quantum mechanics without committing Today we're going to see how a lot can make sense if we think about it as a Normally in physics we try to break up the We learn how those components behave, and see In quantum mechanics, we have things like discrete or quantized values. These quantum fundamental uncertainty in their values that we call entanglement. But as weird this still feels like a very physical way The physicist Anton Zeilinger has proposed an in which the world is broken up not into But what does it mean to use information as our knowledge about the world. So our new the information we have -- for example, about Zeilinger calls such a statement a proposition about the world. He says that a quantum A quantum system represents our knowledge So how do you break up a "world" made of knowledge block is the answer to a question. So the smallest a question with the fewest possible outcomes. of well-chosen yes-no questions. So Zeilinger into the results of binary questions. By insisting block contains only one bit - one yes-no answer quantum mechanics suddenly make sense. Things uncertainty principle turn out to be the expected The simplest way to start is to look at a binary question seems to give a meaningful From a physical point of view, think of it as can point either up or down. But really the is the spin up or down relative to the direction Gerlach apparatus, where the magnetic moment gradient to deflect the particles either up or Let's say we prepare an electron's spin The spin contains one bit of information, one possible answer when we ask the electron what direction is your spin? That answer is up. But what if we asked the left or right?" We can do this by rotating You started out with one bit of knowledge According to Zeilinger, by definition, that's system of spin can contain. That means the in a superposition state of both left and right our horizontally aligned Stern-Gerlach of being deflected left or right - its undefined because it contains no information about its spin the left-right alignment of the spin has become up with an answer to the question you asked. our single bit of spin information is used up. The up-down alignment becomes undefined. So by thinking of quantum systems as being made we see the indeterminacy of quantum theory arises equivalent of the Schrodinger equation by asking Quantum entanglement also fits this picture. that spin was relative to a chosen direction - the an electron to have a spin direction that's For example, a pair of electrons could be Now remember our requirement that the spin of each and that bit is taken up to describe its Now the information is no longer isolated in the two electrons. Two electron spins contain two If you ask the spin direction of either of apparatus, you'll learn the spin direction of you've forced the single bit of spin information your apparatus - whichever way you chose to local to each electron, and in the process between the particles - a spooky action So we've seen how an elementary quantum system's certain type of question that you ask of it. Spin naturally to some other staples of quantum theory In a previous episode we saw how the uncertainty we can extract from a quantum wavefunction. For in a particle's position and momentum has to be In fact, by bringing to bear we can derive an even tighter uncertainty relation This approach uses the informational definition of the number of yes-no questions needed to The resulting "entropic uncertainty" original and most mysterious features of This was demonstrated in by They applied entropic uncertainty to analyze experiment causes a photon to behave like a wave of it. And that question could be asked after If it's a wave it travels both paths of the Applying the notion of entropic the team said that the wavefunction contained just as our particle could only tell you if it was up or down, but not left or right, the wavefunction of the photon they considered or the phase of the photon by looking Because of the finite information content to both questions. So, they found that the arises from the limited information, the "Are you a particle?" And "are It's one thing to use quantum information theory that information is somehow a more fundamental than the tangible stuff that most people believe to be the building blocks of reality. In wavefunction as pretty fundamental. It describes the results you might get if you tried to Zeilinger and supporters would say that the wavefunction does not have a physical existence independent of the observer. Rather, describe our information about the But, if the wavefunction is about again, we come back to the same question This same question haunted Einstein. Einstein observer-centric interpretations truly believe Bohr and Wheeler and Zeilinger and their is." To learn about something necessarily involves so all we can ever know about the world is observer-independent world out there, we, being a lot of the weirdness we see in the quantum world that our only direct experience is with Look, the universe almost certainly is not a simulation. But you can't be too careful. If you agree and would like to spread the word, or if you just at pbsspacetime.com, along with the rest OK, In the last episode we talked about the the various acts of galactic cannibalism performed Martijn van Oosterhout asks what happens to milky way eats. The answer is simple - the Milky Eventually, anyway. If the swallowed galaxy is black hole, that black hole will end up in some It'll interact with stars, kicking them up to way it'll spiral towards the center and eventually making it supermassiver. This is one of the Erik Ziak asks how galaxy interactions suggesting that it may be less of a Erik is referring to the recent episode where could potentially host life based on various and there not being too many supernovae. The ring around the disk, not too close to the core better and worse parts of this ring, but remember regions as it orbits the galaxy. It'll be born in arms every hundred million years or so. It'll dip Life on Earth has persisted for billions of years, be that mass extinction events correlate with David Kosa asks about actual collisions between galaxy is empty space, what's the probability the chance is very small - given that stars distance between them is light years. I've heard that are expected to occur when the Milky Way and involved in the merger, expect approximately one collision? It depends on how head-on the collision Glancing collisions can result in stars merging, star because more hydrogen fuel gets pumped into stars at the cores of globular clusters may have bundles of stars. On the other hand, head-on its been shown that a more compact star punching in the core of the latter, causing it to blow where this is believed to have happened due At the end of the last comment responses I the expansion of the universe could be thought expanding. I took those comments as being humourous - but the temptation to give very plausible At the american museum of natural history for example there's bronze model of what the animal is thought to have that the model represents the pygmy mammoth that I always correct the misinformation afterwards, misinterpreted the comments. It is actually shrinking instead of the universe expanding? In the two are identical. However a number of things in particular the strength of the various forces. and general relativity predicts that this should redshift if matter is shrinking because there's no in a universe where galaxies shrink you'd expect exist. Instead we see the gigantic mammoths the type predicted by the expanding universe model.