Have you ever asked yourself the question, some essential oils and started blending a few the result is something that smells like How do the perfumes in the shop smell so good? picking up a guitar or a paintbrush for the first to become a master of the craft. Becoming a but that doesn't stop you teaching yourself to This video contains everything you need to know to compose beautiful perfumes for yourself then you're first going to need some equipment and I did a full video on this where I go into but here are the essentials. Firstly, you'll need accurately down to 0.001 grams. By investing in your expensive perfume ingredients last longer. use an 0.01 gram scale to get started. Don't and use drops because it will cause you issues sample bottles. This is where you'll make most expensive perfume bottles. You'll need disposable blotters or "scent strips" as I call them. You'll of your mixtures. Other equipment such as glass to begin with. Check out my video on equipment for to get started with in a second, but firstly ingredients. In perfumery, these are referred to on. Now raw materials can be divided into three as you might hear them referred to as) and Bases. further be broken down depending on how they Oils these are extracted from plants using steam harvested plant material to capture its natural perfumery are Absolutes. these are created and are often both longer lasting and offer an are other types of Naturals such as resinoids Aside from naturals we have synthetics. These are which are mixtures of hundreds of molecules Modern perfumery and they are responsible for most clean and distinct olfactory signature and offer the smells found in nature. They are often easier kinds of smells you find in perfumes you can buy is that naturals are safer and better for the however as a rule and (the safety of) each raw Finally, aside from your raw materials, there are that you'll need as a beginner is Cosmetics grade alcohol. This is what you'll add to your fragrance about some of the most important raw materials in point for your beginner's palette. Iso E Super perfume molecules amongst the general public and diffusive notes which help your perfumes to be that elegant shop-bought smell. Bergamot Essential and is often used to bridge between the top and mid notes are shortly. Ethylene brassylate is and a soft lingering skin scent. Patchouli is an its essential oil is widely used in many important accords. Vanillin is a smell most people flavourings but also to provide vanilla sweetness aromatic top note which is synonymous with men's to other videos I made on good raw materials the surface and I just can't cover them all in where do you buy them? It's an important question essential oils that you find online are not of the Cheap low quality naturals often feature off-notes like aromatherapy blends. You want to avoid things generally made to be as cheap as possible for products like scented candles or similar. I found materials is to buy from places which specifically are in the USA Perfumer's Apprentice, perfumer Pell Wall and Harrison Joseph are both fantastic. also Perfumer's World in East Asia and they This isn't an exhaustive list but certainly Right then, so you've got your equipment and Well not quite yet. Before we can talk about cover some common terms. Firstly EDT and EDP; are others but these are the most common eau perfume and usually cheaper commonly these would Eau de parfum on the other hand are far concentrate and 80 alcohol. These are loose Another important concept is that of top, mid and in your perfumes but also have the most impact on the other hand are the longest lasting notes the skin. Middle (or just mid) notes are, well, frequently when talking about the composition the difference between Accords and Bases since materials together. An accord in perfumery is a a particular combination of smells results in a parts. Think about it as a harmony amongst smells. that can be made and used like a single raw a lego brick. A good example would be an Amber and Vanillin creates a unique smell which is proportions a little you will still get an amber however if you fix the proportions you've made it in a separate bottle and now use in your other such, now your accord can also be classified as start talking about making perfume. when you're straight away is challenging without a good dose your fundamental skills. think of it like a might be able to learn some basic songs, but to great deal to know your scales first. in art it's person, but to make one up for yourself without course other bits like color theory will help you create a nice perfume if you had the formula; assume that's not why you're watching this video. formulas. that means you're going to have to learn this for a while and over that time I've developed those stages are: 1. learning your raw materials, and 3.learning to create perfumes. I'll now show when you advance to the next stage, you still stage before. let's start then with stage one: it's very tempting to open all of your materials sometimes it just has to be done if you can't to get you very far in the long term and that's and your nose starts to shut down when bombarded for this is "olfactory fatigue". it just means "evaluate", as it's technically called, your raw I like to dilute mine down to 10% in alcohol prefer 20% since it's naturally an eau de parfum you pick is up to you, just be consistent. how to make these dilutions step-by-step, it's once you've got your dilutions you next need firstly take and label a scent strip (for example Pro-tip: fold the ends up like this to stop them few seconds for the alcohol to evaporate, hold the it's important that it doesn't touch your nose and more of that olfactory fatigue. try to your future reference. write down what the smell the smell. now leave the scent strip for a while first day and then less frequently thereafter important because it allows you to work out if as a rough rule I would class notes lasting less than a week as a mid note and longer than a week information will be vital when you come to compose repeat this process of dilution and evaluation important for strong raw materials. this is strong and either smell bad or not at all until 1% as my secondary dilution. it may seem tedious, will later help you compose perfumes. Stage once you're confident that you've learned your basic Accords. I'll now show an example with the Accord is made up from two components: Labdanum synthetic vanilla molecule). if we take the two hold them together we should immediately have an is frequently used to test the harmony without now that we're happy that our Labdanum and first trial blend. weigh out 0.500 grams of the using separate pipettes into a new sample vial. raw material since it will become contaminated your sample and write "amber accord trial 1". Now, workstation with aromas, which in turn causes your nose, I like to get some fresh air before way as you would have for a dilution. we want personal taste as possible which means finding the blend, we would decide if the ratio is just right if that's the case, simply adjust the ratio and we could stop there and have our two component more raw materials. if you're interested in perfumery, Google "The Jean Carles method". stage made an accord. now let's try to make it into a but armed with the knowledge you've built up from you might want to build a formula. this intuition start off with our Amber Accord from before. after let's pick a mid note to ensure the perfume let's use rose since it's a classic, and to spraying the perfume, we'll add Bergamot as a the scent strips with those raw materials the theme seems a little flat on its own, so already have the floral Rose and fresh Bergamot, type of light fragrance that some brands seem create a fresh Sea Breeze effect and also because a universal fresh floral note and finally Hedione now looking at the base, the Amber is quite with some musk and Iso E Super to create a more embellishments: Ambroxan to emphasize the Amber create a comforting Veil. now to make our trial vial with our disposable pipettes like before. I 0.001 gram scale but you should make larger trials maintain accuracy. Again, we can evaluate on the seen Elsewhere on the internet do not add some your olfactory fatigue will warp your sense of the newly added things more strongly than they make it, and then evaluate it when your nose is a subtraction even, make the whole formula again benefit of this method is that you now retain to each other. creating successful perfumes learn the most and save yourself Confusion per trial. ideally one change per iteration as will be able to make more changes per iteration each change has individually on the smell of your make sure you educate yourself first on how to be of the raw materials that you'll be using are from your perfumes and materials at all times. raw them may be toxic or act as skin irritants or have for both Naturals and synthetics. remember that protect themselves. for that reason never ingest pure form unless you know it's safe to do so. safe levels in your perfumes, do your research you don't know, the IFRA is a professional body recommend always having some kitchen roll on hand and you can also use gloves and lab goggles Finally, I will share some of my top books for after you finish implementing everything in this Scent" my most recommended beginners book for a master perfumer who used to make perfumes concise introduction to perfumery and the industry he uses to make his own perfumes and even some the best part is the book is really cheap and my favourite book for perfumery of all time is one is expensive but in my opinion well worth it commitment. it's the best textbook style source covering all three of my stages for learning recommend a few more: "scent and chemistry" is so I wouldn't recommend it to the average person. one by Jean-Claude Elena. this one is a diary nonetheless it is a captivating read and comes the first book. someone called Steffen Arctander i.e. descriptions of the smell of both natural years old. if you're looking for a book with some industry side of things then try "introduction does contain a lot of information. if you're still have a much better idea of exactly what you need yourself. like any art, perfumery takes a lot the results are rewarding visit. my channel to all aspects of perfume creation and finally don't in your subscription feed every week. good luck