[mellow acoustic guitar] [Peter] Morning guys, here on with just over 7,000 people. No traffic lights, So today we have the privilege &quot;This is all by design. We are different He's gonna show us around, the way of thinking, and explain why Molokai is the way it is. Let's do this. [mellow acoustic guitar] [Peter] Ben, what's going on here? [Ben] Shut down early 2000. -What happened? -I think the ranch wanted to develop I'll take you down to that side. -To the ranch? -The ranch wanted to develop. -It would be like Lahaina -Lahaina, Maui, -Yeah, so a lot of hotels. -Okay. So people of the island -Some people. -They didn't want big money -Yeah, they started in the '90s. They built a new town KFC was there. -KFC was here? -Kentucky Fried Chicken. -It was operating? [Ben] Don't mind me, I try to talk -What do you mean? -Yeah, I try. Okay, so the local language is Pidgin? -Pidgin, yeah. -Okay, explain Pidgin to us. -Broken English, it's a shortcut. So one thing can mean many things. -Drop some of that in today, -It's hard to try. -Ben, you got a gun in the back. That's Molokai style? -Gas is expensive so if we can get [Peter laughs] [Ben] This place was nice. I mean it still is nice So I think because they couldn't do that's why they pulled out This was a restaurant, The Village Grill. -Oh, wow. -So this stayed open -But this place is still open? -Kite Factory, yeah, they've been [Peter] Post office. [Ben] Post office been around. Now they got food bank stuff there. [Peter] So even the parking lot, -You seen that movie with Will Smith, -Yeah, the nature has just taken over. Is this a bummer as a local or is it like, -Kinda would be nice, Not anymore. -What about this place? State and federally run housing. So I do the maintenance -So low-income, what does that mean? -Practically free. -Do you have to be Hawaiian -No, you don't have to be. [Peter] Then there's some newer, [Ben] That's when the ranch came in This is a model home you could have built They made this in hopes they could but you kind of lose -Oh yeah, for sure. The place has a totally different feel I would say as an outsider. -Yeah. [Ben] That's what I wanted, I moved to Alaska then I worked and everybody used to wonder -In the construction industry &quot;Why you don't develop Molokai?&quot;. -I'd say because you lose [Ben] So originally this was all -Dole? -So they owned all of this? As far as the eye could see -I read that one third of the island is owned by -Yes. It's for sale right now -Does that worry people here? -Yeah, well 'cause somebody buys it, Would be nice if they was to do farming. 'Cause we can grow all year long. -I saw almost all the food -Yes. [Ben] They have an old harbor, I think maybe We'll check it out but it's not -The barges used to come in. -Down here the harbor was? -Oh, interesting. -Local fisherman boats When there's a canoe race This whole place -Oh, wow. -When the race is about to start They got a line of two boats, everybody And they'll race to Oahu. I think it's 20-something miles to Oahu. [Ben] Yeah, so this harbor, this is before I was born. The trucks would come in from -Okay, that's where -They used to have Trucks would drive through the tunnel and there was hatches As they fill up, they'd drive out, and see the cement slabs? -Yeah. load it up on the barges, and the barges would take it to Honolulu -Oh, no way. With some of the bones Some of those buildings there was bones that was actually... took there, mixed in concrete, and the beach. Which is sad that they desecrated-- -But you were saying -From what I hear, yeah. I never experienced that because [Ben laughs] [Peter] And stuff deteriorates -[Ben] Falling apart. [Peter] So massive ships -Yep, big barges. [Ben] It's a cool place to come When the canoe race come, [Ben] Some people don't like it. They feel like they should instead of all this concrete The ruins of industrial stuff, yeah? That's what we get left. [bright acoustic guitar] [Peter] &quot;Molokai Airport&quot;. This is where it all comes [Ben] Besides the boats that shuttle Right there, that little plane. -Yeah, I came in last night Nine seats. So you do Costco runs, but you'll take a boat over to Maui, -Yeah. -So it's just one airline coming -Yep, and they're kinda not reliable. [Ben] You know what, -Let's go fix that. -[Peter] What happened? [tire hissing air] [Peter] Oh sh*t. -So I think I got the fix. Let's go fix it. -I don't want to be right here doing it. -I hate being on the side of the road I got the medicine. I got the thing to patch the tire. This guy. I do a lot of off-roading Yep, I got it. [Peter] So in Molokai you always have My nephew, he works at the leper... He works down there. -The leprosy colony? -Yeah, he does-- -We're gonna see that -We're gonna check it out. [Ben] I'm gonna patch my tire. [woman speaking] -I was taking this guy I heard a hissing, I was like.. [speaking Pidgin] -Watch me, I'm gonna go forward. It might be back there -Yep. [Peter] Keep going. [tire hissing] Keep going. Okay, good, good, good. -Good? -Yep. [parking brake clicks] [hissing continues] [rubber squeaking] This is how you do it. I hope. -Not your first time, Ben? -This truck is wider -Uh-huh. -So you drive on a road all those kiawes, the mesquite thorns. 'Cause it's wider I'll pick 'em all up. [laughs] [tire hissing] [tool thumps] [Peter] And that's how it's done. -[Peter] Just keep it like that, right? It'll be good for now, [both laughing] [woman speaking Pidgin] That's a good fix. -Yeah, we's over the airport, -Hi. -This is Tiesha. -This is a great place you got. -I wish you came earlier -That's what I told him it's usually -It's interesting you speak totally [all laughing] -Right, your Pidgin kicks in? -It did, yeah. -Is this homestead out here? -Okay. -The original homesteads was 40 acres. -Okay, explain homestead. -What is that exactly? -For the Hawaiians, -Okay. So in Hawaii we get res land. -Okay, so just like the Native res. But actually the Native res, Like the res owns it but you can -The land is actually leased but I think-- -Yeah, it's leased -Hundred year lease every time. [Peter] There are deer out here sometimes? -Oh yeah, the thing Even if you guys go out [Ben] Oh deers, yep. [Peter] Do you hunt? -My son and him. [laughs] Yeah. [Peter] So the homestead, of Native Hawaiian blood, right? -Yeah, 50% to get, 25% to inherit. -Oh, you do have a pump. -Okay, so 50% to get, 25% to inherit? -Yeah, and so I got -Okay, great. She got it through her parents. -So it's been in the family forever? -Oh, that's cool. Special to you? -[laughing] Yeah. [Tiesha] It's so funny This is living the life. [laughs] -[Ben] No, he's-- [laughter] [Ben] That's not my truck. [Peter] You wish it was your truck. -That's the hunting truck right there. We put the dogs in the back. -Is Molokai and Greater Hawaii It's the official truck. -I should be sponsored by Toyota. -I own all Toyotas. -Does part of you want to be driving -No, I got an older one. -That's my favorite truck, my old one. So this thing's all customed-out, -Yep. -Somebody will post this for sale, -Look at that. [Peter] So Tiesha, -No, always here. -Do you ever go off the island? -I love it but returning home is the best. -You just love the feeling. Yeah, but I love to go. I love to travel. -Okay, where do you like to go? -All over, I'm yet to see a lot of places Japan... -So there's always that feeling -It's like, thank God I'm from here? [Peter] This part of the island -Yeah. -So Molokai has more of this 'Cause I saw a little bit of it in Maui. -Yeah, so Maui, Molokai, almost the same because they was giving us 40 acres how could you actually have a homestead with less than 40 acres? -Okay. -That's not really homesteading -Right. -Some people against the homestead. -A lot of the Karens don't like homestead. -The Karens? You have Karens here? [Peter] We're going to the one one town, How do you pronounce it? -Kaunakakai. -Yeah. -That's where everything happens -That's the main town. [Ben] This is church row, -Church row? -Okay, Mormons? -LDS? -Jehova's Witness. -And this is like a Hawaiian church. Couple different Hawaiian churches. So the town is the only place -The only supermarkets? Pretty much and the main post office, the hospital, courthouse, -So $5.95 for gas. -What was that? Oh, $6.90 for Diesel. Oh, man. [Peter] No traffic lights, right? -No, no traffic lights. This is the second gas station. -This guy right here. -And they're making a movie theater here. I forget how much seats. -Oh, this is great. -I love this downtown. So no chain stores at all? No McDonalds? -No. -That's one of Misaki is Japanese? -Yeah, Japanese family. Couple of little family shops. -You got a gym? -This is the town gym, basketball, -&quot;Jesus coming soon&quot;? -So very religious, this island? -Pretty much yeah, I would say. That's the fire station. -It's got such a chill vibe to it, -Yeah, laid back. No street lights, no big stores. So it's kinda rural -So any crime here? Any big issues? -They got a lot of the regular stuff, Some people that are stealing. -There's no like homicides as far as-- -There's only maybe one or two Domestics and it got to the point -Okay. Good place to raise a kid you think? -I would say the best place. As long as the parents, It's a good place. [Ben speaking Pidgin] -[Ben] Oh, they're closed. -That's a good bakery though? They've been here for a long time. -And then it just goes right to homes? -So this is like the brothels. That's like the low side of town. This place is closed too? Oh no, they open. [reggae music playing] -[Ben] Taking him cruising. -Your name, sir? -Dave, okay. -What's your name? -Where you from, Peter? -Nice, man. -This is your store. Me and the wife, her names Valeny Tanaka I'm not born and raised here, but my wife's from here. Our business is call All Things Molokai. We're trying to help people out People come in here, we direct them We don't advertise or looking to go hunting, or hiking-- -&quot;Keep Molokai Molokai&quot;, [Dave laughing] The meaning let Molokai change you, you know? Respect the community, and just know that they like it -And that's the one thing me not being from here, -I've been out here 19 years. -So I try to just know that People come to Molokai for this reason. To not have the luaus. To not have the helicopter rides They want old school Hawaii -Okay, so developers have no chance here? -Everyone's gonna stand up to it. Over here, listen, you can put up [laughs] But you also gotta understand I mean... And listen, I'm telling you You have the ranch on the west end, a ranch on the east end, a ranch up by Kualapuu. I was one of the last employees Oh, wow. -So it's like I sorta saw of going down of the La'au Point. -What they wanted to do and so... Honestly I think this is in my personal opinion. -It's got a way different feel -Yeah. -You guys gotta stand strong because -That's just how it works. 'Cause in every nice place with the weather, they're all developing. They're all going in one direction. This is the one place where it's going in the reverse -Yeah, and I think really because of -Okay. -You can't develop -So is that a worry for you guys that and that changed? -I would think so to buy something that large a property, they have intentions -That's what happened with Lanai, right? -Larry Ellison bought it. We could go over there and hang out or billionaire to go over there. -And what Larry is doing If you're a local Lanai... Hey Ethie. If you're a local Lanai resident Larry would buy it from you, right? Okay? And then what would happen is he would Not only does he only 90% of the island, So people that I've heard is if you lose your job You automatically get voted off -You know? -So it's like your average local family like we used to be able to go before. We could jump on the ferry but now it's out of reach 'Cause they're really nice hotels there? -Yeah, that's what he did. Once Lanai got sold when Larry came in, -Okay. -He sorta took a... He do the desalination plant, he's doing more of -And the one positive, one lady was happy because he put money and the lap pool was functioning again. -The Romans did the same thing, man. They did the same thing. They gave people sports to keep 'em calm, that's not what [Ben] The ranch was... [Dave] And look, the ranch back in the day they built the employee housing, but as soon as everything That thing got boarded up real quick. They filled the pool up with sand, -That's harsh. -So you gotta understand because like I said, What they were trying to do, in my mind. -This is all personal opinion. I can't speak for -I have a smart audience. They understand that Like you can't speak for 7,000 people. -You know, I'm just lucky to be here. I love the quietness. I love that And that's one thing that It will hold you accountable that everybody's -That's the main thing. [Ben and man speaking Pidgin] [Peter] How you doing, man? Yeah, brotha. -Oh, I'm getting on the wrong side. I can't open the door for you. -So that's how it is? You come into town, -Pretty much, yeah. -You can't think short termed here because you're gonna have to deal It's not like you're not gonna -You're gonna see him again. -That's awesome, I love it. [Ben] This is the harbor right here, -Food, everything comes through this port? The fuel, the only barge it'll come in through here. -Ever a time where the freight's -Sometime. No milk because there's Shortage on a lot of stuff, -So I was told by some locals Is that Maui over there? -That's Lanai. -Oh, Maui is over there? -Hard to see right now. -When the fires ripped in Lahaina putting them on boats, -Yeah. -Some of the first guys over there, right? Down to taking gas. You know, filling up -Okay. -And shuttling it over. -Yeah. to run their generators They was hauling gas, Down to toilet paper, The stores was helping out, and sending them over with drinking water. Because they was stuck -Right, right. So how many miles out, Maui? -From here I would say 50 miles maybe. But then if you go to the east side, halfway down the east side where your boat can come and trucks Loading up the boats -So a lot of the Molokai guys -I think so, yeah. That's what was happening trying to get in with cars, essential stuff, they were stopping them saying, So the boats came and there was Why was the government And then they said whatever help they had to come through... What is that? FEMA and stuff. Instead of just giving it to them and then give it to the people So the boats were just doing it that way and you know, So that's how [Peter] So this is changing It almost goes from [Ben] We're going up the mountain -To forest and green -Yeah, so I grew up -On the right here? -This is the perfect place -This is my neighborhood right here. -Let's check it out. [Peter] Temperature cooled down -Yep, this is the best place on earth. -I lived in that house for 15 years. -This is all rented houses. -What do you think a house like this -I'd say maybe $1,800 to $2,200 a month. -Not cheap. They help adjust towards your income. -Are there just a lack of jobs -Kind of. Yeah. Not much high-paying jobs. So some people are not motivated probably Struggle through paycheck to paycheck. -What's your work? -I work for the State of Hawaii now but I was in construction -Okay. -And then I always hustle side stuff. Like doing guided hunts. -Guys, I'm gonna put If you want to hunt -We do fishing too. -And just nature hikes too. [both chuckle] -Adventures. -And your the guy to go to -One of 'em. One of the best though. [laughs] [mellow acoustic guitar] [Ben] You can see right across but now you got That's why there's no cattle Right up here is these rolling hills. You could go with a piece of cardboard -But now it's... Fimosa, it was an ornamental tree and Christmas berry It kinda just took over. Nothing eats it so it keeps on growing. A deer, not even a goat will eat it. But the air is always crisp, you know? -Yeah, it's cool right now. -What's the temperature read? -Oh yeah, perfect. [Peter] That was interesting what you said He was super white. And you were like, &quot;He's more Hawaiian What do you mean by that? -Um, he has I think quarter of Irish -He has red hair, blue eyes. -But he's 75% Hawaiian. I am like just a little shy of half. -Okay, what's your mix? -I have Danish. My grandfather, his family's from Denmark and then they moved to the lower 48s -Oh, no way. I've been up there. -And then my grandma was So I have White mixed and my dad, -That's a mix. -My grandfather came from Philippines, my grandmother was -Look at that. Wow. -Got a rainbow. -It's gonna be a state and federal park. Almost like a museum, the leprosy colony. -Okay, so if you were on the islands you were sent here? -They'd come, throw you off the boat. -They'd come throw you off the boat? -Throw you off the boat kinda left to die because they didn't know. They thought there was no cure, So they would throw them off the boat -All the stories about the people. -1900s, it started even before the 1900s. -&quot;Band of male patients&quot;. And they could never leave? -Until they found out there was medicine. That now it wasn't contagious -So are people still living down there? -There's a few patients left. -Patients? -Still? They got the medicine that cures them but they're still missing -So their fingers fall off and stuff. -There's only a couple left it's gonna be a state park. -Federal and state park. -And then that crater... -Yeah, yeah, way out there. -That crater, in the '80s and they couldn't find They found marine life in that crater that That's what they say. -Have you been down there? -What's it like? -It's nice, you can feel A lot of people died, suffered there. It was sad while they was there. -They couldn't be with their family. This is Father Damien over here. So he was a Catholic priest So yeah, you see -Oh, yeah. [Ben] That stone, and she's getting hard time fertility problems. It's a fertility rock. You sleep on that rock, you end up pregnant not too long after It's a two part. So the other half is up here But that one, -Okay. -That's old Hawaiian folklore? -Pre-monarchy days? -Wow. Fertility stone, and you'll see why. -This is beautiful. -From here we walk up. -And then of courses, there's knuckleheads [Peter] &quot;This site is sacred -So that's part of the site Which is a story. This is the male part -Oh yeah, definitely see that. [Ben] &quot;Many years ago the man Nanahoa lived on this green hill of Puu Lua.&quot; Puu Lua is a hill. &quot;One day a beautiful young girl in a pool of water. Nanahoa watched her. The wife grabbed Nanahoa hit his wife in a quick-tempered a nearby cliff where she So that's the female part of this rock -Okay, and that's' off-limits? Kind of, it's kind of hard to find. I don't know why but... [Peter] So people put coins here and... -My cousin, I was still in elementary, he was a teacher in Oahu, -Uh-huh. -And they didn't have any kids, You know, 'cause they was a bit older. Came up here, hung out. They didn't sleep on the rock Went back to Honolulu then they moved to Maui And she... Within a couple months time. And they was with each other They didn't get pregnant, Two kids. -So you believe in it? -I guess, yeah. -It could happen. [laughs] -There are things you can't explain. You gotta have faith, -There are feelings on this island but it is a powerful place. -Here is a place where even people they say they get the creeps. -Oh, like coming up here at night? -Yeah, I can see that being the story. -You can feel it's alive. -Everything is alive. -Mauna. Everything has life. Trees, the stones, everything has life. [Peter] What was here? [Ben] Dole pineapple but this is the Filipino camp So this is where The labor workers -You didn't have sugar on this island? -No, they didn't do sugar cane, Similar in the sense that they'd bring -Portuguese too, yeah. And Japanese, and-- -I like this town. -We used to ride our bikes and this is School was right there. Sometimes we'd catch a bus. Like these kids right here. Look. -Oh, that's great to see. -Running around barefoot. Nothing says '90s like that scene. -Yeah. That was us. The pegs was an upgrade. -Right. -We would sit on the side-- -[Peter] Nice peg ride, man. [both chuckling] -So that's your local store? A candy bar was 50, 60 cents. A soda was 50, 60 cents. -Now you're sounding like that old guy. -Yeah, I am. So this here was the Japanese camp. Some of these houses are original, -Yeah. -Like this one looks original. -So they really divided them by races? -Yeah, I would say. -But then everyone inter-married and... -Some. Yeah, they did. And they could pay rent to the housing. Almost like those guys -Scrip, they would get paid -Yeah, they'd have a store -The company store? And then they'd give the balance -Okay, so they earned all their money here but it was useless money -Somewhat. It is sometimes, you know? -You really had to live off the land. Go fishing and stuff because At the end of the week [both chuckling] -You're in the hole. So you were saying food is power. Kamahao, for those that don't know, And he was the ruler of the big island and then he steamrolled -Yeah, that's what Kamahao wanted. He wanted to take over Molokai Aina Momona, A lot of food. And then they had fish ponds, like a farm. They would go to the fish pond they could push the fish to one side, Let the rest go and that was -Refrigeration. -So this was the manager's row. This is where the mangers would live. Little bit bigger houses. -You got chimneys, fireplaces. Do they need fireplaces here? -You didn't need 'em -When it gets down to 62 you start a fire? -When it's raining a lot you can get -Okay. That's so cool, man, without you showing this. -This was the big Dole. This is where the masters used to stay. -The master of Dole? -That white house? -Who lives there now? Oil (typhoons) from the Gulf, They bought it I think they like it They like to do hunting, So they don't want development. Which is good if it stays that way... -Yeah. [Ben] They employ a couple And they're not actually Every once in a while they'll harvest I ate some of it which was real good too. [Peter] Where are -Here if you don't run your own company, you're gonna work You can be a teacher, The only high school. -The only high school on the island? -Seventh to twelfth attends this school. -For the whole island? -Yeah, and there's -This is Hawaiian homestead, This is where my parents live. I got farming and stuff Down in this gulch, up that road. -Oh, that's so cool. -You're living a great life out here. -I love it. I mean I could be the CEO I like this. [laughs] [Peter] Yeah, look at this road. No cars at all. -Yeah, look at it, you know? -So cool. -So my wife, her family was the first homesteaders [honks horn] First homesteaders here. They came from Maui. Government wanted them to do a homestead so brought 'em here. Which this place was full of lantana No irrigation. So they brought them here to prove &quot;If you guys can prove where you guys can be successful then we will open up So they came from Waikapu Which was a lot of water. They had streams and they left that here on this land. -What year was that? -This was like early 19s. Brought them here That they could say, -Okay. -But with faith, which is my wife's family, Miraculously, they pulled it off. And when the government officials &quot;Here's you guy's chance, and they had a pile of vegetables. [bright acoustic guitar] [Peter] So you're saying these waters -Yeah. -And the guys from Oahu would come over? -When the waters get real nice and some people come Because they gotta spend the gas prices. They spending 300 to 500 So they want to come and try to sell to make gas money back, So what do you guys do? -So we protect it Sometimes, you know... They'll... Some people know to shoot one engine. Give them a message to get back or they'll shoot the big GPS That's seven grand for one of those. -You got some sharpshooters? -Yeah, and if you're coasting off Not only that, and a deer is running by the cliff, and the boats are too close, accident the bullet might hit 'em. So it's better not to come. [chuckles] -So you and the Oahu boys We had a couple. So some of the guys out here from They caught a boat that was doing that So they went on the boat. They gave the guy some tough love and it was a big federal case. They went to jail for one year for that. -They beat him up or killed him? They had a big disagreement But it was all over the news as pirate... Kind of like a pirate, -Yeah. -But to the Molokai people and a lot of Agreed with the Molokai people Standing up for your way of life, [Ben] This kinda looks [both chuckling] Montana with ocean view. -Yeah. What do you think that's gonna be -Hopefully organic farms. -You hope the island can feed itself? -Yeah, every place -Especially when you have this climate. -Yeah, not relying on a barge. And they panic. -They do. -Oahu, can you imagine that? No meat, they can't shoot -You guys are okay You can go kill deer. -For a while, right? -Some of the state Oil, ingredients, we'd have to start But it's better to have like some of the other islands. So a lot of people Organic farming, -Yeah. -So that would be a case of the good &quot;I'm gonna preserve this land and you guys That's what I hope the ranch would do. -Okay. The owners of the ranch, that would 'Cause doing farming. You can see right here Which is windy there's a few places -[Peter] Thank you, brother. 'preciate it. -Glad I could show you around a bit. And I want to let people know Ben is the guy to go to here... Hunting, fishing, guiding. Link down below if you want to meet Ben. Come to Molokai, have an amazing tour. Thanks for coming along on that journey. This is part of a bigger -Nice. -See you again. All right, thanks guys. Till the next one. [bright acoustic guitar]