Honey, are you okay? Why are you up there? There are no villages up there? Thank you, Bye bye !!!bye byee You took the fake red book but you didn't, why didn't you go to jail when you stole it? Huh ? I want you to come with me to solve the case. I want to ask the police. On what date did he sell the land deed to you? I have to escape quickly. If I get discovered, it will be a disaster . I have proof that Ms. Linda is the real killer. She is currently hiding in the hotel. That's right. I clearly understand that Diep stole the land book, so why did the police release him? it out? The police haven't arrested her yet, let's deal with her in our own way . There she is? Why steal without admitting guilt? I don't take it!!! That liar... quickly return the land book, I never took it, please return that book? I don't do that!!! Don't lie... If you don't take it, then who will? Give it back to me I told you, I didn't steal give it back please don't blame me why did you take it but the police let you go? Then let me handle you my way. I don't understand how the police work and let you go? Please ask my Linda. Linda is so beautiful. Are you sure she's not a thief? nonsense! Please give it back, don't let me get angry , I ask for the last time, will you return the notebook to me? I swear, I didn't steal these past few days, you lost your land deed, you can't sleep here, I can't eat or sleep well because of you, Diep!!! I swear!!! I don't steal. If I did steal, I wouldn't still be here. Are you playing a poor role so we don't suspect you? You waited until things calmed down before running away, right? And then you will spend the money from selling the land deed, right? Linda said she saw with her own eyes that the police couldn't handle it, so let me handle her in my own way. Destroy her house please.. don't do that.... I beg you to go away.. go away. Go far away, you thief!!! Why don't you accept? Don't act pitiful.. I'm not moved at all. I didn't steal... I swear I'm still acting? Why are you acting so impassioned? I ask for the last time!!! Do you plead guilty? I swear to God, I did not steal stolen goods!! you comet... go away and admit your guilt... I told you I didn't steal that land book!!!! Go away... wait 3 more days and you'll go to jail... go away, don't let me see you tell the police that she confessed... let her go to jail, go away... go away ... Let's go home.... all my efforts are gone, why do they treat me like that? I've lived with them for 5 years!!! Don't they have any pity for me? .......................... What should I do to help Ms. Diep? Will I have to help her if I don't help her? She will face up to 3 years in police custody !!! please help me my husband kicked me out of the house!!! I have nowhere to go, please calm down. My husband wants a divorce but refuses to divide his assets with me. Hello !! Hello, do you remember me? President of Ci company !! remember!!! I want to ask you about Diep's simple case !! I just need you to give me the money and I will ask the police to get involved and send me the location!! We met the president of Ci company.. thanks again, we have money to spend!!! He must have feelings for Ms. Diep, that's why he came to help her!!!! Hello !!! What do you want us to do? I want you guys to help me with something. This is too simple, but please give me a position at your company. I will not forget your gratitude. Is there a place around here that specializes in buying land records? I know... that's where my disciple is working. If we solve it in a gangster way, then it won't work . We'll have to solve it so the police can come in and we'll go there and collect it. Collect evidence then hand over all evidence to the police ok why are you so sure that she sold the land books there !!! I know everything in this area... I know that you will rescue Ms. Diep.. so I researched it in advance. Ms. Linda also swindled our money , but we couldn't report it to the police!!! because that money is illegal money . So let's just deploy this right away, right? That's right, Son, Son!!!! Hello !! Why did you come here to look for me? Please sit here, I'm here to ask you something. Yes!! Ms. Linda sells land books here, right? Yes !! Linda sold the land book here, take that book out here, why do I have to do that? Just take it out here!!! understand? Yes !!! This !!! land number book! Please see, here are the sales documents!! That's right!! You can bring it back , just leave it here!! I just need evidence, is there a camera here? Have !!! Please give me a picture of Ms. Linda, that's impossible! Because this is the customer's personal information, I have to keep it confidential. Please give it to him... If anything happens, I will take care of everything. Ok, have you received it yet? Okay ! What is the date she sold the land deed? probably 3 days ago . Are there places for her to hide here? Because the police can't find her right now, I don't know anything. I'm just a person buying and selling land books. I think she hasn't escaped to a foreign country yet. Please declare quickly!!! Where has Linda been hiding... I guarantee the police won't arrest you yes!! So please remember my words. Is Miss Linda currently hiding at Tu Truong Hotel ? only 3km from here. Thank you for your cooperation. Let's go. Thank you guys!!! If you have a car, then go bang. Mom, you're all gone. Go to work, owner!! Give me 2 bottles of Ms. Diep's juice, it's giving me a headache. I don't have any more clues. I also suspect Linda of stealing, but now I can't find her anywhere? For now, we need to mobilize people to find Ms. Linda and then collect more related information. Don't you suspect that Ms. Diep is stealing? I don't suspect Ms. Diep because if she stole, she would definitely run away. However, all evidence points to Ms. Diep being the one who stole. Diep has also worked there for 5 years, so I don't suspect her. Me too!!! However, I don't know where Ms. Linda is now? I know where Miss Linda is! Who are you? I am Ms. Diep's friend, please sit down!!! Do you have any information to provide us? I found out that Ms. Linda is a thief and Ms. Diep is just a victim, who are you? Why should we believe what you say!!!! I am the president of Ci company, the largest investor in agricultural development in this area!!! Ah so it's you!!! Linda!!! In the past, you scammed me, now the police are investigating, no one can save you!!! I have proof here !! Please see this!! It's Ms. Linda, do you know where she is hiding? Miss Linda is hiding at Tu Truong Yes hotel!! Thank you for providing the information. Let's go. I'm going to dig some cassava to prepare for dinner. This is the cassava field I took care of when I was at my ex-husband's house. Where is Ms. Diep? What happened? Where could she go? Why is everything so devastated? Hey bro !!! I have booked a room here, please come up!!! Is the hotel here a secret? Completely confidential, rest assured this much money... when will it be spent!!! Hello !!! Hello !!! Honey... uhm I'm here , I've taken care of everything, where are you? you are near!! Have you been to the hotel yet? Come over here... I'm staying at the hotel. So what room are you in? I'm in room 205, please come up!! Yes, I'm fine! Yes, we have to hurry. If we get discovered, everything will be ruined. Why did the police find this place? It's a mess. Linda, please answer the phone. It's right here.. Hurry up. Oh, why? How long has he been? So confused? Hello !! Hey, what are you guys doing? Hello, why are you arresting me... I didn't do anything, what did I do wrong? Let me go, I didn't do anything wrong, you're under arrest!!! Tonight I will rest here. I need to find a piece of bamboo to cook the cassava tubers. Suddenly I feel pitiful because I have to live like this because of infertility. The day after tomorrow I will have to face the hardship. 3 year prison sentence, if you don't know how to give birth, I have to get married. You two are already infertile and ugly . Go out and finish your work.. If you don't eat later, let the dog eat it!! Get out of the house . Go somewhere else. I'm sorry but you can't be here. Everything makes me feel so heartbroken. Is there no place for me to go? I don't know when I'll feel okay again . If I keep living like this, I'd rather go to jail. I've let everything go and accepted it. Oh, it's all over now, baby, have you been wronged? Why not? Where are you going? I'm preparing to go to the city to apply for a job oh... good baby!! no crying!!! so sunny!! Take the baby to a cool place so I can pick some vegetables, thank you!!! Where are you going? I want to go to the city to find a job. It's so sunny. Oh my, it's so sunny. Can't you bear it!! Why did you come down here from the forest.. I have some business up there oh my baby is so cute!!! Your house is up there, right? uhm I'm up there . I just came here. My mother and I picked vegetables to sell. Yes!! I'm also going to town... let me help you carry the vegetables !!! Because it's so hot right now, it will be very difficult for me to carry the baby and carry vegetables. Is it really convenient for you? That's right, I want to go to town.. let's go, be careful.. let's go, how old is the baby? My child is 1 year old, and have you been there long? I've only been there for a few days. Thank you for watching the video.. see you in the next video