This video will be a little bit different I'm revisiting a topic from my very first a thing. At the end, I'll link to a follow up discussion I'm making this again. But for now, here's what we're doing. In the Northern hemisphere, it's winter At least, well, at least at the time of this Winter means cold and cold means sadness. But thankfully, I have a friendly space heater These electric heaters are a useful, if perhaps But, there's been something that's annoyed And to show you, we need to go shopping. Alright, let's see what we got here. We have, "Medium Room", 1,500W for $31.99. Take a step over, and we have "Small Room", 1,500W. $12.79. Thi... that... that number's the same. Why is that the same? Here's a different one. "Medium room", fif... fifteen hun.. Five.. Wha? OK... Here's a different one, we got small... fif... hmmm. Well, store #2 is almost entirely out of heaters. Ugh, this is what I get for doing this AFTER Hmm. There we go. OK, so here we have an infrared quartz radiant sized rooms. Shocker of shockers; 1,500W. And also, this the room isn't as important as its application So here we have a personal desktop heater, This one is apparently some sort of genius, but look at that. 1,500 W. Let's look at this guy here. It's a ceramic heater. Uh, 1,500W. One of these 360 degree things. Oh, it's 1,500W. As you no doubt noticed, at every store we were categorized based on the size of the And yet, they were all rated 1500 watts. Now first let me say that there are definitely For instance, this infrared radiant heater in a cold room, because the infrared radiation and thus body from a distance. They're even useful outdoors because of But if you want to heat a space, as in heat are doing the same thing. They're heating the air around them and room. With this goal in mind, literally any of these And they're gonna work just as well as any It all comes down to that 1500 watts. Let's take a step back and think about what Heat is really just energy, and the temperature energy is currently concentrated in that room. Now, energy always likes to spread out, and one space and another, the more highly concentrated warm place and spread out into the cold place. Once it reaches equilibrium, energy transfer And eventually, this leads to the heat death *sound of party blower* Now, to keep a room warm when the outside into it. And we need to add energy at least at the and windows, which hopefully are well insulated The amount of energy leaving the room is called Now, I'm going to use the BTU, that's I'm sorry for picking that unit, please The heater's basic job is to replace the So if the room is losing 4,000 BTUs per hour and thus we need a heater which can produce at least indoor temperature. We'll need more than that if we want to And if we can't produce 4,000 BTUs, the gradient is small enough that energy leaving once more. You may be asking what this has to do with Well children, it turns out that watts and That's energy! Hold on, no. Watts are a unit of power, and a watt-hour BTUs makes this confusing because people often said at least once but, anyway, it's a mess. Let's continue. 1 watt equals 3.41 BTUs. Now, all of these space heaters are labeled That means they all produce 5,120 BTUs. All of 'em. Some of them are even kind enough to tell So then, I put forth to you dear viewer, how room if it is producing the same exact amount be suitable for a small room? Regardless of how much energy is leaving a adding the same amount of energy back. That's 5,120 BTUs. Now, we can argue as much as we want about But I do find it humorous that the one claiming have a fan to assist heat distribution. Instead it relies solely on the convection low density air rises up through it and pulls This heater has a fan blowing air past its Surely it's moving more air, you can feel But honestly, it doesn't need to do much No matter where heat is released into a room, Using a fan just speeds that process along. And for those who may want to point out that 1,500 watts and therefore it must cause the counter that in addition to the motor being consumption, all of that energy will eventually friction with air molecules, or through the motor itself. The reason why I know without a doubt that work is that they are both electric resistive This means they're taking the electrical it as heat. This is 100% efficient. In fact, when we talk about efficiency of or laptops, we're really talking about how do their work. An incandescent bulb releases a ton of waste energy to produce a given amount of light, An LED bulb releases much less heat, because into visible light, which means less electricity of work. But if our goal is to create heat, in other to take that electrical energy and spread energy being consumed will be directly released There is no such thing as a more efficient There are better and worse applications depending oil-filled convective, but simply put, energy If this "medium" heater can't release room" counterpart, then those labels are And they are. We don't even need to rely on the labeling. If we use an energy monitoring device like energy each of them is using. And, shocker of shockers, it's the same Well, some may argue that the margin of error it's pretty humorous that the small heater heater. Many heaters have multiple settings which therefore giving you the option of a more And, nearly all of them have a bimetallic you to control the temperature within a reasonable You might be asking why so many of them are maximum amount of power a device that continuously according to the national electric code. A normal 15A household circuit is technically to run for a long time, like a space heater, This creates a margin for error and protects wiring, and it also helps prevent overloading But a device that's only used intermittently, capacity. Since heating elements are phenomenally cheap are gonna bump right up against that 1,500W Now, not all of them do. I'm a big fan of these little personal heaters I keep this one on my desk and it's a great But most "General purpose" heaters will allowed to. Now what was pointed out to me the last time this one store heat in the oil and thus are elements aren't turned on! That's great, but it doesn't mean it's It just means that the heat leaving the heater If the heater is running at a 50% duty cycle, BTUs, when this heater would release 5,120 minutes. The end result is the same, though, they both may simply provide more consistent heat. If there's one thing I'd like you to take heater that claims to be more efficient than I'm particularly irked by these "premium" on your energy bills because of some new technology. One in particular rhymes with "Schmeeden Look, the way they save you energy is That's by turning down the temperature to that you're in. Compared to any other space heater, this is What's worse is that electric heat is almost fact I made a video on why in cold climates heat rather than use the electric grid. Yes, the heater itself is 100% efficient, At least not yet. And that's kind of the space heater paradox. You can save money by using just one and lowering But if you decide to buy a bunch of these in your house and use them instead of your more on energy. But, let me be clear that the only reason talking about resistive heat. If we venture into the land of heat pumps comparisons to be made. Some heat pumps work better than others, and 95% of the energy from their heating fuel conventional furnace. But any 'ol electric heater is gonna be Whatever energy gets pulled from the wall So, the next time you need to buy a space Those expensive ones are... well they're This $10 wire-element heater will do just $200 Schleeden Clure. Now don't get me wrong, this thing is ugly red mark is where I like to set it--so I'm as good as one of those fancy-pants heaters. But I can say with confidence that it heats is exactly the same. I will add that if there's a room that always in a certain house I grew up in, I prefer the safest. A fan-forced heater will quickly overheat hope that the overheat protection cutout works. These passive ones are pretty much immune spread out over such a large surface area, Plus, they're virtually silent. Which is nice. But, keep in mind that they take FOREVER to short use. These baseboard style heaters are a nice compromise, gut tells me it's a little more dangerous. And allow me to express my bewilderment regarding doesn't seem to exist. As I said, pretty much all space heaters have But let's be honest, they're usually not It does regulate the temperature, but it's as warm as you want, then slowly turn the Not very precise, or consistent. And for those "Digital" heaters, having (like this) means it will never get a very I'm surprised that you can't just buy I can imagine something like a 10 foot long in the middle of it, letting you put it on an actual temperature. You could actually build one yourself fairly but it seems like a product that should just OK wait, it does exist. Look at that! An outlet thermostat. That's actually a really good idea. Anyway, that's it for now. Dishonest marketing departments and misleading we deal with on this planet, but thankfully, we can see right through them. Stick around a little longer for a few more adventures, and be sure to check out the Technology video. As always, thank you to everyone who supports folks that are scrolling up your screen. With the support of people just like you, to, this! And I'm very thankful for your support. If you would like to support the channel and behind-the-scenes stuff, as well as other my Patreon page. Thank you for your consideration, and I'll swelteringly smooth jazz Alright, so I was ready to buy a heater just among my list of offending manufacturers who But, at least for oil-filled heaters, they've Now it simply says "whole room heater". They're apparently not quite out of the "small room" even though, you guessed But, I will give them credit for this very space heater is appropriate for which application. Though there were apparently a few render Comfort Zone is still happily slapping room their oil-filled heaters, at least the ones only rated 1,200 watts now. My guess is that this was a cost-cutting measure, area you'll need to lower heat output, too. Both Comfort Zone and Pelonis used to rate perhaps as a result of the 300W reduction, a "medium sized room". Which is actually even more humorous, because than this small room heater. Go figure. I find this example particularly egregious larger heater, using the same ceramic heating room. It's got two heating elements! Surely it puts out more heat! No! This is just yet another design that you can And hopefully you pick the most profitable Oh. These things. I wonder how many watts this uses. Well, 5,127 prototypes, that's useful I I guess I'll have to look that one up online.