So for this video, I'm gonna be doing exactly toilet paper, into drinkable alcohol. I don't about six months ago, I became convinced that this paper, and well pretty much all paper, is made occurs in almost all plants, and we use it to or cardboard. What I've always found interesting chain of simple glucose sugar molecules. Sugar is in cellulose the glucose units have been strung completely different properties. This has always and almost all paper, is basically made out of so a lot of our houses are also kind of made out very resistant to degradation, and the glucose some animals and microbes have developed ways there had to be a way that I could do it. Based source like toilet paper, and then somehow chop could then throw in some brewer's yeast to turn to make some weird toilet paper moonshine. The the first part, which was breaking down the either chemically or enzymatically, and both of method was more efficient, but it involved using a the sugar, after it was done. I would have most and I figured that this would both be wasteful, other hand, appeared to be less efficient and it was a lot cleaner and much easier to set up. that I liked the enzymatic way better, so the next enzyme that I need to break down the cellulose it that I could find was from a company called the and was all supposed to be food grade stuff, it. it also clearly stated that all the cellulase why this was important later on. But anyway, the gonna take a few weeks to arrive. So while I was to actually put together the process, that I was figure it all out, but after a bunch of research, relatively simple. To do it, all he needed was chemicals. When the enzyme eventually arrived, to verify that what I came up with worked, but it wing it and go all in. If it ended up working that at worst, I would have a bunch of sad failure to get started, the first thing that I needed was brand would have worked, but I specifically went paper is one of the least densely packed forms of surface area, for enzymes to attack it. However for enzymes to break it down. At the molecular packed together, and it's hard for cellulase to do the toilet paper, not very much would happen, To fix this problem though it wasn't very hard, dilute base. So I got out a large pot, and into it sodium hydroxide drain cleaner. This would give me everything dissolved. Then I slowly added one paper, it quickly started soaking it up. After I tried to break it up as much as I could. I also because I wanted to keep this purely just toilet toilet paper stew, and the next thing to do was to a cheap Ikea induction heater, and I cranked up eventually got to a boil, I turned down the power often to prevent it from splashing, but it didn't splattering boiling hot water everywhere, and necessary. The goal here was to try to keep it an hour and a half. Under these conditions the and getting partially degraded. This caused a which allowed them to separate and become less cellulose fibers into smaller pieces, and their more shorter length fibers, and this was important The cellulose enzyme can only degrade the fiber of attack, it should make it go a lot faster. treatment, was that it was separating the fibers the whole thing had turned yellow, and it had that it was going to be horrible, but it was how to describe it, but it was kind of sweet it cool for about 30 minutes, and when it wasn't What I was left with in the strainer, looked container below it was all the water, and orange-brown color. What I had to do now to get rid of the base, and as much of the color directly in the strainer, but it just wasn't got washed. So what I did instead was clean the In here I was able to add a lot more water, and to make sure that it all got washed. This was then just once, it was already looking pretty good. just did several crappier washes, directly in the enough, I tried squeezing out as much of the water quite full with water already, and it was hitting doing it over the pot, and this was what I was was now good to go, but I wasn't quite ready to enzyme solution. To do this I first had to make powder that I got earlier, and then bringing it stirred it around, but a lot of it didn't want was just filler. It's pretty common for enzymes the fillers were cornstarch and maltodextrin. maltodextrin dissolved into the water, but the planning this project I was a bit concerned are also glucose based sugars. I was worried down into glucose and turned into ethanol, get attacked by the cellulase, and the yeast and aren't able to break them down either. I even but I'll talk about that later in the I could have just directly used this mixture and to get rid of the cornstarch. Filtering and instead I just covered the top and I let it it had pretty much all separated, and this enzyme enzyme solution though, I had to dilute this solution. A buffer solution is something that's helps keep the pH. at a specific level. This is pH, and they work most efficiently in a certain and the optimal pH for it was 5, so that were many different chemicals that can be used to is to use citric acid and sodium citrate. and I was able to easily find them at a local buffer online, and all I had to do was plug and the total volume that I was going for. Based a pH of 5 and a molarity of 0.05. After plugging citrate and 12.2g of the citric acid. So into a followed by the citric acid and the sodium dissolved, and into this I poured the enzyme 3L. I tried to leave as much of the cornstarch still able to make it in. Now after all this the to do was add the toilet paper. When it was all in and I loosely covered the top. I then took that was set just slightly above 50degC. This worked at, and I had to leave it in there, for attacking the cellulose, and slowly turning though. it usually isn't just one enzyme doing different ones all working together. The first one the fibers, and within the fibers themselves. a lot of these bonds were already broken, and access. The liberated fibers were then attacked their ends. So what it does is bind to the end of 2 or 4 glucose units. Rhese much smaller sugar by another enzyme called cellobiase. When I floated to the top. I then stirred it and compared fluffier. The cellulase had clearly done something I expected. I checked on it again about half an stayed floating, The stuff at the top was slowly day, most of it ended up at the bottom. I left it and this was what I had. There was still a bunch the toilet paper that I started with. It was but before moving on I had to let it cool down. but I needed it to be closer to 35. This was gonna I poked around at it a bit. I was honestly and like I said before, I really didn't expect how much paper was still left here, but I of what I started with. However that's almost really based on much. When it eventually got to to fermenting sugar to make alcohol, there were and each of them have their own pros and cons. very fancy, so I just went with common brewer's conditions though at least in terms of pH, were the cellulase that I was using originally came optimal for yeast. This was why I didn't want would have had to readjust the pH. The yeast they were all getting rehydrated, and coming back that the jar came with, followed by the lid that stopper and an airlock, so that it could prevent progress of the fermentation. Initially not much lot of yeast flakes started floating to the top. were producing, which gave them some buoyancy. CO2, they would then sink back down. This cycle because the yeast were slowly being dispersed into looking mixture, and there were no pieces floating CO2, which was a very good sign because it told me How much sugar was actually there though I had no some degree. I then looked at the airlock, and it was a pretty decent rate. What I had to do now was completely stopped bubbling. When this eventually sugar left, and I figured it would take about two and I put it in the oven that I used before, and later, and the amount of paper at the bottom, had never deactivated the cellulase, and it was as efficient because it was around 30degC instead working. In terms of bubbling it was much slower so I put it back in the oven, and I waited and when I checked on it the airlock wasn't moving At the bottom there was still some white stuff, or just a bunch of yeast. At this point I had to do was distill it, to get out the ethanol. stuff at the bottom though, so I poured everything there was then dumped into a coffee filter. this worth waiting for it to finish. The liquid that added back to the main batch. But anyway with distillation. When most people distill alcohol, which is the most efficient thing to do. However scale was relatively small and I thought that it used before, so to keep this food safe, I bought biggest flask that came with though was only 1L, To get things started I added a stir bar, and then best not to go much over the halfway point, but possible, so I ended up pushing it a bit. Above and to do this I used a fractional column, a turned on my water circulator, and I got some cold it was good to go, so under the flask I added a stirring. As it warmed up, it started bubbling just CO2 gas getting kicked out of solution. I think this was caused by yeast, coming out of didn't look like it wanted to disappear, and this to try to prevent a disaster, but it was a bit the column, and it wasn't really slowing down. It the column, and then suddenly it started actually the entire setup. This was a bit of a pain, but that it was gonna take a bit longer because I now and also I had to be a bit more careful with the under control, I covered the flask in the column and it makes it easier for the vapor, to climb swapped a beaker, but the stuff coming over was the solid junk that was carried up the column to be way messier than I expected. I was hoping obviously wasn't the case and I was gonna have to anything though, because the alcohol coming over started at, it just didn't look very nice. However volatile stuff mixed in as well. To really clean do a second or maybe even a third distillation. water was because I was only starting with a very mixture, it was probably at most something like At the very beginning the stuff coming over was that it quickly and continuously dropped. This that 2% concentration was constantly decreasing, increasing. This caused more and more water vapor I was receiving, eventually became almost entirely thermometer, because the temperature was heavily though it was well above the boiling point of some ethanol coming over, once it was up at around by, but because I couldn't use it here, I had to close it was to being done, I just occasionally if there was any ethanol in it. As I said before other volatile stuff coming over with it, which as bad as I expected it would be, but I did end up couldn't taste any more ethanol in it, and then I After this I considered it done, and pretty much Everything left in the boiling flask was just I poured it down the drain. This was one of the because unlike a lot of the chemistry that I often This was everything that I'd collected, which I said before, was just gonna be recycled. So I in. I then added more of the other stuff, and I with the heating, and there wasn't a disaster. I expected the ethanol coming over to be more vial. However after a bit, I realized that I and I swapped it out for a mason jar. Then just told me that there wasn't any more alcohol coming filled it with fresh stuff, and just kept it up to the last batch, and everything that I had of course decided to go crazy, right when it was white junk. This wasn't a huge deal though because it was still kind of sad. This whole distillation took me a few days to finish. At this point though and I dumped out all the stuff in the flask. What I started with, so it was way more concentrated I decided to try lighting it on fire. However and not very much happened. I honestly wasn't very out its concentration, I poured it all into a which will float at different heights, depending ethanol the density will be lower, and this meter it didn't go very deep at all, and it told me was way higher than I ever imagined getting really isn't bad at all. I was hoping to maybe this it's telling me that there's more like 50mL. was to drink some dirty toilet paper wine, I could that I had to do, this wouldn't be a very pleasant I had to distill it again, to get rid of all that there were a lot of other volatile, and bad it was very difficult to get rid of them, but now rid of almost all of them. This time I had a lot and all in one batch. I also completely cleaned that it was as clean as possible. I then set it was a bit oversized. This was okay though, and it However with most of the yeast, and most of the with bubbling or foaming. At this point I was just that I totally forgot the stir bar. So I just and then I turned on the heating and stirring. and I waited for stuff to start coming over. One last one, was that there was way less water, so I The first drop showed up at around 70degC, and constant. This initial amount was called foreshot, point side products. In this section if it were but I don't think that there was any here. This foods are fermented, that contains sugars called though, so there was no real reason for any of it slowly got into the portion called the heads, other stuff in it. I kept catching it in the same it to a beaker to get the rest. As more came over, which was almost pure ethanol. Along with the which actually taste good, and it makes this everything again by occasionally tasting probably around 85%. Like before though, there and the amount of ethanol that was in it, was collecting slowly got less concentrated, and happened, higher boiling point side products were changing the taste. This portion is near the end the tails. However I didn't ferment anything weren't many side products that could come over. was getting more dilute, and maybe a bit bitter. collect everything in one container, and they heads and the tails contain a lot of ethanol, but so they're often just included in future runs. The and they contain the best tasting portion. Knowing when to stop, is one of the most important product. I of course wasn't making a typical was a bit too precious, to discard any of it. in one beaker. Also like I said before, I was so there weren't that many side products that the temperature was about 99degC, and I didn't taste everything that was left in the boiling flask, and and then I got rid of it. The final result and this little vial of the foreshot. I'm not sure smell very good, and I just threw it away. Now for was. Instead of just doing it with a hydrometer time it ignited really easily, and it burned with really happy that this worked, but it didn't the concentration actually was. To get an accurate volume here was really low though and my current one. However at first this one also looked like it it much closer though, I saw that it was actually and it told me that it was about 64%. This and I felt that 64% was decent for a moonshine, point it was pretty much done, and I poured it all At 64% and about 78mL this was equivalent to was way more than I ever expected. I started with percent of that mass was turned into glucose, the whole process was 83% efficient, which to me was the maltodextrin, or the cornstarch that was added Theoretically cellulase doesn't attack either of had to make sure. So I ran a control by repeating any toilet paper. When I distilled it all, I did 20mLs of 20%. This meant that there were 5mL maltodextrin, which can sometimes have a small contributing some ethanol, but pretty much all of coming from the enzyme though then my real yield about 75%. In my opinion this was still shockingly it's still kind of hard to believe that it all actually made it, the only thing left to do was I individually tasted each section but, I was really curious to know what it was like. and I mean there's nothing gross about it, but smells like vodka except, with a bit of extra... as I mentioned before probably comes from either and uh I guess I'll just taste it now. I but doesn't taste very bad. It's a little bit the tails when I was making. It other than person to really review it because I don't drink the taste of alcohol. But compared to vodkas wasn't that much worse. There was again that a taste that came from the heads, but besides that I I would think that it's just generic alcohol part. But anyway this about brings me to the the idea for this, it was mostly just a funny gonna work this well. I was honestly hoping for that a project has turned out this much better a fan of alcohol, the flavor wasn't bad and turned out. For all the alcohol that I still have but I doubt that it would be legal. So I'm just try to use it in a future video. It took me a lot so my video schedule is a bit weird now, but I do I don't want to give any details of what also a funny concept. that I'd been working on so there'll be some more tasting going on before. which I'm sure a lot of you guys have already haven't though, it's a tree planting initiative It's a massive YouTube collaboration, and tree somewhere around the world, and the goal this they're less than 5 million away, and if you or picking up some of their merch. And just as one here very often, but I am also on Twitter and that never makes it to YouTube, and sometimes As usual a big thanks goes out to all supports me can see my videos at least 24 everyone on Patreon can directly message you'll get your name at the end like you see here.