Hey guys. Toby Mathis here with the Anderson Business Advisors Neal, welcome back. Thanks for having me back on the podcast. We had such an incredible blast last time. People are still talking about we did this podcast together. So I'm super excited to be back. Yeah, and we're going to. Yes, you had an absolute great podcast here. It just Over 100,000 people. But so much of what we talked about And hopefully people were able because we kind of predicted We didn't predict the banking, but we did. I think we specifically talked about the Fed breaking things and what's Yeah. So so the Fed broke the banking system to gear up and focus in on real estate, And so I really wanted So I'm going to hand this to you, Neil. What happened in your I'm What happened in your opinion? And what's the long term effect? Well, the honest answer is that the Fed poisoned the banking system, and they did that by providing consumer with such an extraordinary early 2021, all the way to the end of 2021 the flood of money meant You know, real estate prices dropping because those people went that were for $75 million Because they could do it. Money was cheap and so they could they And so they made those mistakes. And then we had banks. Banks were flooded with enormous amounts And many banks, if not hundreds of them, and invest it into non liquid investments, So you go in there, you take that money, hundreds of billions of dollars, And those bonds, some of them for as much as eight, And the problem is, after that, as the Fed so they started to raise the interest the rate, the price. The Treasury rates also went up. So the Treasury rates So today, when you buy a Treasury bond, On a ten year Treasury bond, you're getting two So people want to buy those bonds. They don't want to buy the bonds Banks So technically, if the banks were forced sell them well before they mature, because the market doesn't So you have to discount them. And so we've ended up in this situation now has over $600 billion of losses or that if they you know, to get them off of their balance sheet Now, keep in mind, this is not like 2008. In 2008, when a bank gave you a loan foot property, if you stopped paying, Now the bank had to basically And so they had to go out of what that property was worth today. So maybe the loan was 500,000, But the bank immediately But with Treasury bonds, you don't actually have to show any losses because there's nothing wrong There's only a problem if you're faced which is why it's very important and the banking system where people feel like So they basically run towards a bank hey, we need to get all of our money out because if First Republic now it has to sell them immediately today And that's where the losses are. So this is one of those cases of there's Department has to control And they don't just have to do that A lot of people are like, this could be over in two or three weeks No, it's just going to come up again or talk about the next bank, well, because now that bank And if that bank has to declare losses, Now it's the cycle starts over again. So now you have dozens that they need to figure out And it's not an easy process to do that, But that's what's happening. Normally when there's a run on a bank, you know, tough luck The FDIC makes most people whole, And you move on. You can't do that right now could lead to the next one tripping, So we are in a very unusual environment. It's a very problematic environment. The Fed has to figure out what to do. And I believe that what the Fed they don't want to do it, is that they will be forced sooner than they had planned. If interest rates being. I'm with you 100%, by the way, that out is exactly how I understand it. It's you're sitting on a, you know, a ten year So there's eight years to matures because you can go out and get a 44% bond. Right now, it's like, So there's no market for it. But that's what the bank has as an asset. Now, they could have done some hedging and they could have done something, but most of these folks So you have somewhere around 200 banks And really, It's not your money. You give it to them, they put it on their balance sheet. You know, people don't realize that It's the banks. You might be entitled to your posit, some FDIC insurance. But it's they didn't put an account Neel Bawa his money No your money went on So the banks are different than brokerage houses and that means and all that, Today is oh, Jiminy Christmas. This is what they did. What's it going to do to real estate? And I think you're right. I think the Fed is going to be forced They created this mess because they said was ignoring the fact that they dumped Well, it's transitory. What you're going to you're going to pull because otherwise you just devalued Are you going to fix this? Seems crazy. So what's going to happen, Well, I think the first piece of this is it will become obvious in the next and how much leeway the Fed has, So if you study events like this, 1987, So the savings and loan crisis, if you there was a liquidity crisis, we call it And seven or eight countries And then, of course, What we find is that these kinds of events So today so think about, there may have been a bunch of Fortune the economy's created 800,000 jobs That's a really awesome number. I'm going to keep investing. I'm going to keep moving forward Well, now, none of those Fortune that the events of the last because they force all of the CEOs to say, I may not have funding available dollar factory or a $5 billion project, There could be significant liquidity issues in the marketplace And I'll explain why the banks They have to remove the liquidity But so now every CEO is aware of that from Goldman Sachs and Merrill we were saying that there was a 35% chance recession in the second half of this year. Now we're saying it's 45 So what the banks are saying is the chances of a recession have increased That reduces liquidity. And when banks reduce liquidity, for businesses to grow. So now we're moving towards a recession. Now, when when that happens, guess what happens when you start moving Business activity reduces, right? Because there's less liquidity available. Well, by itself, that reduces inflation. So in an odd sort of way, the Fed has done something that's really good for the bird They've done something really good finally the Fed has broken something And not only have they've actually now got cascading effects with credit, sweet sweets being sold Right. So, you know, the the European Bank and had similar problems, They weren't buying U.S. treasuries, but they were buying you. They were buying European They were buying their treasuries. So the same sort of situation And so that bank is now being sold for a discount price of $3 And so this is contagion. It's spreading now that the Europeans are calling the Fed today we can keep raising interest rates is we're actually actively increasing We're not just clamping down. We're doing the exact reverse. We're actually making it worse that we raise this $600 billion that's at risk becomes So every time we raise interest rates, we're increasing the amount of money off of their balance sheets The other thing that is going to happen, the Fed did something good, And because of that, inflation It's going to slow down I'm not going to move forward with my 1 billion or $10 billion project We'll just go defensive. And that's what the market was not doing. The Fed was trying to get the market so our GDP growth would slow down Well, it's still at 2%. And now the Fed got what it's wanted. On the downside, by hitting the one sector They don't. It's not real estate. It's not stocks. The sector that the Fed cares about Because the Fed has two mandates. Most people think the Fed has one mandate. That's wrong. The Fed has two mandates. One of the mandates is well known They call it price stability. We call it inflation. Same thing. But their primary mandate Right. So they always have to have the stability and then price stability. Now, because the banking system in the last nine months they didn't have to look at mandate They were simply focused And now the Fed is going to be forced because the banking system until they bring interest rates down. They luckily you know, COVID levels But right now they're at 4.75. I think the system stabilizes when they So now the speed at which is likely to accelerate, this week, later this week, interest rates by a quarter point that they're not sending But beyond that quarter point, I see it's extremely, extremely difficult Yeah, I look at this and I, I'm frustrated I think that but I really think it's Like if you get a chart out and you look So for me pulling back, yeah, It didn't seem to do what they thought was going to happen Like they seem shocked that real estate And guys like me are like, well, it's There's, you know, 5 You still need supply So I don't care what you do to you're going to find a way to get fed. And that's what they were doing But this is And so I thought I thought, wow, This is going to work. They'll actually take even though they're raising interest rates I was hopeful and now I'm kind of dashed tightening, but they I think they went out I think I think they just dumped more cash into the market, which is going But the good news is, like you said, the banking system because they It's like they did, though, I have to say, I'm very curious. So they the FDIC basically pumped $143 billion And the Fed pumped in 165 billion So the total is about $310 Yeah, I am very curious is actually going to reach the market the banks are simply asking for money If they're not doing anything with it, They're borrowing to keep. Obviously, because you're not borrowing money You're borrowing it at interest. And right now, interest rates are high. So the Fed is giving you $143 billion. Now, you need to pay, I don't know, at So the banks don't want to keep that money So I'm curious to see, will they It's interesting because it's not like When you have a ten year It's not like the stock market It's just today nobody wants it. So there's no market for it And it's like when you were selling it wasn't that your real estate It's just that Nobody wanted it because there was so much Or they just, you know, So they're basically loaning on that bond, They're saying, hey, you have a 2% coupon. Well, loan it at 4%. So your loss is really that that 2% Like who knows how long but that's a lot better than what But the Silicon Valley bank, didn't to JPMorgan and just like Yeah so they lost $2 billion that way because they needed liquidity, There was a run on the bank and their depositors wanted money So they called the biggest bank And Chase says We're not buying we're going to buy them at a discount. And you know, if you want it, And so they took that money, because they still went out of business, but they basically took out a $2 billion And that's where the Fed I have absolutely zero belief because it's so many banks it becomes much easier for there And I want to talk about that, Toby, of environment where Twitter can create Right. So how did this happen? Right. So Silicon Valley Bank basically was I live here. You know, And so every dot com, big and small had accounts And, you know, there's a granddaddy Thiel Idle and he's you know, he's He's he's a big VC investor. And what he did was he figured out and he didn't tweet. He actually wrote a document and all of the startups Obviously, 5 minutes later, and it only took hours And that's that's something that the Fed The Fed understands that a single tweet, back to Peter And Silicon Valley So I think that sooner or later they would have been sold but they would have been sold for the mistakes that they made. But we wouldn't have had the third history if we didn't have this tweet. Here's the problem. The one after So because of the existence of Twitter, the speed at which bank runs So the Fed is going to be able to going to is going to be forced to take actions that They didn't have to take 20 years ago because it still took many, Now it takes hours for a bank run to form. So the bank has basically one or two days So it's extremely, extremely problematic in the next 12 months for the Fed So here's what I'm going to predict So they're going to basically stabilize it And when that second bank goes under, now, and three, four or five, six And then the Fed in the middle of all of on that day. They'll be forced to cut None of this is really good None of this is really good because they were making record profits. Keep in mind, banks have been making huge amounts of profit So they're take I mean, Bank of America but they're able to buy a Treasury bond So the arbitrage was pretty massive. So bank profits were very high. But I don't see I don't see the next 12 to 18 months We're not going to see, you step downs of rates I tend to agree with you. And I also mean I look at it brought this about by raising Like I don't think we'd ever seen a this type of raising as quickly This is the fastest in history. Absolutely the fastest in history. And this is why you don't do that yet. Maybe the Fed will use hey, maybe we won't overreact Like, maybe we won't do like in 2008 where they just race to the bottom And you get this free money basis points and so basically free money. And you create that environment the interest rates, we'd be fine. Yeah, right. Yeah. But we'd have runaway inflation. And again, I still think it's that they dump so much cash into the economy and then, But who am I? Not an economist. Now, here's What's this going to do to real estate. You talk about If we're talking the lowering interest that's not a bad thing for real estate. That's a good thing for real estate, Well, I'll say it in a different way. So I don't completely agree let's I'm going to give you two scenarios in scenario number one, We didn't feel the world went on as usual. Right. So this is a a alternate universe, right? So we're in the metaverse now. This is the alternate universe I have 100% confidence reductions over the next 12 months because I think that we were beginning we were beginning to see discount prices especially the five or six Western states We were beginning We haven't seen How much is a significant discount, Like like when you say. So, California is now at 11% from peak. And the peak was for most markets, So we're like seven And so some markets peaked earlier, but pretty much all of them peaked And now we're on their way down. So the U.S. has now lost 6% Western markets have lost 11%. California being the highest. But other markets like, you know, Seattle, but in general, Washington state, and Arizona are other states And that big question is, okay, if SVB didn't happen, My answer is it goes down by another And certain markets, in the Southeast, in the Sunbelt, That's what was going to happen. Right. So to me, Silicon Valley going down real estate is going to go up. And I would not say that on air that to, quote unquote, recover. But we we have a massive gain. And that gain is that that 5 to 10% decline that we would have seen Now, you're unlikely to see that in the next 60 days to absorb this data cuts in the second half of the year. And once they absorb that, then every once everyone understands that, Let's not sell our property, because it I don't think they go up, And I think that's a very, very big deal because 10% in a in You know, in terms of declines I don't think real estate starts until the Fed cuts interest rates You need it to be cut by one full percent And then we have the ability for it Hopefully not like 2021, and I just scared the hell out of me Hopefully it rises Tracking inflation 4%, 5% a year, come back down to 2%. But that's what we are likely to see. So our big gain is that this hole that we were about But I don't believe that you're going go up for single family or multifamily I think you're going to see prices I think you're right. And I also think that the Fed may end up or it depending on how badly this thing So there's market predictions, at 3% at the end of the year, I mean, it seems different Like, I think we were looking five or thereabouts, close to thrive. And now there's we were probably. Yeah, go ahead. Yep. So 4.75 to 5 Every time the Fed meets, there's a bunch of people that get they give them a sheet governor says this is where I think And they put their dots in those dots together The Fed's official DOT plot is that at the end of the year, But of course, that DOT plot was before I'm curious to see when the Fed meets again. Right. So I'm positive Yeah. So so whatever it may be because I like looking at it saying, hey, we can grab good information, But as we're sitting here today, I think that it's going to be lower, that's a very good thing for real estate. If the affordability is better, we're sitting at a much lower rate have already accepted what the Fed's done And they started to go down anyway. Yes, we're So so one of the key things that most people don't understand which is what we use for single family, It's not direct. It's very common And over the next 30 days, So Fed goes up by half a point That's pretty common They're trying to say, in the next and they come up So in the last you know, and today because last week the markets simply didn't know what to think. But I believe that this week, you know, that the Fed's meeting in March, in the 30 year fixed rate Could be it could go down as much as 0.5%, an absolutely massive swing, is actually likely Yeah, in in in. We're not saying that. So you're not saying, hey, What you're saying is it's been going down It might level off Right. So to me, real estate was going down No other reason. We see extraordinary demand especially post-COVID because the retail and hotel asset during COVID and the office asset class I can't think of any word and I'm So and they continue to get beat up. Oh yeah. Those are the five year leases expiring. All these leases that were I mean, I know that they offices are empty and they're just waiting like they're just keeping a zombie office When it comes to. Yep, I think that if there is going it may not occur this year. It might occur two years when we get to the point because I think most properties can break extraordinarily likely that at some point we'll hit, you know, under 80% occupancy. So that's where another podcast But bottom line is multifamily became much start stopped doing well, hotels had So there's a lot of money sitting on the sidelines So they're not investing. They're simply saying, you know what, I'm when my interest rates are this high. That money's I know a lot of single family people We've seen a very dramatic decline rentals somewhere around 7770 That money is sitting on the sidelines. They want to buy, And right now and that's why they're very slowly We're seeing about a half percent to 1% price decline per month Well, now we might start to see that we're six months, So you're telling an investor, eventually, are things if you can, you know, you're going to in real estate, but understand that it's And there's no there's no Quick Hits. We're not going to get in These are going to be long term projects. What are you telling folks? I am going to tell you don't buy until Q3 a very good chance But where before I was telling people, is going to be Q1 or Q2 of next year. I think now I'm saying the bottom So by one, one quarter before that, And you know, whether it's real estate timing the bottom is a foolish exercise. Nobody's actually managed to do it. People think they'd time it sometime. They're just lucky. But I think Q3 would be a tremendous time because you can actually get a twofer advice. Q3 is a good time to buy real estate, but when you're buying a single family even if you have to pay up Because I think that as the Fed cuts you can have a property and contract at Q3 values based on Q3 mortgage rates or four or five months based on Q1 rates, So fundamentally keeping the property in contract Now with multifamily, and I'm saying get nine months worth of extensions Because I want to keep dragging for six, seven, eight, nine months because I'm actually making money And that's a very rare scenario. And and if you're a seller, be aware that they're going to try to drag you And if and when you look at it, debt, you have less cash flow If that debt gets less expensive, which means the value just went up. And if you're being forced to. Yes. Nine months of getting drag out They're like, when the value of is going up now it's a discount. I'm just teasing on that. But, but, but I see people that do get in that and somebody's dragging them along. And when, when the market's going down, You know, they're looking for cheaper every flippin month, if they can get you the value of their property just went up Yep. So yep. Just be aware. Be a big, you know, big boys and big girls are going on and that that's that's that's going to be anybody the Fed, especially, like you when they meet and they start estimating 3% end of the year, If the Fed backs that up, I think that Q3, Q4, you're going to have people You're looking at saying here, that I can delay, the better off So just be aware. Yeah. Any other one item I wanted to add on I think very few investors So if you look at you know, 4.75, but 4.75 is is the discount window The banks are actually getting the, from the from the Fed yet Right. So you might say That's a big number from the 4.75 Well, that's or one and a quarter percent, They're basically playing The moment the Fed even says rates further, that It collapses And so without the Fed dropping rates, without the Fed doing anything to rates, that they're at a plateau, see 30 year mortgages go down because now They can use the normal scenario. Yeah, I mean, that makes sense. And what's the normal amount? Between 1.1 and a quarter and one and a So if what you're saying is is accurate, then you could see an immediate drop to three quarters of a percent, I'd say, What if they did that this time again? By the time this this video goes out, they may have already met it be kind of fun. Just put it in a time capsule, you know. But what if they don't raise What if the fool takes the drastic action Maybe it's a little bit worse I mean, again, being on the line of of having you know, and not being able What is what does that look like? I think it's a bad idea, and because if they do it, they're going And if they reignite rallies, further, slower than we like, you're going to reignite inflation. I think that is a very big risk The Fed right now has to take risks. And all of the risks, But I think that if they take the decision you'll see a big, huge stock market you know what, rates are about to go down, And the moment we do that, inflation screaming upwards. What do you think about the 2% mark where they're saying What do you think about this? Is that an arbitrary rule at four, 6% or something higher? I think it's very problematic So the US government but the Fed funds rate actually sets the standard So the eurozone's debt So we have $30 trillion of debt there. The Eurozone is larger than the U.S. and so they've got more than $30 The Japanese have huge amounts debt. So the church, so does the Chinese. So the world banking system is the Fed funds being around that to 2.5%, And that is the Goldilocks zone, most governments No one can pay that back. I think that there's going to be there's But I think that as long as people the can down the road. And inflation is one of those things Too much inflation is bad The US government, $30 trillion and the Fed funds rate is at 4%, trillion of interest in a year. Well, and the Pentagon So I don't think the world functions when the Fed funds rate So eventually they have to figure out Having said that, to 2.5 and inflation closer to 3%. I don't think that there is a possibility of inflation because of energy costs. We're in a expensive one time transition basically everything being, That is a expensive transition. It's very, very expensive. It costs tens of trillions of dollars, As we go through that process, all of that Remember, If transportation is expensive, because everything in our in It's all based on energy and the cost And so I think you're going to see plus percent range for developed running even hotter than that for, you know, China and India I don't think there's any way genie completely back in the bottle. We're going to have to live with it. Yeah, I agree. I wonder whether this was just again, quarterback on a monday morning or whatever they call it, Monday And say, oh, the Fed raised it That at the end of the day, it seems like a little patience might might play out. And I think that what you're telling I never tell somebody not to be investing. So I know that in the multifamily, you're But I kind of look at say if something's I'm not a big debt guy. I'm so adverse to debt. I hate debt. I know that that there's a use for it. But I just I've never seen somebody So I'm like, I tend to be on that side. So I say like, hey, still be buying. But for the most part And when, when, you know, the green like it gets played, And that's what I'm saying, I have I do have a tip I was speaking at a conference called The Best It was in Utah. And one of the other speakers buys Right. Her name's Kathy Farrow. You I think you know her well. I know you, right? Yeah So what Kathy was saying a lot of single family purchase She had some data that I want to share with your users This is an incredible time So the market's gone down, less than you were 12 months ago, she says it's it's gone where now there's one has dramatically increased, especially in She says you should be throwing all kinds and if you throw enough of them, Now you're getting the same price that people would have gotten four So you're basically getting six months and you're getting the price whatever the bottom might have been. So this is a great time Well, Kathy's really, really smart and has been doing this a long time I happen to agree with her, I'm dumb lawyer who does lots of tax stuff, and I'm still looking at it going when So somebody could tell me all day that interest means nothing to me other So I look at it saying, Hey, I'm the only guy that some of these folks So we've been doing just fine. But the dynamic. Kasuga I'm like one of those dudes, the, Love it, Neal. But I'm smart enough to know that That's why I go to guys like you crappy little houses That's my thing. I love little single family houses you know, ten instead of it in there Yeah, I love those folks But I look at them as like, you're You're it's They're you know, and I'm not going to look at it So I'm going to do everything I can And I love that area. But Kathy's really, really bright, We know those guys for years. So any any parting comments now? We've gone way over. But I always like talking to you as a 20 minutes becomes 40 minutes I'm this in my mind may be a great time to buy bank stocks, and I'm not talking about something but I don't understand at this point They all made 20 plus billion dollars in deposits in the last week. Chase got easily $40 billion. Bank of America said they got $18 billion. Wells Fargo said they got 17 billion. I'm sure Citi So so they're primed. They're there. Their stock price has all gone down, but the deposits have all gone up So if you're a too big to fail bank, because as I said, I believe another bank is going to fail Every time a bank fails, They go to the too big to fail banks. So every single time the big banks are the ones So it's a tremendous time in my mind off of the price from, let's say, Obviously, the big banks are not going because if they do, then So I'd say Citi Chase, Wells Fargo, I'm forgetting one of the big banks, This may be a great time I, I agree with you. People liked them before this was going on and at a higher price So have to channel your you got to be greedy And it is a little bit freaky to stick But I look at it the same way. I remember when the casinos were all getting beat down here you know, during the recession, They print money, you know, Yeah. You might want to go buy some of those real cheap, There must be something wrong with it. So why do I want it? You might want to be doing that I think is what you're saying. And I tend to think that's wise as well. All right. So anything else or are we good, Neal? Now, I just want to say this is actually Buffett, this this is bargain time Be very active. Be reading a lot of news really doesn't as much value But right now, you know, I, Wall Street Journal continuously open firstly I don't connect with social media, but right now I'm paying attention to make right now is significantly I agree with you. If somebody wants to follow you. Speaking of how do they how do they get Well, it's easy, actually. I'm the only Neal Bawa on the worldwide Simply type in Neal Space We do offer about 20 data driven webinars That's multifamily, Last year, we had 26,000 people register And as you can imagine, there's a webinar in a in a few days here. So check out multifamily EW.com. Perfect. Will send me your way. We'll put you in the show notes. We'll make sure that anybody can find you You're always a fantastic guest Thanks again, Neil, We'll continue to watch what's going on. And I'm sure that there'll be And we'll we'll get on But certainly sounds like for the backbone and the skill, Sounds good.