On December 20th, 2019, President Donald Trump This was hilarious. Stephen Colbert had a field day: "Space spaaaaace force... [laughs.]" And Jimmy Kimmel: "Space force... [laughs]... that was not a scene from a movie And James Corden: "The space force, I'm And Trevor Noah: "Space force... [laughs]... I don't even know, I don't even know where And even Steve Carrel in his Netflix show Force: "Space force... [laughs.]" But then this happened. That was a Russian A325 Nudol hypersonic missile. It launched from Plesetsk Cosmodrome in the represented was Russia's first destructive Observers knew that it was always a question weaponry designed to destroy enemy satellites, only destroyed their own satellite, the world Six months later, it took another step. A mere hour before Russian convoys crossed cyber operatives used stolen credentials to satellite internet provider ViaSat--the very military used for their battlefield communications. The operatives then used this access to push ViaSat modems around Europe, therefore disabling the Ukrainian military when they needed coordination This represents perhaps the most extreme instance during a conflict. Then, the year after that, in 2023, Houthi missile, almost certainly supplied to them of Eilat. The Israeli Defense Forces successfully detected to intercept it. The point at which this interception happened, was more than 100 miles or 160 kilometers this was the very first time in history that has ever occurred in space. But it certainly will not be the last. Fundamentally, that's because space is valuable. In particular, the part of space that is most context, and strategically, in a military And the reason why orbital space is valuable sometimes, for a lot of different reasons, useful. Earth's orbit is a platform. Putting something further away from the ground This allows this something to either observe earth, and this has plenty of applications forecasting, navigation, internet connectivity, Crucial cogs of the modern world rely on the But it's specifically orbit, not just space, And what a satellite can do has to do with An orbit 10,000 miles from earth will have 20,000 miles from earth. That's because the closer an object is to and therefore the faster a rotational speed pull--that's how satellites avoid getting through the atmosphere. If a satellite is around 150 miles above earth, hour. If a satellite is 22,223 miles away, however, That particular speed translates to a very a full trip around earth: 23 hours, 56 minutes, That is the exact same amount of time it takes relative to a fixed point, rather than the around the sun. Therefore, with the same rotational speed never move from the perspective of earth--as always stay right above that point. This is extremely useful from an economic is extraordinarily expensive. DirecTV, for example--the American satellite spent $300 or $400 million per satellite. But this could be justified from the get-go When the company launched its first, DirecTV-1, Galapagos Islands--specifically, 91.1 degrees Notably, the mean center of the population lived--sat approximately 91.4 degrees west was launched, meaning this very particular vantage point to the most number of Americans If geostationary orbits were not possible, applications would never have worked since circling the earth just to provide the same in which they operate. Predictably, this narrow slice of space is ViaSat, for example, placed its first satellites on coverage for the high demand region including rather than using resources less efficiently and other customers. Meteorological organizations like NOAA or orbits to stretch their limited resources coverage over the specific area of the world countries. But what compounds the value of orbits is Satellites have successfully orbited as little the distance of those geostationary satellites. This sort of low earth orbit is useful for want to be close to earth. SpaceX's Starlink system was able to pioneer placing satellites just 342 miles or 550 kilometers That's because ViaSat's geostationary over 600 milliseconds for a signal to transmit station, to the satellite, and back. That length of time is notable to a user and calls. Thanks to proximity, Starlink is able to do which is almost imperceptibly slower than But of course, there's a lot of space between That means there's an incredible spectrum After sorting through the tradeoffs, one can And if there's anyone that loves a good The very principles that make satellites so service make them even more useful for military The very principles that make satellites so imaging make them even more useful for military And perhaps most usefully, space is still is almost entirely secret. The United States Department of Defense operates it's notable that we don't know the exact Any satellite can be tracked, meaning we do but that doesn't mean we know who operates But rocket launches are still rather newsworthy usually be gleaned through the correlation leaving the launch vehicle in space. But if the public isn't told what a satellite know. On June 6th, 2022, a Falcon 9 rocket lifted satellite for the company Globalstar, but The rocket's first stage booster went and Drone Ship, rather than returning to its original But SpaceX only needs to use the drone ship left to navigate back to the launch site, a heavy payload or a further destination. But in this case, the Globalstar satellite only going to low earth orbit, so the booster Next, in the livestream, viewers noticed this--an to attach satellites to the rocket during But nothing was on it, and the Globalstar To confirm their suspicions, amateur satellite zone, went to their telescopes, and found More than a year later, that's still just about these four satellites: simply that they It's believed they're DOD operated under we'll likely never find out anything more. Eventually, they'll deorbit, burn up in with them. And this is hardly an anomaly: about half years have come with zero info on their purpose it's possible the military gave limited or This degree of secrecy, and especially the the secrecy, is simply unparalleled. But it does come with a fundamental trade-off. The public might not know what a satellite makes military satellites so incredibly vulnerable. Take, for instance, GPS satellites. And, take for instance, this specific launch Propelled by an Atlas V rocket from Cape Canaveral, a hitch, just like the 11 IIF launches before Today, eight years on, IIF-12, or USA-266, 19,982 kilometers above earth in a semi-synchronous rotation of the planet every 12 hours. That's to be expected, as it's still within But it's also an incredibly good thing, satellite along with the other 10 functional for the American GPS constellation--making the US operates. No matter where one looks, the global positioning that's synching the timing on financial the food that we ultimately eat. And it's used by practically everything: in the US, a number that in 2024 must now Yet to its operator, the US Space Force, these benefit of the system designed for their own GPS is just massively important. And yet, it hinges on the operability of just of cogs. Out of sight, out of mind, and perpetually classmates aren't only important, they're Currently in the golden years of their lifecycle, cost $1.4 billion, they took a decade for cost overrun, there were only 12 ever built, At once they're invaluable and extremely They're also sitting ducks. Unlike in traditional warfare, space has no mountain ranges, no endless oceans, no impenetrable There's only the matter of providing enough capabilities to maintain control once in orbit. From there, in the most literal sense, there's satellites are trackable. Thus, satellites, whether high or low, geostationary not, represent the easiest target imaginable. This was always obvious. So much so that we recognized where we'd the height of the space race as the abilities when the world's nation's came together the Outer Space Treaty of 1967. It was a nod to the fact that as technology remained at odds, that warfare would extend So it laid ground rules. For issues of conflict, warfare, and nuclear outlines that no nuclear weapons or weapons and that there shall not be any military installments bodies. It's a start; but the problem is article IV's placing conventional arms in orbit. So, should the time come that tensions begin advanced space programs, there's really up, or protect any sort of orbital infrastructure For the United States, the world's preeminent geographical vulnerability has been masked direct allies were the only countries with But this is changing quickly. Most recently, space warfare has manifested clear, not entirely unclassified reference of somesort, be it the power source or the While a captivating headline that's stoked way toward full militarization for well over battlefield in theory, to simply the next Thanks to the mix of advancing technology, to space than ever, there's now a big three And all are building out their offensive capabilities. This offensive space weaponry is split into that physically collide with satellites, and unusable by non-invasive means. Now, we don't know the full capabilities or non-kinetic, as these are still highly gets a peek behind the curtain with what the of the world calls a show of force. What became well understood with the launch that all the world's major space powers--Russia, in earth-to-space attacks. In the wake of the massive and dangerous debris that it would no longer test direct ascent But it did, for its part, successfully carry conventional missile into orbit to destroy China has also proved such capabilities when, its own satellites with a missile. What's less understood--thanks to the unparallelled therefore more cause for concern between military each nation's satellites themselves. The US doesn't have an explicitly titled any sort, but it has proved it can attack in space. As early as 1987, in low earth orbit, the a space to space attack--when a second stage satellite. More recently, and far higher up, Chinese own geostationary satellites noticed something recently launched Chinese satellites' tails. While simply tagging along, the observation far off ones shows that the US has the capability all possible distances. In this, the US is not unique, as China and satellites with their own Rendezvous and Proximity Of course, with machines as delicate and fragile all else, nearby observation can feel unnervingly propulsion and one collision to turn a satellite But ramming's a crude, one for one proposition. So: satellites that can fight. China's Shijian series of satellites have that US Defense reports say could well double Not to be outpaced in the space arms race, the world deemed an offensive satellite in Seemingly an unspectacular launch of an unspectacular 19th takeoff. That was until December 9th, when a smaller vehicle while in space. Observational in nature, the satellite seemed, But then in July of 2020, the satellite launched While the object didn't hit any satellite, labeled it a weapon on account of its rapid Satellites inside of satellites, arms on satellites, all taken to space in the last decade, and of. Taken together, these offensive capabilities ramming, grappling--out of context, this But the implications of using any such capability Space warfare, from a strategic perspective, Without any real defense, what's to stop a More distressing, once one satellite is attacked, junk is going to bash into. This is a graph of all known debris hurtling And these massive upticks, well, they just test here, a satellite collision here, and From just this Russian test, producing a relatively astronauts in the ISS were forced to take as a precaution that a piece of debris might With just this test, one expert estimated in low earth orbit doubled. And should such a collision occur, well, then creating not a one-to-one domino effect, but from one satellite knocks out two, the debris eventually, there's simply too much debris It's exactly here where space warfare, rather warfare, begins to develop parallels to nuclear to conjure ideas of mutually assured destruction. Much like nuclear warfare, then, offensive deterrence, but of course, so do defensive And so in 2023, the US DOD developed and declared The core of it really is to just not worry Put another way, their focus is on so-called The Space-Based Infrared System, for example, US military. It's their primary space-based system for around the world. But the constellation providing this capability up of six geostationary satellites for primary to cover the polar regions. That's why on February 14th, 2024, the DOD A Falcon 9 rocket carried the first four missile Proliferated Warfighter Space Architecture They joined twenty communications satellites of missile launches from the tracking satellites constellation already larger in quantity than refer to as tranche 0. The next phase of this project, slated to to include 126 communication satellites, 35 testing new technology meaning, soon enough, the Department of Defense's satellite count, in 2026, a tranche 3 in 2028, and a tranche With such a colossal constellation, no one In fact, it would take a massive, coordinated, its capability. Yet, the cost of this system is not dramatically it's deployed in low-earth orbit which necessitates instruments. In fact, each of the constellation's satellites which, in military satellite terms, is astonishingly Therefore, low-earth orbits and massive constellation-counts space. But ultimately, the militarization of space space is such a good thing. We benefit so tremendously much from what Whole sectors of the economy could not exist Countless lives are saved through the added provide. The urban-rural technological divide is flattening provide. And the benefits are only accelerating--with improves, innovators find more and more ways Just last month, for example, the first test with the capsule's return to earth, marking revolution thanks to the unique production Crippling these abilities would cripple earth. There is a theoretical point at which a given it just becomes unusable. Earth could lose the ability to use low earth It won't be doomsday--in the long term cost and with lower capability--but a shared and it all would have been entirely avoidable. The parallels with nuclear militarization It's in everyone's best interest to not others have, others believe they must. If Russia has anti-satellite capabilities, it must too. What the world is hopefully gaining an understanding reality, is that war in space is the metaphorical Just as we focus on nuclear non-proliferation, space weaponry which is potentially even tougher Countries can and have used conventional missiles hardly even a way to ban the technology--as There are countries with which one simply have capable and growing conventional missile So it's just not that hard to start a war The answers on how to solve this conundrum One can merely hope that all understand the into the stars, and that mutually-assured-destruction rather than a devastating reality. I was personally amazed how interesting the a topic--I found it amazing how relevant earthly geopolitics... again, I suppose. If you also found this interesting, then I've First and foremost, Brian and his team at fascinating three-part series about the Space The Space Shuttle was crucial in lowering of its technology is now getting applied to In addition to the three main videos, Real of the Space Shuttle Atlantis and interview exclusively to Nebula. Next, I'd suggest watching Joseph from Real invasion of Ukraine. At over 90 minutes of runtime, it goes into never seen and gives crucial context on what played. The reason why Real Life Lore is able to cover Conflicts is a Nebula Original--YouTube has conflicts in a way that restricts crucial And it's hard to blame them for that because want to risk angering anyone, but Nebula doesn't--it's creators, believe is just a better economic Not only are advertisements and sponsorships incentivize views at any cost, rather than In addition, with the subscription revenue, high-budget Nebula Originals from creators--there to Modern Conflicts, and some of the most now. Best of all, Nebula is genuinely the most founded it and own it, after all. When you sign up with our link, Nebula.tv/Wendover, fee for as long as you stay subscribed, but platform has to offer--not just our stuff. And at that link, you'll get 40% off an down to under $3 a month meaning, not only you ever subscribe to, it'll also probably So, once again, head to Nebula.tv/Wendover support.