Hey guys, And we received a lot of questions on the Book DLM Men's Lifestyle where I talked about the flood and how the fallen angels influenced So these are some of the questions we got. Or is the Book of Enoch one of Or can we trust the Book of Enoch? It's very old. it because some of the things in it are true. the Nephilim, which are mixed and it also talks about the end times. 6 timeline in great detail, explaining the fallen And it's also interesting that they found Bible when they found the Dead Sea scrolls. starting to ask questions about this book. some of these questions and let [2 Timothy 3:16] Now, what is the Bible and I've explained most of this in my whole series There's a whole playlist on my channel. go and watch it after this video. it today - that we know is put together by then Jesus, the eyewitness accounts of and then also what the other apostles after I'll talk about this a little bit later on. together hundreds of years after That's not true. created just to control people. We know for a fact that the Bible was put Jesus and what the disciples after I mean the first canon was the Muratorian And it had all the New Testament books as well, Remember, in the time of the and sending the letters to each other. could be trusted and what could not be trusted. stated that only the Old Testament, along with New Testament - everything but Revelation - The Council of Hippo then later, AD AD 397, also affirmed the same 27 books They knew exactly what can be That which can be trusted is called the canon. the apostles after Jesus, to write down His Word. but through the Spirit. 2 Timothy 3: 15-6. Remember I started with this? That's amazing that they they wrote it as It's amazing. to tell us and give us truth. [ 2 Peter 1: 21] Now, just because something is old, it So could there have been other people in also wrote books about the Old Testament? the Apostles? But that does not mean that it should be written through the Spirit, but by mere men. that the apostles warned against. [2 Peter 3:15-16] So, there were people at that time, who and the disciples who started to share the That's what they called it. Christians at that time, but people of the way. things, for example, some were called agnostics the apostles or even the Old Testament prophets. These books are called the Apocrypha. which means a piece of ancient literature Pseudepigraphen will purport to have a, well, author, but its claims are unfounded. of Enoch is not Enoch. Scholars know that. probably used the name to try and make his book a Enoch lived before the flood. We have no literature of that time. and just in case some of you do not know And God just took him. experienced death, because God just took him. was.....do you know ? [Genesis 5:24] And then we see this again in the New Testament. [Hebrews 11:5] Now, before he was taken he was So Enoch was a man of God but he In fact, there's not just Some people just think there's just one. There is one Enoch, then 2 Enoch, also And lastly another book which is Now, some people say that the Book of Enoch should Is that true? [Jude 1:14-15] Now, because Jude quotes this, That this is what he said. And many of the disciples and Jesus Himself But here we have Jude who does not quote but from the Book of Enoch. that he quoted is true, it doesn't mean that it should be part of God's There might be many things and there that is true, but some are not. I can say something right now that is truthful, Paul actually also quoted He didn't quote from the Old I'm not sure how you pronounce that, Epimenides. [Titus 1:12] So, even though Paul quoted Epimenides - that's mean that we should now suddenly believe the Bible and say that this is from God Himself, And live it. We trust the prophets God chose in in the New Testament and Jesus. us through scripture. The Bible that we have today is complete. Of course you can. there that's true that's very interesting, And don't just assume that everything it that is not true and historically incorrect. That's why they're not in the Bible, they contradict what scripture says. series of can you trust the Bible? Now, if you do want to know the truth of what the Bible mean exactly, that fallen angels came the Nephilim - the mixed breeds - and what the tower of Babel start and the new religions - I think you will really really like. I'll see you there. if you haven't done so already. And I love you, too.