- One of our favorite pastimes is buying weird technology off AliExpress, waiting the requisite 4 to and opening it up for all of you. Because I mean, let's be honest, it's an adventure every time. Which raises the question, Linus, how is it even possible that to build an entire computer with nothing but parts off AliExpress? Well, we did. And we're doing it. What the hell is this? And why is it brought to you by GlassWire? With GlassWire you can keep that's connecting to your PC, and you can see if a strange and block it instantly. Get 25% off today using in the video description. (upbeat music) The ground rules for our were pretty simple. Build a pretty powerful gaming rig without spending so much money that you could have bought it somewhere other than AliExpress. We went for the best bang that we could find and in we went with the more AliExpress option. We don't actually have all of the parts that we ordered back on June the 3rd because, as I alluded to before, shipping time was anywhere from to after five months out of nowhere. But you don't wait to build your PC because your fans didn't arrive. So we just grabbed a handful of fans we had kicking around that and we're gonna get this going. We actually have to build our that we get some very Oh, they must have printed this with their definitely - [Andy] Education, like - This is a virtual water Good cooling function, has Fantastic. - So it offers for $5 the - Yeah. - But. and just gave us our money back. But Sarah had already created the design and we own a laser cutter, so. (Linus chuckles) - Nerd. They included gloves. That's actually very because otherwise it is by the time you're done. I think there's about a 95% chance that I'm gonna finish building the whole rest of the Not because you suck, Over here I'm gonna begin This is the, BATTLE-AX This puppy was 87.54 with shipping, which is not actually a great can be had for like 80 bucks on Newegg, but it was the best we could do for a motherboard from AliExpress. We're actually off to a pretty good start in terms of fit and finish. Fits. - Nice. - It doesn't come out or anything - So far I have peeled off one of these. I think the longest is going to be just removing - Our CPU is a really funny one. Now, obviously this is a B450 board so we're going to be putting That doesn't sound until you consider that this Ryzen 7 2700 is $10 cheaper than that has ever been sold for. The seller offers a lifetime it seems like it might we don't know. You know what, no, this looks brand new. - Ha! - Like it doesn't come with a cooler. That's probably that $10 price delta. - [Alex] Oh. - Now RAM, I'm expecting to be able to find some This comes with a little tiny broom. Curiously, the broom is about this memory because it's which to my knowledge are So only the module assembly Superior quality, lifetime warranty, factory wholesale professional service. What is 163.com? - [Andy] A website that and look at news and they - So this is just like a free email? Oh yeah, I'm sure that lifetime warranty is gonna work out great for ya. 10 Bash, shsh. Wow, it's actually rated that's not bad. But then 16 gigs of RAM is about par for the course so the lesson here is don't Not because this isn't gonna with micron chips, but just 'cause why. - So far the instructions So I feel like this is gonna The biggest thing is if putting stuff like this together it would be really easy one of these screws and just So, just be careful of - Is this just completely you ordered at all? - I'm so confused. - [Linus] Did you order two coolers? - [Alex] I'm going to go see - Okay, bye-bye. Hey, we got the SNOWMAN. This puppy will run you and that's if you select But I'm not actually sure, oh, it's a, with a (Linus blowing raspberry) That's better. This weird, so each of these fans actually has five conductors, and then two of them are just and just hanging off over here, and the other four are hardwired into a single 4 pin power connector. So you don't need a wire adapter or anything like that to mount but I also just, I wonder This says right on the but this is clearly an and I don't see any other accessories. It's a good thing we How little would you have to pay yourself to justify assembling your own case versus just paying a little bit extra and getting one that's already built? - I don't know, like I prefer to build it that like it's all built correctly. I'd say it mostly just this looks cool for some reason. What is a bit interesting they kind of slide into that we have here. And then they like have little notches that hold it together, which instead of sliding - [Linus] Oh, I understand why. It's so that there's additional It's a foot. - Oh yeah, I see. - [Linus] That's not - They also could have just - They definitely could have. The last piece we can assemble before Alex is done with At 60 bucks this can be all the way to a total rip off, and we have no way of knowing because the website for (Linus coughs) &quot;The PCB color, flash chips type, flash chip number may different One thing I really do wanna know is if this is a DRAM-less design, so that's why I'm peeling And it is, so it's not great. Dang, I think I lost the bet. I lost the game. - [Alex] I'm gonna do it tool-less style. Where does this go in? - Hey, so I won then, nice. Man, I love working here. Not from the work, the work but I love you guys. All right, let's ah, let's go ahead and put this I/O field in. Does it only stick in from the one side? It definitely doesn't grab as well as it did on the other side, but it's in. Ah. Hey, fortunately, we've got that ah, that other cooler, the Alseye that we thought was for this build, but actually we don't know - [Alex] Yay. - That worked out. Also RGB. Okay. Now I'm good, Alex, no zip Hey, there it is. This motherboard has two fan headers including the CPU header but it does have an RGB header onboard. - [Alex] Oh sick. - This lack of fan headers so I had to string together and then two Y-splitters in order to get the four fan connectors that I need to plug in all The best part is that we're The only thing I know for is either gonna make this Now we're not sure yet if this is 800 watts or 1,000 watts. We do know that it is non modular, and we are expecting it to have all of the cables and wow, be incredibly classy. This is, don't hate the You ready for the weight comparison? 1,200 grams. All right. Hmm, 1,900 grams. Also the cables are - [Alex] Also, that's an 850. - Also it's an 850 watt power supply. Dare me to plug this into an RTX 3090. - [Alex] No! - Theoretically it'll run it. - [Alex] Actually it won't. - So much for my theory about it helping with the structural rigidity at all. This I'm expecting to actually be fine. Once again, Colorful is the only real like decent brand over in that we don't also have or North America, so, this was the most AliExpress As for why we went 2000 well, like I said, we waited and the 2000 series was In fairness, I don't think without tearing apart the case. But truthfully, that's not saying much. Oh. After some scrubbing it looks I don't know, there, how's that? Can you see it? Can you see this shirt? lttstore.com (Linus laughs) Okay. Alex? You're done goofed. It's keyed, it only goes on one way. The last thing I wanna see before we try out the whole yeah, there's peripherals too guys, is if adding this other side panel helps the rigidity a little bit. Theoretically it should. This is now a box instead of It's better. It's a lot better. Now it's like, hey, you know, it's not even coming apart at all. Yeah, that's our case right, yeah. Remember my theory about the air intake under All we got is this The rest of it, the acrylic goes all the way down to the table. Oh, these are Lair RGB fans. - [Alex] Oh. (upbeat music) I picture myself pretty in a limousine My face on the cover of every magazine Oh Sexy, sexy That's all I want Sexy, sexy That's all Sexy, sexy That's all I want LED lighted mouse pad, oh. Oh, my God. Look at this graphic. What even is this? Did you know this had like a on it? - [Alex] Yeah. Thick and smooth, I think that about describes it. I've got a keyboard with (keyboard clicking) But when you press it it does definitely have - [Alex] Yes. (keyboard clicking) - That's not a bad onomatopoeia for it. You know, this is far AliExpress gaming mouse A PMW 3360 sensor. - [Alex] Yeah. - Compatible with all Windows XP, 7, 8, 10 operating system. Dang, this is $27? It actually feels like pretty good. - [Andy] Yeah. Rubber grip, like ha! This is a little less but hey, at least it's This is the most hardcore braided cable that I have ever encountered. AliExpress gaming time. We ready boys and girls? Give it the old reach around here. Oh, is that plugged into the wall? - [Alex] Did you hit the power button? - Oh, yeah, there we go. Oh no, I don't think it 'cause of a clearance It's like almost, it almost goes in. Oh wait, I think the mic is, Computer reset. We are rebooting sir, okay. Forget it, we're just All right, well, one thing down already. - [Alex] Oh, is it just - No, I checked. Yeah, it is supposed to Oh, hey, there it is. Oh wow, that's really not very bright. I mean, in the dark, You have to come and I doubt you'll be able Wait, did this just reboot again? What the crap? I don't think it was from I just rebooted again. I'm back on the sign-in screen. - [Alex] Do you think - I think there's a very solid chance it's the power supply, yes. Yeah, it makes sense, as from the GPU, this thing I mean, do we have And that my friends, is why on aliexpress.com. In fact, there's really no good reason to buy any of this stuff - [Alex] Not really. I mean, if you absolutely I guess it is unlike and so, that would be the place to get it, but everything else here is available for the on reputable sites like And you don't run the four months or even never So there you have it, And that's about the strongest endorsement that I can give to it. Unlike our sponsor, FreshBooks is the all in and accounting solution It's designed to be simple and intuitive, so you can spend less time on paperwork and more time running your business. With FreshBooks you can automate tasks like invoicing, organizing expenses, tracking your time, and And you can accept credit right on the invoices to get The best part is that So you can switch from the with ease, and pick up Pricing starts at just $15 a month with their $25 a month package handling up to 50 billable clients. So don't wait, get 50% off your first when you sign up for a paid plan at freshbooks.com/techtips. It's amazing the kind of You can only get 50% off on a paid plan. If you guys enjoyed this video you might also enjoy our allwish.com PC, which, last time I checked is actually our top So. - You know, what was our agenda for doing an all AliExpress PC? Gee, I wonder. I've been accused of making videos for - [Alex] Wow. - I'll let you in on a secret, you don't make videos to not get watched. - [Alex] Full Taobao PC? - What's a full Taobao PC? Bring this hand up to cover myself and I whacked the bottom of the table. - [Alex] Oh sorry. No it's okay. Ow. Like I dented my hand. All right.