Then I'm afraid this one's not gonna be a lot of fun because the badminton/ lan gaming center is going freaking awesome I've got Dan and the smash champs team here to show you guys Everything from the server room to the vending machines to the game cameras on the courts Let's start with the access control. Okay, Dan, let us in. All right. Here's your new badminton center. There you go Open the door But that's an error. Invalid pin, but it works. And you go It's a great start. Are there problems with the other stuff? Yeah, probably All right, the haters might get something out of this and they're gonna get the segue to our sponsor Odoo, their all-in-one business software can help you focus on running and improving your business rather than wasting time jumping between different apps Click the link in the description or watch till the end of this video to learn more. This is incredible The shop looks amazing and I noticed all the security cameras are in. There's a couple that we didn't do upstairs, but they're not technically our fault What even does that mean? I'll show you later There's lots more Before we get to that our pro shops gonna be carrying a variety of bags Rackets, strings, grips and shuttles from brands like Victor and Yonex and look at that. We've even got shoes Did we show the stringing machines last time? I don't think so. These things are awesome. Well, here they are badminton, tennis, racquetball, squash Theoretically these machines can do them, but I think we're only trained for badminton rackets. That's right, right We don't know how to do tennis rackets, do we? Cool but what we do know how to do is install TVs and I'm really excited to show you guys how these work not On this one this one. I don't think is powered on yet. Oh no, hold on before we get to that. Yeah, you're gonna need a point-of-sale system. I don't see one Yeah, there's also no Ethernet for it. Did they not put the Ethernet in here? my original plans There was three along here. Yeah, and then at some point it got changed and now there's none That's for a security monitor so There's a pull cord. Why would they put a pull cord and not the ethernet? Cuz you didn't ask for either that.I did. I did. Get your documents out of here. I have papers to prove it. That doesn't mean I didn't ask for it That didn't make it on. there are my drawings Okay, but the TVs have networking right? that's right they run on a hundred meg Well, okay. Yeah, we would have gone with high-end digital signage, but then we saw the price There's a lot of money and these TCL TVs They seem fine. With that said there may have been some advantages to going with digital signage. You didn't have to buy the absolute cheapest TVs. Well, let's drop in on Jake real quick Your review of the content management system for these in five words or less That's not even a word he didn't even need words folks. we have some learning to do and also. I hate it. Yeah Look, once it's got some static images on it to just cycle through it'll probably be good enough But are you trying to put crab rave on it? Yes. Wait a second. Is this Like a TCL thing. It's called zebo. It's like a signage management thing Oh, okay can run on Android it can run on like Tizen OS it can run on all the different things So we just side loaded the app on there. It gives you a code. We're self hosting this it's Kludgy and like it'll look fine here and then you get to the TV and it's Whatever that is. It's definitely playing I can hear it. But why is it in a tiny window at the top? also, that's gotta be like 144p well, maybe it's cuz it's a piece of crap and you bought the cheapest TVs at Costco. I think it just doesn't use the hardware acceleration of the chip that's in this TV when it's a YouTube embed I was gonna try just uploading crab rave as a file, but it fails with no error reason Enough of what doesn't work. Let's look at what does work Raj. You're the vending machine King, right? Yeah, okay Can I buy something sure you can. are you sure? Yeah, it's gonna work. Yeah, he's staking his entire reputation on this working What should I get? wait, why do we have prime? Are you a Logan Paul fan? Wait, is that the Paul brothers that does prime? No, not really. Okay. I'm gonna buy a Gatorade. Oh we take tap. Nice It works success Look at that And it's cold how does restocking work? Oh wow, that's tedious I'm gonna pull it out. I just twist it some more Do the twist, sorry. Oh Okay, cool. Oh, wow, that's gonna be pretty heavy with a bunch of stuff on it So I could put my like half drunk one here and like no one would be any of the wiser That's the wrong answer you can't let me do that. It's a funny thing right because until I had to buy a vending machine, I didn't think about it at all Yeah, my understanding of vending machines is like stuck in the 90s where they're all like super mechanical and things like that This one's got it like windows on it and it's got Wi-Fi and like wow. No, I think it's more than just Wi-Fi I think it has a cellular connection That is and it talks back to their servers in order to make sure that they're getting their commission Basically. Enough about all that stuff though. Let's move out where the real excitement is We had these benches specially made for our badminton center and there's a couple of things that are pretty cool about them Let's put one right here, which is gonna be behind court one. first things first It's at exactly the right height Such that you can plug in your phone to charge while you're waiting for court time These one by one strips are gonna have those like gym mat pads on them. Oh look Dan has one Cool. So when you lean against the wall It'll be comfortable But wait, there's more. The clearance between the legs is perfect for a badminton bag Apparently crisp. high fives are priceless. Ah, oh, it's not that great. But this is pretty great What'd you do. I've changed it to 4k What that was the solution? Yeah. Also I found it in the settings There's an option to enable hardware acceleration all the time. I did that and it seems like the playback is a lot better That's great Okay, we take back most of the mean things that we said. I still think it's stupid. we take back some of the mean things. I take back nothing. Coming back over to the court. We've got another big video related update here We have two of the Sony cameras that we're gonna be using for our court cams These are gonna be for live streaming tournaments or just recording game footage So people can look at it for analysis or just for their own enjoyment. I know very little about them They're the Sony sRG XP one They're Peewee powered 4k 60 frames a second cameras, which send live stream feeds anywhere you want. Cool Yeah, can they do higher than 60 frames per second? No. that's probably enough anyway, though, right? I think so I know you originally wanted 240 but getting a camera that does that with a wide-angle lens of the kind of like, you know Streaming capability. Ip control and all that. Okay, but do they look good? They do they do Well, why don't we let the people be the judge? Okay We've got it configured two different ways either landscape. Mm-hmm Portrait that was Jake's suggestion. Sir. It was Jake's suggestion. Okay, there is a reason for that See when Dan did the modeling for what the view should look like He expected to have the cameras mounted a little further away from the courts But it turns out there's a wall there as much as I hate vertical video. I'd rather use the original camera position So, let's see how we feel about the vertical mount. Here we go, Jim Oh, no Actually, I could totally talk to you guys about the concrete that is on the floor right now So it's less of a concrete and more of a leveling compound The point is they sanded down the high points and then they put this leveling compound on the low points In order to make sure that it's super flat Oh, no, no, no, how dare you Let's see how it looks if we had the cameras farther away, but shoot horizontal. ready Dan? I hope so. Oh Our ceilings are super high So you can basically hit it as high as you want Oh Okay, let's see how the recording went There's real sweat. Oh speaking of which I don't think the HVAC solution was in last time I showed you guys so normally if you have air conditioning or heating you're gonna have like one Big duct like somewhere up in the ceiling It's gonna be blowing an enormous volume of air and it'll create a current inside the building We didn't want that because it means that the shuttle will drift when it's falling down Which can be distracting and can harm your game performance. So instead we're using what are called duct socks essentially, they're just fabric ends and they go on all of these ducts all around the facility and just Slowly dissipate the air out from the vents. It's not on right now If it was it would be all like inflated. It looks kind of cool. It works kind of like a bouncy castle I hope it works Look at how much of a smear there is behind the shuttle. Mm-hmm Yeah, good good Lord, how much would it cost if we needed something with like a global shutter So I have them completely full auto right now, but we can prioritize shutter We can set a dedicated shutter speed and kind of do whatever we want Okay, I'd be able to fix that up. Dude. This looks like a friggin LCD from 1998. Yeah, that's not great How much how much were those cameras? So these are about 2,500 bucks each. Oh good the problem is that any other competing one is 2,500 bucks and then you need a probably a $2,000 lens per camera and The the streaming doesn't work very well if it if it helps we haven't paid for these yet. They're just loaners from Sony Oh, okay, so I haven't spent the $40,000 What about those Panasonic ones that I had sent you. Those were also loaners those probably aren't gonna work The videos better, but they don't have the streaming features that you want. They're really bad Hopefully we can make these work. You know what? Of course, I'm hopeful. you should be Let's go look at the other side where things are even more interesting, especially for a lot of you folks What what was that? Okay, we were looking at it on that monitor and we were wondering if part of it was just motion blur on the monitor Oh, dude, there's some ghosting but it's not bad. It's not that bad. It's totally fine. Yeah. All right Hey, all right. Maybe the cameras are good. Okay Try again. I thought the access control works Dan Well, wait, it's not even locked anyway It got scared. we're gonna have access control between the sides because over there is gonna be all badminton all the time But on this side as you guys might recall, we're hoping to do LAN gaming events. Oh We should not be standing on this. This is like we've just been late today We're hoping to do LAN gaming events and most of our fiber terminations and our California standard 50 amp power outlets are distributed and perhaps more importantly Dan I gave you a bit of an update on this off-camera, but these guys don't know yet We had a really promising meeting with the city of Surrey That's right. With the general manager and he's super excited about us potentially doing eSports events here bringing them into the city And hopefully we're gonna be able to cut through some red tape And get some LAN gaming going in here. Let's go Oh Right, but I should show you guys the fiber connections, I guess 25 gig And it's not terminated yet. It's only gonna be 10 gig. It's gonna be dual 10 gig to each row. Oh, well, that's good That's 20 gig. Yeah. Oh My god, this is awful Jake, it's not synced They're in a sync group. I forgot our drinking fountain speaks whale. What they have to do something. They're gonna fix it Anyway, this is where we were heading and... behold the staff lounge. it'll be staff and members only Okay, so it's a staff and members lounge. Yes. Okay. Okay. These rooms are staff only. Yes, that's right What happened to the server room? Well it moved, smart guy. This looks awesome. We've got our mini split HVAC in here completely separate from the rest of the building just in case we have to add some You know machine vision or AI servers in here at some point to go along with our Steam cache and any other associated game servers, we've got a 5000 watt UPS this is the fiber that's going to the court side and will serve potentially Hundreds of land goers assuming that we can get everything sorted out with the city And then I mean this is gonna be what all of our security cameras WAPS Speakers, which we're not quite ready to show you guys but based on our early testing are gonna be really cool And I'm really excited about them Jake is there anything you wanted to shout out in here? I know, the fiber stuff looks pretty awesome Here check it in there. That's actually pro. Huh? A professional did it? Yeah We should do that more often Dang you might just have to get taller. And we've got all the coolest stuff from Ubiquiti, we've got dual UDM Pro Maxes We've got a bunch of switching up here. Core Switches all hooked up now. These are going down to downstairs This is all of our PoE switches for the cameras and APS and all that and then we've got a couple of their NVRs Which can be stacked together in software now handling all of our cameras, which Dan says he has an update on Oh and Hammond set this up to make the rack strong They're actually even gonna adjust the design of these racks They had never really accounted for somebody using them for all networking only on one side. They were meant for servers. Well The designs getting beefed up now What is going on with the cameras? There's a camera missing so we don't have any security cameras for the entire courts They're that one yeah But those were supposed to be for in here. Oh Well, what about the other side? it's the same thing that side they misunderstood and only ran one here instead of two So thankfully we have enough cameras to cover this whole place here Can we just go to a PoE power PoE switch and just mount two cameras? Yeah, sure, but now we have lights in the way It's not as bad from this Badminton England calls for the lights to be at about this height. So we were like, okay Let's have the lights at this height and then we didn't realize hey We've got an observation deck because we didn't VR tour the plan with the lights. So anyway, yeah, we can't see very well But that's okay. There's gonna be chairs and tables all along here. So you'll kind of be able to see. Any who It sounds like that's very solvable and we'll just run an Ethernet cable nicely cable managed down to there and point it that way I have a better solution. Oh, okay We didn't realize that the new hubs actually have room for two PoE cameras and there's a hub right down there So I can go through the drop ceiling and put one sort of in that corner and it'll look nice Yeah, that would work too, that's another thing that I was considering okay, so there's solutions around it. All right Yeah, they're nice. They didn't put any boxes along the back though. You see that giant nice spaghetti. Thanks Infinite cables. I've got some spaghetti. Wait a second. Why am I not on the Wi-Fi? Some of the APS are running fast Ethernet right now some of the cable runs are just Not great. No, no, no. No, we just haven't we haven't patched everything We've just got everything plugged in and we haven't reorganized everything yet Yeah, we've been having an issue where your phones and the Wi-Fi's will prefer the 2.5 gig ones to the 1 gig So this one here is 1 gig the one on the ceiling and the other building is two and a half So your phone wants to keep on that one. I just can't reach it. Most likely There's also a couple that are at fast Ethernet and they might be causing some problems I'm so glad I don't have to deal with this stuff anymore. I think that's it for today guys What do you mean the room downstairs? Oh, yeah He's never that happy when it's good. More money more money. We need more split system No Jacob no way. No way. It's not that hot No speakers are running there's barely any power draw in the building. It's like 28 in here Okay in fairness I Freaking thought of this and I specced this completely differently I specced this as two rooms with the divider still down the middle and then with little Hobbit doors That had and like an exhaust on the top and an intake on the bottom So I did spec this. We can probably fix this without putting a mini split in here It just needs some amount of going like honestly noctua fans on the top of this Yeah would would probably be enough in fact Creator warehouse kind of the same idea where there's a closet under the stairs of the Transformers in we just added one of those duct booster fans and the problem totally went away Okay, but it needs something. Yeah, it need something. This is gonna be a problem What about this though that work I mean it opened Oh They haven't put the meg strikes in yet. I see that, why? I don't know they didn't have any enough They didn't have enough they ran out. Didn't you tell me that they don't want to run the wires? Yeah, it's not in their contract to actually plug them in So when they put them in the door I have to take them out again and plug in the two wires and then put them back in the door on The other like seven that have to be done. You know what else has to be done the segue to our sponsor Odoo imagine this you're running a business, but it's held together by a bunch of different software That's where Odoo comes in their all-in-one business management software takes the essential elements of any business and combines them into one unified Operating system you can check out their CRM and sales apps which make lead generation and closing deals easier than ever their point-of-sale and inventory apps to make selling and keeping track of tangible items a breeze and Their accounting app which lets you auto create and send invoices and integrates with 28000 I said, Thousand banks from all around the world and if you don't need some features Well Odoo's highly customizable nature means that you only have to choose the apps that your business needs And if you find yourself needing just a single app guess what you can use it for free best of all It's super easy with a user-friendly interface AI powered features and a support team that'll have your back So don't overwhelm your business with a bunch of software. Odoo. Unify your processes by checking out our link in the description for a free 15-day trial or to set up a demo with Odoo's Expert team. If you guys enjoyed this video maybe check out one of our previous updates and make sure you're subscribed because we will definitely have more videos coming from the badminton gym / gaming center / personal nightmare Look at it. It's dreamlike. Remember when you said it was gonna open in March? Oh, I always said 2025 every time I said