Hey, digit, take the box with the heaviest animal and This is digit, a robot who sort of looks like a Technically, these are called bipedal humanoid robots. Using semantic intelligence, it's able to interpret about how to act. So the goal is for him to be able to interpret normal to pick this box up, help me out in this instance, is Yeah. And I think it will generally be probably less of a I do this for me forever. In the corner of the facility. Robots like this one are catching the attention and like Amazon, Google, Nvidia and Microsoft. Elon Musk is betting the future of Tesla on these As you see Optimus develop, it's really going to degree even greater than the cars. Some also argue robots like digit can solve the world's that people simply don't want. They may even replace an aging workforce, as people Today in manufacturing, we are short about 300,000 very similar in warehousing and logistics. So we're somewhere around 6 or 700,000 jobs we can't The idea of robots isn't exactly new. Here I am, sir. So why all of a sudden attention? The big driver, artificial intelligence. These bots have seen quantum leaps in what they're Generative AI is really a key unlock overall for what a humanoid robot. Robotics is where AI meets reality. We are really at the cusp of solving one of the grand It will change labor forever. There is probably a need in the future once the autonomy. But until that point, I think the market PR spectacles. It all sounds great, but will we ever trust robots Will they ever be safe enough? And how lifelike is too lifelike? And how should the US think about global adversaries CNBC explores the rise of these AI driven humanoids. And if they're really a cure all for our global This hardware has been around for decades. Companies like Boston Dynamics, Honda, Sony and others robots. Why would we want humanoids? The prevailing sort of answer has been the world is humans, so. We want robots that are versatile, that can do a wide Then having it adopt the humanoid form factor always Recent leaps in artificial intelligence have resulted The data that they use to train these robots is based Now, a robot can be trained the same way a human is. We have this technology called Teleoperation. The person does the thing 200 times, we record all models. And the AI models are very similar to the GPT You feed in the 200 trajectories and the system learns and then the robot will do the task autonomously. If I go into a new space, I'm now not looking at I can potentially just generate it straight out of gen and new environments without having to develop at all. AI models require massive quantities of data to train If you show the robot enough things, it starts to be Big tech is very interested in the big potential this If you're going to do AI at the frontier, you need to of the big players. There's just no other way. They have resources that nobody else has, even Nvidia's been a great partner up until this point. We're using everything from their hardware to their them on foundation models as well. One of this industry's biggest proponents is Elon Musk. He's made some bold predictions that Tesla's robot, cap, and that it will amount to a majority of Tesla's 20 billion units. Tesla is arguably the world's biggest robotics company on wheels. And with the full self-driving computer and that onto a humanoid form. And it's intended to be friendly, of course, and eliminate dangerous, repetitive and boring tasks. Musk isn't alone in believing humanoid robots could Investors are pouring millions into startups, with the 2035. The funding that has gone into these, some of these And I think that's kind of the parallel with the AI This is the biggest market in the world. I mean, effectively this has the potential to change Humanoid robots are closer to being a real part of our Some companies are already deploying them in factories Tesla claims it has two Optimus humanoid robots in its During Tesla's 2024 first quarter earnings call, Musk in Tesla's factories by the end of the year, and that by the end of 2025. At the company's 2024 investor day in June, Musk thousand robots working at Tesla next year. Musk saying that Optimus will be bigger than the cars. So I presume that means that they are spending huge I wouldn't underestimate them. Digit, created by Oregon based Agility Robotics, is Sumner, Washington, fulfillment center and innovation We've been working with them recycling totes. The arms are capable of handling a wide variety of pounds. Agility says it plans to keep expanding the scope of We envision an app store for robots out in the future recycling app, you can go into the App Store and And according to the company, there is plenty of Agility is building a factory in Salem, Oregon to keep We call it robo fab. Will be open online this summer, and in a few years, year. And where will those go? For the most part. To many, many customers, but largely initially in the The next big market we see is automotive, retail and Several other startups are developing similar humanoid Sanctuary AI launched in 2018, in Vancouver, Canada Phoenix, a five foot seven robot capable of lifting up It looks a bit different from other humanoid designs, Robots with legs. The upper body, including the hands, So instead of doing that, we put our product on a can build very powerful, very precise, very fast The company deployed early iterations of its robot with tasks such as picking and packing merchandise. Robots were asked to do everything from greeting people things on trucks. Sanctuary says it's close to releasing its eighth partnered with automotive manufacturer Magna to help Optronics started in 2016 as a spin out from the Human Austin. It began with an initial project to help NASA The company says it's now on its eighth version of a All of that has culminated in building the robot that robot called Apollo, which is a mass manufacturable With a max payload of 55 pounds and a swappable four Apollo is designed to help support logistics and focus. We've got to prove out sort of the simpler tasks, but in time to help my parents, hopefully to help me as I The company says it has deployed Apollo in pilots with We started with pretty simple tasks things like moving What we're moving into is doing more dexterity and commercial launch by the end of next year. It's no wonder tech companies have taken notice. Some Wall Street analysts predict these robots are the or EVs, but they also say such robots would be vital But they would also help with elderly care and fill in There's already too few workers to fill all of the It's an estimated shortage of 500,000 people, and by shortage of 2 million workers. Imagine I could give you a labor force that costs the per worker. And they were equipped with the kinds of in science fiction. There's going to be things that no matter who you are. We've only automated 10% of automotive manufacturing. If we can automate a much higher degree, it would We have the ability to add new tools. You can imagine if you needed to put a rivet into a have the screw produced in the hand. But robots taking human jobs can be a contentious What would you tell those people who you know there this? Actually, we've heard from some of those people, and manager of the robot fleet. They can be deployed in coal mines, in fires, for might not be as safe for a human being. There are just some jobs that people don't want. Proponents say a humanoid can help fill those. There's about 10 million open jobs in the United States We could build and maintain 10 million of the robots job. If you have to lift sort of 55 pounds, somewhere hour, that's a serious workout. So we're taking these dirty, dull and dangerous jobs How far away are we from digit doing your laundry? That's probably more along the lines of, you know, a Is there a kill switch? For lack of a better term? There is a kill switch. It's the big red button over there. The big red button over there. These are 140 pounds. They have a lot of torque in their hands and arms and And so you have to be very conscious of the situation humans. The biggest sort of short term obstacle we have is The UN has sort of put together a committee that's which is basically coming up with policy how should countries think about AI and also think For Agility's deployment of digit, its robots operate So right now digit is Non-collaborative and we're being able to formally verify, according to that digit is safe to be in close proximity to a We have very tight safety regulations today. And then eventually OSHA is the workplace safety deployment. So it's very regulated to make sure that Another big roadblock: the cost. Humanoid robots are expensive, complex pieces of For them to go mainstream, that's going to have to It's really expensive to even try to do this, and you because, you know, nobody's done this before. Elon Musk came out with this idea that it should cost level where mass adoption would be possible. I think we'll have to wait quite a few years, probably Agility says its robots can be purchased up front, with monthly fee for robots as a service. As long as they have the robot, we help maintain it, just pay on a monthly basis. What does one of these robots cost? How should people think about it? Is it like buying a car or a boat? I'd say it's like buying an expensive car, but the While the US has seen activity in humanoid robots It already dominates the industry, surpassing Japan in industrial robots, and now accounts for more than half China, the market is absolutely huge. For example, in mobile robots, this the biggest in the The only other company in the West that has anything China is Amazon. But Chinese companies are catching up If you just count the number of humanoid robots that of them are from Chinese companies. Interestingly, you've seen companies like BYD also There's a broader effort to get the capital into this One of China's biggest competitive advantages is cost. They need to source these parts almost custom made. Being based in China, they're closer to the factories Unitary in China. They came out with this $16,000 humanoid, which is a But what can the robot actually do? That's a huge question. I think an interesting space to watch will be in the potentially the factories that have been making some they could also sell those parts overseas. Competitiveness in this space is crucial for the US, geopolitical tensions rise. Even though the US invented the very first robot, 100% industrial robots were produced outside of the US by I think of the humanoid race as effectively the next implications for both national competitiveness and In terms of large economics, it is China versus the US. We need to make sure that the big applications for not, then we're going to lose that arms race. This is a real arms race and we better make sure we There are still very real roadblocks. Cost and safety are the biggest near-term issues. Finally, there's questions over how to regulate the Even the robot's biggest advocates say they want to alongside humanoids aren't put in harm's way. But they're also competitive, and they want this enough to keep up with rapid progress abroad. This is really the beginning of a new industry. Think of this like the personal computer in the early It will have potentially bigger impacts than the These robots are going to give us all back time.