The Temple of Jerusalem that stood at the stands as one of history's greatest temple complex of the classical era. The the temple of Herod has never seen a beautiful visiting often and teaching within its precincts. leaving only the foundations of this once Jews around the world mourn the loss of the Over the centuries, many artists have attempted and today with 3D modeling. While these prior design, none of these models have yet to capture For over two years, our team has dedicated and authentic 3D model of Herod's Temple ever sources as well as the most up-to-date This is the first of a series of videos structure, to answer how it might and why Jesus was so protective of it, even we will highlight some of the research this model of Herod's Temple, and explain Herod was a master builder. His many magnificent title of Herod the Great. From the extensive we see that he had a passion for the architectural like the Greeks and Romans, came to revere geometric proportioning. The same proportions in the symmetry of the human body were One key principle of Classical Design architectural orders. An order includes and entablature. There are three main the Doric, the Ionic, and the Corinthian. Every complex system of rules based on ratios and column base determines the height of the column, the entablature. This can be extremely helpful from an excavation, we can rebuild the rest If the correct proportions the column and other details will or too wide and bulky. The ancients refined these the perfect ratios to help the structure to The Doric is the simplest of the three orders. The the width of the shaft by eight. Doric columns thus felt more broad, foundational, and masculine. that were of lesser importance, such The Ionic order was seen as more delicate and column capital. Its height was nine times Ionic capitals on several very well preserved The Corinthian order is the most ornate and was determined by multiplying its diameter yet sturdy. This order was generally a structure. Our design for the Corinthian preserved Herodian capitals as well as broken For each of these three orders, the columns lower third of the shaft, and tapering toward being sturdier and taller than it was in reality. shaft more firmly supported the ceiling's weight, The proper spacing of columns is another ancients knew that a stone entablature could which was calculated as three times the width the stone would break and Applying these principles of Classical process. We then studied around 500 stone which belonged to the Temple. These details were entablatures, and other stone details. Every comes from these 500 stones, or other Because large sections of the foundations of reconstruct the original walls with a high Mazar and her colleagues have cataloged every Temple Mount. Their meticulous drawings were the stone is still standing today, our The height of most stones stand at about 1.1 the edge for decorative detail. Each stone course the wall to slant steadily inwards as it rises creating a wide and firm base, but creates an and solid. When standing below a wall that rises almost seeming to fall over. With this slight To support the large foundation walls, Herod These stones, called headers and stretchers, cornerstones estimated to weigh 80 tons! This For all Temple doorways, our team making the doors a 1x2 ratio. You can see here it will feel out of proportion Outer gates of the Temple Mount were based on still stands on the southern wall. Although one can still see the original doorpost and often used archways over lintels for the weight over the doorway, ensuring that Several decorative stone door frames belonging One such stone, which was found below what is the gateway that stood atop the massive staircase. original place, is at the entrance of the Triple and scholars still debate if anciently it was on the left sits in its original place and informs A very small number of paving stones platform. So to replicate the floors stone pavement directly beneath Robinson's still preserves the size and general pattern a stone drain, which we used in various parts of where the drain was used to flush the Josephus, a Jewish historian that lived in were "laid with stones of all sorts" (Jewish War and stunning opus sectile floors popular in the Temple Mount conducted an illegal dig along the of soil were dumped into the Kidron Valley. Among were about 100 pieces of opus sectile floor tiles a volunteer and mathematician, noticed that buildings constructed by Herod. After examining she created a number of designs. This the flooring of some of the Temple's many reflective nature of the stones to recreate Surprisingly, one temple ceiling still platform. The ceiling inside the Double destroyed by the Roman destruction. This gate platform. Several stunning domes from this Ritmeyer our team recreated these domes and are supported by the only surviving stone in our design. According to Ritmeyer, it's referred to as the "Beautiful gate" where Peter According to Josephus, the one of the most elaborate areas of the temple, representing many sorts of figures" (Antiquities these ceilings were completely destroyed, To overcome this challenge, we examined over Stoa and combined these designs to present the chosen in the design were replicated from a similar design, though plated with more All other porches and ceilings use wood roof many 3D models instead use stone for textures such as cobblestone, which could After almost 2000 years it's finally possible to Temple in Jerusalem might have appeared. Its and incredible attention to detail would it's important to remember that the magnificence beautiful architecture. Its true magnificence a place where the presence of the Lord could performed at the temple pointed to the Messiah all humankind. Today, as we place our faith our bodies become temples to the Lord-a place who you are-your appearance, dimensions, height, can become magnificent and beautiful temples