[English subtitles are available] [Death Chasing] Who are you? Kun Zi, the food court incident You hurt two people, that's not bad. Let's go. Come in. Inspector Liu. Yes. Have you caught the guy? I brought him back. Neat and speed I called you back because -What case? Take a look. Due to the exceptional circumstance that it'll be better You will be the leader in this case What are your thoughts? There is only the missing person's You're sharp. I'll provide you with Is there anything else The missing person's family She used to transfer money between 10th to 15th every single month Her family thought that something was off and they couldn't contact her for The report states that there are no signs of struggle so the possibility of physical assault Also, there is no statement that so I don't think that she left in a hurry. How did we obtain her address? The missing person's name is An Ni, The Drug Control Department and they kept an eye on her The drug case closed two days before she was reported to be missing and they concluded that Her address is given by As for the nightclub, you should go check it out The others are waiting for your orders. Remember to be discreet and I'll go right away. Did anyone come to this room? No. I have been keeping the keys Alright, thanks. She is financially stable. She lives by herself. She has long hair. She has a neat personality. She is meticulous when it comes to makeup. She seems to like vintage accessories. She has pursuers. Hello. Can I help you with anything? Please get me your manager. Hello. Do you recognize this person? An Ni? It's been a while Who's closer to her here? You must be Fei. Your manager must've told you I am here to ask you some questions. You are making a nuisance, I don't have any information for you. Do you know that An Ni is missing? -Can I not go to the police station? People with my job An Ni and I are from the same hometown However, I did not talk to her much lately Why didn't you contact her? She said that she wanted to quit Did she mention who he is? Not really. She did say that He did not judge her for her job -Do you know his name? -Is he a customer from the nightclub? Don't you know that there is no true love Do you have any of An Ni's [Inspector Liu] -What? [The missing person is a female [before she's gone missing.] -Miss Shen. The landlord did not receive any message and she did not pick up any of his calls He came here a few times He thought that something is off Have you gotten the information Zhang Shu Mei, female. She is known as Mei when she was She has a criminal record for prostitution Again? How about her place of birth? She is an orphan and [Author: Zheng Yuan] Hello. Are you looking for someone? Hello. I am looking for Zheng Yuan. Are you... This is him. Is there anything I am a police officer, Shen Ke. Here. Officer Shen, have a seat. Professor Zheng, to be frank, I thought that you are a middle-aged man You can call me Zheng Yuan. I guess that you can see me as an old man Forgive me for coming here so boldly. I found many of your articles especially your great knowledge The reason I came here is to ask you of a few vintage accessories. I have been writing for fashion magazines a police officer is asking for my opinion If you don't mind me asking, I suppose. Alright. I'll try my best. One moment, please. Officer Shen, please have a cup of coffee. Thank you. Do you know what is the meaning Meaning? Is there some kind of story? I'll share my opinion with you. The earrings and the pearl necklace prove that the owner This might help you narrow down the scope. I thought so, too. There aren't many vintage-themed shops I am also a seller but Personal customizations? I am interested in these, By the way, there are a few vintage shops I can give you the addresses That's great. Professor Zheng, can you please tell me I took a look at the design and texture They are purely handmade There is only one shop that possesses aside from myself. Thank you so much. Professor Zheng, do you know anything I suppose that this is a very old brand. It has been existing for some time Its place of production is in Shanghai It is now brought back by the public I see. By the way, I don't think so. Is she... Sorry, I shouldn't have asked. Alright. Thank you for your cooperation. By the way, This is my number. You can call me anytime You can ask me anything anytime, too. Thank you. [Missing person] [Prostitution] [5th June 2015] [23rd March 2016] [Prostitution] Based on what we have now, the vintage earrings and face cream I've looked at the other cases. There are five similar cases so far Is there any similarity Other than what I said, with complicated social backgrounds. Also, all of them still have loose ends You should proceed with the clues first to see whether I made a request to investigate but it will take some time Old Li? Please process Shen Ke's Alright, thank you. Don't worry about the exhibits. According to An Ni's friend, she has been She thinks that she got a new boyfriend. The missing person lives by herself but Yet, there are only her fingerprints It's odd because it's too deliberate. You're right. It's reverse psychology. I'm planning to go check the crime scene. We are racing against the clock. Every single second gives her I'll proceed, then. Are all of the earrings here handmade? Yes. My father taught me the skills. By the way, have you seen this woman? I have no recollection of her. There aren't many so I don't think she bought it here. Wait, most of my customers How about this woman? Have you seen her? No. -Are you sure? Officer, the earrings are indeed my work Are you saying that it might be sold That is common. There are many -Thank you for your cooperation. -Goodbye. [Professor Zheng] Hello. [Hello, Officer Shen. This is Zheng Yuan.] Hi, Professor Zheng. What's the matter? [You told me that I can call you anytime [I recollected my memories after [the woman you showed me Really? Can we meet up to talk now? [Shall we meet at Binhai Bridge?] Sure. I'll be there in half an hour. Professor Zheng, sorry that I'm late. I didn't wait for long. You can call me Zheng Yuan. -It wouldn't be so awkward between us. I come here often to look at the sea. I thought that you are a pragmatic person. I didn't expect you to be I am just poetic. I was an active member of I don't think anyone who is We are the total opposites of police Am I really that boring to you? Let's take a walk. I checked my sale records after your visit It was sold some time ago I saw a long-haired man when I was walking the missing person indeed visited my shop A long-haired man? It was a month ago. The woman came to my shop with a man. He was spirited-looking with his long hair I suppose that he is her boyfriend. Why do you think so? I remember that they came and picked the one in the photo you showed me. They looked like a couple A long-haired man? That is an important clue. -Professor Zheng... Zheng Yuan, do you still remember Can you go to the police station tomorrow -I'll try my best. Who's there? Show yourself! Don't wet your clothes. Quiet! You parasites! Why did I even keep you? Both of you are just like your father, What are you waiting for? Clean the mess! What's wrong? Why are you mad? It's been a while since you came. My wife has been alert, Did you bring me what I asked? Yeah. -What do you think? It took me awhile to find this. I like the scent. Me, too. Stop it. Let me tell you something. I have an extremely important client You can help me a lot How much are you paying this time? -This amount. However, you can't be the one. He demands a virgin. Understood. She's over 18, anyway. Let's go. [Lianjiang Municipal [Chief Of Office] Come in. Inspector Liu. -How is your injury? That's a relief. Shen Ke, you should get the situation if the same situation happens again. -Do you understand? But this is the closest I've been No buts. There will be no next time. -Tell me about the case. The first missing person case I call it An Ni's case. The more recent Mei's case is dated according to her takeout receipt. I've looked at the other case files. There are a few more unsolved One is dated in 2014, another in 2015, and the last one is dated The similarity between these five cases is interested in vintage theme. I can't find any indication of suicide of the victims of all the cases That is my guess, too. From the standpoint of time, The culprit might commit murder again. When did these two happen? 20th of April for the 2014 one The cases are in spring and summer. Tell me about the suspect you saw Yes, Sir. That man is a major suspect for the cases From the information we have, An Ni's boyfriend. Do you have proof? I am still waiting for the DNA report Hello. Are the DNA report and facial composite Send them over. What else do you have? Have you watched the CCTV footage I did. That man is indeed very suspicious. He returned to An Ni's place on the day she went missing. He must've removed his fingerprints and You can arrest the man proves any similarity between him and Come in. Inspector Liu. Inspector Liu. [DNA report] The DNA report states that belongs to two different people. An Ni's the female whereas the male's identity His name is Xu Zong Lei. for burglary and fraud in the past All the victims are women He's the same guy, The evidence we have is sufficient This is your case. What do you think? Inspector Liu, there are still parts I'd like to continue investigating first. We can only prove that he went to even if we take him here. We cannot establish anything since Even if we think that these five cases That is the biggest doubt here. I will give you two more days. Find him and take him here Yes, Sir. Shen Ke, an offender in serial cases a habit in committing the crime. Based on my experience, there must be -You should take another look. -Also, take care of your safety. There's a robber! Stay here. Stop running! 20th of April, 2014, 23rd of March, 2016, and 3rd of April, this year. The recent ones are sorted by computer You can get them from there Those from more than three years ago We can only look for them Sure, no problem. I heard that police like you -Miss, are you married? -Do you have a boyfriend? How can that be? My father was also a police officer. That's good to know. We're here. I remember that the sprinkler system in around two years ago so the papers for [Heavy traffic due to [Weather: Light rain] [Weather: Medium rain] [Weather: Heavy rain] [Weather: Medium rain] I have checked on the weather report like you asked. Both days were cloudy without any rain but it was during so it rained over 20 days in a month [Calling Professor Zheng] [Sorry. The number you have called [Please try it later. Sorry.] Hello, Inspector Liu? This is the car that belongs to Mei, It has been in the car park for a year The car park security called the police Inspector Liu, this seems to be to get in touch with the missing person. You're right. What is your view on this? The car has been here for too long, I don't think there will be However, this tells us that Well done, I have the same thoughts. Go. Inspector Liu, look. This again. I guess you'll be busy today. -Have you seen this woman? -How about this one? -Do you have any recollection of this car? Have you seen this person, then? -No. -How about this woman? Have you seen her? -Have you seen this car? What's the matter? Are you exhausted? Let me tell you a story. There was this police officer. He heard his colleague talking about when he just joined the police. The senior solved many complicated cases he is one of the legends in the police. One day, he met a robber He charged to the robber However, he got stabbed with the knife and yet, he still put his handcuff After the incident, the police officer the true meaning of being the He could overcome any difficult obstacle whenever he thought about his senior strength to face them. Shen Ke, you must learn and find out instead of facing everything by yourself. Our vision is not having any work because nor there's any evil to be demolished. All our hard work will be worth it Inspector Liu, that's enough. Dad, me and Inspector Liu Inspector Shen, don't worry. She is now an excellent member The cases are all dated on a rainy day Tell me about it. All the victims have a similar job but I can't be sure. You can't see it that way. The victims' job is precisely the reason We should discuss whether it is one person or a few different people -Right? Look. The victims' occupation involves with the motive to attract him. Therefore, the possibility of them people interested in vintage theme Putting the occupation similarity aside, without providing those services, with men will be far less. If they have different occupations, which means the offenders approached You have a point but in my opinion, unusual job makes it more probable people with that particular trait All of them were in a relationship That explains everything If the victims' partners are this is a serial crime You're right. Shen Ke, I have a few more points to add. The diaries signify privacy, and the face cream Also, all of them happened on and the victims' occupation You can link these clues together Sorry, I had flu and I was hospitalized I'm almost fully recovered now, -You're sick? How are you feeling? -I should leave so that you can rest. Sorry that I've been busy. You can tell me I do need your assistance and analysis I have a few questions for you. Have you seen any of these women? I saw this woman. I told you that I don't know the other women. How about these? Take a look. I did some research and What do you think about these? The diaries are a symbol of privacy. The face cream and earrings are as they are subtle elements to attract Based on those, we can infer that they are related to or a specific trait of men who are If that is a specific trait of the man relevancy is established. My intuition tells me that the category of men they were targeting Is the occupation of those women We have regulations and we can't tell you There must be an issue with the boyfriend. What are you thinking? I can only talk about my intuition These earrings have different designs which shows that their buyers because we can tell the person's like a hidden signature. Are you talking about the man Based on the items you provided, Look at the face cream. Although they have the colour of the casings became similar That tells us that they might be produced That means they have the same channel of which are very likely to be in -You're right. Fashionable products of the same brand and they could be anywhere, from selling from a nearer distance. Got it. I don't know what the case is about the long-haired man Inspector Liu. Miss Shen. We caught a drug addict last night. He is an accomplice of Xu Zong Lei, He is the person who you were chasing. Miss Shen. Have you seen this woman? Yes. The police officer showed me. Think better. I've seen her. What is her name? When did you see her? Where? What situation was it? He didn't tell me her name, That was over a month ago. You know, he's the kind of person He gave me 1,000 yuan as remuneration. That's all you have? [Keep thinking.] [There was once, but I don't remember He asked me to be his driver They started kissing in the car. I even looked from the rear-view mirror. What happened after that? He took her to a villa he rented He called me and asked me to leave Did you notice any unusual interest he has Right. I remember that he once told me that because they are gullible dreamers. On the other hand, hip girls are smarter He also mentioned that Miss, is that unusual? What were you doing on the 3rd of April? 3rd of April? I don't remember, -Were you with Xu Zong Lei? -Have you ever seen this pair of earrings? -How about this? Are you sure? I was his driver and Was he obsessed with the cream's scent? Officer, what do you mean? Are you sure that you did not see I'm sure. I heard that Brother Lao Gui He was supposed to distribute a batch He takes drugs, too. He obtained money from women Officer, is what I said It will be beneficial for you Officer, I'm speaking the truth! Xu Zong Lei is now the biggest suspect as are pointing to him. Besides, the villa he rented is just I've decided to summon Xu Zong Lei now. -Inform the Drug Control Department. Sha Sha, here! We have a difficult customer. Follow me. Do you have to ask me It's a pretty big house. I didn't notice That is for you. I'm not sure whether this design is I like vintage things. Not to mention, it's a gift from you. I'm glad that you like it. Put that on By the way, did you inform the others that I forgot. I should make a call. Why isn't there a signal? Did I break it again? What's wrong? I should restart it. I'll buy you a new one. -Are you serious? Pack your things. We'll go shopping. I'll just contact you to come over -I should get my things. By the way, why is the huge red patch How strange. That happens whenever I drink. -You should go pack. [Brother, I've done what you told me to.] [The police are searching for you, [Be careful.] Get me a few violent men We'll leave after I have something else to prepare. I have to leave them some presents I got my things. Let's go. I have an emergency at work, How's this? You stay here and wait for me. Okay? Be good. Fine. Be quick. No worries. Stay here. Inspector Qin from the Xu Zong Lei has a drug trading activity. They finally showed themselves. [Sha Sha, what's the matter with you? Sister, there is something wrong [You have a customer, It's almost time. No worries, they are pretty sure. Be alert. They might flee with the drugs No worries. I got these violent men from the suburbs, They're willing to do anything -How's the person you caught? Something's wrong. Retreat. Chase them! We should split up. Let her go! Are you alright? He ran to me, it wasn't my fault! [Haigang Town] Inspector Liu, the address... This must be the address How is your injury? It's fine. I'll bring the team there. -I'm going, too. It wouldn't be great if you delay from [Calling Professor Zheng] [Hello, the phone that you're calling Shen Ke, what are you doing here What happened to your arm? I'm here to thank you. The case is solved. -Let's talk inside. I was doing a stocktake How is your arm? It's a minor injury, it brings me pride. -Can you drink? Alright. I'll celebrate with you. [Missing person] Over here. This is Lao Gui, the dealer that [Shen Ke] [Hello, the phone that you're calling Welcome to my world. Officer Shen, are you surprised? Officer Shen, you are who can know the truth. I would grab the same umbrella and smell the same scent while looking for my prey. Am I close to the person you have in mind? You have been naughty. Why did you stop me from Do you have any idea They remind me of my childhood, my mother, her necklace, her earrings, I am not going to kill you Enjoy the show. Sister. Who would've thought that Zheng Yuan's We found some bones in the walls of they belong to the victims How about Xu Zong Lei? Xu Zong Lei is a friend of Zheng Yuan's but he had no idea Xu Zong Lei was using Zheng Yuan's and Zheng Yuan got access That's his criminal opportunity. Based on the CCTV footage, after she left to steal her belongings He didn't know that An Ni He thought we were investigating about him so he wanted to go back to make sure that That is when he met you. Zheng Yuan knew everything to steer us away from solving the case. I wonder what kind of life Unbelievable. His mother who was a female escort, the unique scent, and of course, made him, a human, into a beast. Shen Ke, what are you thinking? Inspector Liu, I remember you and our vision is not having any work because there aren't nor there's any evil to be demolished. I firmly believe that sacrifices are worth it to uphold that. Great. Dear, this is your home from now on.