The modern world depends on electricity. It's not just a luxury we use to power our It's not even just a convenience of having Electricity is a crucial resource, especially safety, and health and making possible everything care in hospitals to even the other utilities systems. But unlike those other utilities, electricity a later time. The instant it's produced, it's used no the user. And the infrastructure that makes all this and fascinating engineering achievements. Hey I'm Grady and this is Practical Engineering. Today we're talking about the power grid. This video is sponsored by NordVPN. Visit NordVPN.com/practicalengineering to More on that later! Like most people, you probably take the grid Electrical infrastructure is so ubiquitous, of our power grid is out in the open for anyone I happen to be one of those people who does end of this video series on electrical infrastructure, This video is geared toward North America, other part of the world. And just to give you a sense of scale, there service essentially all of North America. You have the two big ones, Western and Eastern, and Texas. Depending on your definition, an electrical largest machines. So how does this machine work? The basic function of generating electricity seem simple. I can hook up a small generator to a light, With the cost of solar panels reaching record generating all the power they need at home But, a wide area interconnection (that's some serious advantages in exchange for increased Here's a simplified diagram showing the and we'll follow the flow of electrical We start with generation, where the electricity There are many types of power plants, each but they all have one thing in common: they electrical energy. Most power plants are located away from populated to be efficiently transported. That's handled by high-voltage transmission At the plant, transformers boost the voltage electricity makes its way to the areas that Once it reaches populated areas, transformers more practical voltage. This is done at a substation, which also has and breakers to isolate potential faults. Some energy customers draw power directly from feeder lines that carry power from the This part of the system is called distribution. From the feeders, smaller transformers step commercial, or residential uses before the Rather than a constant flow of current in or DC), the vast majority of the power grid direction of voltage and current are constantly The major advantage of AC power is that it's part of efficiently and safely moving electricity The device that performs this important role, of coils next to each other. A varying voltage in one coil induces a voltage of turns in each one. If the current doesn't vary, like in direct It's helpful to think about the grid as Power producers bring their electricity to power consumers purchase that electricity The economics and politics of the grid are important part of the analogy is that, in Because of that, it needs organizations to participant in the producing, transmitting, And there are three overarching technical the power grid. The first one is power quality. Our electrical devices and equipment are designed certain parameters, mainly that the voltage Some devices count the oscillations in the critical that the grid frequency not deviate. Changes in the voltage can lead to brownouts One of the benefits of a large power grid All those huge spinning generators connected the ripples and spikes that can occur from loads. The next technical goal of the grid is reliability. If, like most people, you take that constant by design. Much of the grid's complexity comes from so that you're rarely faced with blackout It's another inherent benefit of a grid of equipment is out-of-service, whether it The final goal of the power grid is simply Power production and consumption happens on If it's plugged in, the light from the screen water in a turbine or a breeze across a windmill And by the way, did you call your utility on your computer or phone and watch this video? I'm willing to bet you didn't, which means up to match the extra load, but they had to Luckily having millions of people connected by individuals, but load following is still For the most part, electrical demand follows extreme weather can make it difficult to forecast. Grid operators balance demand by dispatching The cheapest sources of power are used to and higher cost sources are used for peaking But it's not as simple as flipping on a Large power plants can take hours, days, or Equipment needs to be taken out of service Fuel costs fluctuate. Renewable sources like wind and solar can in capacity, providing irregular sloshes of You can see why balancing electricity supply of taking into account all these considerations, which aren't. That's part of the reason we are trying sensors, and devices capable of communicating On the supply side, this can allow computers in tremendous amounts of data to help us make But a smart grid can also help on the demand Unlike most of the goods we buy, consumers how much we're using, or how much it should A smart grid can take away some of the obfuscation, how we use electricity in our day-to-day lives. Ultimately, a smart grid can help us use and resource we call the power grid - more efficiently Just like electricity, internet connectivity more. I work on these videos in my spare time, which public networks wherever I happen to be. That's why I use NordVPN. A lot of people don't realize how vulnerable networks at coffee shops, airports, convention One stolen password can completely mess up What I love best about NordVPN is that I don't of having my identity stolen or your computer to use. I just load the app, click connect and it's There's no limit on bandwidth, and it works I have insurance on my car in case I get into in case of an intruder, and I use NordVPN to protect myself against hackers and malware. If your privacy and security online is important to fans of the channel. Visit NordVPN.com/practicalengineering or get 75% off a 3-year plan. Use promo code PracticalEngineering to get Thank you for watching, and let me know what