Yes, on the road today in the MAN TGX. With the lovely lion here on the lift button and front on the front. As some of you know, I'm a big Bussing fan and also a collector, and you have a very positive attitude when you get into a truck with the big lion on it. Now let 's see how loudly he can roar, the lion, or how quietly, on which quiet paws he walks. Yes, get in and feel good. The MAN doesn't ask any questions. Nice layout here, the cockpit is digital, but the instruments are displayed in a classic way, speed on the left, RPM on the right. Then we have a screen here on the right, on which basically different content can be called up and adjusted, i.e. radio, navigation, other settings, and all of this via a rotary pushbutton. You know that from BMW, they really perfected it. It's nice when a commercial vehicle manufacturer takes these examples and makes something out of them that works just as intuitively. The engine here has a displacement of 12.4 liters , 470 hp, that's enough uphill and downhill in Europe, and pulls through properly, powerfully. The whole thing then with a consumption that is between eight and ten percent below the predecessor, and the engine, what you hear is a very sonorous sound, so quiet, but sonorous, sounds nice, and somehow the ear goes along with it. We still have normal exterior mirrors here, as we know them, or as we have known them for decades. I'm a big fan of camera-based systems, that's a big safety plus in tight bends, roundabouts, even when reversing or overtaking. At the time we ordered the truck, it wasn't an option, but unfortunately it didn't come until later. I've also driven the MAN with Mirror Cam, I think it's better. It took MAN five years to develop this vehicle. The predecessor was almost 20 years old, rolled off the assembly line unchanged for 20 years, more or less. There was a need for action in many cases. They really have developed a new interior concept, a new cockpit, all assistance systems are on board, we are basically state of the art here. On the outside, I think it has gained optically, aerodynamically too. Consumption has dropped significantly. Well, I think the development goal has been achieved. Yes, most of you will probably have already noticed that such a vehicle has of course become a bit more expensive than the last MAN. You've done a lot, you've made it more economical and you want to be paid for it. Basically it's like this: We also equip the vehicles very well in terms of safety and also in terms of interior fittings for the driver, and that's always a good investment. There is a classic, very nice! There he is, the lion. So I think the car is very successful. Black, big grill, looks beefy. Then the predator-like headlights, that also suits the lion. And what I think is nice is that the pre-predecessor, the MAN F 90, which I still have myself and even drove in the past, if I were to put it next to it now, the logos would be removed, you will immediately see that they are siblings. So here we have something really nice. That's what it's called BPW AirSave. After all, we want to work as efficiently as possible with our trucks, and this system does the following: It has a preset tire pressure, and if the tire pressure drops, it is automatically topped up. So that means the tires always have the right air pressure, consumption goes down, wear and tear goes down and, of course, safety goes up, because tires that are always properly inflated are less likely to burst. Here we loaded the VW ID Bus, an electric vehicle, very efficiently. That's probably the future. We don't yet know exactly where the truck is headed, but a truck like the MAN TGX has a fuel consumption of between 23 and 25 liters. So I think that's something to be proud of, that's really a strong value. Yes, who has seen this here, right? That's a really good idea: control panel in the door. Well, you don't always have to crawl up if you want to turn on the hazard warning lights, if you want to open or close the windows, lock them or work lights in the back. I think it's really good, it's really well thought out. This is the GX cab, the largest cab you can buy from MAN. I think it's a huge amount of space. For me it's always enough under the crown with the height. However, it has a small step, so the floor is not completely level, which certainly has a constructive reason. It doesn't bother me, someone who is, let's say, half a meter taller, says it's not quite enough. Well, I don't think it's bad. Here really nice detail, a remote control. Can I think about whether I'm lying around with my head to the left or to the right? This is sometimes not possible with others, there is only one operating option where I, what do I know, I can open the window, lock it, I can turn on the light, operate the radio, so there are really a lot of functions where I don't have to get up. Then I have two charging options for my mobile phone, two 12 volt and one 24 volt socket, so the whole thing is really well thought out. Life can be beautiful too. You can turn the front passenger seat here and then sit here nicely with your legs stretched out, then you can read a good newspaper, watch a TV show or have your sandwich in the evening. I love it. The TGX really is a mature car. I found out today that it offers a lot for the driver, it also costs one euro more, as we had to find out. But he's also very efficient. And if he continues to perform as they say today, he has potential for the top places. But, I have to go to Denmark now, thank you very much and see you soon!