(narrator) Weapons For millennia, they have determined Weapons bring suffering and death. They show what humans But they are also intended and pave new ways for technology. Ranged weapons. We will show how they have made history and shaped whole eras. Astonishing experiments will uncover the secret The minie ball is a real game changer It actually quite scared me. (narrator) The longbow It's a piece of wood (narrator) And the Roman javelin If I was holding it, (narrator) Our first weapon, According to ancient sources, it was the decisive weapon The history of the pilum Humans have used spears It is the only way for them to kill an essential part More than 40,000 years ago, a new species Homo sapiens, the modern man. The intruders carry wooden throwing spears About 10,000 years later, Homo sapiens have probably thanks to (speaks German) A perfect makes sure the human brain, gets enough nutrients. A good hunting weapon (narrator) A sensational find In Schoningen, Lower Saxony, archeologists discover They estimate they are About 10,000 years ago, groups of people making use of the weapons Ancient men developed and throwing weapons Once they started fighting over territory, they used these weapons Weapons are not designed only but for use against animals, and they then become specialized (narrator) Ancient peoples further develop Mike Loades is a weapons historian. He finds spears particularly fascinating. Spears come in all shapes and sizes. Heavy ones and light ones like this. (narrator) A normal throwing spear If it misses the target, who can throw it back at the attacker. From the 6th century BCE on, the rise of the Roman Empire marks the beginning of a new chapter The most ingenious, the cleverest, was the Roman pilum. (narrator) Roman soldiers used spears (soldiers shout) Like in the year 52 BCE, the Gauls desperately oppose They do everything which will later become Paris. Four Roman legions Difficult territory In the end, Caesar's legionaries triumph. How did they use The Romans fight mechanically. They fight in formation, not individually, whereas most people they fight, The pilum is that these enthusiastic warriors (narrator) The basic equipment consisted of protective mail, The length of a typical pilum: two meters. The weight: about two kilograms. The pilum looks strikingly different It has a long shaft What is it for? What's its secret? [metallic clanging] Jens Christiansen is interested He will try and manufacture a pilum First step: forge the head That needs to be at 1,000 degrees Celsius into the characteristic form. As you can see, it really... -That's hard work. I wasn't counting, but that was Just a third? -But now it's just grunt work. -We can use the power hammer. -Let's finish it off with that. (narrator) But even with a modern turning a blank into a pilum head The elaborate manufacturing shows how advanced The Romans produced weapons The industrial complex was phenomenal. The average legion is 4,800, Roman legionary carried two of these, so that's 10,000 to supply a legion. Some battles had 20 legions. 200,000 of these. (narrator) The Romans This is how they can produce The iron shaft of the pilum is fixed (marching, soldiers shout) In the battle of Lutetia, the pilum gives the Roman troops under Although the Gauls they cannot protect themselves from the Caesar tells us &quot;These front ranks were In just a couple of salvos of pila, that storm of Gauls Not only did he stop that charge, but by building a wall he slowed any further charges. So that main tactic of the Gauls was now (narrator) Denmark. A historical village museum. Mike Loades and his team how the pilum actually performs when What we've set up here against a Roman shield wall. So this is the Barbarian shield. So he's going to pull this sled And then see if it will penetrate And I think we've got quite But let's give it a go. (narrator) According to Caesar's book the pilum could punch through But can this actually be true, Look at that. Effortless, almost. It was using This broad, conical head Then this narrow foreshaft, there was barely any friction, (narrator) This explains at forging the head of the pilum This is what allows the spear But could the adversary If I was holding that, Even if it had only gone through that far, You can see the weight pulling down. My shield gets stuck. I can't pull it out. So all I do is abandon the shield. Now I have to continue (narrator) The battle of Lutetia but the Romans score a pivotal victory. It is another step on their way Like many times in the history of war, discipline and technological The pilum You can only throw it once. Once it's hit the target, That means you can't throw it but after the battle, the Romans pick up mend them, and they'll be ready to use. This is a neat weapon. (narrator) The pilum is more potent Effortlessly, and at the same time A master stroke by Roman weapon designers. After the fall of Rome, In order to use this ranged weapon, you need a veritable arms industry. No early medieval kingdom Our next ranged weapon: the longbow. In the Middle Ages, What is its secret? And why were English longbow archers August 26, 1346. Crecy, a small town near the Norman coast. The forces of England's King Edward III are facing those It is the first big battle of the Hundred They fight over French mainland territory England even claims the French throne. (horses neigh) (thunder rumbles) On paper, Philip's troops 30,000 French warriors are ready (men shout) The French, however, have overestimated Thousands of English arrows Historians estimate that the English (horse whinnies) People have used bow and arrow But why does this ancient weapon become Bowyer Anton Weninger This is an English longbow. It stands out for its length This weapon is very effective, What fascinates me that is able to transport arrows very far. (narrator) The dreaded Hungarian riders These consist of several layers. Composite bows but are handy for rapid deployment. But the penetrating power In 955, the attackers lose against The English longbow is special, because it consists of Anton Weninger that our ancestors employed When you look at this yew, That's the pale layer. The heart of the yew while the sap wood In yew bows, is made of core wood and the sap There is a lot of tension when shooting, (narrator) Yew wood grows very slowly, This resistant wood One trunk costs about 200 euros. In the Middle Ages, almost wipes out with its insatiable demand The timber for English longbows In the middle of the 16th century, there is hardly any yew left Clearcutting has left a lasting mark. In Germany, yew is an endangered species. Men have when it comes to procuring Take Mitterberg in central Austria. In the Bronze Age, The area around some of the mine tailings (narrator) Raw materials have always been The Romans needed 30 tons of iron Since antiquity, mining and smelting have contaminated European rivers. Air pollution even Hundreds of furnaces generated during the smelting raw materials that were largely used You work with what you've got. If you can pick it up, If you have control, has ownership of so anything you mine belongs So if you need iron, when He'll pay you for digging it out, rather than paying you So medieval and modern states have found ways to maximize their ability (narrator) Back to the longbow. Weninger is working on which has taken The grooves that Weninger will manufacture next. The string is key The more robust it is, the further (Weninger speaks German) Nettles or flax strings were used, but they don't grow In the Middle Ages, For safety reasons, we use a nylon string. This also protects the bow and we can be sure (narrator) Medieval bow strings made of and have to be replaced more frequently. The last step of the procedure Anton Weninger to affect the draw weight of the bow. The more he scrapes off, The medieval longbow made of yew wood. Draw weight: about 140 pounds. Today's competitive target shooters Continued training comes at a high price This archer has a really large And most of the archers On the left, that is the bow hand, On the right, the draw hand, This is something archeologists You know immediately (narrator) In battle, a well-trained to break through the ranks of But how well does this work The first shooting test at 50 meters. Different factors affect the crosswind and the vibrations You always create tension in a bow Energy is stored in it Once I release the string, this potential But when I release the string, Think of it like a guitar string. If I don't pay close attention I will get a little shock (narrator) Weninger He has to keep all these factors in mind Five out of ten arrows hit the target (narrator) Medieval archers but also for a high fire rate. How many arrows a minute are possible? Sticking the arrows in the ground is one technique For this experiment, a historical piece of padded armor (man) Ready, steady, go. Oh. I can't believe it. (narrator) An unusual situation. The medieval armor seems to greatly -And what was my time? (he chuckles) Okay, almost. But it's really not easy It's really heavy, very stiff. I could only draw the first one downwards. The arrows are all over the place. And incredibly hard. (narrator) Some modern archers They can fire an arrow Ancient sources like holding several arrows in one hand. The longbow is a significant part Kind Edward III issued a decree in 1369 that obliged Londoners Even six-year-old children Most archers did not get older than 25. That was their expiration date, Young people were almost abused (narrator) The well-trained archers This is a terrifying weapon It'll kill you, but it also means It's changed the natural order of things. A nobleman should be Now one peasant with a longbow This terrifies that believes that it has superiority because of birth, because of privilege It's a leveling weapon. and restores it (narrator) This also explains The most popular among them In the first medieval ballads, an ordinary criminal. But later, in 16th century literature, he becomes who takes from the rich He went down in history His story remains fascinating to this day. Countless movies celebrate It's unlikely. Villains don't give money He's a folk hero when the king So the idea that a mythic figure that the king has stolen It's the myth of all myths. In England, he's Robin Hood, and he uses a longbow against the king's So he's leveling the playing field. (narrator) English longbow archers pose with arrow salves shot from far away. How does such a long-range shot work? Anton Weninger will now test his yew bow He has to shoot high. I have to aim far above the target, That is where my target is now. The distance is okay, Now I calculated with the wind, the direction should be perfect. (narrator) At this distance, Weninger needs to inch (Weninger) We're not far off. (narrator) All his arrows and dig deep into the ground. Such long-range shots in a high curve and would have penetrated the armor The English longbows This one is at 50 pounds. Back in the day, Their trajectory is lower. They did not And the arrows were heavier. That means (narrator) We want to find out how Weninger is setting up For the targeted shot, he gets assistance The arrow shot from a 30-meter distance The material closely simulates and shows how fatally longbows Ten centimeters. That's very deep. Let's see. How deep is that? (Weninger) Right in the heart. (narrator) This also explains Several thousands dead while the English This defeat will weaken Once again, sophisticated (Lambert) The longbow is not precise. It's not designed It's designed and almost certainly horses as well, And they will fire volleys of arrows It's about a very large amount of fire. (soldiers shout) (narrator) The longbow. A decisive weapon After years of training, the English Other European rulers would like to but only the English king invests But as time goes by, At the end of the Middle Ages, new weapons And a more efficient form Fire weapons fundamentally change One of the deadliest inventions It decides And also sparks significant progress What is so special Before the minie ball, combat tactics were simple. Soldiers moved in closed ranks and then shot at their enemies These weapons were powerful. They but they were not accurate beyond And they tended to be fired not A platoon of soldiers would level fire them all at once, Beyond 100 yards, you might hit a few things So this is a weapon which lacks range. (narrator) The minie ball Summer 1853. Russian troops invade the Ottoman Empire. The Crimean War begins. Photographer Robert Fenton His photos document Telegraph lines spread the news in the blink of an eye. France and England fight side by side In the Battle of Inkerman they use the new minie ball And score an important triumph. On a firing range we want to uncover the secret and find out how it could make The whole different form of this new type Wolfgang Stabe He knows how deeply the new ammunition (speaks German) The minie ball changed history. It allowed much higher precision. (narrator) In 1846, invents the revolutionary ball, which requires a special barrel. The minie ball is not round, but is conical at the front. It's not even three centimeters long A tiny projectile Minie designed the ball the basis for all modern bullets. (narrator) What made Minie's ammunition Our shooting experiment begins, I'll shoot ten times and see how (narrator) Stabe puts in the gunpowder, then the round lead ball which seals the gas behind He uses a Brown Bess for the experiment. A standard musket You can hit the target, (narrator) The musket has a flintlock that ignites the gunpowder, which then in turn ignites Two ignitions in a row. The technology is prone to malfunction. That's typical for flintlock weapons. The ignition often fails. The flint, that's here, stops and you have to replace it. They often malfunction. (narrator) The experiment continues And the musket causes more problems. I can barely touch it, it's so hot. It's getting harder to charge, It needs to be cleaned thoroughly. Alright, let's try and fire the last shot. (narrator) Stabe's last shot It's astonishing Eight shots hit, two missed. You can already see all the dispersion. From a military point of view, They passed the firing line, said &quot;fire!&quot; (narrator) The minie ball. Otherwise it would scratch The layer of grease in the characteristic To match the ammunition, that was introduced to The minie ball is easier to charge (gunshot) (narrator) Targeting is much easier too, because unlike the musket, (Stabe) They are much closer together. It's clearly more accurate. (narrator) Aiming with Stabe shoots You can see clearly All these shots would have been deadly. (narrator) The evaluation shows: Stabe hits the target seven times out He can only score The other shots are widely dispersed. The minie ball from several hundred meters away. This is only possible in combination The minie ball The barrel is part of the new design. (narrator) The rifled barrel presumably in the late 15th century. The idea was impart spin to the projectile. The spinning motion There are different ways Historically, the grooves were cut in Today, they are usually formed It's delicate and very detailed work. These barrels are (narrator) This is The explosion of the gunpowder \which drives the projectile forward. Minie's ball which expands and seals the barrel perfectly. Due to the spiral grooves, The stronger the spin, to diverge This means the spin If you shot these bullets without spin, so imbalanced that the minie ball (narrator) Military officers worked on The objective was always And most importantly, As early as the 16th century, musketeers use filled with the exact amount In the 17th century, that further facilitated In just one case, they contained The next leap forward is the integration Two French gunsmiths The first was Casimir Lefaucheux The second weapon inventor These cartridges The metal cartridge was crucial The cartridge brought together It contained the bullet It contained the main charge It contained the cap, And finally, the case itself. (narrator) 100 years ago, John Moses developed ammunition with a large To this day, But the way ammunition Some bullets have such that they have I'd like to know compared to a round ball I'll shoot at this ballistic block. It shows me the real impact (narrator) Each bullet For the lead bullet, The bullet goes through the ballistic For the NATO cartridge, The cartridge has been of Western armies for almost 50 years. Same thing here: a perforating shot. In the last round, to shoot at the dummy. The projectile that dates back more than Here was the round ball. Incredible impact. A large wound channel. The smallest bullet, Brutal. It would have perforated anyone. The minie ball was the most effective. You can see the enormous impact energy. It scares me has had such an impact. (narrator) A direct comparison: On the left the lead bullet, in the middle the minie ball with powerful effect. If you look closely at a bullet wound, you can see an area This was also true It was simply splintered. That means the wounds were big. In the past, it was extremely difficult (narrator) The wounds caused by the The battle of Solferino in the Second Italian War of Independence. Austria fights Swiss businessman Henry Dunant witnesses Almost 40,000 dead and wounded people Spontaneously and with volunteers Dunant organizes It's the beginning of a movement that From 1864 on, a predecessor of the German in the Wars of German Unification. The 19th century is marked by discussions focusing on helping the wounded In 1899, the major powers Among other things, it prohibits weapons A milestone on the way its impact, however, remains limited. Everybody broke the Some more than others. They broke it because the Rules are rules, the opportunity to cheat It's a human thing. (narrator) Only after millions died in the Societies of the 21st century entire generations of young soldiers. States are interested in ranged weapons which minimize It's tempting and make it such a one-sided process We sit at a long distance, press buttons That isn't a game We have to accept that distance but battles are won ultimately If he won't play, That means getting closer (narrator) Nevertheless, new ranged weapons. Sometimes they look like they come For example, the railgun. But the US Navy is indeed testing it. The first phase is stationary. But the long-term goal is to operate The patent for the railgun but it took almost 100 years In railguns, because the acceleration is caused The principle behind railguns I have a conductor, like a piece of wire, There is also an external magnetic field This creates a force If you take a railgun, but you send the current If I now have there's an accelerating force impact so powerful it can generate a velocity (narrator)This novel technology breaks all For physical reasons, they cannot eject The railgun on the other hand Today, it can accurately hit a target It was a long way The first ranged weapons, were used at close range Over the centuries, the battle distance In a test setting, the railgun projectile effortlessly penetrates But it has a downside. It uses a lot of power to generate Whether the railgun will really change Subtitles: Jacqueline Ball et al.