Okay, so shit hit the fan, and now we're here. Maybe it was your fault. Maybe the world screwed But we need to figure a way And even better, by the end of this video, not only will we come up but we'll restore that things This video will be here waiting for you Are you ready for this? Here are 15 things if your life starts falling apart. First up, health, fitness, We experience reality we have running through Large scale. Academic studies show is significantly related and happiness You just. You got to trust Get yourself to a gym. Don't push yourself too Just get your blood You spend most of your time from the bed to the kitchen to the seat in your car, and back home, All of that, coupled with a diet of deep heavy foods. This is why you have a Why your back hurts. Why you don't like the way and why your skin Since your body is mostly dormant, it struggles to manage released when stressful Your body needs It needs blood flow to flush those stress Getting yourself physically tired will quiet the mind. Your body will begin of fixing itself strong again. You'll fall asleep faster. You'll wake up feeling rested and begin the And this happens much when you refine your sleep Humans We live life in cycles, both big and small. Going to sleep and waking up at the same time every day is one of the smallest but one that will have well you function. You'll stop feeling tired Your mind will de fog actually allowing you to see things more clearly. Money problems, business academic problems, and almost have one core element in common the defining solution, the mind of the person going through the challenge. The biggest insight here The mind cannot do what it's supposed to do if the body isn't And in this case, figure out how to make the pieces So you solve the fitness and rest parts first and then watch how things begin And you'll want even more. Get out of the house, get some sun on your face, and put yourself out You're not getting enough You're not spending enough You haven't breathed If not years. You haven't or ocean breeze You stopped running when you were like You probably breathe heavily a flight of stairs. These are easy, cheap or free to fix. Just start going for walks. Seriously, it's really Walking is like anyway. You'll never regret adding more to your life. But it doesn't have to be For the first time ever, be a tourist in your city, go to its edges, find its hidden gems. Every city's got them. Walk through a forest see how your body signals to you It's wired into our DNA. But since your diet is so prioritizing convenience over everything else, your body is very likely missing key elements that are meant to regulate the feelings your experience How's this for a wake up A 2018 study in Japan a clear correlation between depression and other mental health struggles Turns out were able just by increasing their iron intake. Now, obviously, for everyone But if you've never had and now you do get yourself to a doctor, and have them recommend Not every bout of depression pharmaceuticals, fish oil Vitamin Magnesium for muscle, Nerve and stress. Probiotics for gut health. Vitamin Turns out through similar feelings And as a society, to provide solutions. This is your wake up call years of research that went into solving these problems and put them to good use for personal gain. With your body chemically reset. It's now time to focus in the room. You need to stop digging. Okay. Whatever it is You can't get a different outcome Stop digging. Stop the bleeding. No matter how harsh Cut it out. If a deal isn't profitable, take the L walk away. Stop the bleeding. If you've been spending more stop spending. If you're struggling don't borrow more money to pay off the old debt. If they left, you and stalking This is what together You go from autopilot to being decisive with your actions. If something doesn't lead to a measurable positive on the metric that matters, don't do it. A trap. We often see people make themselves feel better with momentary pleasure. People who are struggling would actually go because they're trying to convince themselves They're in denial dopamine hit to distract them from reality, feeling even worse when the dopamine minutes later. This is dumb. Okay? Don't do that. If you can't pay rent, don't buy the plane tickets. Whatever lifestyle you had before this point is what got you here. Your ability got you here anymore, is it? So stop and stick of things you know for certain will provide you with a positive return. Slap yourself This is your life And since it's not going you need to stop And while you're at it, don't start anything new. Focus on the essentials for the time being. The goal is to survive Time provides clarity. Time reveals Time allows for certain actions There's no reason to run around If you cannot directly impact the outcome. So wait it out. Follow the rules If you're doing better and you stop the bleeding you should be able to see at the end of the tunnel. You'll be tempted to solve one problem with an external solution. You'll be tempted in order to make back Someone will try to take advantage when they dangle with high returns Don't fall for it. You're lacking resources, careful with how you spend the little you do have. You can't spend your way You just focus on new things that measurably work and do them over and over and over again. You're now in the grind If your actions have your problem will be solved through volume and time. So focus on the essentials. Keep yourself fed and ignore You'll get through this. Just again, Start a daily routine that jogs your mind and keeps your life predictable. You're out here life, winging your schedule and this causes tremendous amounts Unpredictability is what got you here Because if you could have well, you're smart enough So here is the solution. First, a predictable routine the need for your brain outside of what's driving Secondly, input of wisdom that provides context and frameworks to navigate what you're going through. And thirdly, a disciplined grind your newfound wisdom into measurable progress. The day is one before 1 p.m. the rest of your day. You either choose or you use it in fighting shape. So how do you apply this? Well, first you wake up, brush your teeth, shower, do what you must make your coffee, tea Dealer's choice. But first. Okay, Drink Train your brain, listen to a podcast, or use professional tools like an app that's designed to bring actionable steps to deal with your problems. Journal If you feel like it, and once you're fired up, create a priority list you'll accomplish today in order of impact and then proceed The two biggest tasks on will be done before 1 p.m.. You'll have made real, tangible progress. The only difference is that winners they can make small progress on a daily basis is the reason why they win. The losers outsmart the system and they can't. If you lack the routine, the clear trajectory, a loser, you will lose. Smart people know this and they use the Alux app to do all three of them. So go to alux.com/app app, put it on your phone and make it your morning It fixes specifically and it takes under one week just how freaking With your newfound getting out of the hole, you need to feel safe. And that's where your So reach out True friendships are especially valuable You need people if not for advice, that you can vent to This is a tool you have in your arsenal, are just waiting for you to allow them Stop with the superficial nonsense Hard times create depth. That's how friends go on to become They've been through You want to have people that have your back. You want to be someone who has their back as well. Being a lone wolf until you realize but they eat more The fact you're going through this right now just means you've done at valuing the relationships and didn't make having the priority The rich. Use this for profit They make each other richer and keep each other If you do it right, this practice translates other parts of your life. But there is one thing that just cannot be done And that is to have with yourself about what Because, look, okay. Other with answers or solutions, but you need to figure out what happened for yourself. And this is a single player As much as other people they can try to shed light on certain things This right here is between you and you. BLOCK everything out. Take a step back of how things unfolded. Try to identify the inflection points, the red flags and the bad calls Your life doesn't fall off bad decision. Most single bad decisions can be reversed or outworked. Life falls apart when you have multiple bad calls, one after the other. So this exercise serves as a wake up You're not as smart You're not as hard working You're not as committed You probably expected to get you So you just kicked back and now you're paying People will only help you if by helping you, More often than not, helping themselves over helping you. This is why you can't take your hands So ask yourself, Where did you mess up? What did you see but ignore? Why did you ignore it? Did you double And why? If this were to happen what would be a superior course of action? And what is the one belief that you used to hold And what do you think now? These questions will allow you to break down your past You can't change the past, but you can extract value from it. Honestly, the only way to alkermes the shitty calls and turn them into anything worthwhile. Don't let your mistakes Use them to propel you forward. Once things become clear. Well, it's time to get to Let go of the dead weight. Your life now sucks because the bad calls Well, they had consequences. And some of those are still around. As hard as it might seem. Cut them off. If you hired You need to make the If you got back it's time to choose yourself and let them go. If you poured you need to stop. The person who got you They're now It's cheaper perspective Now and move on than it is trying to recoup whatever you lost through them without all the weight. You'll be nimble You'll be light. Your overhead will be low. It won't take much time to see things But you can't get there all of these leeches Sometimes they're ill intended. Sometimes bystanders Everyone is responsible for their own lives. Let them go. Allow them to move on. You need a moment You are the sinking ship trying to save everyone else at your own expense. Put on your oxygen and then take care of It'll be painful for both you and them, but if it's objectively the right call, make it. And eventually They'll find theirs. And don't look back. Along the way, you lost that made So now it's time to rekindle all that. So revisit an old source of creative happiness. The mistake you made is to tie your happiness to a certain outcome. The second mistake you made is having that outcome depend on other people or have it barely in your control. That is how you end up There is this lie something That's bullshit. Okay? You have to make yourself You do not find happiness. You create it the same way you make yourself Despite telling you to hit There is a willpower. Muscle atrophies over time. It gets a weaker. So the same way you grab a pair of dumbbells and do curls to expand is the same way You need to flex You need to train it. Here's You are happy when your life is comprised of things Somewhere along the line, has tricked us into You should work hard. You should think hard. Everything became hard, and so did your life. You traded the things that made you happy And hard. Things Unless you're aware of and most people So revisit from your past that brought you happiness. Relisten to old songs. Rewatch Find a book Do what used because chances are And he likes her. If you've gone we've mentioned and there's still something deeply wrong inside of you. Then get professional help. There are four people that can get you back Better said. Four professions psychiatrists, nutritionists and doctors, therapists, priests and professional coaches. Whatever these people have seen if not thousands of people go through the same thing and have identified that allow the individual the obstacle you're facing. You don't pay them but for the expertise And not all It'll usually take a few until you find one Your life didn't fall apart It's actually the outcome that allowed this to happen. So the solution will not be one that you can and rid yourself Otherwise, so far would have worked. The more you zoom out, your life isn't as special or as different from others as you make it seem. So what worked for them? Well, if you're willing You can lose the weight. You can get into shape. You can heal the trauma. You can stop the voices You can find peace. You can solve money. And you can find purpose if you have the right Millions of people subscribe to our channel transformative and valuable our free content is. For the past decade, our philosophy here at Alux has been the following You can have But let's because it takes to afford the luxury with everything else without So we built an app that helps people do To put their life and wealth to physical to intellect, relationships The app is available at alux.com/app 100,000 people swear it's changed their life And we believe It's like having in your pocket, It's the best investment Get a yearly subscription app and Change the difficulty Here is a breakthrough idea just doesn't Your life has different based on what Sure, if you want to be a billionaire, the money game at an expert It's not going to be easy. If you want to have under 6% body fat, to play the fitness game at an expert level. But if you just want to be happy and at peace, look, those are not expert level objectives. We're sure you've met who are plenty Social media has tricked you that everyone should have to travel to the Maldives to buy bottles at the club, to fly private, to buy a Van bracelet or necklace without doing any real work or even the bare minimum. All of this adds pressure. It makes you feel like It sets an almost so you feel worthless because you don't But that's not where your value lies. Love your partner, hug your parents, get a good night's ride a bike, visit your grandparents and cook dinner drink a beer with your dad and talk about something Take your kid out This is the game of life on easy mode. The biggest return for your buck It'll that none of these The biggest lie you've been all of these possessions This is a stupid rule who bought stuff they're better Because they still feel So they needed to cling on of worth to justify it. Just take a moment to think What does it mean for you to win at life? How will you measure it? What do you optimize for? Once you figure this out, make sure you don't lose sight of the Grieve. Feel your feelings and allow them to exit Look, we know, okay? Life is hard and you can't be showing So what did you do? You bottled everything up. You locked it You never talked about it. You did that over and over and over again. And now the room cannot And it wants to burst open. Your strengths got you here. But it's a different kind of strength where you want to go. So give yourself permission to grieve and process. What happened to you was not your fault. Feel your feelings. Let them out. Let them pass through As uncomfortable because the alternative is to let them grow stagnant and fester inside of you, spilling out If you're the creative type, these feelings Write it out, paint it out, put it in your music, code it out if you have to. Once you're able to do it, you'll have a way of ridding yourself of all that you've been carrying Everything you down below the surface. Emotions not bottled up for even the finest wine Must taste worse than vinegar by now. Time doesn't heal anything if you don't use time to work through it. But there is a healthy way to do that Don't drown your sorrows into anything Because as much as TV shows try to glamorize alcohol, drugs and other escapist stay away from them Have you ever talked and asked them how they ended up homeless? You'd be shocked to learn productive members Then they made and instead of they looked through pills or at You get addicted that these substances because it's only Reality doesn't stop for you and the consequences of your past actions Festering no matter Like a dragon that wasn't It grows stronger every day. By this point, grown unimaginably big, but your addiction Every addict will tell you illusion of peace has an unimaginably great cost in terms of family and self-esteem. The cost is that you are for a moment of quiet when both the dragon and the addiction You're done. That's how you end up This single idea should make you realize just how real life is, that you can't be ignoring and chasing escapism through substances. If you stay clear of that, you do have a shot of turning things around. Zoom out. If life has taught us anything, it's this zoomed in. Life is a tragedy. Zoomed out. Life is a comedy. You've been through hard times before Have the confidence that you can do Ten years from now, as just another chapter It always amuses us when we think back where you had a test and you were so scared And at that point in time, was, my God, and you didn't you wanted to get into your life was over? Well, how do you feel about You laugh about them, right? Because things turned out just fine. You're in the middle of Life is hard. This is what hard You're supposed so you can laugh about it It also helps to put things Look at all so far. 12 bad months. Do not wipe away in the last decade. So give yourself some more credit and shift This particular struggle is meant to unlock that you didn't know And finally, use this as the origin story for who you're becoming. This is your hero's journey, and every hero goes through this. There's an excitement, The hero thinks it's going They overcome and build confidence. But then things happen. The dark side The hero is captured. Impending doom is ahead. And this is where you are in the story. You've seen enough movies, read enough stories to know where your story is supposed The hero pulls themselves together by the bootstraps. Finally understands the words of their mentor to defeat the evil forces and come out victorious. This victory is what awaits you. Use the wisdom, the tools, the teachings and win this because one day this is a struggle Well, just make your TEDx talk more interesting. Some people would Some people wouldn't have made it But you are not some people. You actually get a second chance at this. Objectively, it's a hard situation to solve, but you've got a good head on your shoulders All of it is figure out a ball. You already have Or worst case scenario, you know what So start solving it. This is not the end and we cannot wait to hear about how your story We believe in you. And since you took this extremely long video until the very end, we saved a bonus You already have It's just that And if we're going here, mostly it's There are times in your life where you can solve problems by using leverage. Leverage means money, connections, a certain tool, or someone's specific knowledge. But sometimes the problem is a one brute force effort. The problem X amount of hours of effort And it's a you that has This is actually a blessing, despite maybe not feeling that way. The fact that you alone this means from doing it There's a tiny voice that's gotten complacent. The golden Nugget still around for this you are not the voice You are the person making things happen. The voice in your head watching you and doubting So put that sucker in You already have There's no time to lose. So start chipping away If you're the type of person in this life, that won't let the current If you're the type of person who will find victory, no matter what the word victory Let's see how many of you aren't Come back to this video. Once you've defeated we will be eagerly awaiting an update to your comment.