On September 11th, 2001, terrorists struck a new era- the Global War on Terror. After decades of Cold War preparations, the for this new, asymmetric war, but they were First though, the US had to deal with the Both the Pentagon and the World Trade Center Pentagon was only partially destroyed. The World Trade Center would be a near total Immediately upon realizing that the homeland unprecedented steps of ordering all civilian available airport. Hundreds of aircraft from various nations of the US Air Force, which was not in the Tens of thousands of travelers had their travel on the nearest available air field all across French tourists on their way to Hawaii were of air traffic affected incoming aircraft US Air Force F-15s and F-16s, loaded for air patrols over the American west and east coasts, north of North America. The United States implemented DEFCON 3, or facilities around the world. This meant that US forces, specially the air notice, with all air force combat planes ready alert. The US wasn't just worried about further terrorist sending a clear and strong signal to any would a nasty sucker punch to the face, it was still Any attempt to capitalize of US confusion the attacks would be met with immediate and be. Civilian aircraft incoming to the United States from entering American airspace. Anyone wishing to complain could take it up Planes were diverted to Canada and Mexico, that would last for days. The first priority were search and rescue Trade Center. The Pentagon had been a priority target, though they couldn't reach their intended targets and choose secondary targets. Anyone who couldn't do either or experienced their planes. As the very visual symbol of American global of targets, but the attack did only relatively 125 Pentagon workers were killed in the attack, mostly US Army or US Navy employees. The highest ranking casualty was Lieutenant of Staff. Thanks to reinforced construction techniques target to take on, and the damage was limited released in the impact. At the World Trade Center site though, things Firefighters from the New York City Fire Department the smoke, dust, and raging firestorm above Falling debris made the task even more difficult Engine 10 and Ladder 10 were the first to directly across the street, and at 8:50 AM the lobby of the North Tower. However due to safety concerns, the command This would end up saving the lives of many the North Tower lobby was still being used collapsed. Tragically, a repeater system meant to help had failed due to the attack, and fire chiefs the order to evacuate had been given. As a result many firefighters and first responders, up in their off duty hours to assist, were 343 firefighters would die from both tower The command post on West Street was taken York Fire Departrment Chief Peter Ganci. A new command post was set up in a firehouse by half of all New York fire department units, Westchester County and others could be managed. Other volunteers who did not make it to the on personnel in order to cover their duties efforts. Just hours after the collapse though, Firefighters the scene of the attack, evocative of the The medical response began immediately after area moved to the corner of Vesey and West Five triage areas would be set up around the with the massive number of casualties being Triage centers would be moved to the Chelsea the wake of the collapse, while neighboring Sadly, emergency medical services would end inhalation patients. The truth is that very few people would end Both medical triage areas were shut down the On the water, the US Coast Guard mobilized people stranded on Manhattan Island. Counter-terrorism patrols by watercraft were possible follow-up attacks on either civilians Short on resources, the Coast Guard sent out of Manhattan Island, while other ships such efforts. With many water mains severed by the collapse, since 1930, would speed to the proximity of Alongside two other FDNY fireboats she pumped fight the blaze amongst the wreckage for eighty In eight hours following the attack, anywhere evacuated from Manhattan, in effect America's maritime evacuation in history. To assist with communications, amateur radio the hundreds of volunteers forming bucket With official emergency networks completely New York authorities, and on December 12th, work. Rescue efforts at the site however were not Few had survived the collapse of the towers, through two feet of ash and soot. Then heavy equipment had to be used to lift Incredibly, the day after the attack though six firefighters and three police officers. Two police officers had survived for a full But the discovery of survivors would not last Only twenty people would be pulled alive from rescued 27 hours after the collapse of the Some of the trapped were able to make cell to get to all of them in time. Hundreds of volunteers and officials poured dogs- the largest deployment of dogs in US But pretty soon only cadavers were being recovered, dogs so severe that rescue workers had to just to lift the animal's flagging spirits. Around New York city, thousands of volunteers assist in whatever capacity they could. The city would register these individuals had been closed off to everyone but rescue All over New York, construction projects came and headed to the site of the attack. By the end of week one, over one thousand thousands other specialists from the US, Canada, Days after the attack, the focus was on investigation Bucket brigades were organized from thousands a five gallon bucket full of debris. At the end of each line, investigators sifted remains, with the rest being deposited in to avoid using the term 'ground zero' due By September 24th, 100,000 tons of 1.8 million for clues or remains, and sent to the Fresh Much of the steel would end up being recycled 24 tons of steel would be used in constructing dock ship meant to assist in amphibious assaults. Incredibly, through the recovery efforts someone the heist of the decade. Just days after the collapse, rescue workers underneath 4 WTC. Upon exploring the building's basement, a silver coin and bars was discovered, all stored The would-be thieves were never discovered, the hundreds of rescue workers on the site, it. The US military also mounted immediate efforts The Civil Air Patrol was one of the few institutions opportunity to conduct aerial reconnaissance analysis of the wreckage. CAP aircraft also assisted in airlifting personnel The first military personnel at ground zero National Guard's 1-101st Cavalry, 258th Field and 69th Infantry Regiment. National Guard troops supplemented NYPD and rescue efforts by the next morning. The armory of the 69th Infantry would become members of victims in locating their loved National Guardsmen also provided security New York, as well as assisted in traffic control. Soon after, the New Jersey National Guard The US Navy redirected its hospital ship, there crew members helped feed and house 10,000 Its galley provided 30,000 meals, while its workers immediately after the attack and during With Osama Bin Laden and Al Qaeda claiming Bush immediately declared a war on terrorism global terror networks. Al Qaeda would be enemy number one however. A NATO committee agreed that the attack on and overnight Osama Bin Laden had brought on his head. Across the nation, federal law enforcement 762 suspects with known or suspected ties However, none of those detained would be charged seen as a knee-jerk response to the September To head off growing Islamophobia by parts the Islamic Center of Washington, and reminded the US were still patriots. Sadly, a 1600 percent surge in hate crimes and south asians would occur in the days immediately Immediately after the attacks, President Bush assets of known terrorists and their financial This froze billions of dollars in assets, war on terror. On September 18th, a joint resolution from to use "all necessary and appropriate force" September 11th attacks. Two days later, the president announces the Osama Bin Laden has horrendously misjudged He believed that the US would respond in one East, or a round of cruise missile strikes Having weathered a storm of missiles before Al Qaeda had won the day. Instead, the United States chose a third option- and would spell his personal doom and the Immediately after the 9/11 attacks, President by the American congress authorizing the President to justice, or eliminate, the individuals 11th attacks. This makes Osama Bin Laden public enemy number network of global allies. Al Qaeda itself is targeted for destruction, Al Qaeda is given an ultimatum: had over AQ Meanwhile, American intelligence operatives security provided by American special forces. In a series of clandestine meetings, the US anti-Taliban, so-called "Northern Alliance". This alliance is a coalition of anti-taliban as well as Uzbek, Hazara Shiite, and some Before the September 11th attacks, US policy and political action, but America had so far to the Northern Alliance. However, leading up to the 9/11 attacks, internal shifting and edging the President closer towards Just two days before the terror attacks in Shah Masoud (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahmad_Shah_Massoud#/media/File:Ahmad_Shah_Massoud.jpg), Qaeda operatives posing as journalists. Wounded in the suicide bombing, Masoud would The attack would later be seen as indication back by directly financing the alliance, and chaos just two days before the 9/11 attacks. However, Mohammad Fahim (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohammad_Fahim#/media/File:Mohammad_Fahim_in_2004_cropped.jpg), power and ensure the alliance remained intact. Shortly after the terror attacks against the when refused initiated a plan to militarily Equating those who harbor terrorists as terrorists that neither the Taliban nor Al Qaeda saw the Taliban themselves. The Bush administration sought UN approval Council Resolution 1368. However, while widely interpreted as authorization authorize America's invasion of Afghanistan. China, who sits on the security council, wished the UN, knowing that they could then control They hoped to leverage their veto power in the US to stop supplying weapons and equipment continues to wish to forcefully annex to the On October 4th, the Taliban began to read Bin Laden over to Pakistan, to be put on trial according to Islamic shar'ia law. The proposal was rejected. Knowing that seeking full authorization for independence, the US invoked the right to On October 7th, 2001, less than a month after aircraft launched a blistering assault on The air attacks were coordinated with an offensive working alongside approximately 1,000 American Agency field operatives. That same day, even as bombs were raining the US and offered to try bin Laden in Afghanistan Knowing that justice would never be served US rejected the proposal. Meanwhile, American and British aircraft continued Cruise missiles launched from warships in at military targets inside Afghanistan. On the ground, Northern Alliance forces fighting Forces group, aircrew from the 160th Special Air Force Combat Controllers pushed south The American bombing campaign was so fierce surrendered or defected en masse. The first major victory of the ground war Taliban stronghold of Mazar-i-Sharif was captured. This allowed US-backed forces to rapidly conquer Four days after the capture of Mazar-i-Sharif, withdrawal from the city. As the pressure mounted, the Taliban in the defense in Kunduz. However, under withering air attack, Northern and took the city on the 26th of November. A new problem arose, as a significant number and into Pakistan. In the Pakistani tribal areas, the government pursuing and destroying retreating Taliban tensions amongst the northern tribes of Pakistan. Wishing to secure Pakistani support for the that would violate its attempt at cooperation Unbeknownst for a few more years to the US equipping the Taliban and other insurgents Their support was spearheaded by Pakistan's ran a massive effort to arm, feed, and even other insurgent fighters. While never verified, it's strongly suspected fact that Osama Bin Laden was hiding in their to keep him hidden from US sources. Given that Bin Laden was discovered hiding military institutions and often compared to think that Pakistan was not actively protecting The reason why is simple: the Taliban represented as well as helping to limit western influence Pakistan had every incentive to keep the Taliban plans to uproot Al Qaeda directly clashed priority. In the south of the country, Taliban forces Before the assault on the city began, the which was rejected by Secretary of Defense was that Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar This was unacceptable to the United States, only encourage the Taliban to persist in a Thus the First Battle of Kandahar was on. On the 19th of October, 200 Rangers from the landed on a desert landing strip south of There they linked up with 750 American paratroopers The task force immediately set about creating as Camp Rhino. This would serve as a logistics base to support aid to their forces in the battle to come. Kandahar was heavily defended, and given its to capture. Defended by fanatical Taliban fighters who to prepare Northern Alliance forces for the On the 18th of November, militia commander special forces. Under his command, Sherzai had about 800 fighters, the task at hand. With Uncle Sam bringing lots of spare toys, weapons, ammunition, and vehicles. On November 22nd, a force of 100 vehicles Sherzai attempted to bypass Taliban strongholds the Taliban-held town of Takht-e-pol. There he attempted to negotiate a surrender but was instead ambushed. American air power held in reserve to directly the Taliban ambush. Their forces were put into full retreat, vacating Meanwhile, the 15th Marine Expeditionary Unit the 101st Airborne. The 101st was immediately tasked to strike and two days later the 15th MEU joined the Air Service operators. Hamid Karzai, leading the Eastern Alliance, Battle of Tarin Kowt on November 14th. With about 800 men, Karzai led an attack on On the 30th of November, Karzai's forces took they attempted to take the bridge at Sayd The United States aided Karzai's forces with munitions that left the bridge intact. On the 4th of December, overwhelmed by American the bridge by setting up a beachhead on the Unfortunately, the next day a stray American three special forces soldiers and wounding However, Karzai's forces remained cohesive negotiations with the Taliban for surrender Meanwhile, Sherzai's forces initiated an assault to discover little resistance from the Taliban. Unbeknownst to Sherzai, the Taliban had surrendered the head of his militia who entered the city Karzai meanwhile did not object, as he'd already Administration, which would work to establish of the Taliban. By the 9th of December Kandahar had been fully A group of al-Qaeda troops under the command Al-Adel remains on the FBI's top ten most to be hiding out in Iran. Now Check Out How SEAL Team Took Down Osama other video instead. As Kandahar was being secured, the United against al Qaeda forces in the cave complex On December 3rd, 20 CIA National Clandestine alongside members from the 5th Special Forces Codenamed Jawbreaker, the tank force coordinated an assault on the plains leading up to the For 72 hours, Jawbreaker called in a series forcing them to retreat into more entrenched One week later, 70 special operators from Air Force Special Tactics Squadron, joined They would lead the ground operation against For their part, al-Qaeda fighters would light allowed US aircraft to launch precision strikes With the aid of US, German, and British special into the cave complexes. Al-Qaeda forces contacted a local Afghan commander to surrender their weapons was believed to al-Qaeda officials to escape. On the 12th of December, fighting resumed al-qaeda's main forces to escape into Pakistan. Alliance forces along with US special forces al-qaeda positions in caves and bunkers. Leading the attack against the complex of forces operators alongside German and American These forces helped secure the flanks of the and were critical in success of the operation. Intent on the complete destruction of al-qaeda against the cave complexes. A force of 2,000 local militias, organized operatives, massed for an attack against the By December 17th, al-qaeda's last stronghold launched a search for Osama Bin Laden. Bin Laden however had managed to successfully Later it was revealed that the CIA officer more US forces to directly attack caves he of. His request was denied by the Bush administration, capture, he would be arrested as soon as he We know now that bin Laden was likely captured him into hiding in order to use him as a future Had the request for additional forces been a decade earlier than it did. After the taking of Kandahar and the destruction Taliban and al-Qaeda forces either went to From the safety of Pakistan's Federally Administered allowed the Taliban to launch repeated assaults in Afghanistan. Without permission from Pakistan to send troops areas, the US was forced to rely on drones These drone strikes drew global condemnation, ISI itself fanned the flames of outrage in The truth is that casualties from US drone in the Tribal areas, which did not allow Pakistani Thus casualty figures were never truly verified terrorists the US was targeting, and the fact uniforms allowed them to claim that all the Al Qaeda however would be destroyed as a global bide its time until 2021, when they exploited weak democratic government. Now Check Out How SEAL Team Took Down Osama other video instead.