Please turn on subtitles in your language. La Taverna a Santa Chiara Monday through Saturday Noon to 15:00, 19:00 to 24:00 La Taverna a Santa Chiara is a small typical restaurant located in the historic center of Naples, where traditional cuisine is combined with excellent local ingredients. They are one of the slow food osterias in Italy and they use the best slow food ingredients in season. Neapolitan ragout is ragout with beef and pork.... These are our two typical Sunday pasta menus.... Butter, lemon, and pepper. This is olive oil and garlic in a blender. Basils parsley Mixed cheese with Parmigiano and Pecorino Romano This is a cooked yellow mini-tomato. We also have red mini-tomatoes. This is called Genovese sauce in Naples. Lots of onions and meat make this sauce. I use lean beef and pork chops. Pork adds brightness and flavor to this sauce because of its high fat content. Beef is more firm and adds flavor. This is a Neapolitan ragout made with beef and pork. I cooked for 8 or 9 hours to make this. This is potato soup. I add pasta to it. provola cheese, small tomatoes, carrots It also contains celery and onions. These ingredients impart flavor to the potatoes. Hello, I am Chef Potito of La Taberna Santa Chiara. We are located in the historic center of Naples. The restaurant has been around since the 1960s and serves regional Neapolitan cuisine. At the time, the ground floor served food to professors, students, and customers. On the upper floors, people were able to stay overnight. The owner of this restaurant also slept on the upper floor. So they worked and slept in the same building. Then, little by little, it turned into a restaurant. We became owners here 11 years ago. Our typical menu changes with the seasons. We have two types: summer and winter. The winter menu includes Neapolitan ragout, genovese sauce, potato soup with rich provola cheese, and pasta with beans. In summer, seasonal vegetables are used in abundance. Eggplant, bell pepper, zucchini .... Another typical our menu is cod parmigiano. Lots of restaurants use tomato sauce for it, but we don't. Eggplant, Provola cheese, cod Then bake in the oven in multiple layers with basil and cheese. Please come and try our delicious food, which is different from other restaurants.Thank you. These are Lupin beans. It is certified as slow food. It is called giant lupin of Vairano area. This is a paste of Lupin beans and is certified as Slow Food. This octopus is sauteed in olive oil. Aromatize with parsley. Then add it to oven cooked eggplant with mini tomatoes, oregano and olive oil. It is a very light dish, but full of flavor. Pasta, potatoes and Provola cheese These are Neapolitan meatballs. We are certified by the Slow Food Association. All of our ingredients are locally sourced. The wines are also only from local states. I am also in this state chefs association. Add Parmigiano and Pecorino cheeses. This is the base for the Genovese sauce. I sauteed the meat, carrots and celery and added red wine. Burn the alcohol and add the onions. Now I am going to cook this for 7 1/2 hours. It will be ready at 8pm. After 7.5 hours of cooking. Genovese sauce is ready. Fresh tomatoes were blended with basil. Cook a little along with the spaghetti. This pasta makes you feel like you are eating fresh tomatoes. I am a cook since 1994. I started working as a chef after graduating from culinary high school. During culinary high school and on weekends, I worked in restaurants and pizzerias to improve. I learned many skills and graduated from school. I worked all over Italy before I opened this place. I have worked in catering, restaurants, luxury hotels, and during summer seasons in resort areas. I have done a lot of things in my life. We look forward to welcoming you at Taverna Santa Chiara.