welcome to another mathologer video. indian mathematical genius srinivasa largely self-taught, astonishingly died way too young 100 years ago and so one of the things ramanujan is famous infinite continued fraction equations a completely unexpected connection pi phi and e. mathematics this equation is super hard even if you are a professional luckily there is still some more mathologerised ramanujan's legacy. anecdote featuring ramanujan today's mission is to explain what's and what the infinite fraction is doing okay in 1914. mathematician prasantha rooms in cambridge in england. was passing the time reading the issue of The Strand a very popular fun fact: a lot of sherlock holmes magazine. for example, this particular holmes story: the valley of fear. the strand also featured a regular greatest puzzle inventors of all time, i'm a real fan, henry dudeney. it's 1914 and the first world war had broken out this issue of the strand are woven into village inn puzzle asks five pieces that can be reassembled into nope no continued fractions in sight yet. but can you do the red cross puzzle? if post a link to your solution in the but now let's look at the other puzzle pondering while ramanujan is cooking this puzzle is set in Louvain a belgian which had just made the war headlines. numbered on his side numbers on one side of him numbers on the other side of him. to the same sum consists in finding out how many houses and the number of the house in which the it's a tricky puzzle but after a while challenged ramanujan to do the same. yep ramanujan waved his magic wand, or or whatever had the answer straight away. impressive, right? but what impressed ramanujan gave his answer in the form of infinite fractions. and this infinite strand puzzle answers puzzle a so-called Pell equation. the strand puzzle, understanding why on earth people would the first place that even and the key to all this is the fact that and a curious property of A size pieces lots of ancient, beautiful and deep math(s) okay are you ready to solve the strand yes? well that's great :) then let's go. okay a street and a house with a special to get a feel for this problem let's examples. so can the street be five let's first focus on house number three purple one plus two is three and green since the sums aren't equal our man is three on this street. never going to work, right? the house will the street smaller than those on the right. close but no banana. one plus two plus which is not equal to five and that over is definitely not leave it to you to rule out the tiny three or four houses. so let's go bigger six houses. we still have a sum of eleven on the right. doesn't work plus four is ten on the left okay so forget about streets with six on to seven. left sum six plus seven fifteen on the left now and seven on the but wait a minute. can you see it? well 8 of course! 15 on both sides, so not so fast! problems in school and your teacher READ EVERY WORD. well, puzzle again. it says yep it's a long straight and i think we is not long enough to be called long. so solution. actually do find another solution, dudeney was after? there's actually a bit more to dudeney's so not only did you have to read every you had to read some words you weren't mean school :) here they are. than 50 houses in our street and less there solution. specify less than 500. maybe there's an that there are infinitely many solutions than 500 infinitely many solutions of just the so how do we find it? you reckon it's a increasing length: 50 then 51 then 52 without a computer? of course there's a better way which now comes the punchline. ramanujan's picks out all the infinitely many all at once. intrigued? so we're looking for the number of house. let's be really original, what a surprise. so the purple sum on 1 plus 2 plus 3 up to x minus 1. easy we've already encountered the formula in previous videos. remember to be equal to the sum is just a difference of two of those one can you see it? the green sum is to y way up to sum now some algebra autopilot to simplify very nice :) as a quick check that we messed up, let's sub in one of the okay 6 squared is 36 times 2 is 72 and 8 is 64 plus 8 is also 72, works. with the equation a bit. looks even nicer and that x squared plus equals y squared and a bit is somewhat is there any point to this? well sadly it doesn't lead anywhere. what else? for x or y and then start plotting and but there's something else that's crying maybe some of you will have guessed completing the square on the right. autopilot button again. hmm, did that help? at first glance this we started with equation is that there is with a bit of noise around each. the red by capital now our new capitals equation is and, importantly, if we find solutions to translate them equation. how? and little y. so this is the equation we want to solve. most useful form. see but even more so, all solutions to this equation are special infinite fraction. he must be a genius, right? rhetorical question. let's extract all the solutions worrying about the why, at least to extract the solutions of our equation calculate the so-called with it, the partial fractions are the finite when you stop at one of the plus signs so to get things going chop things off okay not much left so the first partial one, which we can also write as one over nothing impressive yet but let's keep chop off at the second plus that's the second partial fraction. the and that's equal to seven over five, and there and the denominator and numerators a quick challenge for you: can you guess fractions? go for a really simple one, and 2 the x. 3 squared minus 2 times works :) equation. there 49 minus 50 but we plow on regardless and the next 289 minus two times 144 that's one. is that every second fraction works. all the solutions to our equation in and what about the other fractions? well the companion equation, with a minus 1 now all that remains to be done is to into the solutions of the strand puzzle. these here. x's two. like numbers of houses in the streets, this. nice. second one 50 and 500 that dudeney actually had in imagine finding this solution by a trial i guess even just checking by hand that these two numbers who grew up punching buttons on a before we move on, maybe ponder the one-one solution at the top. can you make sense of this? easy right? or anyway to wrap up, here is a summary of in a flash. whoa. an absolute genius. mathematics in all this, especially that and seeing all this at a glance is super however that genius mathematics is and although continued fractions are a many mathematicians a century ago would and would have followed something like problem. solution it may appear at first glance telling of the story. solving at the end solutions were first found a couple of also any mathematician who has studied will be aware that our equation is the example of what is called a pell with some non-square positive integer in and these mathematicians would also know equation are contained in the simple infinite fraction of root k. and indeed is that simple continued fraction of well that's all great but i'm sure you all don't explain the connection with root and where on earth this infinite that's what i'll do next. so catch your then so what's the natural way to come up as a way to solve this equation and well that root 2 is involved is actually let's tweak our Pell equation a little what this tells us is that if x and y equation root 2. happen. since root 2 is irrational the other hand, it's now equation, equal to better this approximation will be. already know the solution to the pell so let's compare the largest fraction okay in decimals and that's really five decimals already. pretty impressive, now if you are a long-time mathologer this all may ring a bell or two or we already stumbled across the Pell proving that root two is irrational in years ago. that video. a difference? and we weren't just lucky then. it's to stumble across solutions of our Pell while playing around with certain proofs another one of these irrationality by the so-called euclidean algorithm, an with which many of you will be familiar. even most of you who are familiar with infinite fractions like ours for root 2 in disguise. algorithm lead to an irrationality heart of our is one possible natural connection to in the rest of the video i'd like to euclidean algorithm could naturally you've got what it takes to also survive master class part of the video, now is helmets and seat belts. end will be rewarded with a solution of that i think even beats ramanujan's. i'll now take you on a wonderful journey school math(s) irrationality of root 2, solution of the strand problem. euclidean algorithm? as it used to be. so take any two positive integers, let's say divide the larger number by the example with a remainder of now repeat the process with the new the 16 equals two times six that's 4. do the same with 6 and 4. okay again. well, actually, unless you want to enter the land of well i absolutely love infinities but this is where things stop. there are lots and lots of points. across is that the euclidean algorithm our two starting numbers. common factor of 38 and 16. and sure is just staring at us. numbers such as highest common factor now right? (Easter egg hidden on this slide!) through those two numbers. there five and the highest common factor 153 pops at the end. it's also super easy to prove captures the highest common factor in anyway back to our earlier example and let's play around a bit with those four divide the equations by the blue numbers and watch the magic unfold. very cool don't you think? a really capturing of what the euclidean there's also a really nice visual algorithm that is lurking just around to see this let's start with a 38 times now watch this. this shows that you can perform the chopping off as many squares as possible horizontally and vertically. numbers of the different squares you two big blue squares, two aqua ones, and and the side length of the final, is the highest common factor of the brilliant isn't it? so next time you have integers you know what to do right? corresponding rectangle and okay so there's the result of the continued fraction that we distilled what if instead of 38 and 16 we had half those numbers. 38 divided by 2 is 19 except for the change in grid size, the and since the top picture stays the same so the continued fraction for 19 over 8 and of course the same would have been and bottom of right? the same number rectangle and so nothing changes in in other words the continued fraction is the continued fraction of the number 19 and not just that of a particular this means that if we remove the grid on what's left is a complete visual of the continued fraction. really beautiful :) from all this of 38 and 16, ratio is a rational number terminate after a finite number of steps will also be finite. if for some starting numbers a and b end up with an this would mean that a over b, the ratio cannot be rational, that this ratio must so let's apply this trick to the obvious we need to think of root two as a ratio rectangle with aspect ratio root two to and get the euclidean algorithm going. A4 and other A size paper has these okay let's start cutting off squares, fraction and see where we end up. that fits. this means the continued one. okay two of those squares and so our next. okay. in fact it looks like twos will keep if that was true, we'd end up with the that we encountered before is irrational. but how do we know that be twos in this infinite fraction and well that turns out to be pretty easy. to after cutting off a number of squares apart from the twos other things repeat for example, after we've cut off the the blue one and one aqua one rectangle. there, starting rectangle, just rotated and down. and in fact that's true leave the justification for this as a write up your proofs in the comments. now shape rectangles appear over and over as well, two squares two rectangle, and so on okay that's a beautiful proof but still still leaves me scratching my head a bit. for example just looking at this thing value? not clear at all right? let's have a closer look at some of partial fractions. as we've already seen harmless and easy to evaluate? behind the yellow two. top, we first throw away all the squares there. infinitely many little squares we just rescale all the squares in sight a so that the little indent at the bottom there goes away. then the value of the is just the aspect ratio of this new and, as well, we can just read this aspect off the diagram. if the yellow square is one aqua squares? and finally the blue square. one plus one the rectangle is equals 17 units wide. and so our partial 17 over 12.. there. algebra and get the same answer. thinking about continued fraction in helps you too. nature of these mysterious mathematical here's another such insight. when we truncating at a plus sign that truncation will be when we recognize that this truncation indent resulting from discarding some it's clear that the resulting rectangle original rectangle. for our example. there, there at a glance that 17 over 12 is a good it's also intuitively clear that the before chopping off, of the complete we can stop infinite fraction is equal to root 2 depending on what you include, this is video fractions. you may have heard me mention that those are in some sense the best possible fractions. doesn't it? how can possibly be a best approximation of root since all the partial fractions further well let me explain. the approximates root 2 is simply the smaller the difference no-brainer isn't it? and then because there is no best approximation in this as well as we wish with a difference as but really good approximations of this both x and y will be huge numbers. sort of how good an approximation y over x the left side of our pell equation. y over x was exactly equal to root 2, zero. are integers, is to score one. one is actually possible and is achieved in lowest terms. remember half of our y squared minus two x squared evaluate and the fraction in the other half -1. in fact there are no other end of this video trouble actually proving this. up more, would discover that our partial way also being best among all the fractions with denominators it turns out our partial fractions are 17 over 12 is a better approximation to than any other fraction with the x in the range from 1 to 12. measure of 17/12's bestness is to root 2 what a super famous 22 over 7 is to pi. as i said, have time for today, but i hope this anyway our partial fractions are really and so let me finish up by proving to claimed to be true so far and use all this to make a formula for the best ramanujan's. okay are you all right, let's first pin down an easy fractions. from the one of 17/12 smooth out, smooth out, remove, smooth out, smooth out :) there but anyway. wonderful. so in this way, starting with infinite fraction and we've done so by successfully and smoothing out the resulting indents. structure of the continued fraction of there is a second way of constructing instead of removing the smaller squares squares. here we go. second largest square seven over five largest two squares one over one. what's you really just have to get rid of the and no extra adjustment is needed. also, that is adding two squares at a time, fractions starting with another thing that's very easy to glean easy relationship between successive there if the sides here are larger rectangle are, well, S plus S plus L which is 2S plus L. fraction is L over S S plus L. i guess that's the relationship previously have a proof. 1 over 1 we can use generate all the other partial fractions there feed that one in the front spits out the next one. relationship to prove approximation it's an easy one but a nice one. will get us can do two consecutive fractions. what's the easy just iterate this relationship, that wow can you see it? there so there in the numerators you've got right? to get the numerator of the third you simply have to add 2 times the to the numerator of the fraction before and the same is true for the wow there two times the orange two times seven is fourteen plus three etc. and at the bottom brilliant. so both the numerators and the fibonacci-like fashion. the only with with 1 and 2. highlighted in blue the right, Binet's formula. it splits out one plug in fibonacci number after the other. formula in the video on the well the hardcore ones among you will now in pretty much exactly the same way our denominator and numerator sequences. and these formulas now straightaway for the infinitely many solutions of the what a wonderful solution isn't it. beats what do you think? anyway lots more and i'm tempted to go on for a couple maybe that's a good time to stop. until