At the age of seventeen he had a master plan Britain. He's been in the midst of media scandals, celebrities and most powerful politicians of hundreds of common folks. Arrogant, ambitious, and shameless.... so who is this media man? None other than Piers Morgan, of course... Early Life Piers Morgan was born in Sussex, England in was only two years old. At birth, Morgan was named Piers Stefan O'Meara, father's death, and Morgan adopted the surname Morgan and his stepfather were close, and calls him 'dad.' His parents were middle-class English, running When Morgan was 13, the family could no longer had to leave behind the classmates he knew. At his new school he was picked on and in name was altered to 'Puke.' Morgan dropped the Pugh from his name later to separate from his middle class roots, but Pugh-Morgan was too long for a byline. As a child, Morgan showed an early affinity As early as age seven he would sit at the the headlines and discussing the day's events By the time he was a teenager, he was writing Mid Sussex Times and then to Cricket Magazine "It gave me the real taste of the excitement It's not too much of a surprise, then, that a career rolled around, Morgan had it set famous media personality in Britain. He developed a master plan, and opted not to study History. That would have kept his master plan on hold So instead, he went directly to Harlow College as soon as he could. Print Media Career Morgan's first formal journalism gig was The Sun to write the gossip column entitled As The Guardian put it, Morgan spent his years next to a succession of personalities." Morgan wouldn't disagree with The Guardian's as he himself told the BBC he made a point posing for pictures with celebrities, and for all of Britain to see. The tactic worked. By 1994, at the age of only 29, Morgan secured Murdoch named him as editor of News of the Piers Morgan was the youngest editor of ever of a paper in Britain in five decades. The News of the World had the largest circulation the editorship gave Morgan a platform in which journalistic methods on display for a huge He even helped breach the previously untouchable By the summer of 1994, Princess Diana and way to its official end, and Morgan and News the opportunity to publish on potentially Morgan had caught wind that James Hewitt, to spill the beans about his affair with Princess With no fear of potential repercussion or the royals had been treated, Morgan reached for a story. He and his associate even bugged the hotel they would have proof of everything that was Then, that fall, a book about Prince Charles While News of the World didn't have any Morgan wasn't ready to give up a scoop to 'no' as an answer when he was denied access Instead, he directed Rebekah Brooks who had disguise herself, sneak into The Sunday Times News of the World as quickly as possible. She succeeded, and Morgan and News of the the Diana and Charles drama for the world The Sunday Times. If he wanted to be a famous journalist, why stories? Well, to him, everything was news. "There is a type of snobbish, pompous journalist validity is war, famine, pestilence or politics. I don't come from that school." This egalitarian attitude allowed Morgan to to do whatever it took to be successful in But he only lasted at News of the World for Though Morgan has said that he left the publication coincided with the publication of a photo an addiction treatment clinic, the publication far. In 1995, shortly after the photo ran, Morgan owned by Rupert Murdoch. Here, his tenure lasted much longer than it The number of controversial stories he was as a result his profile continued to rise It only took a year before Morgan found himself The Mirror. The day before England was set to play Germany The Mirror ran a headline and photo on its Above a doctored image of two English players "ACHTUNG! SURRENDER! For you Fritz, ze Euro 96 Championship is Next to it was a letter written by Morgan Reportedly, Morgan also planned a publicity German embassy. In the ensuing uproar about the headline, Suddenly, Morgan found himself in a position suited for - apologizing. There were fears the kind of attitude promoted during the games. Though Morgan was apologizing, he was right In 2000, though, the attention turned from financial scandal. A competing newspaper published a story alleging stock in a computer company - and that he a piece naming the stock as a good buy. An inquiry began, and it was decided that of conduct, he could keep his job. Other Mirror employees weren't so lucky their jobs, and it was another four years However, it did later come out that he bought 70,000 pounds worth. By the time that revelation came about, Morgan As editor, he had been leading the charge loudly criticizing then Prime Minister Tony Among the stories published on the war under a photo of British soldiers abusing Iraqi As recently as a 2016 BBC interview, Morgan and that the British government had a "vested thorn in the side about the war." But The Mirror didn't defend them strongly British people instead got a paper with a hoaxed." And the man who had okayed the publication When Morgan's firing was announced, staff After nearly a decade, Piers Morgan's reign TV Career True to form, though, he didn't slink away Instead he became a regular feature on people's Though he had already been appearing on TV stepped up his involvement with broadcast One of the first offers Morgan received for Simon Cowell. And in 2006, America welcomed Morgan into Got Talent. He also judged Britain's Got Talent, and reality show The Celebrity Apprentice. Morgan won his season of The Celebrity Apprentice, now-President Donald Trump. Morgan said all along he believed Trump would his dislike for the protests that erupted Morgan's diatribes on the subject have even him. But Morgan knew what opening his mouth could He's no stranger to the ins and outs of - he served as the host of a primetime show When Larry King announced his retirement in for the longtime, iconic American host. The show started strong, with Morgan able and politics for interviews. Oprah, Rudy Guiliani, Ricky Gervais, Condoleeza And he made just as many headlines for the Madonna was deemed too old to appear on his But all the initial hype wore off quickly. Morgan had a different style from King, and news and interview show. Ultimately, he only lasted three years in him to failure. He's attributed the show's failure to his own outspoken opposition to guns as one just couldn't be bridged. The CNN show wasn't Morgan's only project He was also hosting 'Life Stories' for Osborne and the Prime Minister. Now, he's the permanent co-host for Good the spotlight, most recently sparring with gender fluidity. In his classic blunt style, Morgan asked the as who the hell you like can I literally look Phone Hacking Scandals Amidst his rise to television stardom, Morgan to his newspaper days. In 2005, News of the World - which, remember, story about Prince Harry injuring himself. The only way they could have gotten the details if they had hacked personal voicemails. Thus set off a series of events that rocked world. Arrests were made, investigations were done, before some actual action is taken to address Rupert Murdoch issues apologies for phone ad in the last issue published of News of Rebekah Brooks - the same Rebekah who Morgan as CEO of News International. She's then arrested, though quickly released The FBI opened an investigation into News into the phones of 9/11 victims. London's police department was investigated Needless to say, the scandal enveloped England, Though Morgan had been out of the newspaper being questioned about the scandal. In fact he had to answer questions regarding famous personas...Sir Paul McCartney. McCartney's ex-wife, Heather Mills had alleged she and McCartney had a fight in 2001. A reporter who called her just seemed to know shared the voicemails with anyone, and that The only way anyone could know as much as and listened to the voicemails, or talked Morgan had mentioned in 2006 that he had heard a result he was called to testify in the 2011 Morgan wouldn't reveal how he'd come to he never authorized the hacking of voicemails The head of the hacking inquiry, Lord Justice he didn't know about phone hacking to be place in the scandal as undecided, at best. And, despite his denials of direct involvement police about the hacking in both 2013 and Other Scandal/Controversy Phone hacking, incendiary headlines, taping that would be enough for any one person to But Piers Morgan has been embroiled in personal One much-publicized drama stemmed from an Mirror ... publishing photos of "Top Gear" not his wife. Clarkson, understandably so, was perturbed the world to see. So he hurled a glass of water in Morgan's That might not seem out of place in your average the altercation stood out. And the fact it was between two highly visible Even better. A feud between the two men had officially The feud literally came to blows in 2004 when National Press Awards. Clarkson broke a finger, Morgan gained a scar, a new story. Though the feud lingered for years, the two and the feud ended. At the time, Clarkson was going through a Morgan who was able to empathize: "I sensed that Jeremy's just like pretty from damaged relationships, grieving loved battling inner demons." Personal Life By the time he entered his 50s, Morgan was tribulations of life he assumed Clarkson had His own marriage fell apart by the mid-2000s, divorced in 2008 after 27 years of marriage. Their marriage had produced three sons, and with his children. In fact, amidst all the demands on his time children every day. After his divorce, Morgan began dating Celia The couple married in 2010, and a year later Though both are British, they now reside primarily Walden often shares details of their married in some of the time. The two even teamed up to write a column about from his desire to be known by everyone: "Paris has always been one of my favourite I am, nor care. This means I can behave in a wildly reckless that the shameful images will never appear Conclusion Though he claims he doesn't want his own Morgan has made a career out of sharing the He's never been shy about sharing his political He's made a name for himself, made a few no sign of stepping out of the spotlight anytime From middle class Sussex to the TV sets of lived out the plan he wrote at the age of And he's still got plenty of career left What will the world see next from Piers Morgan? Well, whatever it is, when it happens we'll the news.