There isn't a single passage in the Bible that teaches that Satan fell and took a third of the angels with him in primeval days, or at all. Zero. This is the basic problem. I'm going to bring up what I think is the main problem, and that is; Peter and Jude reference this incident, and they do so in such a way that affirms that they believed that the sons of God who sinned (the angels that sinned), we're supernatural beings, they're not humans. And what they... they add elements that they can't get from anywhere else, other than sources that know the original Mesopotamian backdrop. That's a mouthful. What do I mean? Let's start with Peter. Again, this is unpacked in the Demons book and Reversing Hermon and you know, Unseen Realm to some extent. Here's what Peter says, &quot;For if God did not spare angels when they sinned&quot;, let's just stop there. Peter mentioned angels that sinned, &quot;if he did not spare the ancient world but preserve Noah.&quot; And then he goes to The Sodom and Gomorrah story. There's a chronology here; angels that sinned, the flood, and then later the Sodom and Gomorrah story. Peter's discussing false teachers, you know and things that, you know, happened in the Old Testament. He's using them you know, as a foil These things that happened as a foil to talk about false teachers. And the false teacher angle is going to become pretty important as well. But let's isolate our discussion to this one thing; &quot;angels (plural) that sinned&quot;. What other event other than Genesis 6 could Peter possibly be thinking of? Where are there angels (plural) that sinned in the Old Testament before Noah, or any place? The answer is zero. There are no passages in the Old Testament that have angels, as a group, sinning other than Genesis 6:1-5. Zero. You might be thinking, &quot;well, Mike, didn't Satan fall and take a third of the angels with him? You know, and then you have the fall happened in Eden and...&quot; Well, yeah, you hear that a lot. I mean, I heard that. You know, as a young believer, I heard that. There isn't a single passage in the Bible that teaches that Satan fell and took a third of the angels with him in primeval days, or at all. Zero. The closest you get. In fact, if you had a concordance, you can validate this. The closest you get is Revelation 12. This is the only place in the Bible, not just the Old Testament, in the entire Bible, that you have the number three or third with the number angel or angels appear in the same verse. This is it. This is the only place that you get "third of the angels" talk in the entire Bible. You know, war arose in Heaven, Dragon and his angels fought back, so on and so forth. You know, you've got this war going on in heaven, you read to the rest of Revelation 12. Here's the problem; what is the context for the war in heaven? Well, right here, two verses earlier, the woman who was pregnant, &quot;gave birth to a male child, one who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron, but her child was caught up to God and to his throne&quot;. It's the birth of the Messiah. And the catching up to the throne is the ascension, the resurrection and the ascension. Those events caused war in heaven, it's basically this is... Satan has to fight now the kingdom of God. That's the simple message. The third of the angels, you know, Michael, and could go down here, I'm not going to read the whole thing to you. The third of the stars as well, is how the actual language goes and we don't even If the stars are angels or not, but I'm just, I'm just sort of assuming that for the sake of the discussion. This is the only passage that has that language and it's connected to not a time before the fall, before Eden was made. No, it refers to the birth of the Messiah. I would suggest to you that the birth of the Messiah came after Eden. I'm being a little sarcastic here, but I hope that you get the point. There is no other candidate for Peter to refer to when he says &quot;angels that sinned&quot;, especially when it leads into Noah. Let's go back to that. There is no other candidate at all other than Genesis 6.