Good morning I'm used to people saying they've never seen a house like this Thank you! No, no, no. I've decided that I'm definitely going to write fish names by feel. I'm having fun every day. I'd rather have fun than think it's hard work. Thank you very much! I'm here today to stock up on fish. Roughly between 4:00 and 4:30 in the morning, basically every morning. You're stocking up. I want to use my eyes to see the best fish of the day. I knew you'd be at the market in the morning. I buy tuna It's like an extension of my hobby. I've learned a lot of faces by coming here every day. I just try my best to sell them good fish, every day. Hiramasa. The best this time of year. Horse mackerel, tuna, and yes, clams. Sardines, and then sea eel from Tsushima. Good morning This is where my grandparents originally lived We designed it this way when we built this condo. It's not from the bubble, but it's a bubbly house. I'm often told I've never seen a house like this. This clock, it's a clock. It's not running at all right now. I miss it, this is the only one I still keep. I'll take that one. It's cute, it's so cute Beloved daughter. I have something to protect and someone to defend, so I'm going to do my best, and I'm going to work. This is the tachio fish we use in the store, today it's grilled tachio fish with salt I'm using the best fish I can find, and I want my kids to eat it, too. Have a good day, I'm off. My husband is picking me up, so I'm going to niece beach now to buy dried bonito flakes Yes, we're here, let's go. Order, yes, I always tell them how thick I want it and they cut it for me. The smell is amazing, it makes the whole company smell great! I go back to the store once This is today's recommendation It takes me 20 minutes to write a recommendation I've decided that I'm going to write the names of fish in kanji characters. There's the Shozawa Tori tribe, right? The harness, the horse's tools. So this shape is used because it looks like the shape of a shoizawa. I thought it would be nice if we could have a conversation about how to write it this way. I try to write in kanji even if it is difficult to write in kanji My husband's mother writes the menus. And she's very good at it, but I never learned to write or anything like that. I started learning, and that's how the store came to be. It's hard to write with a brush, but I'm determined to do my best every day. Once a customer said to me, "This handwriting looks delicious. That made me happy, so I also write delicious-looking That's my goal now. I'm about a thousand times worse at writing than this. I'm more the indecisive type. He's the type of guy that when he makes a decision, he has to make a move. When I started working for a fishmonger, he suddenly said, "I'm going to start working at a fishmonger next year. Oh, that's right. So I have to try to keep up with his pace. We just opened, so the first thing is to let people get to know us. My personal goal is to be on "Gourmet of Solitude. We have quite a few overseas guests, including some from Korea. We also had a customer from Hong Kong who came to see us on Instagram. We have a lot more than just fish. We've had a lot of those things, and they've enjoyed them. Flowers, I'm going to go buy some. There's a really cute flower shop nearby, so I'm going there now I'm going to choose pink or some other color that will brighten up the store I'll take it. I was working to open a restaurant, so I'm just trying to get to the starting line at the same time as my goal. And maybe it was a noodle shop. I was thinking of starting my own restaurant, and that turned out to be a fish restaurant. It's hard because I work at what I love... I enjoy it every day. I think it's better to have fun than to think it's hard The customers tell you how good the food tastes when you're making it. That's the moment when I'm glad I opened the restaurant. I was thinking of putting sardines in it because the shape was pretty good and the oil looked good. I bought some sardines that looked good, not that it's the right time of year. This is also sashimi or seared sashimi, sashimi This one is sea urchin from Karatsu and this one is sea urchin from Hokkaido. I like sea urchin, basically all year round, if you like sea urchin, you should try it! Well, it depends on the day and the species of fish We buy the fish landed that day. We have a lot of different kinds of fish that you can't find anywhere else, basically. We're all about natural fishing, so it's the technique of putting it to sleep, and so on, and so forth. I've learned to serve them in their best condition on the day. I think I know a lot about fish. I can't get an appointment. Delicious Delicious Have a good day, thank you Thank you very much Thank you very much.