If you play Dragon, you know that it's an opening line in Sicilian Defense that starts after e4 and c5. Even though it's a very popular opening, it's a rare guess on a high level. Grandmasters rarely play Dragon with black pieces because if White knows the theory well, they can actually get a very good position. But the positions are kind of crazy, and as I already said, they are very rare on Grand Masters level. However, in the past week there were two games played by strongest Grand Masters in the world, and I'm really happy to share those games with you so that you can learn from them. You can learn the ideas in the Dragon Middle game. As you know, it's important to understand what to do after the opening. To know the middle game plans. It's not enough to just learn the opening moves and be OK with that. So let's get started. The first game was played between Nepo and Fabiano Caruano with black pieces in the Sinquefield Cup around a week ago. So Fabi decided to play the accelerated dragon. He started with G6 and it's not a bad option, it's just important to know that after Bishop G7 in this position. White has an option to play pawn to c4 and enter the Marot's line, which can be a bit unpleasant for black if they don't know what to do in the middle game because typical plans of attacking on the queen side with maybe b5 will be stopped because the pawn is already on c4. However, Nepo didn't play c4. He played knight to c3 and Fabi delayed his d6 move as long as he could. He played knight c6. And then knight F6 and then he castled and Bishop be free, D6 and F3. When somebody plays F3, it usually means that they want to castle alongside and F3 is made to protect from knight G4 possibly, and also to play G4 in the future H4 and start the attack on the king side to punish black for having this G6 pawn, which is a kind of a hook for white to attack. So Fabi played queen A5 in this position and it's not that often met. The most frequent move in this position is Bishop to D7 continued developing. So maybe queen A5 was a surprise for an apple and normally white place queen D2 in this position. however, I don't know why Nepa played Qd3 illusively giving Fabi an extra tempo because Fabi played Ne5 attacking the queen and Nf5 is a typical idea in dragon because the knight will go to c4 in the nearest future so after Nd5, queen has to move again and after that Bd7 he continues developing and he just has an extra tempo in the dragon position what else can black dream about?I didn't know. So after the castling he brings his Rook to C8, Rook F to C8, and after King B1, Fabi plays knight to C4, which is a very common idea in Dragon to place his knight on C4. And as I already said, Nepo gave him an extra tempo to do that. So after Nepo takes, a Rook takes, and a lot of people may be insecure about this Rook on C4 because it looks clumsy. However, without the last word bishop, it's actually very hard to make this rook go away. B3 is not an option. The C3 knight will be super weak and attacking it with the queen doesn't really help. Hold on. Attacking it with the queen doesn't really help because of rook A to C8 and black doubled the rook on the half open file and they're happy. So after rook C4, black literally has no problems and after G4. Oh, Fabi makes another very typical Dragon move. He plays Bishop to E6, and a lot of beginners would not even consider this move because why would you give your Bishop away for the knight and get your pawns doubled like that? However, if knight takes. Pawn takes on e6 and even though the pawns are doubled, e6 is not a weakness. In this case it's impossible to target e6. However, the pawn can help the D5 push in the future and the bishop doesn't have this knight enemy on D4. And as you know, the dragon bishop is a very strong piece, so when it's open it can be very dangerous. So after Bishop e6, Napo decides to not take this bishop. On E6 and he just plays knight to B3, attacking the queen. Queen goes to A6 and as you can notice already without this knight on D4 or Bishop on G7 becomes a little bit stronger. You have to consider moving your F6 knight somewhere already and your Bishop E6 can already be very strong as well. Because your bishop and your queen are both x-raying the a2 square. So potentially you can target the a2 square and maybe take this pawn. So Bishop d4 and Fabio makes a normal move. He just plays Ra to c8 and can you complain about the position your black has?I mean black pieces are perfect. Even this bishop that was on d7 has improved and now it's on e6 targeting a2. Your rooks are doubled on the half open file, and the position cannot be better than that, even though it's still equal. But now Nepo makes a move that makes him lose the game. However, the move looks very typical and he just plays pawn to G5. That's already a huge blunder. And as you know, you can't win the game without your opponent's help. Your opponent has to make mistakes for you to win the game, and that's the mistake that Nepo made. and that helps Fabi make a very typical beautiful combination in dragon position you can pause this video to try to find it yourself if you're ready, let's keep watching so Fabi plays knight to e4 he sacrifices his knight and I'm pretty sure at this moment Napo realized what he had done because now black is already losing so if knight takesThen you can take this bishop on d4 and the knight cannot take you back because your bishop on e6 is open now. So you can just checkmate by Qa2, Kings 1 and Qa1. So after Na4 the position is terrible. Black is already up a pawn, so Napo takes the knight with the pawn. It doesn't help. Bishop takes, knight takes, so our bishop is already very open. And fad makes another typical move, even though now it's not a sacrifice, but it's a very typical idea in jargon to take the knight on C3 with his rook. Rook C3 opening his vessel. And you cannot take the rook back because of the same checkmating idea. Queen A2 if white takes knight E6. After that rook would just take on C2 and even if queen takes this end game is terrible for white. You can just take the knight on e6 or you can be even harder by playing, you know, Qc4 for example. And black is winning even though white has two rooks for queen, black has more pawns. So after rook c3, the position for white is already losing. Black king is totally safe. So the idea of making different side castling didn't work for white this time. And Nepo plays a3 trying to just defend this a2 square. Fabi finds another very good move. He plays queen to c4 making my favorite battery and wanting to checkmate on a2. Nepo plays b3, Qc5 attacking a3 square and now I guess Nepo had to defend his a3 square. That was the best option for him maybe to play Kb2 and after that Fabi had to find Bishop b3. So the knight cannot take because the c2 pawn is hanging. And if the pawn takes E5, making the knight go away. If it does, Rook goes to C2, gaining the queen. So Fabio would have to find it. But Nepa made it way easier for him to win. He just played Rook to C1, defending the C2 square. Queen takes the pawn and H4. You can see that Nepa just delays his resignation because he's already losing. He's just making some moves. He doesn't want to resign. And Fabi finds another cool idea which you can find and you can guess at Rook to C5, bringing this rook from C8 to join the queen on A5 and checkmate this way. And after Nepo plays Rook C to F1, Fabi finds the same beautiful idea we talked about Bishop to B3. And after that Nepo resigns. It's so beautiful because no matter how White takes on B3, let's say with the pawn, we just. Take with a Rook and after knight takes, queen takes and if queen blocks, a lot of you might have stopped. calculating the line on this point thinking that nothing works, white is defended but it's not true. You can see that black has a move queen to d3 check so the white king has to go to the a-file and after that Ra5 check, forcing white to give the queen away and that endgame is winning for black. So that is why Nepa resigned and Fabi used all the typical Dragonish ideas in this game which I really love. First of all, he used the idea of bringing the knight to C4. Then he used the idea of playing Bishop E6 and finally the knight E4 sacrifice, which is so beautiful and you must know this idea if you want to play dragon if and if you want to win your games and enjoy your games. Rook G3 is also a very typical idea that you need to know. The second game that we're going to be talking about is the game between Najer and Dubov, 2 Russian grandmasters that play in the Russian super final a couple of days ago. So Dubov decided to play normal dragon, unlike Fabi, who chose the accelerated dragon. And you can see that the position is quite common and it can happen in your game as well if you play this kind of a dragon. Push up E3. Bishop G7 and white played F3 showing that they want to they intend to castle alongside. So here a dupe of use something that is not that typical in this position. He actually played H5 right away. I don't know if you have ever seen this move. Normal black castle still plays knight C6 or even pawn A6 doing some sort of dragon slash neither. But he started with H5 with the ideas to stop the G4 pawn from coming. And that's kind of typical for Naidorf (another Sicilian variation). So maybe that was surprising for White. White played BC4 and now Dubov played a six. Once again, some Naidorf ideas here, maybe to play B5 in the future. So White plays a 4. And this game, the Duboff played, is not a typical dragon. Nevertheless, the ideas are so beautiful and it's so worth watching. So Duboff plays knight to D7 and that's again not typical for dragon. Normally your knight goes to C6, but here knight goes on D7 and after the castling Duboff played Queen C7. I wanted to mention that here white already castle short side because they played a4 and their ideas to play g4 are no longer that good. So white castle short side instead. Qc7 Bishop a2 running away from some knight c5 ideas in the future and here Nayer, the player that was white, decided to be aggressive right away. I'm not sure if that was the best option because it allowed Dubov to do what he did. B6 very beautiful and interesting to develop his Bishop to B7 now that the knight is blocking it on D7. So the Bishop's taking another longer longest diagonal and here Najer decides to play F5 and that can look very intimidating for a lot of people. And all I want to say is that you don't want to take such pawns on F5. If you take it, you literally help white attack you by playing knight F5, bringing the knight closer. The next move can be knight to G5. The entire position will be open and your king is in the center. You don't want to do that to your king. So after f5, Dubov does something very typical that I also wanted you to know. He plays pawn to g5. It looks like he sacrifices this pawn on g5, but if the bishop decides to take, then he has some counter tactics, a way to gain the pawn. He doesn't want to take on e4 immediately because it opens his position and the rook on e1 will be targeting your king on e8. You don't want to do that. So after Bg5, you have Qc5 move. Targeting the knight. So if something like Bishop E3 happens, you can even move knight G4, opening your Bishop and creating problems for white. So after queen C5, let's say white just runs away from the pink king to H1 and here. Black would just take on e4 now because if knight takes, they don't take the knight to open the position. They can already take queen on d4, taking this knight and continue the game hoping to trade the queens in that position. So that was an option, but Nyer didn't take on g5. He didn't want to give black some counterplay. He played Nf3 and after g4 he played Ng5. And I don't know if you see that, but F7 pawn is hanging because the Bishop on A2 is very sneaky. So Dubov has to play a Rook F8 and after that queen to Dubov just improves his position, saying that his king would be stuck in the center and he's OK with that. And that's a very interesting concept, guys. In a lot of Sicilian positions, you can just leave your king in the center. I'm not saying that's what you need to do. Castling is very important, but sometimes. being in the center can be safer than going to the side. Like in this case the queen side castle can be a bad for black and the king side would also be dangerous because he already pushed many pawns. So he decides to keep his king in the center. So Rc8 a typical moving dragon improving his rook and now Ne5 also improving his knight, nothing to complain about and now white plays queen to f2Attacking the pawn on B6 and instead of defending it in any way, Dubov makes a very interesting and provoking move. He plays queen B8. Like what? Actually that was just a decoy, so why shouldn't have taken the pawn on B6?But neither did. And now black gets his counterplay. He plays Bishop H6, attacking the knight. The knight cannot go away, so the Bishop has to go back. so black won the tempo by doing so and he finds another cool move pawn to g3 free in the space g4 for his knight taking over the pawn is bad because after g4 any knight Qe2 you can take on e3 and then play Rg8 and you've just gained this knight on g5 so after g3 white decided to take with the queen Rg8 the same idea now the g5 is open for black to attack h4 and boom! Dubov does the same thing that I told you about in Nepo vs Fabi game rook to c3 a typical exchange sacrifice so in this case when he gets rid of this knight on c3 a black gets a chance to take on e4 attacking the queen queen goes away and he makes another wonderful and mind-blowing move he plays queen to a8 So now he supports his bishop to attack on g2, which is wonderful and mind-blowing because Qb8 looked like a very weird move, but now queen on a8 is very supportive. Now Nayer makes his, I would say, the only big blunder in this game. He plays pawn to g3. If he didn't make this move, the position would still be equal even though black has some dominance in this position. So he plays pawn to G3 and that allows black to do something more beautiful. He takes in G5 and after white takes back, he plays rook to G5. And after bishop takes, knight takes. Black has two knights for two rooks, but just look at those knights. They are way better than those two rooks that are blocked by the pawns. The knights, along with the Bishop and the queen controlling the longest diagonal near the open king are so strong. Knight of three is a threat to gain the queen, so white plays Rook to D3, trying to give the Rook away. And after Queen A7, white resigns. It's a check. If the king goes away, the position would be terrible because knight G4 would be a checkmate. And you might wonder why white doesn't want to block queen e3, for example, because it looks like a normal way to trade. And after the trade, white doesn't have such a losing position anymore. In fact, they have two rooks versus two knights. But here, Dubov would have made a pretty good move. He would have played knight to g4, sacrificing his queen on a7, and after that, knight h3 is a checkmate. Two Knights with the Bishop winning against a queen and two rooks. That is so beautiful. So that's the end of the game. And even though Duo's game was more of an unusual kind of dragon, it was definitely beautiful and worth watching for anybody who wants to improve their dragon level. Thank you for watching it and let me know if there is any other dragon game you have in mind that you want me to show in my videos or if you have any questions regarding those two games that you just watched.