(door slamming) (traffic buzzing) - [Narrator] February 27th, 2021, police body cam footage shows a traffic stop on a highway in Montgomery County, Texas. - [Police officer] Hey, how's it going? - [Narrator] As this 2019 Tesla Model X driving in autopilot mode, strikes their vehicles injuring five officers, and hospitalizing the subject - [Paramedic] Again, roll up, roll up. One, one, two, three. - [Narrator] The crash is one of 16 between Tesla's and emergency vehicles being investigated by the National Highway or NHTSA, to determine has contributed to the accidents. The journal obtained and partial data logs from We annotated the footage for clarity. These materials show the failed to recognize the stopped and though, its Driver Monitoring System appears to have worked as designed, it was not enough to and prevent the collision. We also obtained eight Crash Reports included in the NHTSA investigation. In at least six, the incidents occurred when emergency vehicle NHTSA declined to comment and Tesla did not respond (dramatic music) The driver in the Texas crash just before 12:30 AM. &quot;He is intoxicated,&quot; The police investigation notes, &quot;Several instances when About four minutes into his drive, the log show he sets the car on Autopilot at a speed of 64 miles per hour. Tesla's Autopilot is a system that partially automates many including steering, Drivers using Autopilot are so they can take control Federal investigators have including the name Autopilot, and encourages drivers to The Autopilot System for a 2019 Model X, the model in the Texas crash, judged whether the driver was alert based on whether their If the system did not the driver received an alert. If the driver didn't respond, Autopilot would disengage. &quot;The driver in the Texas crash receives one of these after engaging Autopilot,&quot; according to the car's He receives two more in the In fact, he receives and over the course of this 45-minute drive. By the design of Tesla's the driver was paying enough attention to operate the vehicle in Autopilot. This year and model of Tesla uses a combination of to recognize objects in all directions. Autonomous vehicle experts say, &quot;The radar can easily but that it has difficulty distinguishing stationary obstacles, leaving it mainly up to the Around 15 minutes into the drive, the logs indicate the It recognizes a vehicle Then again, about 35 the Tesla sees a vehicle and tracks it as it drives off. About 45 minutes in, the Tesla approaches emergency vehicles on the side of the road. Autopilot is not designed to because they're not in a lane, but an attentive driver would typically know to Around the same time, the driver receives his 150th warning to keep his hands on the wheel. He complies, but it's not enough to get him to respond Seconds later, other police cars are visibly blocking the lane, but the logs show no sign Experts in autonomous vehicle safety who reviewed the crash footage say, &quot;There's a difference between the way the car's and an emergency vehicle. The police car's flashing that the car's software as a stopped vehicle.&quot; The logs indicate that, &quot;The car finally just 2.5 seconds and 37 Autopilot attempts to slow the car, and ultimately, disengages, but at 54 miles per hour, it is too late. The five officers injured in the crash are suing Tesla, claiming that &quot;The Autopilot Feature was responsible for the accident.&quot; An attorney for the officers Tesla denies the lawsuit's allegations, and claims, &quot;The fault The driver did not respond In 2021, after repeated recommendations from federal investigators, Tesla began using internal cameras to monitor driver attentiveness, but safety experts continue and drivers still find The same year, Tesla also issued a software update that was designed to to detect emergency vehicles. Though one of the crashes occurred after these updates. The government has now beyond crashes with emergency vehicles and is investigating the of Tesla's Autopilot System. And they could ask the if they find the technology flawed.