Since late September, have become an for residents of the Riding these scooters showing us around the streets We would not be able to with cameras normally prohibited The civil protection is not connected to which has its own The two men take the to try and contain the fires ignited by the missiles raining Four buildings destroyed. When the smoke starts Let's see what happens next. The Israeli military confirms that it is targeting command belonging to Hezbollah ... It says the facilities are located under these buildings - claims that cannot be Ghassan Zeheim has he has been working in the area - but never, he stresses, This is the 'American quarter' - a complex comprising and a few furniture stores. It's just a residential This was a warehouse There's a fire inside and we let alone put it out. Take a look around - if you find one But you won't find anything. These are residential buildings! What kind of plane is that? It probably belonged Like a lot of kids, they may have dreamed as they played That child's home is now gone - and with it, their dreams. I do not like fighter jets - but if we don't get then I'll put it on my On these now eerily Zeheim and his team inspect one of a dozen in Wasn't there a cafe Yes: there was a car park And over here there It's impossible for them to tell Given the scale of destruction, the first responders nor the resources to of every collapsed building. It's appalling. ... There The area was evacuated, so there shouldn't be Except there are ... Defying the Israeli who refuse to leave. They don't want their You're here on your No - never. Tell me where you I'm not going. There's an old saying: &quot;He who flees his home May God be with you! Not far away, this They're afraid of of their store's window ... like this, and then My situation is better Thank God it's just windows. I feel really sorry who've lost their basically, their entire lives. Why is the world silent? All there is for the enemy to Shame on them! There's an Israeli so we need to leave The ominous buzz in the sky - a warning to residents of And those on social media dread A warning posted Arab-language spokesman - shortly before airstrikes on The Lebanese army of the fighting between but does maintain a symbolic And it's here where a lot come to seek refuge. Nationwide, the war has around one fifth of the The poorest among them In what some would call the place where they've These are all people My grandchildren And my daughter and also in white. My entire family is here. They were hiding Were you scared? Did you cry? It was loud. And what did you do? We ran away. Why? Because of the war. We were told to leave - So, we did - all of us. We followed the We left everything behind. All we brought with and our most vital belongings. The children build little not knowing when they'll be if they're even still standing. Even the firefighters in the southern suburbs. The Israeli military called that their premises So now, the volunteers themselves displaced, like the people they're Most of them have since the airstrikes began. Ayman Taher - nicknamed &quot;Fire&quot; after rescuing a young is in charge of logistics. We eat and wait and sleep here. We borrowed a power cable to charge up our With their worn-down tools the Here, they were trapped underneath That fireman is using a That's all we have. A hammer for smashing concrete?! And we were doing that all A rare opportunity to get is interrupted by some bad news. Some rescue helpers they They'd received no due to being The medical center they of this building in The death toll: nine - Full of fear and anger, both residents and medical teams are calling what happened Who did these vests belong to? They're ours: from the Why were they killed? We're a medical rescue service. We treat wounds, bury we're here to help people. So why? Why? Come over here. This is why they killed How does that make you feel? How I feel? I feel I hold my head up - Show the world We're not going to die! We wear the boots of They're our hearts and our lives - and we will sacrifice our blood, our sons, the Everything, to follow Despite it being a the Israeli military has also containing Hezbollah fighters - for Israel: a legitimate Two days previously a next to a hospital in Beirut, suspected of treating In next to no time, and forced us to stop filming. My advice to you Hezbollah does not and wounded appearing. These scenes were when pagers belonging to after being sabotaged and The attack left over a dozen people in many cases including In the hours this doctor performed eye While Daniel Cherfane cannot he filmed the procedures. When the pagers exploded, the shrapnel flew I mean: this one is pretty gory. I can't show you this one. So for example: this This has been torn in half. So here I am, trying so you need to be because it's very sharp and will scratch So there I am, grabbing it - and then I will try and get Hundreds of pieces of So even in the patient where when you look on the inside We sat there, taking and we were doing our And they're coming in And unfortunately, they're hearing multiple that there's nothing that Every time it's another Another thing to consider most of them were young And they cannot use and some of them are and they cannot do that anymore. It's difficult to know the In recent weeks the group but a significant proportion of its One morning, we were informed about the since the death of On September 27 Hassan Nasrallah was killed in an airstrike that destroyed his just a few hundred With the Israeli ground in the south of the country, Hezbollah declares that in a direct address Our forces and our are well prepared ready for heroic And in our hearts, we say: &quot;I am here, Nasrallah!&quot; Our leadership and command and our military as are our stocks of missiles. You may have won the first round with the targeted but it is only the first round. The day after the Hezbollah's media offices were Airstrikes hit targets across Areas that were spared in previous Christian, Druze, and Sunni the country's third-biggest city. From what's left of the building, a young man calls for help: The next morning, we make our way to Most of the people living Their families came to Lebanon following the creation of Israel Their armed groups are also But according to there were no weapons Who lived here? Mainly women and children. This was nothing We're now retrieving bodies. We've been working and are still finding bodies. There are still around 40 of And their crime was? Ask the Israelis! A few hours earlier, the were pulled out but their parents How are things in Everything alright? Their bodies, together have been arriving one by one at We received four bodies three adults and a girl Unfortunately, the frequency Most of them hit civilians. The final death toll is 50, with This man survived when the missile impacted. He has a broken pelvis, and the doctors can't say How do you feel? I'm OK, thank God. I saw the rockets coming. One of my daughters My other two together with their mother. Five people died in I was holding my daughter They show no mercy for anyone, and nobody can They've unleashed killing children, young Nobody can stop them. They're too strong, and As appeals for a from the international progress has been At one of the funerals, we meet the young man from the collapsed building. While he and his other members of They now only have Nothing can but God will avenge us. God will bring us justice. I know what awaits God willing, If not today, then tomorrow. But the day will come, In Lebanon, observers of today's orphans becoming the In this decades-old conflict, new deaths fuel In his sermon, the Sunni imam recites one of Between them and us a religious war. Hezbollah has traditionally of only a minority but the Israeli airstrikes are regardless of their Every night, the deadly ... Let's start up the truck Another call-out and as ever, they don't And at night, their The truck turns around From this point on, the firefighters can no and we have to stop filming. As the airstrikes continue, an increasingly paranoid has seen a growing number This footage shows a by supporters of Amal: another Shia militia An hour later, the firefighters Give me some water. I Ayman &quot;Fire&quot; Taher and If you'd seen that. The explosion that hit an apartment Three civilians survived, Suddenly, another of the He can't breathe. Where's the blood Every time we need something, The men don't know what let alone what's still burning I couldn't breathe. Sometimes they contain I was wearing a mask, but the smoke got I felt like I was suffocating. Claims that Israel is using uranium munitions cannot Despite the personal risk, Ghassan Zeheim and his First-responders in Lebanon for almost 50 years now. Since the beginning we've barely had a We are the war generation. We're used to it. I hope this conflict not because we're afraid of but because we the victims of the Since our filming Israeli missiles have hit across the country. Zeheim and Taher's crew but they're having to to only the most extreme