It's 2015 and the world's most powerful drug Did you see it? Right now. He's gone. &quot;One of the world's richest, most notorious &quot;Former cartel leader is considered one of Joaquin Guzman Loera, better known as &quot;El out of a hole in the shower. The escape of Chapo Guzman translates into More violence for Mexico and more drugs coming into the United States. El Chapo was the leader of the Sinaloa Cartel, a murderous criminal organization violent drug wars. Their methods are brutal. But violence isn't what makes El Chapo different Instead, his legacy has been shaped by two the border than anyone else and always finding That was, until now. After being captured again in Mexico, El Chapo It's the latest chapter for the world's most how El Chapo got here, it helps to look at Chapo used to transform the drug trade is target: tunnels. &quot;Tunnels.&quot; &quot;Tunnels.&quot; &quot;Tunnels.&quot; &quot;Through a tunnel.&quot; &quot;Used by El Chapo.&quot; &quot;Tunnel King.&quot; &quot;Master of tunnels.&quot; [Spanish]: &quot;The king of tunnels.&quot; &quot;Prince of tunnels.&quot; &quot;It's a magnificent feat of architecture and &quot;Being used to smuggle drugs.&quot; &quot;And it's like looking for a needle in a haystack.&quot; &quot;There's not really any form of technology being built.&quot; &quot;The tunnel. Look at this.&quot; In 1990, federal agents in Douglas, Arizona, tunnel from the US to Mexico. And when investigators got inside it, they The tunnel was 300 feet long and lit by an At one end, a lever raised a hydraulic lift One agent said it was &quot;like something out In fact, it had been built by an architect And agents didn't know it yet, but this was drug trade. In the 1980s, US drug traffic had been dominated during the next two decades US forces led two ways that put El Chapo in the right place First, drug traffic shifted to routes through Second, as national militaries worked with traffickers focused on drugs they could grow The coca plant is only grown in the Andes especially in mountain ranges along the western And the same is true for the opium poppy, For both crops, the densest region of cultivation El Chapo also had the ideal way to move those can be tightly packed into a vehicle, marijuana But by using his tunnels, El Chapo could get By 2010, El Chapo had become the most powerful And as the Sinaloa Cartel increased their the entire Western half of the US border. As their control spread west, one particular a suburb of San Diego called Otay Mesa. There are three reasons why they chose Otay of how sophisticated El Chapo's operation First, it is near two major transportation quickly get to the border and out to dealers Second, it's an industrial area across the a steady stream of noise and traffic that The third reason, is the soil. To the west is ocean, where the ground is And to the East the earth rises to become Otay Mesa is located in between, and soil soil is soft enough to dig by hand, but strong "Yeah, this is the stair system. it's about a 70 foot drop.&quot; In November 2010, agents found a tunnel in Otay Mesa built by the Sinaloa Cartel. Inside, electricity powered lighting and a Along the floor, a rail system allowed workers transport drugs once they started using it. Over the next few years, agents found more Tunnels like these can take several months worth it. The tunnels are so big that traffickers can As the Sinaloa Cartel continued building in like building an entrance for one beneath El Chapo's tunnels are dug so deep that And at ground level, the entrances are hidden But El Chapo wasn't only building tunnels In 2014, authorities raided his safehouse escaped by fleeing through a tunnel A few days later, authorities tracked him where El Chapo was captured A year later, he was gone. This was the largest tunnel ever built by It stretched nearly a mile, to a farmhouse A year before, that field had been empty. Beneath a hole in the floor, had used to cruise through the tunnel in less In Sinaloa, El Chapo's supporters celebrated But his freedom was short lived. A few months later, authorities broke into he was arrested after a bloody gun battle. He escaped through a tunnel hidden behind but authorities caught him a few hours later to flee town. This time he was extradited to the US, Authorities are so serious about security El Chapo is moved from his Manhattan jail But even as he sits in jail, El Chapo's legacy lives on. In 2018, two major tunnels were discovered along the US border. In Arizona, one stretched across from Mexico And in California, authorities found an unfinished and ventilation systems that run on solar Another piece of his legacy also continues. In 2018, drug violence contributed to more But as aspiring kingpins add to the violence At least, for now. Thanks for watching. If you haven't already heard, we've launched a paid membership program called the Video Lab. It's a great way to support our journalism and if you want to join, you can head over to vox.com/join.