Look at all the Yoshis and the Daisy. Oh, there's Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, a Lounge event, but with silly! This is actually the best bagging combo in so I'm definitely not trolling. I think there not trolling, I'm good with this combo, and destroyed so hard in Lounge, and I think I might as well be playing the best bagging the front--yeah, I really like using Yoshi Scooty if I could just quickly swap to this combo, I'm not that good at driving it yet. Nice shock, is actually good for bagging. You can run or bag, the ramp strategies, especially not with this I'm just gonna bag, and it has to go well, right? let's hit this Shy Guy--nope, there--oh, I'm gonna bagging didn't quite work out. It wasn't Wiggler's the Black Yoshi. Don't mind me just picking Cheese best tracks. Oh, we actually got it. It's over for combo video why I think this is the best bagging old Waluigi Wiggler. It is better than that one, lot of speed so that you can make comebacks, uh, all go faster with a higher speed stat. But you bag successfully, at some point you'll have to this combo just has a really nice balance of speed that way, I'm not really sacrificing my ability to gonna be good for bagging, but Cheese Land is one know what they're doing by using a Bullet that people bag really hard in Lounge. Okay, that gonna wait a little bit longer. I want to be in we are coming back. We are so back right now. Oh, have--okay, so we got to use the star here. Oh no, sure what I wanted to do with that mushroom, and please, nice. Okay, fourth. Yeah, pretty good. mess it up. Even though I'm on a bagging combo, I don't think I should bag, especially given that slightly faster than you, let's go! Okay, I--I have Oh, got bumped into the side. Whoa, whoa. Can't didn't get. [Music] Motion glider is not very good You're gonna mess it up, yup. I didn't mess it up. Okay, the boomerang's coming back. Stay inside for to pay attention to. [Music] Watch for items. nice. Okay, saving one mushroom for the shortcut. my handling is low, I shouldn't drift there, to really be used to a combo, or that sort of bullet. Nevermind. [laughs] I should have used it Alright, it's okay. Oh, I hit someone. I lag-hit third? What? That was the worst race ever, and I was the one trolling. Let's see how well Wiggler track, but they're not that big, and I don't know Everyone has a snake. I just go forward. Let's just by having a higher speed stat. Okay, The handling is a little weird. Ah, okay, Gonna camp on these coins. Oh, I see a bullet. [Music] I went for the snipe it's gonna hit myself. Nope, not quite. Shock! just got hit. I think that's a good time to at least I got one mushroom use out of that. Now gentlemen. Okay, we don't go for purple mini-turbo I'm not gonna even benefit that much out of it. Will this hit? Not quite. First place is too far what? I meant to go further left. Wow, the Lounge that race. I just needed to not play so aggressive person behind me, and I wouldn't have gotten decisions all around. Alright, New York Minute. often chaos at the end, and I can just bag, so Let's see, we're in sixth already. Draft--oh, what? because my handling is not as high as I'm used to, but you do really want to be used to the stat that and now I'm completely in the back, but it's stat--so we're gonna make sure I get coins right being invincible after this item set right here, huge gap, and people tend to use their shock. item set--oh no, see, my handling? or maybe my I could probably just chain these. I might get shock. Okay, nice, so I just need to, um, hit that to chain the star into the set. Someone shock, invincible--see, that's the benefit. Okay, so there other. I always mess that up. Oh no, it still hit. it's not really possible, but I need to stay ahead but I still executed the strategy. Like, I just during that section. Alright, Berlin Byways is I suck at this track. [laughs] If you thought I is probably in my top five worst tracks I've a straight line here. Got someone. Yeah, this is right at the start, you can just drive in a Right behind my teammate. I'll body block I will just back. Whoa, how am I not getting hit bigger hitbox, I would have gotten hit, but so funny. Okay, um, I think my teammate just here--wow! I should never talk ever. At least for this item box. That was such a bad bump--oh, there. Um, yeah, I'm gonna back this bomb. I need I need to throw these all away. There's a--there's okay, well, I have no item, but I guess I'm just shortcut on lap three then. Just have to not myself--great, and that's my punishment. Whatever. before the item set. Gonna take some bad lines. Oh you get an item in ninth and not eighth. Wow! I'm Still not used to the handling style--there's a nooo! Another fumble. Alright, Daisy got hit by point. Oh, what a bad race. I'm so bad at this focus now. Let's just drive this track normally. reason. Okay, other people took the coins. We're the back on this track is actually kind of good or bumped off right here. Honestly, I could be the bananas, wow! Oh, I missed the mini-turbo. Okay, right there. The downsides of motion glider, we're actually in a really good spot here. I'm coming back. Okay, it didn't come back, but items are great. This is pretty much perfect. [laughs] Oh, no tricks. Whoa, that was such a bad All the way in eighth now. [laughs] Alright, uh, the side. There we go. I don't see their boomerang Okay. If I can hold third, that would be really Guy's slow, low-speed stat. [Music] Please just that actually hit them? That doesn't even make doing this? I feel like all my results have just second is pretty good, I can grab these coins. The but not on this combo, so we'll see if I can I threw that by accident, and I still--okay, I'm purple mini-turbo, though. I'm in first. Nice. Got there. Oh, I thought I couldn't get a drift, and but I think I just bumped the Yoshi. Goodbye, if I can do this again. I don't even know if this without alignment. Just got to watch for blue again. Nice, that was so good. I think I'm at for blue shell--actually, maybe I can, I'm not got to defend against my own green shell now. behind me. Not sure though, could just be the the plant this time. Go more left--uh, I went a this track! Let's go! Nice! Okay, I managed to run there it is. [laughs] This is definitely my as it turns out. And I'm in second overall! What? showing Discord because my teammate just hasn't the dead to say &quot;Nice&quot; to me. I'm not sure if I'll though, that'll be huge because coins are a first place, then I can just use the coin item. it. I got a red shell? You can't even get a red and I just missed the red thing. My teammate's get an item. Okay, good, my teammate didn't get teammate. [Music] I really need to go for coins Usually, you let racers pass, this time, I let for the second set of coins, but then I saw the that green shell. Nice. Now I'm in first, so I can right now just by spamming coin items, getting a little suboptimally because of my combo, but we ladies and gentlemen! I feel like I am YouTube's one coin propaganda person. I'm not gonna go for a always dishing out that coins-are-useful My teammate's in third too, this is really good. what usually happens. I think it's the blooper drift over the off-road there because of the water go! Let's go, another first place! I'm doing and the shy guy is just fighting back. bad luck. Nice try, and thank you! This event is would have gone if I was just familiar with this this combo in a very long time, ever since making rough. Yeah, slight mess up. Give me the item. and actually, all my best results have been Sad for baggers all over the world! Can't even win wasn't gonna be able to hit the boost panel and then I got trailed anyway. Okay, we are Give me coins. Nope, none. Okay, this is totally it is this one. I need to dodge the shock. I think there not gonna be a shock? Okay, I'm not but let's get rid of these mushrooms, in front of Oh, let's throw these before my teammate gets hit. hit me! Uh, uh, what? Okay, fifth. That was crazy! still got fifth place. That wasn't too bad, still just going to straight up bag this one. Usually, between if I want to run and bag sometimes, but just bag all the way. So, let's grab that coin and of bagging, I would say on this track, besides that coins are impossible to get when you're Okay, nice--oh, no, what are you doing? Come of annoying now. Let me grab these coins. There's get rid of this, but that's fine. Start using item set. Just more--oh, the piranha plant! Okay, I'm gonna be on a glider. Wow, so many mushrooms, bagging to work. You just need there to be a do. Let's not get bumped into the walls, wow! It behind me, gonna throw those forward. I'm gonna from the previous lap. What? My drift disappeared! so sad. That is so sad. I swear I was drifting, I caused me to slow down upon landing, but, like, I immediately took me out of the drift, and that's and then got green-shelled. All right, gonna get four. Okay, I'm in last. That works. So, if you're a mushroom from the first item set, unless you're something even better. But, uh, I'm gonna use this worth it, but this is my only chance to run this okay, I'm just full bagging now. Three coins. I'm Okay, people are taking the coins. I'm gonna go overall, so that is my goal now. I don't know if but my teammate's not doing that well, so I guess me to do well 'cause I can't control how well my to me if we win the event or not, that's just kind Okay, nice, kept the mini turbo. Okay, we're not quite. Okay, my star expired. There's a super think we're safe. I'm not gonna trail. I have no and that Yoshi was definitely black. [laughs] Oh, threw that by accident. [Music] No, this is accident. Okay. You know what's funny is that I would have had two red shells and that wouldn't right. Just don't get hit here. Someone died. have mattered. The Shy Guy got eighth. I'm in That did not feel like I should have won. My my teammate is Japanese and knows a decent just enough Japanese to communicate with what? We won by one again? That was not