If you pull off this jump, you're going to to do is leap off this bridge...and onto doesn't look that fast - what could A surprising number of people die from more surprising number die from regular What do they all have in common? These 10. Eating WAY Too Much If you had to come up with a sport that could eating. Yes, we have enough food that we can watch hot dog eating champs Joey Chestnut and with Chestnut eating a staggering 83 hot dogs gluttony to win these competitions as the human body is not meant And that's something a lot of At least ten people have died during being amateurs who didn't know how to choking to death. In some cases it was the of the last foods that should be used in which can easily get stuck if not chewed properly. pie, and Kentucky Fried Chicken. And as roach-and-worm-eating competition - well, those But speed-eating is far from the only way you can die from eating - one man didn't #9. Too Much DIY Barry Griffiths was an independent man, and the setbacks stop him. He had recently suffered and also suffered from heart disease. living by himself and preparing his himself some burgers from frozen patties worries - he pulled out a knife and The exact circumstances of what came next would found until a welfare check was called officers found him lying dead with a wound to slipped and stabbed him - at which point, rather and tried to sleep it off - but never woke up. of death was the heart disease or the stab But it's not just eating animals that can have unfortunate consequences - not #8. That's Not On The Dog 30-year-old Joseph Smith was a good-ol-boy forward to a day of hunting. He and his friend a truck, and his friend's loyal German Shepherd. and set out for the woods to bag some deer. And stepped on the trigger, causing it to go off and Not exactly a man's-best-friend action. But dog-lovers across the country jumped dogs don't know what a gun is, and it had no They immediately pointed out that putting a dog for disaster. While no charges were filed in the a key point of evidence for those who believe It's rarely the animal's fault - but sometimes #7. A Bird-Brained Decision Marvin Hajos was a 77-year-old Florida Man - The eccentric farm owner loved to collect exotic specimen for his collection - a Cassowary. These being aggressive and territorial. In fact, living thing to a velociraptor today thanks to What could go wrong? For Mr. Hajos, a lot! The large bird was and when Mr. Hajos was in the bird's enclosure, time. It set upon its new owner, kicking him with its sharp three-clawed foot. Marvin Hajos and authorities warned that the Cassowary was auctioning off this particular murder-bird to a Sports always have a risk to them - but one #6. The Cutting Edge Hockey is one of the most dangerous sports - which played on ice, where armored guys collide into send a hard, flat puck flying into the net at fights! But there's another element that's only with razor blades attached to their boots. And a pro Hockey player who was playing in England in While Johnson was playing he fell on the ice - and Steelers player the blade of his skate cutting Johnson's neck. and a manslaughter arrest would later be sports incident. But this wasn't the only case Connecticut would die in a similar incident being ruled a complete accident. Maybe ice-blade Teenage rebellion can have deadly #5. Fire in the Hole Archduchess Mathilde Marie Adelgunde Alexandria a charmed life. The third child of Archduke Albert she grew up in the mid-19th century and was its influence. She was designated to marry Prince to boost relations between the two - perfect. That meant his daughter must give And one act of rebellion would On June 6th, 1867, Archduchess Mathilde was wearing a gauze dress she'd picked out. that was strictly forbidden by her father. She cigarette behind her dress - and the dress went and died soon after from her injuries - putting hopes of improved relations with Italy for now. 'The Old Man Is Snoring' is one of too morbid - a song about an old man who it's not artistic license either - it's of the most surprisingly common causes of suffering injuries each year and several So what about our beds is so deadly? In a word...nothing. When we're likely to or we're still asleep, tossing and turning which can be deadly. After all, you're not can be all that matters if you hit the wrong but hard to detect. That's what happened to the shower, went to sleep, and never woke up. a neck is possible if you go headfirst. So maybe This next entry is the definition of making #3. Out of the Frying Pan, Into the Fire Brazil is one of the most biodiverse regions in Unfortunately, not all the residents are in Brasilandia de Minas in the south of the friends at a lake when they were set upon by they jumped into the lake to escape the angry They weren't alone in the lake - Yes, the lake was filled with some of South the carnivorous fish aren't the razor-filled they're attracted to blood and open wounds While two of the men managed to swim to safety, of the pain and the water and became a fish partially eaten by the piranha. Maybe being a spectator is safer - but not always. 2. Worst. Game. Ever Sporting events are always a big draw - as anyone knows. That was already the case in 1900, when annual Thanksgiving game. The game attracted to pay the hefty $1 admission fee. So someone nearby glass-blowing factory to get a view from The game kicked-off around 2.30, and it's believed police tried to restore order, but failed - sending the massive crowd tumbling into a that day - but it was filled with molten glass being horribly burned. Thankfully, the furnace victims, but fuel pipes were broken, spraying hot killed and over a hundred were injured. It remains Oh, and the game went on. Stanford won. But that was a horrible one-time event. #1. Surf's Up Remember when we asked what's the worst go subway surfing? Turns out the answer illegal - and popular - stunt pulled off by where they try to jump on a moving train. some want to pull off a stunt for social media, hard-to-reach area. What they all have in common Because trains aren't meant It's not known exactly how many people have died page has hundreds listed. The most common cause victims have hit their head on overpasses, gotten good news is, this one is fairly easy to avoid - Want to know some bizarre ways "Freaky Experiments That Almost Destroyed