Live from Vsauce studios in Los Angeles, California, host Michael Stevens! Christmas time is right You guys know what that means right? It's time for festive stuff like Santy Clause By the way do you guys know why seagulls fly Well because if they flew around the pring, Okay you know if they flew around a mug they'd Harry Potter. Quidditch. Hermione! And if they flew around the bay they'd be Okay okay. It's time to get serious. Today I am going to show you how to cut a but yet interlocked by using a cut that follows But before we can mathematically cut this today we have to ask that question we ask How many faces does a sheet of paper have? Okay. Look we often think that a sheet of paper A front and a back. But does it really? Is it truly a two-dimensional object? I don't think so. Both of the sides of a sheet of paper are Rectangles. Two rectangles, one on the front one on the thickness of the page. A sheet of paper is actually a flexible polyhedron. It is an extremely thin rectangular prism This rectangular face on top, the rectangular thin faces around the side just like a die. Yeah. Now earlier I prepared some strips of paper. I couldn't get Christmas colors but I was to use these to talk about what happens when Alright? What I wanna begin with is just one strip. Here's the strip. Now if I take the strips and I loop it around I lose both of those faces and the resulting The south side face, the inside face, and thin face and this bottom edge and they're If I take some scissors and I snip right there the way around I will separate this right completely distinct from one another I wind But look what happens when I take a strip I make the hoop after a 180 degree twist. Now this is very interesting because now what's face disappear in the join. However, the twist means that what used to continuous with the bottom face. And so if you travel around this bottom face face, the top. But we know that the top face connects to faces has become one. And let's look at what is here locally, They have also connected to each other, to If this used to be the outside face, by turning the outside connecting to the inside. So now there's just one side. Those two faces have also become one and so thin middle, right down in between along, could separate what is locally here the outside but I wouldn't because there aren't an These two faces here are the same. To show that let me use two strips. I'll use a red strip and a green strip and one strip and that I'm going to cut it right them into two okay? So imagine that this is just one strip. I'm going to bring them together into a Now normally if there was no twist after the But I'm gonna do a twist and this should in this case red is being connected to the And likewise the outside which is green is Alright. Now let me take these. You have to be very careful that you don't want the tape to be good enough that you can Perfect. Now I'll join these two sides. ooh that's too big of a piece. Luckily I have this thinner piece from earlier. perfect! Okay. So here is our twisted hoop which many of This one has a single twist, a 180 degree Let me now, oh I don't need to cut them! I want to cut them down that narrow face don't that I've gone all the way around. But what do I get? Just one big hoop. Just one big hoop. Why should that happen? Well it's because that twist connected the now one side. A good way to make this clear is to use some I have two lengths of string here and what whoops I dropped my green string. I'd really like to illustrate it this way. Camera person, can you see this? Wonderful. Okay so here's a, here's a hoop that's We can imagine that these are the two sides we're going to cut it right in between and white hoop. However, if I take the compound object before as we saw with the paper, sides like this Since green begins and then ends at white So this is just one big hoop, in fact, I wanna I'm gonna tape the ends together, ohhh! Okay. And then I'm gonna tape these two together. Wonderful. Okay. What do we have? We have one big hoop. Ha ha hey! Okay so now let's undo these connections two, two twists this time. Two twists. Okay strings first. Strings first. Here's our inside hoop. Here is our outside hoop. Great. Now I hope it's clear that we have a green on the outside. These are only separate hoops because we already to begin with this is just one thing right and get an inside and an outside, what is Okay, so now rather than doing a single 180 So here is the 180, that connects white to in that same direction connects green back Now look what we have here. Now the green hoop is a complete separate It does not connect to white. However that second twist got them all intertwined. Now we have yes, two separate hoops but they If I stick the greens together and I stick We have two circles, a green one and a white This happens with paper as well. If I take a strip of paper and I make a hoop then a second twist in that same direction The outside connects back to the outside. The inside connects back to the inside but each other and are now linked so if I cut I'm gonna cut it in half this way so instead call an outside and an inside I'm going call the right side and the left side. Watch this. I will get two separate identical halves but Cutting it in half surely we will find ourselves Nope. Two interlocked pieces. Two interlocked pieces. Now that was done with a cut that twisted We can cut a bagel in just the same way. That's right we're gonna draw on a bagel. You might not want your kids to see this. So first of all if I had a huge bagel like easier because with a hoola hoop-sized bagel the way around just like normal but then before lot of room to move my knife and rotate it Introducing the two twists we need for the strip. However that kind of 360 cutting is very difficult so what we should do is spread that twist And to make this even easier instead of having of the cutting knife in this plane we can the knife's rotation around the z axis as Let's remove that second case, that second Perfect. So let's say that we start here. Boom. With the knife horizontally right into the Normally we would just go all the way around we started and we'd have a top and a bottom we want 360 degrees to fit within a 360 degree that a quarter of the way through our rotation rotation like that. Okay. So I'm going to be cutting in like this turned the bagel a quarter turn the knife here. So I'm going from here to here. From here to here. Let's draw that path so it becomes very From there to there. Now we're going to have a problem. The problem is that if I've already done to do 90 more degrees, ooh. I get myself into this problem. I want by the time that I reach this part but I've got the other side of the bagel So what's gonna make this easier is just I'll go up like this and then we need it Ooh! That's gonna be a problem because our knife bagel but what we can do is reposition our We go in like this. Then we go up vertical, then we need to turn But let's do that with the handle beneath Alright so on this side we're in horizontally I wanna draw a line that follows the handle's goes from here, right, to here. So from the, did I, yeah, I've got a little Did I go all the way through? Yeah there I go. From this hole up to that hole. And I'm just gonna draw that path so that to be on. Remover this is equivalent to another 90 degree I'm going to do 90 degrees and then from And then from here I need to do another 90 here. I can do that without having to swap without We'll go up here so when we've rotated the Perfect. So let me just connect these two lines. That entry point and that entry point and clockwise. And again this is gonna be tough if the handle's side of the bagel so let's go ahead and my knife here and I'm gonna move up 90 degrees. Starting like this, up 90 degrees back to the handle's perspective from this hole Okay so now we've got some lines on our going to follow. If you can keep track of all of this in your won't be too hard to do this without drawing this is just to show you why we have to flip that is equivalent to rotating the knife 360. Yes we might flip it at some points but we our knife so here we go. Where should I start? Forget which one was the actual starting point. Doesn't matter though does it. Okay so I'm gonna start up here and then Nice fresh bagels work the best. If they're too crumby it takes too much apart. You want them to be a bit chewy and soft so Alright so there's the other and and I just, but that's fine. So here I am, alright. Knife handle is straight up and I wanna flip the knife and I wanna follow this line. Okay. So let's watch myself do that. I'm gonna hold the bagel like this though as best I can. Uh oh. I'm kind of tearing it. Be very careful. It's very easy to hurt yourself doing this. Do it at your own risk. Okay now it's a little bit scrunched up It's still going to be delicious and mathematical. At this point I don't need to flip my knife. I can keep following this line. Here's our third 90 degree turn. Yeah. Good. That sawing motion is helping me a lot. I should be doing more of that. Okay we're vertical again. Now for the home stretch I flip the knife, It's still a vertical line. The flipping is just caused by the limitations From here I wanna pull the knife while cutting Ready? Here we go. Curling up, whoa! Getting that knife pretty close to my hand. Please guys be careful. Take your time. Alright. I've gone all the way through. This cut is a two strip mobius, this strip see our bagel can be divided into two intact Smear a little spread on that, serve it to hard to eat but I love it. Merry Christmas and as always, thanks for As promised here I am cutting a bagel with I'm going to first rotate the knife 90 degrees 90 for a total of 270 here's the final 90 you pull the bagel apart we have two halves They're not even mirror images or anything It will surely impress and it's certainly please. Knives are sharp and bagels well, let's Wait what's that? You wanna see more footage of me cutting bagels? Well good because I do too. Here's some footage we shot earlier that a bagel with a single twist mobius strip being cut the bagel half way around and my knife I'm going to rotate the knife another 90 there's a total of just 180 degrees of rotation cute is equivalent to a single twist mobius two separate halves that are interlocked. I won't even get two separate things. I will just have a well it's kind of strange It's basically a bagel that's twice as far which I'm about to do here, watch how I pull it apart but I have gone all the way cream cheese, peanut butter, jam, all the knife to a different bagel half. See look at that! Beautiful. This is also a very fun way to cut bagels. It's a little bit simpler too because you So go out there and have some fun and as always, for watching. That made no sense. Bageling?