- We're replicating a about perceptions of discomfort. (participant exhales deeply) This is a bucket of cold water. - Yep. - You're gonna put your hand in and you're gonna keep it that we won't tell you. As it's in the water, you can rate your If basically you're at &quot;I am in agony, let me you can dial it up to that. - Oh my God. - Yep, can't feel my fingers - Stinging. - Arctic. - Numb. - Numb. - [Participant] Pain maybe. - Pain, can't hold it. - And obviously you've got two hands, we'll be doing this three times. I'm replicating an experiment by Daniel Kahneman and Just as in the original study, I've told participants we're in pain perception between I'm assuming you're right-handed? - Yeah, I'm right-handed. But that is not the true - Left-hand in. - Yeah, go ahead. - Ooh, it's cold. - And we've started. Yeah, all the way to the wrist. That's good. What's the physical sensation like? - Cold, (laughs) freezing. - Yeah, there's like a point where it almost feels like a muscle cramp. - Both numbing and tingling. - It is getting colder and colder, yes. - [Host] Half of the participants to use their left hand first, the other half used They indicated in real time how much discomfort - It's getting like progressively worse. - It feels cold. I wouldn't wanna stay there - Good. Are you from Russia or something? - Yes. - So you're used to the- - I used to cold though. (host laughs) - At the end of the trial, I told them to pull their hand out and give an overall - About a seven. - Yeah. I mean, I wouldn't wanna swim in that. - No. - Three. - Six. - [Host] Then they took a 15 minute break before returning to (intense suspenseful music) - Yeah, I can't hold it. - [Host] Bet that's real cold, huh? - Yeah. - I could probably go - What about an hour? - No. - It's like stinging this time. - It started to feel like Something like that. - [Host] (laughs) Is that a - It's a bad thing, of course. (both laugh) - How did that feel? - It felt a lot worse than my right hand. (record scratching) - [Host] What participants didn't know is that the two trials were different. They started out the same, one hand submerged in for 60 seconds, and one But the other trial lasted During that time, the water to 15 degrees Celsius. - Have I put it in here for longer than I did last time? Feels like it's been a while. - [Host] This increase in - It seems to make the It's slightly less uncomfortable. - [Host] But it was still uncomfortable. This is not the sort of thing - No, I would like genuinely (host laughs) - [Host] Again, we randomized was first or second, and whether it was with the The ultimate question to repeat one of those two experiences, which would you choose?&quot; - Probably the left hand, yes. - You'd do that first one again? - Yeah, I think so. - I would say the second - The first, the right hand. - I'll go with the first. - The first one? - In our small-scale replication, seven out of 12 people said the longer trial. In the Kahneman and Fredrickson study, this preference was even stronger with almost 70% of their participants preferring the longer trial. That is the same trial indicated was painful for a longer time. Both trials contained the same 60 seconds at 14 degrees Celsius. The longer trial just added with the water warming by just one degree. This was still uncomfortable and yet it's the trial One of the participants after reporting that he would prefer to repeat the longer trial muttered, &quot;The choice I made doesn't So the first trial was 30 seconds longer? - Yeah, okay. - You endured discomfort for longer. But at the end, the discomfort And the extra bit is not fun. It's not like the extra bit I want to do this.&quot; If I asked you which trial - Probably the first one, - You'd tell me the first one. - And that's the one that's actually a longer experience of discomfort. - Yeah. - [Host] As hard as it is to understand, under certain circumstances, apparently, people prefer more pain to less. But why is this? Well, to investigate, ran a follow-up study and long versions of pleasant to undergraduate students. Examples of pleasant playing with a flower, - [Host] And waves breaking on a beach. While the unpleasant videos included the aftermath of Hiroshima, of an amputation. - After the video, students were asked to rate their experience. What they found was had very little effect on positive or negative. Kahneman and colleagues suggest to the two different ways In the moment as the experiencing self, or retrospectively thinking back on events as the remembering self. If you're going through and someone offers you the chance to stop, you, the experiencing self, will likely take them up on the offer. But for the remembering self, seems to have much less importance. (plane engine revving) This is known as duration neglect. A 2008 study found that did not have any impact on how positively the So if the duration of an experience doesn't affect your (light music) (group laughing) The answer appears to be key moments, particularly ones that elicit the strongest emotional response. As the novelist Milan Kundera wrote, &quot;Memory doesn't make films, it makes photographs.&quot; And those photographs usually salient moments of the experience. The most joyful, funny, painful, scary moments in life are the ones that are remembered, and therefore they come to represent the experience as a whole. This is a version of the A term coined by Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky in the 1970s. They were studying how people Consider a family with six children. Is it more likely that boy, boy, boy, girl, girl, girl, or girl, boy, boy, girl, boy, girl? For the majority of participants, as significantly less likely. But in reality, both but boy, boy, boy, girl, because it seems less random. I mean, people have a and boy, boy, boy, girl, girl, We rely on representativeness all the time as a mental shortcut, but One famous example developed is known as The Linda Problem. Linda is 31 years old, single, She majored in philosophy. As a student, she was deeply concerned with issues of discrimination and she also participated in So which is more probable? Linda is a bank teller, or Linda is a bank teller and is active in the feminist movement? The majority of people who are asked this question which makes sense because matches our mental model of a feminist. But mathematically, it must be more likely that she's a bank teller, because feminist bank of bank teller. All feminist bank tellers are, Stephen Jay Gould said, &quot;I know is least probable, yet a continues to jump up 'But she can't just be a bank teller. Read the description.'&quot; The thing about the like many heuristics, even if we are aware that I mean, technically, eggplants, cucumbers, and avocados are all berries, but because they aren't small and sweet like strawberries or blueberries, we don't think of them as berries. An eggplant does not match my So even though I know I'm gonna keep calling it a vegetable. I mean, the salient feature of an eggplant is that I cook it like Also, annoyingly enough, a strawberry is not technically a berry. Botany is confusing. So the representativeness that Linda is more likely rather than just a bank teller, and why I can't bring myself And representativeness is how come to represent entire experiences. But it's not the only thing that colors our perception of the past. Our brains better recall and therefore assign a greater importance to more recent events. This is known as recency bias. So if you were to list in the last week, it the most recent ones. That's why how an experience in how it's remembered. I mean, how many people are rewatching &quot;Game of Thrones&quot; right now, for example, compared to, say, &quot;Breaking Bad?&quot; I mean, the last season of I don't think I'll ever The end tainted my view (wind whooshing) And it seems like that also applies when judging the quality of a life. In a 2001 study, researchers told a a never-married woman without children. She's extremely happy. She has a job she enjoys, goes on vacations and has Then she's hit by a car at the age of 30 and dies painlessly and instantly. Taking her life as a whole, how desirable do you think Jen's life was? For the other half of participants, researchers told the same story about Jen, but added another five years to her life. Years that were pleasant, but maybe not quite as Then they asked the same question, &quot;Taking her life as a whole, how desirable do you And what they found was that to be less desirable. That living for those extra actually reduced the overall The ending matters. They repeated this same story with a Jen that lives to age 60 compared to age 65, and the results were the same. Adding mildly pleasant years to a very positive life but actually decreases the perception of the quality of this life. So when it comes to holding your hand in a bucket of cold water, your overall experience of the event boils down to two things, Oh, yeah. Like, I find that painful. I can't believe people have been, like, standing in front of us acting so tough. Both trials involved holding for the same duration. So presumably they created But the longer trial had a nicer ending. Discomfort is backing off. I mean, still uncomfortable, but, like, not quite as uncomfortable. By adding a slightly less Kahneman and Frederickson were into remembering the This is clearly a bad choice but a good choice for This might seem like an but it actually has huge For example, if we remember like a visit to the dentist we're more likely to do it again, and that improves At the end of their 1993 paper, Kahneman and Frederickson ask, to add an interval of diminishing pain to the end of a medical procedure if the sole benefit of the added pain is to cause the patients to retain a more favorable memory of it?&quot; In 2003, Kahneman did exactly that. Along with colleagues, with 682 patients who Half of them went through the other half had an extra three minutes at the end of the procedure where the tip of the colonoscope So it was uncomfortable, but less painful than the The patients who experienced of discomfort at the end rated the whole experience They were also more likely to come back to do a follow-up screening procedure. The peak-end rule also appears in design for customer experiences. The cheap hot dogs at the The positive experience or ice cream cone leads to a better memory of the whole shopping experience. It's like a doctor giving a lollipop to a child after a checkup. (gentle music) Knowing that this is how allows us to create better If you wanna run more, don't do painful hill sprints Instead, maybe do a while you talk to a friend or Wanna create better Making it longer won't matter as much as creating exciting and novel days. Make sure there's a high-peak experience, and also end it with something pleasant. Are you quitting your job and want people to remember you fondly? Well, make sure you are during your last few weeks. In short, to create better for the peak and the end. So the best way to close out with a wholesome message. And why not footage of a cute (celestial music) Our mindset plays a huge role in our perception of the environment. And while this makes some it can also cause us to see things as worse than they really are. But luckily, you can train to make meaningful improvements And that's where today's Headspace is an all-in-one that helps you strengthen your mindset and reach your goals through and personalized support. Now, you might be quick if you think it's all and sitting still for hours, but in reality, practicing mindfulness is There's no definitive way to meditate, and that's what I really Whether it's guided meditation, ASMR podcasts or focus music, Headspace has something for everyone. And if you don't wanna they even have mini And all of their courses and backed up by research. Multiple studies on Headspace found that using it for even a and stress while increasing Feel free to check out those So if you're looking to and mindfulness, I highly You can sign up by scanning this QR code or by clicking the link Make sure to use Code VERITASIUM so you have plenty of and see how Headspace might I wanna thank Headspace for sponsoring this part of the video, and I