love to and you know you should be [Music] glad welcome back to guitar discoveries and my drummer. in this case, the one and only Ringo series on what I learned from each of the Beatles, George Harrison, and then back to Paul McCartney, in our band Cosmic Spin, she said to me, you got Ringo taught me just as much about musicianship know this about me, but I've been playing and the '90s. I do it for my own solo music. I do it and for my band Cosmic Spin. and I really look what I mean in this video. now I'm also going to producer and orchestrator George Martin, so the bell if you haven't already. I don't want Ringo Starr, Mr Peace and Love, known his playfulness (are you a mod or a rocker? um no drummer for the world's most beloved band. now to Ringo. people who say he wasn't technically now this is really the same disagreement that they great? mediocre? the best? just average? level of all four Beatles? well stay with me, and I will share the three most important Starr. so in Ringo's case, whenever he's assume it's because he wasn't flashy. he played kick, snare, mounted tom, and floor tom, plus I mean basic, almost minimalist by today's &quot;less is more&quot; style of drumming. and that's least. Ringo proved you don't need a big especially when you work with a creative team that Ringo is also a left-handed player, but he plays that: when I was born I was left-handed but witches and made me write with my right. so I left. something else is that he tuned the drums so they'd sound tight. I mean low and tight? these unusual choices are some of the ways Ringo simple setup. now to prepare for this video, I other videos about Ringo, and I really loved some are part of the melody. his playing always adds in the way of the song. another person called him he did the right thing, at the right time, in being creative. so Ringo was known for checking the role of a drummer and what it means to support thing I said about George in my video about what masters of playing just the right thing in the lesson number two: always serve the song. that's follow some unwritten rules to accomplish that. off. so there's a fun video from the Rock and Roll share what they think of Ringo. here are session you know, he's a song drummer. guys that then they play appropriately for that song. someone that's technically proficient, or is own feel? Ringo was the king of feel. now if documentary -- talking about 9 hours of footage Ringo spends most of his time listening. he of the other guys. and that was his M.O. right? it needs and no more. so here's what George listens to the song once and he knows exactly what when individual guitar parts interweave and you know, the same way the instruments of an the whole. now in my opinion, Ringo was really the didn't just keep a beat, you know, his drum parts people can identify a Beatles song just by hearing if you can identify these songs from their drum this? Tomorrow Never Knows and [Music] about... a day in the life or this kickoff? yep that's birthday. all right, how you probably got all of them. so we just proved he listens to the vocals. he says I never wanted a only when necessary and and it works for the song. to hear and absorb right? I've got to check my ego so that's not always easy for me okay. so there how to conquer any of your showoff tendencies when a short reminder that music is not a competitive the keys to great musicianship. they're two of and lives on after more than 50 years. they had their strengths and stayed out of each other's you can do as a musician. now the other video is play any solo. it really works for me, helps hallmark of drummer egos is the extended drum he never played a solo live, and the one short Beatles' last recorded tracks, The End. and even other three Beatles. they each played their solos, favorite Ringo lesson, number three: find the remarkable and totally consistent about Ringo's he almost always plays just behind the beat, you it. and that pull makes it feel groovier right? here's Taylor Hawkins of the Foo Fighters RIP: the windshield on the high-hats man. I mean it's a even in 2/4 and 4/4 time signatures, you know plays with an underlying triplet feel. and that the second part of rock. it's rock and roll. in 4/4 time, but Lennon's rhythm guitar is playing it Tell Me Why is also in 4/4, but it has 1 2 3, 1 2 3, 1 2 3. there's always this 4. if Ringo had played in a straight 4/4 with Tell me why you cry. I mean, way less original, country music, which also often uses kind of one of Ringo's vocal songs, Act Naturally. '67 and Sgt. Peppers, A Day in the Life. those triplets. no straight eighth notes. now if for finding and deepening the groove and Jr. from Paul McCartney's touring band says: falling down the stairs kind of sound. that is it [Music] [Music] proof [Music] here's Dave Grohl again to sum it up. honestly have people dancing, you're a [ __ ] badass. don't fear odd time signatures. now I explained John's odd choice of meters in few beats during the chorus. the way I feel two beats on &quot;nothing to&quot; and a bar of three nothing is 1 2 3 4 and 1 2, 1 2 3 4, 1 2 3, 1 2 part. On Happiness is a Warm Gun, the mother between 9/8 and 10/8. Ringo makes it sound I explained George Harrison's odd time signatures bridge time signature is interesting, too, each of 4/4 all repeated five times. let's count it it just sounds so natural, so right. I mean three most important things I learned from Ringo number two, always serve the song. number three, Bara and I have a band called Cosmic Spin and I tell you how much influence Ringo's feel and swing doesn't pull a little and make you feel it, we're my next video will be what I learned from the Martin. ah so much to share! so please make sure record and edit these videos myself, totally as the many videos I've made over the past 5 years. over 200 videos in the archives and most of them here