Okay, ready? [Ben and Peter Yes, it's time. We've ranked Sony franchises. ranked the franchises of a company that next logical step, and it's a fascinating one, That's probably something we should address up of the other companies we've ranked so far, Sega that does not focus on the astronomical influence We admit that. Unfortunately, due to the we can't really rank them by the same metrics. will discuss those in turn, but they were almost Of course, Sega wasn't just an arcade developer, in the console market to their current role as a even covering franchises that Sega has acquired After all, those franchises are some of the Otherwise, the rules are simple: We are ranking average critical reception. In most cases, review we've had to look back at GameRankings. And we had to look at Gamefaqs. Don't worry; we Also, after much deliberation, we decided not Games...games, as we've already covered isn't much point in retreading the same ground. because there are far too many of them and I'm Also as usual, no licensed sports games, because about the sports games that aren't licensed. three or more entries. If there are only two a sequel. Tattoo that on your chest so you don't the first home release of each game. No later With all of that out of the way knuckles (ha ha) in anticipation of complaining let's begin. I'm Benand I'm Peter from TripleJump, and this is Ben 59-45 Ben 29-22 Ben 13-8 #59:Devil Children - 39.39% I promise we didn't choose to include we could pick on them. We quite like a lot was not received well by critics and is far from The name "Devil Children" refers to the half-demon. So, they're normal kids then, eh?! series was its similarity to Pokemon, and its release strategy, with multiple the companion games had unique stories, as it just meant they had to endure Perhaps Devil Children is indeed a only two of the games came to the West, retitled Version. They actually performed the best with At the bottom of the list is Devil Children 2 - series broke the 40% barrier. I hope kids enjoyed #58: Last Bible - 46.36% Okay, once again, we didn't include pick on them. We're not the ones who reviewed Like Devil Children, Last Bible is a series aimed it's that they love their Bibles! Also like main Shin MegamiTensei games were scaled back leaves about five or six, I think. Last Bible, was the only one to come west, The Demon Slayer. Fans will knowthat this wasn't came to the west under the Revelations banner... but slightly lower than stubbing your toe. The but its immediate sequel Intriguingly, MegamiTenseiGaiden: Last Bible It's interesting to see that Sega was working #57: Sonic Boom - 47% I don't want to single out Sonic as being the only but usually those mishandlings come early in a out what its characters should and should not be out in 2014, proving that Sega still wasn't sure Rise of Lyric was lambasted by critics, and by saying "Rise of Lyric isn't fundamentally praise even if it were true.It earned only 32% on Sonic Boom TV series, which was actuallyalright. four letters right, at least. It scored better even worse than its appalling predecessor. Fire &amp; highest with 62%, but the fact that it took three #56: Altered Beast - 54.56% By the time the Mega Drive released in 1989, have ported for a pack-in title. In fact, the Harrier II, and The Revenge of Shinobi, any of yet Mega Drive early adopters got Altered Beast, have asked father christmasfor an NES instead. - its place being in this very sentence and required playing. It earned 50.2% on GameRankings, The highlight of the series, in terms of Guardian of the Realms. This scored 63%, and therefore critics didn't have to own it. out of the console market, Sega released Altered that made the first game even remotely interesting possible. Critics hated it even more than #55: The Typing of the Dead - 57.6% Now here is a controversial ranking. It's so here at TripleJump Towers agrees with it. Rules who could probably sort this out, I don't have The Typing of the Dead is a The House of the dependent upon the player's ability to type words irreverent spin on edutainment, and it still It scored a well-deserved 83% on Metacritic. Overkill, which combined elements of The House of over the lazy dog. Critics gave it 71%. that's due to The Typing of the Dead 2. We're which are shockingly low: 18.8%. If you don't on this list, submit your own review on GameFaqs, this topic, which will certainly happen after #54:Golden Axe - 58% The Golden Axe arcade gamewas great, especially even added content, which you'd think would felt that the port only managed to reveal laughing at the name Gilius Thunderhead. slipped even further in the eyes of 2008's attempt at resurrecting the series, that tried to resurrect the series by cutting off its gave it 44.5%, with the consensus being tell us what we need to do as a species in Was the game truly that bad? Yes. Even such as Play Magazine's notorious 9 out and one for everyone you know as Christmas to assure we get another." That's grammatically #53: Alex Kidd - 60.75% Like Altered Beast's role as the Mega Drive's basically amounted to keeping the That's not to say his games are terrible. which was built into several editions of the Alex Kidd in Shinobi World, being close behind enough, as they were decent early platformers. outing outside of the Master System: Alex Sega had hopes that Alex Kidd would do for the but even fans of the series would have direct competition and to his own successor. He counting the cycling-themed spinoff, and he should he's been relegated to cameos and a single latter-day resurgence, but we also can't imagine #52: Space Harrier - 62.66% Space Harrier was the celebrated sequel to Harriest. I'm taking the mick, of course; that to comparative to superlative, and I hope what to make of the title, as it implies the Nevertheless, nice game! Space Harrier was with a hydraulic motion simulator that ensured stomach. Designer Yu Suzuki even created was never advertised but which made Space Harrier It was less impressive on consoles, but that own Master System, scored a mediocre 66.4%. Two scored only 54.37%, but Space Harrier 3-D fared As its title suggests, the game was in actual What if you didn't have those? That's okay! You first...beating it in 3D. Good luck doing #51: Phantasy Star Universe - 65.56% Phantasy Star Universe is a spinoff series of to place more of an emphasis on the offline wish they'd also had the impulse to make a better with most of the criticism going towards its version but not on the Xbox 360 or PC - as well Its two sequels - Phantasy Star Portable and but not by much. All three games scored even when this subseries was at its best, it was Despite the subseries' willingness to online features were significant enough that large obviously didn't affect reviews at the time on this list - but it is a reminder of how slipping through our grasp if we aren't careful. down until we got to the Sonic #50: Zaxxon- 66.2% Released in Japanese arcades at the tail end Zaxxon was an impressive game. The isometric that needed to be avoided at different heights...it even invested $150,000 into television advertswith The Atari 2600 port wasless impressive, but fans could do much worse. In fact, the Zaxxon Zaxxon 3-D for the Master System is the perhaps due to the fact that the game is far Zaxxon'sMotherbase 2000 for the 32X wasn't It was only released as a Zaxxon game in the Parasquad in Japan - but we're counting it like Zaxxon than Zaxxon 3-D did. I mean, it looks #49: After Burner - 67.3% Whatever Sega may have become, it's impossible arcade years. Case in point, After Burner, which in 1987. It was urgently addictive and stood simply couldn't compete with the level of pure it was the top-grossing arcade game of the year, Less impressive was its lone home port Unlike most of the franchises on this list series continued to climb higher in critical the highest-rated game in the series is After Critics appreciated that each of the which was a good way of making the Not a bad way to end things. In fact, Digital distribution services seem like a downloadable form. Unless that happens, though, #48: DokiDoki Penguin Land - 67.87% 2005's March of the Penguins made clear to the procreate and protect their young. The world then, when Sega made the same thing clear with the SG-1000 involved rolling an egg towards that showed you how and where your egg could The game received a sequel in the form which upped both the challenge and variety. to pronounce too many words in this no DokiDoki Penguin Land MD for the Mega Drive. a mechanical sense, no doubt intended cyclical struggles of real-life flightless there's only so much you can do with a penguin #47: Tempo - 68.33% The "first-ever video game" is a label that about the history of computing. For years, it was 1958'sTennis for Two held the title. Now, it seems what the first-ever video game actually was, that was - consciously or not - counting down the a rapping grasshopper. Sega was that someone, Tempo, which we'd love to hold accountable for as a whole, was basically the dream you'd It earned 68%, which puts it just a bit at 63.6%. Tempo Jr. is a bit easier than its reusing many of the same elements of the first time we in Europe ever had to put up with Tempo. one elevated the animation quality to new levels, left Japan. Maybe one day we'll see Tempo again. #46: Hang-On - 68.63% Speed has always been a part of Sega's DNA, into our hearts, and then kept going the company's 1985 hit motorcycle game is just one was among the first to utilize motion controls, a motorcycle that players could tilt in Hang-On is also an example of why a list Sega was an arcade juggernaut, but so many of must be judged by inferior home ports. Hang-On the arcade game into the home, nor would it you might be able to pilot a real motorcycle The lowest-reviewed title was the Master with only 64%. Hang-On II for the SG-1000 with an average of 72.6%. Not bad, but when this represents the absolute peak of Hang-On's #45: MegamiTensei- 68.74% Right, we know that this is a placement the critics who gave MegamiTensei this rated the early games low will think the average recent games favorably will think the average MegamiTensei has always been an interesting and ethical dilemmas, but the execution hasn't and punishing beyond reason, with difficulty challenge. As the series has evolved it's also wider, more appreciative audience that is more brutal combat, and demons made of wilsons. continuities, but certaincharacters and themes automation of demon summoning, which gets out The games tend also to alter the outcomes the games are about apocalypses so there's rarely your own decisions influence the precise flavor they're dark games. If you prefer smiling #44: Columns - 68.8% What do you get when you combine Tetris What do you get when you remove just about the puzzle game that inspired countless players We're being harsh, certainly, but there's so to focus on...well...how little there is to say about of gems, and it's your job to not fall asleep. The Tetris did not - helped the Game Gear port over the Game Boy. And the fact that Columns off its main advantage over the Game Gear. Drive -earned a lukewarm rating of 56.3%, with Revenge of Columns at 51.5% and HanagumiTaisen exception, however: Columns GB: Tezuka Osamu It's...well, Columns, only this time characters your soul while you play it. Evidently #43: Super Monkey Ball - 69.59% Debuting in 2001 as an arcade game with a catch you using, Super Monkey Ball serving as a launch game for Nintendo's time anyone had put the words Super, The game was...okay, look, I could try to find or we can both just agree that it's fun gobbling up bananas along the way. It look at it! What more could you possibly want?! granting it a more enduring appeal than appeal. And thattechnically qualifies as a pun! on Metacritic, which made history again as the encased in a translucent sphere. Sadly, those Fans stuck around, but reviewers grew tired Super Monkey Ball Adventure only hit 53%, which but the more-traditional Super Monkey #42: Majin Tensei- 70.33% If you've played the Devil Survivor games, didn't dip into the tactics well more and the wide range of monsters and abilities lend those games were preceded by an entire trilogy Majin Tensei for the Super Famicom excellent in-battle graphics, and stellar basically. Its sequel, Spiral Nemesis, improved a higher average: 73.6% as compared to 70.6%. for the Saturn and stars characters called No points for guessing which of those I backlash to an early demo of the game that was so be cancelled, makingAtlus reluctant to continue because I've found a lot of claims in English, Regardless, the game has a negative legacy and out of hand. It scored 66.8%, which is far from #41: Shinobi - 70.35% While you were partying, I studied the blade. And that face at me. The games are really hard. I Shinobi is a beloved series - in many ways Sega's that critics never really got on with it. Exactly was Shinobi III: Return of the Ninja Master, for The lowest-scoring game was The Revenge of but The Cyber Shinobi with 52.2% tried Perhaps reviewers were turned off by the them unfavorably to the arcade games. Perhaps didn't even have the courtesy to pull over I will say that the games are worth taking but spend enough time perfecting the levels and #40: Power Instinct / GoketsujiIchizoku- 70.4% Couldn't have just called this one "Power had to stick GoketsujiIchizoku in there? I suppose counting were localized as "Power Instinct," their Japanese names. But I've got my eye on you. asked itself a question: What if someone people would forget about it while they were still Drive in Japan and to the SNES in the West. PlayStation, so that an even wider audience could though. Speaking of music, Groove on Fight: in the title. No, I'm not reaching for things that? It features tag-team battles, which are great. Finally, there's Shin GouketsujiIchizoku: it's not bad but isn't memorable for #39: Virtual-On - 70.46% Let me tell you everything I know about the out of the way, Virtual-On appears to be a of [Billy Ray Cyrus noise] out of each other. I assure you that I mean it as a great compliment. releases of most Virtual-On media, but it has westward have been well received. Critics and and the surprising depth of the combat, especially The lowest-rated game in the series is Cyber with 54%, while the highest-rated is DennouSenki with 79.88%. At least, it had better be. If I say that entire title for no reason, I will look Finally, there was DennouSenki Virtual-On x which...which...hang on, there's nothing else written Let me just make a quick note #38: Sonic the Hedgehog - 71.13% How the Mighty the Armadillo have fallen. Believe mascot, its flagship franchise, and its most this far down the list. It's embarrassing, and far I sort of just want to hold it and promise though I know full well that it won't be. considering in this list, only seven Those are Sonic the Hedgehog and Sonic the Sonic the Hedgehog 3, Sonic &amp; Knuckles, Sonic To put things into perspective, more of his games worse if Sonic Boom hadn't constituted a trilogy, Nearly all of his gameschart the critical distance of the barrel being relentlessly scraped by 2006's 46% offers stiff competition, however. 3D and 2D games into two different entries. represents a distinct design philosophy on the short, each type of Mario game really every installment, 2D or 3D, represents a company that seems to only wish to prove that to begin with. And so we're combining all of them Sega can't decide what Sonic is, we're certainly Who knows? Maybe Sonic Rangers will be good. #37: Fantasy Zone - 71.62% Fantasy Zone thrived in the arcade environment and simple gameplay. You pilot a sentient out of everything you see. It's adorable! It's exclusively on its presentation to set it apart. Its console ports never quite lived up to cute-'em-up, they did the job. And there were including to Sega's arch With the exception of a Pac-Man-like spinoff, rather similar throughout its sequels, which may Even so, the scores vary quite a bit. Super the highest, at 76.67%, with the Game Gear scoring only 62%. Possibly because its title made #36: Wonder Boy - 71.63% Wonder Boy is not the easiest series to got a direct port in Japan for the SG-1000, but which spawned a series of its own. In Brazil, characters from the comic strip Monica's get more confusing from there; none of them are "Wonder Boy III." It would be confusing enough if instead it was "Monster World IV," leaving fans And, believe it or not, we've only scratched The games themselvesvary in quality and Surprisingly, though, they also vary the gamut from punishing platformers to light The lowest-rated game is Wonder Boy The highest-rated game is also called Wonder It earned 86.7% from critics and This actually spawned a remake of Monster World Monster Boy and the Cursed Kingdom, just to #35: Thunder Force - 71.66% NOT THAT ONE. Seriously, that one has a far also started off pretty bad, but got much better Sega, and wasn't even released for Sega platforms. seems to have been for the Sharp X1. It's...not but it was popular enough to spawn a series. in 1988, but was exposed to a wider audience The sequel retained the overhead perspective on side-scrolling stages, which would offering simple but addictive bullet too difficult. Maybe it's more bullet heck. with Thunder Force IV, which was released in the possibly because Sega didn't think the Thunder and definitely because they didn't think #34: Sega Bass Fishing - 71.73% I, personally, believe Sega Bass Fishing should all about that bass, 'bout that bass, no tarpon. I need to somehow fill time pretending I Most of the Sega Bass Fishing titles which would be the last place I would ever The home ports were decently received, however, enough to earn the Sega All Stars label. And, yes, become an "all star," you indeed know that your The highest-rated game is Sega Marine Fishing part of the same series. And which also, despite It earned an average of 79%. The lowest-rated only 59% and is the last of the Sega Bass Fishing #33: Monaco GP - 71.95% It's far from Sega's best-remembered or GP...existed. Okay, that might not be entirely fair. albeit one in which you didn't until you eventually exploded. Which, The game got a home console release in 1983. Monaco GP, which more closely resembles modern releases: a 16-bit version for the Mega Drive and made it to the Game Gear. The Mega Drive version that reasonable human beings might want to play. Senna's Super Monaco GP II, named for and endorsed Grand Prix. This game has never been rereleased, away at age 34, only two years after the title in the series at 77.6%, serving as an #32: OutRun- 72.06% The original OutRun arcade game was developed What if you didn't have to be good at OutRun's flashy cars, glamorous locales, that you weren't a guy playing a video no matter how poorly you played; you could keep OutRun was an immediate hit, and it is still games ever. It even inspired an entire genre the existence of synthwave and for the fact The home ports, though, failed to which was understandable. The series did peaking with 86.6% for OutRunners on the Mega that they didn't develop its lowest-scoring game, Software and worldwide poo merchants U.S. Gold. lesson about greenlighting low-quality cash-in #31: Space Channel 5 - 72.07% Space Channel 5 was the Dreamcast and unforgettable...but with zero chance of news reporter Ulalacovering the story of through the power of dance. It earned an overall Part 2 earned an average of 78%, but fans Space Channel 5 is weird enough in concept and once. The series even featured Michael Jackson to finally seek out the games or to keep avoiding Aside from some ports to the PS2 and Game as Space Channel 5 went. At least it was, until released in 2020 for PS4 VR. Aaaaand...well, we by the brief VR experience, which suffered from more than standing still and moving your arms. #30: Persona Dancing - 73.67% We can all agree Persona 3, 4, and 5 were good the characters weren't dancing, we were asking Thank the Lord for the Persona Dancing Persona 4: Dancing All Night earned 76% could have been a disposable tie-in. It was and accessible rhythm mechanics. Critics were original game had to admit dragged a bit. to Persona 3 and 5 as well, though it didn't fit one reviewer also bemoaned the lack of the ability Dancing in Moonlight, making him the most The Persona Dancing series is much which is the case with most Persona spinoffs. these won't change your mind. But if time with your favorite group of school-age #29: The House of the Dead - 74.06% The House of the Dead is rail-shooter as Resident Evil. They both took very different you methodically explored a mansion in the hopes you arrived. In The House of the Dead, you It's far from an intelligent experience, so there probably aren't any left. What remains and it's no wonder that it caught on. get to hold a light gun and scream obscenities but it made a successful jump to consoles. All The lowest-rated game was the Saturn port of is the most recent: Overkill for the Wii with of the series - it would probably be too easily the time is right for a remastered collection #28: Shining - 74.61% Sega's sprawling RPG series is not the easiest to help matters. Sometimes the story of one game and completely different gameplay. Characters and characters with the same names will actually relationships between characters were and even these localizations would differ, with Suffice it to say, we're tossing all of the Shining Force, Shining Tears, Shining Blade, or call...erm...the point is, they're all together in That's a joke, of course, but "pleasing everybody" often scoring between 75% and 85% on average. soundtracks, and stories. Overall the series years, sometimes concurrently. Traditional action RPG...basically, if you enjoy any aspect that you will love. You just may have to #27: Devil Summoner - 75% It's nice to see Shin MegamiTensei higher baffled by Atlus's decision to group these four first two games were released for the Saturn one did eventually get a western port on the in different cities with different sets of Then there were a pair of prequels for the have little in the way of connective tissue gameplay. They also introduced a new protagonist, version of 1930s Japan. Where, surprise The RaidouKuzunoha games were well received and but as of now they remain an odd couple of an opportunity to play. Here's hoping Atlus as they'd make for a neat little duology. Or they Devil Summoner game as well. We want to give you #26: PuyoPuyo- 76.42% Columns may have been Sega's but PuyoPuyo is by far the stronger been granted the honor of officially crossing The game requires players to match usually that's all that happens in these games, the little jellybois explode in a massive shower blood and flesh, but I think we're all The series is known for its adorable visuals extremely deep potential for strategizing. The That's a phrase we hear often, but rarely about eyes. From a critical perspective, the series pronounce the clearly unpronounceable. Its low either, and most of its games scored in the evolved much - excellent Tetris hybrids aside #25: Ecco the Dolphin - 76.43% Depending upon how one chooses to measure as intelligent as humans. Personally, I'd for the simple fact that I've never Admittedly, the first game was a hit in but that's probably because they were too far in a game about a time-traveling dolphin. It though it certainly looks nice. It scored 75.7%. fighting aliens and traveling through history dimension hopping, physical transformation, With this progression of scientific dolphin Defender of the Future, to involve the dolphins colonizing Pluto, and even convincing Amazon to You know, true hard sci-fi. Ecco's 3D but it does look great and has its own earning the series its highest score with 84%. #24: Sonic Racing - 76.45% It's not surprising that Sega would want a it should be noted, in which money is both the against all odds, the games werequite good. be a welcome journey through Sega's past. Where, is. Though Sonic got the focus in the game's title from all manner of Sega properties, from Space Sonic &amp; All-Stars Racing Transformed expanded classic Sega characters, such as Danica critical reception, hitting a respectable 80.67%. in the series, Team Sonic Racing.Critics took innovation as opposed to anything it actively series will ever truly hit the heights of Mario #23: Initial D - 77.52% Initial D is...erm...okay, listen, I have only initial D I know is followed by ick It seems to be a coming-of-age driving-themed video-game series, and though it started English-language release until 2013. As pretty minimal. I won't pretend to understand it I only know it for the meme song and I am Of the 25 Initial D games, five make up the and "being an anime man." The critical low-point Koudou Saisoku Densetsu, with 63.6%. The high Initial D: Special Stage, which I at least The most recent game that qualifies for our list with an admirable 79.2%. To all of the things add that I don't understand how #22: Sakura Wars - 78.63% As we've seen many times on this list, Sega Maybetoo open, but on the whole, it's a good experimentation that they're not even sure what steampunk dating-sim visual-novel RPG, which the called "dramatic adventure." I admit, that's And that "dramatic" doesn't just describe with the games' magical girl squad using a theater girl squad? I probably didn't need to. You already Sakura Wars has been largely exclusive to Japan, then moved to the Dreamcast, two systems the west did get the final game in the original series after that, only finally bringing it back critical low point, but at 73% we certainly #21: Phantasy Star - 78.75% Phantasy Star is one of Sega's most expansive subseries that span different gameplay styles, The four games that make up its core series with scores ranging from 68.14% for Generations Reviewers may not be convinced by it, but for the company's earliest must-have titles. the game was a fun adventure through a world fantasy. To modern eyes it may not look like the first time today might wonder what all more impressive narrative experience than most The series continued on the Mega Drive, with from richer characterization to more It never achieved the staying power of some of held in high regard today. As is a certain #20: Phantasy Star Online - 79% Sega deserves credit for correctly foreseeing but rather than being content with predicting sooner than the technology would allow. The Sega examples, and the company kept pushing for it This is the specific reason Phantasy Star Online the company's fortunes, Sega set about developing rise to Chu Chu Rocket and holiday-themed add-ons Phantasy Star Online, a rich and compelling could only have on a Dreamcast. Sadly, internet per-minute connection fees were still commonplace, working properly, you would slowly drain your The game was well received, however, with the series after it made the leap to other and it did so many things right. It just also #19: 7th Dragon - 79.1% 7th Dragon, until its most recent game, was on the DS, was praised for its music, its flexibility in terms of character and party but it was the story of the world around humans were destined to be exterminated. experiencing their own journeys It was followed by two PSP sequels, 7th Dragon from a fantasy-tinged past to the futuristic year in 2020, but was Tokyo actually attacked I missed at least a few major news stories. the west. 7th Dragon III Code: VFD for the - we typically don't begin a novel by reading self-contained. It's worth picking up if Unless Sega decides to localize the rest, #18: Sega Rally - 79.22% As you've seen, Sega has a lot to be proud of isn't even the highest rated of them. You can and it's safe to say that it was aiming for a that prefers their racing games to feature...racers, as it ever got. It relies less on gimmicky providing a sturdy, rewarding racing experience. making it not just the highest-rated game in on the Saturn overall. It wasn't enough to turn sequel also failed to do so for the Dreamcast. so it certainly wasn't for want of trying. final proper entry, Sega Rally Online and then for the PlayStation 3. It hit there were a wealth of other competent racers on #17: Hatsune Miku: Project DIVA - 79.32% Hatsune Miku is a vocaloid character slash assassination robot from the future. And for In keeping with the DIY nature of the Miku customization, from outfits to characters to music pretty clear that I got rhythm, I got music, I got games. These ones seem to be pretty standard mainly from their ties to popular vocaloids. in fact. A rhythm game catering to an audience's pretend that it's my taste in music, but if all of and/or The Blowfish, I'm sure I'd be in heaven. enjoying their visuals and song selections, with and VR Future Live...erm...bottoming the charts being trapped in virtual reality with an I'm not going to let that go. You'll find out soon #16: NiGHTS- 79.39% Bursting with unique charm, promising huge Nights into Dreams is unquestionably one and it reminded a fair few gamers in the first place. Even Shigeru Miyamoto was back when Sega and Nintendo were still rivals. which is great, yet feels just a hair too low. exited the console market. Mr. Miyamoto and he got it on his own console, as well. Nights: underwhelming response. Critics gave it only 69% the charm and wonder of the original. Even the nice to see the character again, though, mainly But it didn't. Which means it doesn't technically warmth and charm of NiGHTS that we bent the rules Dreams. Yes, it was a demo made to sell the first original content, and it even got reviewed. Well The character and franchise are far or profitable ones, and yet leaving NiGHTS It represents a crucial as well as the last project Yuji Naka ever worked #15: Trauma Center- 79.75% While "surgery on cartoon characters" sounds like and their parents should probably be told about, It made its home on Nintendo's DS and Wii of Nintendo's innovative control methods. It The Trauma Center games built their and they did so brilliantly, making you as a of surgical procedures than you would if you on-screen prompts. It was your talent and and that went a long way toward What truly elevated the series, however, were as the Trauma Center games were directed by Shin MegamiTensei, among other series. (Here's Even though Nintendo has since released three we've yet to see more games. I'm hoping for a to perform surgery all year and James keeps saying #14: Etrian Odyssey - 79.83% All dungeoncrawlers expect you to explore the make the map as well. In perhaps one of the the game turns the map into a gameplay element keeping it updated, on top of battling enemies, because they died and hadn't saved in two hours. which explains why reviewers saddled it with the more forgiving, but by that point critics realized and not a bug. Etrian Odyssey made you earn In most dungeon crawlers, players feel empowered In Etrian Odyssey, the empowerment came from a was, it probably goes without saying, a perfect two screens and a stylus, the map could be drawn Unfortunately, the lack of a means we may have seen the last of Etrian but without the real-time integration of the #13: Crazy Taxi - 80.4% Crazy Taxi was one of those rare arcade games you ran out of change, at least. Considering the playing well, there was always a teeth-grinding It was an instant classic, and it lent itself on the Dreamcast. It was lauded by critics, and It provides more content than the arcade in terms of performance. Its sequel wasn't quite Then came Sega's post-console years, and the scored 69%, which is as disappointing as the PlayStation Portable - scoring 64% - and the those in our average, but they're emblematic of What's become of it since? Well, what It moved to mobile phones, where the games dying a slow and embarrassing public death. #12: Yakuza - 80.5% It's not easy to summarize Yakuza, what with same space, as well as its frequent diversions It's a weird and wonderful series that new installment and remaster...which isn't aims to capture a specifically Japanese landscape. city in Japan, and then fictionalizes it to The result - for Westerners in particular - is a day-to-day Japan shares space with absurdist street brawls, and seriousness and silliness What's more, Yakuza also finds itself It never scored poorly, but whereas the more recent games are closer to 85%. or because critics gradually came around but it's great to see one of Sega's #11: Virtua Tennis - 81.19% Virtua Tennis is...tennis. I mean, it's pretend that I know the difference between but going by the reviews, people who understand am very, profoundly happy for them. released for the Dreamcast, earned 92% on behind with 90%. According to critics, the game probably a great feature for tennis fans who had people who had three friends. I...wouldn't know. Virtua Tennis 2009, released in...ah, man, I had somewhere, I'm sure of it...right, got it. Ahem: in 2010 for what I'm sure was an extremely but was outdone soon afterward with 68.33% for If it does, will it rise again to the I don't know. The only thing I can say for sure #10: Shenmue - 81.78% Shenmue is a bit like Marmite. You either love profoundly divisive series, and that's clearly mad ravings clearly come from a place of love. the death of his father at the hands of an the murderer, which is the kind of story most however, has unfolded over the course of three only around 40% complete. Good news for look forward to. Bad news for Ben, who may Players looking to reach plot point after plot interested in exploring small environments, own routines, investigating every object, and playing through it, are likely to fall in love. the series, with a score of 89.34%. The It's Shenmue III, perhaps obviously, that #9: Streets of Rage - 82% Why is it so entertaining to walk endlessly down know, but I can at least say that I enjoy doing Streets of Rage was birthed from the same Renegade, Double Dragon, and Final Fight. But This time, the profits would go to Sega. most original concept, but it does represent some design. Every element of Streets of Rage, from to its incredible soundtrack make it easy Sega absolutely got there best. done exactly right. Streets of Rage 4 released critics complained that the game felt like a understood that that was...y'know...exactly the point. but with a modern feel that updated the of Rage is a classic series, and it's one that any #8: Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War - 82.67% Warhammer 40,000 is, I am told, the best-selling my knowledge of tabletop wargames is even so you could tell me literally anything is the I will nod politely in hopes that the topic the Dawn of War video games are pretty The first Dawn of War was developed and published an emphasis on establishing and holding control voice acting, and story. Sega stepped in to the base-building aspects in favor of enhancing critical reception, with reviewers conceding the game was still pretty great. was that it tried to do too much without resulting in a game that felt unbalanced and that assessment; developer Relic Entertainment after release, whereas previous Dawn of War of patches and expansions. Not the best way #7: Sonic Advance - 83% See? Things aren't all bad for Sonic. They're been through all that; let's focus on a trio Sonic Advance landed in late 2001 with some in the post-Mega Drive years. It reached 87% on One we now know to be temporary, but, hey, still. as well as its music, which some critics believed Those critics were wrong, obviously, but still. brought up the rear with 79%, though reviewers more variety to a single playthrough. It but it showed that Sonic could still be a He wouldn't be, but he could be. the fact that Sonic's highest-rated subseries the company Sonic was created to kill...but #6: Football Manager - 83.15% Football. Soccer. The beautiful game. A...erm...sport. that much. Beyond that, details get a little hazy. Let's say...fifty of them. They run up the pitch and reasons. And, depending upon what the players or beat each other up. Or sometimes both. Which means, I'm sure we can all agree, that I am It...well, it looks like a lot of fun for people mean that as an insult; some of my best do it remarkably well. But it does mean of these games both confuses and frightens me. these games do have an appreciative audience. from game to game. Football Manager 2008 76.79% average, but Football Manager 2010 All of the other games fall between those two or do varying degrees of dance depending upon Thank you for listening to me speak about Football #5: Panzer Dragoon - 83.34% Whatever else one could say about the Saturn - that its graphical capabilities were impressive that could show it off. Hence the birth of Panzer demo but instead became one of the system's series, and spawned a legion of fans who have Panzer Dragoon is a rail shooter, and we've seen is its world and its atmosphere, both of which This paid off handsomely with its which shifts the emphasis to an RPG experience. a spinoff, but since Sega doesn't refer to discussions of the greatest games of all time, and is one of three games in the five-game series game is Panzer Dragoon Mini, which neither #4: Virtua Fighter - 83.7% For many years, fighting games were dominated angle: angles. Virtua Fighter was born. We're Sega realized that polygons could animate more could, and the result was a game that neither Virtua Fighter became one of the most successful home ports were received enthusiastically. Four of with Virtua Fighter 4 being the critical highlight Virtua Fighter 5 in 2006, but an enhanced remake so it may not quite be down for the count. the CD Portrait Seriesreleases are worth a note, 10 volumes of discs for the Saturn, with an 11th other 10. They consist entirely of images of gameplay. I have no idea what the appeal of these #3: Persona -83.8% One of Sega's most popular series - via Atlus, strength. It had humble beginnings on the PS1, sense of mystery, and roster of compelling series to keep an eye on. It was followed and Eternal Punishment. Eternal Punishment and things only got better from there. call modern Persona games, reworking the art style time management. It featured a banging soundtrack, anybody is singing. It scored 86% on Metacritic, Persona 4 lightened the mood, if not the subject series' strongest cast of characters and voice coming-of-age story through a small-town murder Persona 5 is the critical highlight of the series, the second-highest-rated game on this entire list. With the extraordinary commercial and critical Persona 6 at some point. It's just a question of #2: Total War - 84.07% For more than 20 years, Total War has design, and critical reception of the RTS genre. Total War upon release, you should probably be by Creative Assembly, Sega acquired the and it was a wise investment on their part. In its totality. And I have it on are looking for... sing it again, come on now... approach to the franchise, allowing Creative under the assumption that the This is good, as it spares us from ever having In the two decades of the series' history, eight and only two of them have fallen to 75%, Recurring criticisms focus on the fact that with a different coat of historical paint, literally - and it never really detracts from refining its existing mechanics and adding new It's not for everyone, but Total War is an example And yet there's one other war-related #1: Valkyria Chronicles - 84.55% Valkyria Chronicles should have been a mess. war drama spanning many years. It takes places them in a deadly serious situation. It lens of alternate-reality fiction. And it third-person shooters, and visual novels. Valkyria it comes together as well as it does. that it's impossible not to be impressed. It's with a roster of identifiable characters rather to win each battle, but to bring as many of these game of Risk, only you're responsible for making the knowledge that you're jeopardizing the In the most general possible way, Valkyria II...something the games industry has done more presentation, and tone give the series a based around this particular historical four of the main games scored between 83% and And that's a great thing, because Valkyria it likely to be anybody's favorite Sega franchise? the one with the clearest vision of what it is, and the fewest stumbles along the way. that's the pun that all of this has been building