- Welcome back to the Deep Discog Dive! It's about time I branch out and offer my skillset to others, to defend society's constructs Skin? I've got you. Gravitational pull? In its prime era. Oxygen? No way Drake's You might consider what I do unnecessary, but it's my new bread and butter... ooh those would be But today I wanna go deeper and understand why something has been so I that can defend it even harder. So do I go with mayonnaise or the Beatles? Well this one is edible. Today we're talking about (upbeat music) - We shall be known simply as the Beatles! - This time we're going all the way back to The venue was St. Peter's the main course was every a big old plate of marmite. And the band was the Quarrymen, including a young John Lennon on guitar. Attending this little church Paul McCartney, who and eventually joined his band. As Paul started playing he invited his school friend And despite John's initial George later joined on guitar. The boys went off to university, but continued playing as Though eventually, their Stuart Sutcliffe suggested a which morphed into the Silver Beetles, the Silver Beatles, and But enough about bugs, the And the band got their first residency booked in Hamburg, Germany. There was a major problem though, they didn't have a drummer. But don't worry, in no time their drummer, the guy you Despite Stuart leaving early the Hamburg residency was a success, it gave the boys a passionate fan base, as well as a set list and R&amp;B standards. Their time in Hamburg also officially released Beatles recording, My Bonnie by Tony Sheridan with But you know what they are seeds that eventually At least that's what I tell myself. Because that recording to Brian Epstein, a record Once the boys came back at the Cavern Club in one of their shows and soon Through Brian, the boys the head of the Parlophone label at EMI. And shortly after, they booked at EMI Studios in June 1962. This was a great opportunity what aspects of their live and what aspects didn't. One thing that didn't The other band mates and Pete Best's drumming in the studio, so they dismissed Pete and known by his stage name Ringo Starr. The initial reaction by fans to the change was not positive at first, Pete Best fans held vigils outside his house, George even got headbutted by one of them, but eventually fans were all That should be his catchphrase. Anyway from their first session, we got the Beatles' first three singles: Love Me Do, Please Please Though fun fact: George wasn't huge into Ringo's drumming either, on these recordings is Andy The band made plans to record but not before Lennon a publishing company for One might think that given the wealth of classic songs these two would eventually give us, but remember that one of those I'm joking I'm just joking, that song later on, let me (upbeat music) The Beatles set up shop at EMI Studios for one 13-hour session in February 1963. And the next month, we Please Please Me. The main goal of this record of their live shows and put it on record as authentically as possible. And with that goal in mind, All the singles I mentioned and they all work well in Plus, the other originals I Saw Her Standing There and There's A Place has some of any early Beatles track. That said, I'm bummed &quot;From Me to You&quot; didn't This is gonna be a trend, in the 60s, singles and albums were often so many of the Beatles' biggest singles were never put on their albums. And while McCartney and Lennon and sing on most of the get their chance to vocally shine, George on Do You Want To Know A Secret, and Ringo on their cover Now let me be clear, this of resounding achievement. While it does communicate of their early days, it is they will ever make. Unless this is your first or harmonicas, this is not Part of that is the short and part of that is the You can feel those limitations which comprise about half the record. That said, I love their as a closer, they actually chose to do this one last because but it required him to sing as if a bird was trying to burrow into his throat. It is a fierce vocal performance, still one of my favorites of his. Please Please Me may be It's a pure distillation or at least the early It won't convince a non-believer, and it doesn't even compare to but as far as debut records (upbeat music) The Beatles embarked on their first tours shortly before Please Please Me came out, one tour with four American And boy were people excited it was like a craze or Beatlemania is a legitimate with a whole bunch of the popularity of rock 'n roll, the aftermath of World War II, young British women the androgynous mop top making them more approachable. It is the Venn diagram As Beatlemania tightened of the UK's youth, the Beatles Unlike Please Please Me, of not having to be recorded in a day, sessions spanned from And in November of that year, Now with the added studio in the studio, one might would be an improvement To which I say, eh? It's not a bad record by any means, and it has some great All My Loving, It' Won't Be Long, their cover of Meredith But as a whole, it feels like the album has a bit of an identity crisis. The originals and the they all blended well together. I wouldn't have been able was an Arthur Alexander song On With The Beatles though, are the sappy love songs and the covers are the rock 'n roll tunes. The boys play well with but the coin in question is and a gold doubloon on the other. Neither are bad, they just In fact, if you want a better than the Beatles' second The Beatles' Second Album. What? Okay so, here's the it was pretty typical for British albums to be modified for the US. As a result, the Beatles got had different and different track lists. This must've been payback This trend would continue the late '60s, but these is the one considered canon With one exception but we'll ride that magical bus when we get to it. As it relates to The the US version combines of the first two UK a great showcase for the With the Beatles though? It's a fine record, but (upbeat music) With The Beatles shot to immediately, easily knocking at number 1, their first album. The boys had inspired but the US was still This was in large part release schedule, and just not getting the band's appeal. But after enough buzz, Capitol Records finally decided okay fine we'll make a lot of money! I Want to Hold Your Hand and became their first The first true sign of The second true sign when the Beatles flew across the pond to play the Ed Sullivan Show. The broadcast was watched i.e. over a third of the US population. Once again, we can pin the on multiple phenomena converging. Sure there was the whole but this performance President JFK was assassinated. And some say this moment recover from that tragedy. Make no mistake, Beatlemania but like the good kind. More propaganda was needed to and what do monsters love to eat more than three-film deals from United Artists. The silver screen called out not only would more people without risking a restraining order, but they could pair it with a soundtrack. And so in July 1964, we were When it comes to singles, this A Hard Day's Night is my and one of their best early singles. From that iconic opening chord, to the instantly infectious chorus hook, to that arpeggio on the That opening chord's harmonic a decades-long debate over Music Theory: don't do it kids. The other single, Can't Buy I love the descending verse melody, and the transition back into the chorus. (upbeat music) The ballads especially pop Things We Said Today, And I Love Her. While I don't return to the songs I like are If anything, A Hard Days for what else it represented for the band. It was their first of original songs, it was and it was their first album recorded on four-track tape machine. On that last point, because of going through the Beatles' discography is kinda like going thru the history of audio recording in the 1960s. Now I could geek out about I went to school for audio engineering, and most of my coursework was based around Beatles recordings. That said, I'll try not Though trust me, it's to not start ranting in drum miking between albums. Along with the album, to talk about the movie It's a mock documentary over a 36-hour period as they play songs and act like a bunch of There's also this old and he gets into shenanigans of his own. There's not much story beyond that, but I still enjoyed watching it. It's seen by many as one of the first mockumentary style movies, and it's even in the Criterion collection. I wouldn't go as far as to if you're not a Beatles it's easily the one Beatles (upbeat music) The Beatles continued to strike in the hottest flame known to mankind, with their first worldwide tour. While they were out on the road, the boys were introduced to Bob Dylan. This meeting is considered Dylan had a critical didn't really have at the time. The boys, John and George as a truly free artist, able to worry about touring or sales. And from this meeting, the Beatles gained a newfound aspiration in their art, to experiment and mature They also got into weed. Unfortunately, we wouldn't of their aspirations just yet. Because in December 1964, I'll take 20. As you might infer from that title, this one was produced in The band were starting to by the constant album turnaround. And unlike their last record, to bolster the track list. But even considering I liked this one! It's the subtle differences that make this a step forward for the band. There's a broader range of instruments and lyrical themes on display. Specifically, the one-two and I'm A Loser are the first instances of the Beatles writing Or rather John writing about himself, since he primarily wrote both songs. In fact, this kinda more than anyone else's. He really gets to shine like on the cover of Chuck though I feel like the rest of the gang plays tamely by comparison. The rest? I don't hate it or anything, where you can feel the Beatles Like the cheesy Mr Moonlight or Ringo's whatever vocals on Honey Don't. All in all, Beatles for Sale It's the first sign that of what they were, and we're going to see those growing pains play out until the Beatles get to achieve their dream of writing Yellow Submarine. (upbeat music) It was one fateful night in early 1965, as George, John, and their two partners were having dinner with George's dentist. Perhaps as revenge for none the dentist slipped LSD Both George and John welcomed the newfound cognitive possibilities it brought and over the next few years, into the stuff as well. Maybe it was because of the drugs, or just artistic ambitions, the growth exhibited on Beatles for Sale. With the director of Hard Day's Night, they began working on their second film, originally titled Help. However, when they learned that name was already copyrighted, and called it Help! The movie and accompanying soundtrack was released in August 1965. Fun fact: the album cover has the boys spelling out a word in flag semaphore. They planned to spell out HELP Help is certainly another solid step in maturing the Beatles' music and lyrics. Sure there are the but in between are songs and are not gooey in any way. The title track was once described by John as one of the only two true And there's an emotional and I'm a Loser were only hinting at. In fact, John is once again There's Help of course, and Ticket to Ride is on the surface about the John would later call this song one of the earliest You've Got to Hide Your John's impersonation of Bob Dylan, which is not bad in the slightest, I love how rustic the guitar sounds, and how satisfying the Hey, you've got to hide your love away Heck, even George gets in on songwriting, we get his first two I Need You and You Like Me Too Much. I'm not huge on the former, but I've always had a I will admit though, my first time hearing this The Thick Of It. I know right, how weird. But arguably the biggest off this record belongs to Paul. It is of course Scrambled Now I'll admit, we're starting that have imbued themselves so I may be a bit biased. That said, I think this It's the epitome of melancholy, of production and a melody that feels like it had existed for years It's also unique in their catalog because, the Beatles had sung but none of them felt like breakup songs, they were still fairly upbeat. This one though is perfectly content to sit in its emotional distraught, and not offer up any kind It's a risky move, but it's I will say though, I don't like that it's the penultimate track, and the closer is just a pretty basic cover. To end on Yesterday might've been too much of a gamble, but still. I'll also drop in thoughts Instead of being a mockumentary, this time we've got a James Bond parody. This sacrificial cult because of the Ring Pop Beyond that, there is virtually no plot. It's basically just &quot;The they run from the cult, they sing songs, they go to a new place, It also has some of the funniest ADR work I've ever seen in a movie. (people shouting) So yeah it's way goofier and I would only recommend or this album, but it's still a good time. And speaking of Hard they play an Indian version of that song. Believe it or not, this to Indian music, and it's to incorporate Indian influences on: (upbeat music) Help got a slightly by the public this time. Sales were once again thru the roof, plus it got the kind of that had been lacking up to this point. It was even the first album by a rock band to get a Grammy nomination The same month as Help's yet another tour starting at Shea Stadium. This is considered one of the but it was a turning point for the band. After two years of playing just a bit annoyed of the screaming and not being able to hear themselves. Not even being knighted by the Queen or having their own animated That's what I usually do So when they got back in the studio, their goal was to make but a complete artistic expression. They didn't have much time with EMI up to this point and with Help coming out in August, the boys need to act quick. In the lead-up to this next album, we got two non-album singles, Day Tripper and We Can Work It Out. These are two of my The former has one of of any Beatles song, and I especially with the meter change. Fussing and fighting my friend Those two songs, plus were finished in less than a month. And in December 1965, we got Rubber Soul. Right off the bat, with something feels different. There must've been something in the air when these guys were recording this, oh wait, there was, it was weed. Rubber Soul, according to Now jokes aside, the boys they would smoke between sessions but recording was more focused to use the studio as an And the determination paid off, this is the most full-sounding album the Beatles have made so far. Helping matters is what of low end than past records, Respect was a guiding influence on that. And the more full-sounding to stellar tracks like the the intimate Michelle the excellent vocal harmonies Paul got to have his basically and now it's John's turn In My Life is a remarkable with just the right balance between wistfulness and heartache. According to legend, this in the bridge inspired other which is funny because it's it's George Martin's This is weird though, once with a lackluster closer. Run for Your Life is okay read like it's about a It's a weirdly maudlin note to end an otherwise beautiful Potential hot take: this is the first truly great Beatles album. All the others are fine but Rubber Soul is the first I wanted to get that off my this one gets overshadowed (upbeat music) You might think that a like Rubber Soul might not do as well as the last few records, do you know what power Rubber Soul not only but also earned the Fab of critical and artistic respect. It's the record that inspired Brian Wilson to make Pet Sounds, the to start writing his own material, the one that eventually inspired John Cale and Lou Reed to start It's the first time threw down the gauntlet in pop music. So what did they do next? Rest, and LSD! That's right, the Beatles three months off from A much deserved break, if When the band reconvened they were excited to and try new things. They didn't even care if these new songs could be performed live, These guys could never stop touring. In spring 1996, we got two new singles, Paperback Writer and Rain. The former is excellent, not just in its writing There's more bass on it and it was mixed louder that it's automatically better. After completing the album, the for what feels like the 100th time. This time they performed Japan, and the Philippines. By this point, the band of the touring routine, so this tour was by all accounts a nightmare. The German leg was relatively okay, though it was hampered by and the first instances of Beatles fans being held back and The Japan leg started out worse, mainly due to the Beatles playing a venue considered sacred for martial arts. That booking led to a from Japanese traditionalists. Once they started playing shows though, the atmosphere was much more positive. The Philippines leg was legit terrifying. The band were invited to a breakfast by the president's wife, Pro tip if you find do not turn down a breakfast The rejection became national news and made these four blokes Following their run of shows, be smuggled out of the country to avoid ridicule and violence. This dreadful run of dates ended just as their next album The record kicks off aggressive Taxman. That's right, we finally get the Beatles' first outwardly political song. I always enjoy the There's an edge to Taxman the entire record, but when it comes up. The guitars can sound harsher, the vocals can sound more ragged, the drums can sound more impactful. I should take a second to whom the Beatles would work Geoff was by all accounts to help the Beatles Even doing such insane within 3 inches of the kick drum, which was a huge no-no at EMI Studios. But like I said it's not all angry, in fact, Revolver has the first Beatles childrens' I don't like this song. I mean it's fine, and then more power to ya. But the way they sing the chorus just gets really annoying It's definitely my least favorite of the two kiddish Beatles Here There and Everywhere my favorite Paul McCartney ballad. Few things hypnotize me he makes in the verses. Hearing Eleanor Rigby as a I just didn't think pop or be about things like this. You're telling me these about lonely sad people with just vocals and a string quartet? I don't like this anymore, Got to Get You Into My Life is a song I go back and forth on. It's a sweet song and it's super catchy, but the horns always sound, cheap to me? I dunno, if they doused them I'd like them more. But any complaint I have pales (guitar music) Every Beatles song would be better if it had that guitar lick. And then to close out, we It's like the Beatles had ended on mediocre songs, good enough to make up for all of them. This song is the perfect and experimentation, the sticking out as he is and noise loops. That reversed guitar part never fails to give me chills. Revolver is a damn good to a completely new level. I don't know if I'm strong enough to call it the best Beatles album, but if I heard you call it that, I would definitely look a sincere nod of approval, a more fulfilling life than I ever could. - [Announcer] End of End of intermission. Part two. (upbeat music) - That's right, we are now officially in the Beatles' imperial era. The records we talk about from here on out are the ones that kids Revolver was critically as the bonkers achievement it was. And the band needed that boost, especially after their and their next US tour Now the Beatles were in the States around this Yesterday and Today was from its butchered cover. I meant butchered literally. Yes, that is an actual dressed as butchers with severed baby doll parts around them. Capitol tried to take of this album, costing them when adjusted for inflation. It's for that reason that is seen as a collector's item, the Beatles covered in baby Man it would suck if they had to deal with another wave of controversy backlash to a comment John made about how the Beatles were Suffice it to say, mid-1960s to this comment, radio stations more death threats ensued, of their music held by the Ku Klux Klan. So it was because of, I dunno, that the Beatles decided to stop touring and focus solely on recording. Their show at Candlestick would be the last proper live For the next three months, from Beatles work, spent time with family, or pursued side projects. This led skeptics to believe would dissipate, and actually Other bands like the Monkees to command the youth's attention. So while eyes were still on the Beatles, the insane attention they Oh no, they must have They eventually reconvened to work on a new album. So we're now past the what do they sound like In February 1967, we got the singles Strawberry Fields Forever and Penny Lane. Now these are two fascinating songs, in how they're similar They're both inspired by childhood, the former is about a Salvation Army children's the latter is named after a And sonically they're a bit similar, both taking some aspects from with orchestral and music-hall influence. But whereas Penny Lane in its structure and lyrics, is ambiguous and sprawling and And it's in between musical keys! Off to jail with John Lennon. Despite the critical attention it was somehow nothing In May 1967, the Beatles released Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. (upbeat music) This is the album. This is the one. Close your eyes and imagine an album, it's scientifically guaranteed that this is the album you thought of. Sgt. Pepper is one of those records that have achieved a that is reserved for the And you know, this might be controversial, but I think it gets that If I had to distill what or unique over past records, The album's concept allowed the band to inhabit a new persona, which the most bombastic orchestral It's genuinely insane that these songs were recorded onto just See, Geoff Emerick and just four tracks of tape to work with. But they realized that they together onto one track These guys effectively pioneered a primitive form of multi-track recording. Of course, the tracks the title track is such demonstrating how these would meld with the boy's usual rock. It bleeds seamlessly into With a Little Help From My Friends, which might have Ringo's on any Beatles album. Getting Better is a jaunty bop about looking on the with a now-infamous lyrical escalation. Verse 1, I used to not do well at school. Verse 2, I used to be really mad. Verse 3, I used to hit my Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds with vivid imagery in the Wait a second, that title Within You Without You is George's only songwriting contribution, a sermon inspired by his own studies I love the instrumental and sitar start trading parts. And of course, the a mini-suite showcasing the best of what Paul and John were capable of. And those two orchestral the only guidance they got to &quot;you start at this note, you 24 bars, whatever happens But as I get older, losing that stand out to me more and more. Fixing A Hole is about Paul's annoyance over ravid Beatlemania, it's but the lovely verse of covering that fact up. When I'm 64 is also just lovely, the pseudo-ragtime instrumental, with Paul waxing about the domestic life. Nice track. And um, I'm not fully but I might like the more than the title track. Then again, it's in F major, the best key, so I might be biased. I will say though, not She's Leaving Home sounds gorgeous, but it's so languid in its pace. Unless I'm doing a full album listen, I never check it one out. Good Morning Good Morning too, But honestly, imperfections Club Band is a titanic achievement. It's the kind of record that can sound like and what it can be. (dramatic music) This is gonna blow your mind hole, but people liked Sgt. Pepper. It was a similar situation they made their debut, the Summer of Love had just started. Young folks were expanding doing things that my mom when I got older. And so Sgt Pepper was But even still there was an opportunity for the Beatles to write an the band signed up to play the first ever worldwide satellite TV production And so the Beatles wrote and I like how this one harkens It's a pretty simple song lyrically, but for a theme like worldwide love, it works as well as it needs to. I also like how the verses with the rest of the band, the chorus of She Loves Along with All You Need Baby You're A Rich Man. Which you most likely know from the ending of The Social Network. Unfortunately, not everything because in August 1967, Brian Epstein unexpectedly passed away. To say this shook the Beatles Brian was instrumental to to the point where he's And it was due to his death the band together for a project The idea was a film based it would be mostly unscripted entirely by the band. Granted, they had never but so what? They made A Day In The Life! After filming and recording, released in late 1967. I actually briefly offered during another video: There is not a bad album which you can't say for most bands. Yeah, let me know when they make their Magical Mystery Tour, am I right? Never mind, they never will. And boy so many Beatles Now I will be transparent When I made that joke, Magical Mystery Tour in full. I was but a mere sheep, of those who had bashed the movie. And trust me, we'll get to that. I'm willing to acknowledge because I ended up enjoying this one. It continues in the but it definitely feels way less cohesive and way more surreal. &quot;I am The Walrus&quot; is one of those moments where the surrealism works. It's a delightfully baroque arrangement, with one of the most obtuse Apparently John wrote them as a response to those who did serious lyrical studies of their past songs. So basically John Lennon wrote Also I don't know why, but I'm betting that the Walrus was George. The title track is a fine in my opinion is the jazzy outro that lasts for all of I wish that could've been its own track. Also I've seen a lot of people trash it, but I like Your Mother Should Know. It's sweet alright, get off my back. The second half of this album Every song on it could be a single, and I say that because Yeah all of these songs except Hello Goodbye, Were these singles added just The answer is yes! In the US. In the UK, Magical Mystery Tour was the first ever double EP released, with just the songs written for the film. Which means this is the one is the one considered canon. So yes Magical Mystery I cannot say the same for the movie. It's an hour-long made-for-TV movie, and it's a glorified to make music videos for Which I mean so were the last two, but it's especially obvious here. Everything in between ranges If you look to your left, the view is not very inspiring. Ah, but if you look to your right. It's also the first don't really interact Aside from the music vignettes they don't appear as a group at all. If you're into the more maybe you'll like this. If not, feel free to pass. But anyway yes, Magical Mystery Tour is not the black sheep by any means. Because that title that I'll get to later. (upbeat music) Magical Mystery Tour was the did not live up to initial expectations. It sold pretty well in the US, but the UK just wasn't having it. It didn't help that I virtually no radio support, the song used the British But the Beatles didn't mind, their eyes were set to the future, as they looked to brush off and move into their next era. But they would need guidance or at least a chance to get away. And so, in February 1968, for a 15 week transcendental Though before leaving they did release the single Lady Madonna. They went with a whole including the Beach Boy's Mike The majority of their next while on this trip. For example, Mia Farrow's but never left her room. This of course inspired the classic song Everybody's Got Something To However, none of the the full 15 weeks for various reasons. So what would their next project be after getting back from India? A contractual obligation! Remember that super fun with United Artists? Since they made it themselves, was not the last film in that deal. Instead they had to supply some new songs for an animated film As soon as the Yellow the Beatles got to work on And following their retreat, rejuvenated and ready to collaborate. (laughs maniacally) These boys did not like each other. The tensions came primarily One: the band was in their own company Apple Corps. And the logistics of Two: they were taking after Brian's death, and of the business side of And three: their policy in the studio was started bringing their One of those partners was as John had just gotten divorced to be with an artist named Yoko Ono. Suffice it to say, everyone was pissed: John thought Paul's songs were cloying, Paul thought John's songs were too noisy, George was mad that more of his songs weren't being considered for the album. Geoff Emerick quit halfway thru a session. Ringo quit for a bit right leading to him not being on These were the most the Beatles had done so far. But that doesn't mean the In August of '68, the boys Hey Jude and Revolution. Hey Jude was written after John divorced his first wife. I don't know if there's it's a classic. One of my favorite melodies from Paul, and a great four-minute outro. That I-Flat VII-Flat VI-I as a dependent on my taxes. And spoilers for like 3 minutes from now, but this version of Three months later, in November 1968, the Beatles released also known as the White Album. As opposed to the more genre-fluid style of the past two records, The between each of its songs. When a song is a ballad, it's a ballad. When it's a rocker, it's a rocker. When it's Ob La Di Ob La Yeah this album's lead is not viewed in that great But in its defense, whatever? Like it's not actively harmful, homage to ska music of all things. Plus I've also seen a for its happy go lucky attitude. It works for some people, What works for me though is the Beatles doing a parody of Chuck Berry and the Beach Boys. Few things in music amp me up as much as the end of the 2nd chorus. Back in the US, back in Rocky Raccoon is a who gets shot by his wife's I like the song, but I love A subtle display of text While My Guitar Gently four contributions, and This one shows one thing they have songs that can and instrument, and still sound great. Whether it's Prince shredding on a guitar or Jake Shimabukuro playing on a ukulele. Glass Onion is great, not staccato guitars but also with the Beatles' legacy. (upbeat music) Honey you're not gonna believe Helter Skelter was the Beatles' and it resulted in what one of the earliest heavy-metal records. Only the Beatles could about a playground slide, which eventually inspires a Blackbird is another one of those songs that has wedged itself It's Paul commentary on with some of his best guitar playing ever. I will say it now, strike Martha My Dear is my I love the melody, I love the strings, I love how the guitars enter I love the horns, I love Now you might be saying Mic-Boy Me-Snare, you're heaping praise onto clearly you love the White Album. To which I say no. While the White Album has to ever make a Beatles album track list, there is also quite a bit of filler. Also, I mentioned the which makes this an eclectic that it can veer wildly in mood. An example being Yer Blues two fine tracks on their own every time I listen to them back to back. Don't Pass Me By is the first Beatles song written by Ringo Starr. And if I ever have to talk about it again then you know something And the last quarter of the album just doesn't really do it for me. Revolution 1, Savoy Truffle, are okay, but everything and out the other. Well except, how could A nine-minute musique concrete piece primarily by John and Yoko. The idea is neat, and good on I don't think it needed to be on here, and certainly not as the that's as long as Trainspotting. There are some grade-A And yet that doesn't mean I didn't like listening those tracks? I dunno. There are some records that but when placed on the album, make sense in terms of the overall flow. And the White Album might of that phenomenon. Wild Honey Pie, for example, that no sane human being should But you slide that bad boy and The Continuing Story of oh, this is a quirky little What I'm saying is, The It's bloated. It's uneven. And it has some of the worst But it's also chock full of ideas. It has more ideas in its 93 minute runtime than some bands have And its good moments are in their, or any, discography. If I may quote Paul- - It's great, it sold. It's the Shut up. (upbeat music) - Given the slow-burning that was the White Album sessions, the band took about two and Thankfully, the public for another Beatles album! I didn't say it was a new Beatles album. Despite the movie premiering Yellow Submarine the album didn't come out until January 1969. Alright, let's check out this track list. Yellow Submarine, that's from Revolver. All You Need Is Love, that was These other four tracks are I always get a kick out of John pretending to be a dog in the last minute. So what's after All You Need Is Love? Orchestral tracks from the movie, and only one involved All of these were primarily and they're fine? They work well in the but I don't feel like it's a soundtrack that stands on its own. Speaking of the movie, we have a reverse Magical Mystery Tour situation here. Because while I don't care for the album, I really enjoyed the movie! Again it's primarily just a with the lightest of plots spread within. What's different this Yellow Submarine is the and it has such a unique This glove will haunt Apparently, it was considered in animation at the time, and The only bummer is that the for a 1 minute clip at the very end. But honestly, this is the one checking out the movie Because I have no problem the least good Beatles album, mainly because it's not It's an okay EP, sandwiched and the movie soundtrack. (upbeat music) Paul envisioned their next album one that would emphasize live performance. The album, then titled Get alongside a live TV concert. However, the sessions for to put it kindly. All of the Beatles were They were tired of the public scrutiny, they were tired of working together, they were tired of the strain Apple Corp was putting on them, they were just tired. And the sessions reflected where George Harrison briefly When he rejoined, the the TV documentary, wrap up recording, and put the project on the shelf. But not without one last show. And so, as a complete surprise the Beatles played live on on January 30th, 1969. Fun fact: they did this concert They did it like 35 but still they did it for me. This would end up being the last time all four of the Beatles ever Shortly after the performance, and decided that they had before calling it quits. They called up George Martin, they went back to EMI in July 1969, and they hashed out a new record. This time, we got two first in May 1969 there were two songs from the Get Back sessions, I really enjoy both of still feels so unique in their catalog. More songs should just The other pair of singles this time was The Ballad of John and Yoko and Old Brown Shoe in summer 1969. They're fine. When it came time to name that was streets ahead You see, EMI Studios was so the boys went outside, walking on said, and named which released in September 1969. This album feels like of their career were reaching the peak. The guys had all matured their songwriting was top was unrivaled, especially an eight-track tape machine. And the songs on here display Come Together and Oh written by John and Paul respectively, and they both demonstrate since the covers of their early albums. Octopus's Garden is my by the Beatles, Ringo's vocals are good, and George's guitar work is excellent. Speaking of George, he love songs ever with Something. Fun personal story: when I was in college, one of my big midterms involved listening to the first 90 seconds mapping out every detail of the mix. I must've listened to it well and I still love it. Now, some of that tonal whiplash from the White Album is still here. My favorite example is when you listen to I Want You She's So Heavy, and the layers of noise pilling up. Then a hard cut, and then happy fun guitar time yay! But while the first side most iconic hits, the second After Here Comes The Sun and Because, we get an entire medley, from to The End, or technically Her Majesty. That first track is one of my It is in and of itself a multi-part suite, with that heart tugging melody by Paul into the more upbeat sections. The next three tracks are fine, though I don't usually But man, the stretch from She Came In Thru The is the stuff of legends. I especially love how they bring back the melody The End was honestly my for a good while in high school, somewhere there's an old with this as my most listened to song. It sounds like a curtain the best performance of your life. You know what I'll say it, this is my personal You might call it a lukewarm All four of these guys were operating at their highest level, and as a whole, and it Abbey Road is the best possible ending the Beatles could have made. (upbeat music) So naturally it wasn't (upbeat music) The initial reaction to at the time, with critics of past Beatles records. But of course, since then it's been hailed as one of their best. And it even led to The folks at EMI deciding to embrace the as they renamed their as a tribute to the Beatles' ending. And make no mistake: Right before the album released, John Lennon told the rest of the gang that he would be leaving the group. But there was still that were gathering dust. Surely those could be made into The boys' new manager Allen and so, plans were made into a full-on movie, To help with fleshing out the soundtrack, Phil Spector was brought on, who was known for just killing it when just absolutely murdering it. With instincts as sharp as a free reign to do whatever Most notable was his additions to some of the tracks, With some of the blokes already the Beatles publicly announced So of course their new album Let It Be came out a month after. Let It Be immediately separates in its overall production. Many of the songs here feel less like uncharted sonic landscapes, and more like dudes being Tracks like I Me Mine, I've Got a Feeling, and then aforementioned Get feel to them and take advantage of the circumstances they were created in. Not every track feels like that though, The Long and Winding Road that Phil just suffocated with It's one of my favorite songs by Paul, but the production is a bit, much. Like, the orchestra I can get behind, but the choir makes the John's Across The in Phil's production, but I It captures a sort of abstract awe that goes well with the John was actually pretty saying &quot;He did a great job. Why did that not make it Overall, it's still a good album but it can come off like an afterthought or a regression even. Which would make sense were done before Abbey Road. It just feels like a minor epilogue, rather than a proper ending. Let It Be was the last By the time it released, putting out or gearing up And while the breakup John &amp; Paul's partnership until 1974. The official signature dissolving when he was on vacation But we now enter an interesting place. Most of the dives I any solo careers that follow in the grand scheme of things. Now I'm not saying the eclipsed the Beatles' run, went on to have major careers, to the point where they could I'll save those for I want to give a brief overview of what each of them got I'll also take this time to say, a lot of the Beatles discourse these days is about them as people and whether or not they were good people. I will not be diving not because the conversation but because it doesn't in what is already a very long discussion. Thankfully we'll be starting out with the least controversial of them, the guy who wrote Mother. Okay first off, let's just Yep, here it is. Feel free to get your And yeah, let's keep moving on. John's solo career started There was his first single Instant Karma, which was followed by his first solo album John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band. While opinions of it it definitely caught the public off-guard. His next record was the more featuring the hit single of the same name. In 1971 he and Yoko released the song Happy Xmas War is Over, which by the US government to get him deported. The next year, he released way more of a political album, it got a severe critical In 1973, he released Mind Games but also separated from Yoko. 1974, we got Walls &amp; Bridges 1975 saw not only a new covers but also his co-write and his reuniting with Yoko. However, with his third John's music career told a His next major release with Yoko Ono in November 1980. They recorded enough songs for a follow-up called Milk and Honey to Unfortunately, John wouldn't in December of that year, he by a deranged fan and shortly after died. Milk and Honey would as his last album. George had two solo albums out before the Beatles had broken up. His third album and first released in 1970, All Things Must Pass. No surprise from me here, and while I'm not fully comfortable saying it's the best solo album by a Beatle since I haven't heard I mean I'm definitely thinking it. The following year, he organized a two-night charity event of the Bangladesh Liberation War. Along with supporting a good cause, the resulting live album went on to win Album of the Year at the 1973 Grammys. George continued releasing of acclaim until 1982, on guest appearances for In 1988, George helped The Traveling Wilburys. The remaining roster of Electric Light Orchestra, and Roy Orbison, which, toured with Roy early on, is These guys put out two albums together, though the group called it quits George would continue to release albums after the Wliburys His last album Brainwashed the following year. - This is a serious message to everybody watching my update right now. - Ringo's had a real He's got 20 solo albums One of them is called If there's any Ringo songs you know, they're probably or It Don't Come Easy. He started a new band called Ringo Starr and the All-Starr Band in 1990. It had better be him otherwise I'll be mad. He's also the most active with other Beatles, he's by his former band mates. Ringo's just been doing his own and honestly he's earned it. Good for him. It's fair to say that and most illustrious solo At first, he recorded on his own along with his first wife Linda. They made an album called RAM, then they formed a new band called Wings. You probably know them for Silly Love Songs, the James They were around until 1981. Paul kept releasing which he has continued with McCartney III. I think he missed a few numbers there. He's collaborated with Kanye West, Rihanna, and Michael Jackson. Speaking of Michael, while Paul advised him to get into So naturally Michael went to the Beatles' catalog. He would eventually a year before his death. But poor investing advice aside, Paul's had a lucrative career. As one final part of this retrospective, I wanna acknowledge some releases and pop culture artifacts Of course, naming every influenced by the Beatles every time the word so these are just some In 1973 we got the first the red and the blue album. Now they're just ripping off of Weezer. In 1977 there was the first recorded over three shows over a decade earlier, Nope I did not accidentally you're hearing the Beatles play live with all the screaming that God intended. This record would eventually as part of the Eight Days In 1988, Past Masters was released. The hook of this is that it not included on the main albums. Which means it features their and the German-language versions 1995 saw the Beatles Anthology, an absolutely massive collection a book, and a full TV documentary series. The whole series is considered to be the most complete Beatles documentary, so if you have the 6 hours to I should also mention, we also got two new Beatles songs. Free As A Bird and Real Love that the remaining three and produce into full songs. Which makes them the last In 2000, there was 1, the compilation of almost every Beatles number one hit. Probably the best way to listen the public certainly agreed, as it's the best selling In 2003, Paul spearheaded called Let It Be Naked, to its initial pre-Spector vision. And it's fine. It doesn't transform the but for fans, it's an interesting look at what could've been. In 2006, we got a Beatles Across the Universe. We can make fun of this movie all we want, the Bono cameo, the flimsy this movie was my first taste of a bunch of Beatles deep cuts. So it's always gonna That same year, we also to the Cirque de Soleil I mainly bring it up of Within You Without You it's sick and well worth a listen. In 2009, as part of a we got a proper Beatles video I was a huge fan of back in the day, and this into a lot of Beatles songs for me. Coming up very soon is Peter Jackson's Get Back documentary series, that didn't make the 1970 film. And lastly, let me take As if I haven't been doing Since they came of age in the Beatles mixes are a major amongst Beatles fans. And it's not just the original mixes, but all subsequent mixes as well. In 1987, we got new stereo In 2009, we got remastered as part of a huge box set. And over the past 5 or so years, we've gotten new stereo mixes done by George Martin's son Giles. I like both the 1987 that Giles has done. And now I get to do something I get to rant about how Now let me make my frustration clear, the actual process of getting and prepared was very well done. The individual sound sources on each song are as crisp as can be, and the team behind this My issue lies entirely with the panning. Every single thing in the hard right, or both to sum together. And it does not sound good. It sounds jarring by today's standards. Some might see this harsh that's how stereo mixes were But if preservation's your for the mono mixes, since were mixed with mono in mind? To be fair, like I said of the 2009 remasters included But they didn't put them on streaming, so at this point does it even matter? Most people, and especially young people, listen to music on streaming services. And their primary way of requires them to listen to to what they're accustomed to. The listening experience is ruined the second you take out an earbud. In fact, this might be a some younger people feel about the Beatles and how they're overrated and all that? These mixes on streaming If you're able to, check check out the recent remixes by Giles, check out the 1987 CD mixes if you can. The 2009 stereo mixes are the worst way to listen to many of these albums. (upbeat music) - Here, here, everywhere! - The Beatles are pretty good. I see a lot of discourse these days about if the Beatles were Of course musical taste is subjective and if you don't personally of the Beatles, that's okay. But I'll add one point to the discourse, and I'll need to compare the Beatles to a little art house flick, heard of it, Citizen Kane. Citizen Kane is considered of all time, but if you were or so, I'd be willing to bet that you'd be disappointed by it. Not because it's aged poorly, it doesn't do anything by movies that came after. But consider this, those those things if Citizen The way that Citizen Kane took advantage of camera techniques just wasn't done at that time. And it laid out a radical groundwork for future movies to follow, 80 years after its release, what it did might not What I'm trying to say is, if you don't personally But through a combination of insane talent and once-in-a-millennium luck, they were responsible for a lot of conventions in popular music that we take for granted today. And for that, I'd say in the great music pantheon. If you wanna get into the Beatles, I mean everyone recommends the White Album and Abbey I would recommend them too. Aside from those, I'd also Rubber Soul, and Magical Mystery Tour. And if you have a favorite Beatles song, album, related thing, I would love to know what (audience cheering) (upbeat music)