Today we brought some British uni students to try American BBQ for the first time. Can't wait. Yeah? Yeah. It's going to be cool. Southern style BBQ. It's a little bit different than how we do BBQ here in the UK. We went to the south of America. We did a little tour. Our tiny little British palates. Yes, were blown. Revived like the mosquito from Jurassic Park. I've ordered a nice little selection for us. I hope you're hungry. Oh, fantastic. Look at that. Oh my gosh, there's more. This is the most American thing I've ever seen in my life. Should we start with the nachos? Let's do it. Pork, pork covered, queso cheese smothered. I am so ready for this. Come on guys. Go for it guys, get stuck in. Armand's gone for the most loaded thing. You got nothing. Get something. Cheers guys. Wow, I love America. God bless America man. God bless the third amendment. Thou must eat nachos. There's not a ten commandments. I'm sorry. I feel like we should go on to the main event before it gets cold. The meat samper. Okay, I'm gonna attempt pulled pork. Brisket. Yeah. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. That is a sausage, sausage patty. Should we try the pulled pork first? Pork. Where do they pull it from? I don't know. When you cook the pork, it's like a giant cut of pork, right? I don't know. I never made pork. It looks like Wolverine's claws To like shred it and pull it apart. Oh. Guys, I've already eaten it. How good was it? It was so good. I love pulled pork though. Wow. Pulled pork, obviously, you can find that in the UK. However, brisket. Less so, right? We don't really sell this in the UK at all. I think it's extremely hard to do well. 16 hours. Wow. It's been smoked, absorbed a little bit in the flavour of the wood you're smoking with. It creates this little bark, they call it, on the outside. It's good. Let's do this. Cheers. Cheers. Smoky. Very meaty. That was mouthful. I'm almost full. One slice. That's how rich it is. That really is. Oh, I think so. So you know on death row, right? You can get a last meal. Like if you said, oh for my last meal, I want Gordon Ramsay to come in here and cook me beef Wellington. He's done stuff in prisons. That's true. Is it like make a wish for criminals is what I'm asking. I don't think that's how it works. What would your last meal be? If I lived in the South, I'd be like, &quot;Mum, just order me everything from the store.&quot; She can't, you're in prison. How did this turn into a video about Southern barbecue? To death row. Look, wait, wait, wait, say your appetite, Oh, Josh. The next thing. You might have thought at first glance, &quot;Oh, that's a burger.&quot; That is actually not a burger. What do you mean it's not a burger? That is a brisket sandwich. There is huge chunks of juicy beef brisket. Topped with an onion ring, Put 'em between these soft fluffy buns. Yeah, go for it, mate. Get stuck in. Wow! Isn't that the tastiest soft fluffy buns you've ever tasted? For sure. Yeah. Oh, that is incredible. They are soft and fluffy buns. I told you, they're really soft and fluffy. You can just taste it, it's been cooked for a really long time. Yeah. Brisket is always a really fatty cut, right? So all that fat slowly renders. Just makes it so juicy and tasty. Oh my gosh. This one's got cheese. That one's without cheese. That's the classic. Which is better, Armand? Which is better? Really? Without the cheese. You taste more of the meat? Wow. Look how much brisket is in that. Oh, it's delicious. Yeah. Wow. I love how soft it is. Even before I try it, I know that one's going to be a better one. Everything's better with cheese. It's true, it's true, that's a fact. That's a written law. It's another amendment. It's another amendment. It's part of the American Constitution. That's so good. Wait, you should try this one, Max. What's that laugh? Oh my gosh, both at once. It's dripping everywhere! It's worth it man. I feel like this would be so popular if people knew about it, right? This place isn't even busy. I don't think American barbecue tradition is a massive thing in England. People don't really know about it. Just because it's unknown. It's not because we chose to not like it. Cheers guys! Cheers! Hey, USA! USA! Quick break from today's video as we have a paid partnership with BetterHelp. I've actually been getting therapy through BetterHelp for the last year, And I found it to be really, really helpful. No one really understands fully everything that's going on in your life. Sometimes you don't even understand everything that's going on. And being able to process all of the anxiety and stresses and day-to-day life, That we all have to go through by talking to someone can be just really, really good. Having said that, finding a therapist can be really hard, But BetterHelp's mission is to make therapy accessible. To get started, all I had to do was answer a few questions about my needs and preferences, And then they match me with one of their credentialed therapists in just a few days. If for any reason you wanna switch to a new therapist, There's no additional charge, it's all online and remote, So I can message my therapist anytime and schedule a live session whenever is good for me. So if you're struggling, consider online therapy with BetterHelp. Click the link in the description, Or visit betterhelp.com/jolly to support this channel, And also get 10% off your first month with BetterHelp. Thank you again to BetterHelp for supporting this channel, And enabling us to make really fun videos Eating incredible barbecue that we should get back to now. We've tried a bunch of different barbecues. You're probably just thinking, &quot;Oh, you know, American restaurant, of course, they're selling wings.&quot; These are slow-smoked chicken wings. So they absorb a little bit of that smoky wood flavor as well. Chicken wings with blue cheese is super bowl, in my opinion. Oh yeah, it's classic. This is super bowl. Dip it in the sauce. Ready to watch Kansas City win. This is what fueled Kansas City. All right, ready? Yeah, Kansas City barbecue. Victory. Wow, just so much flavour. Do you think we've made enough mess or are like, Get stuck in mate. It's not a full American meal without sauce all over your fingers and mouth. Okay, so this is a weird statement. That is probably, like, if not the first, or maybe like the second chicken wing I've ever had in my life. What? Like ever, in my life. So you've eaten a whole chicken's wings. Yeah, just two. Just two, just one chicken. Whole chicken's wings, that's it. It's delicious though. That was my favourite. And also. Not even messy. That was my favourite. A smoked chicken. It's so smokey. It's so smokey. Yeah, it's so smokey. And also it's something that we have so often here in the UK, I thought. Except for Max apparently. Who wants a chili dpg? Oh, I want a chili dog. All right. Wow. You went all in. Really? So good. Yeah? I love that so much. I mean, that's not a normal looking hot dog though. Look at it, it's like split down the middle. Also, like our normal hot dog, sausage and bread. Is it good? That's my favorite thing that we've had. What? Yeah. More than the brisket slider. Okay, maybe not actually. The brisket bun is so good. The chili really works. With the sausage. Oh Wow.. I wasn't really expecting that from it. It's really good. That is so good. And 'cause it's got beans in it, you know, it's healthy. Yeah, I'm not sure that's exactly how it works, but that is incredible. Yeah, that's the best hot dog I've ever had. What? Right there. When have you had a better hot dog than that? No, true, it's the best hot dog I've ever had. Yeah. Max is agreeing. I agree. I'm not saying I don't like it. I'm just saying it's not the best I've ever had. It's the best hot dog I've ever had. Yeah, you can't come to an American bbq place though without having some solid sides. You can't go wrong with mac and cheese though, right? I think you can go wrong. Says the French cheese expert. Well, I love it. It's good. Oh, that's good. I love it. Let's be honest in the UK, mac and cheese often does not taste that good. No. It's often nowhere near as good as that. This is not like the ready-made coop mac and cheese we have. A little bit of chilli. Chilli. So they eat chili in the us. People really pride themselves on making a homemade chilli. It's very spicy. It's heavily spiced and a lot more flavour than the chilli I'm used to. We have some corn ribs over there. Oh, corn snake more like What is going on? That's delicious. All the seasoning really helps. Oh, so delicious. It's so good. It's crazy. People are actually putting spices on there food. It tastes good. Oh, yeah. Wow. That was good. That's a feast. I feel like we didn't really say much, because we were just plowing our way through all these dishes. Would any of these make it into your final meal? Firstly, what's your crime? Secondly, what's your final meal? The chicken wings. Wow, the smoked chicken wings. I don't know about my crime. I'm not really sat in bed thinking about that ever. That's exactly what a criminal would say. So my crime is being too cute. Being too cute, exactly. Oh, stop that. I have to say the chili dog undefeated. I knew that was gonna be good. Wow. I knew. For me it's the chicken. What about the cheesy brisket sandwich? The cheesy brisket is, I reckon just all of it again. Order it again! In the meantime? Howdy ho! Howdy ho! What do they say? Do they not say that? We found my crime.