"Evil is not committed by people who feel their own motives, who worry about betraying The evil in this world is committed by the own day, the self-righteous who think they to suffer the discomfort of significant self-examination." M. Scott Peck, People of the Lie exemplars of virtue, but many of them compulsively those who disagree with them, and enact policies Are such politicians aware of their hypocrisy? Do they truly believe in the morally righteous In this video, drawing from the insights of explore the psychology of malignant narcissism has infected modern politics. M. Scott Peck defines evil as "that force, beings, that seeks to kill life or liveliness.", ". . .evil is 'live' spelt backward. Evil is in opposition to life...Specifically, that is not required for biological survival...Evil There are various essential attributes of as sentience, mobility, awareness, growth, It is possible to kill or attempt to kill the body." M. Scott Peck, People of the Lie for as Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn noted "the heart of every human being". Nonetheless, two types of people are particularly narcissists. The psychopath's potential for evil is well-known, be responsible for more of the world's evil Peck writes in The People of the Lie: "It would be quite appropriate to classify of the narcissistic personality disorder...psychiatrists the phenomenon of narcissism, but our understanding M. Scott Peck, People of the Lie an inflated sense of self. Narcissists are overconfident and admire themselves of who they are, or what they have accomplished. The narcissist's infatuation with a grandiose their capacity to empathize with the feelings Narcissism exists on a continuum; some of with an idealized self-image one creates on benign. At the extreme end of the spectrum lies the one identifies with an illusory self-image Or as Peck explains: "Utterly dedicated to preserving their self-image unceasingly engaged in the effort to maintain seem to lack any motivation to be good, they Their 'goodness' is all on a level of It is, in effect, a lie. This is why they are the 'people of the M. Scott Peck, People of the Lie that is rooted in a deep fear of being inferior morality. Due to childhood trauma, growing up with hyper-critical of upbringing, socialization, or genetics, that, like everyone else, they make mistakes, for evil that is rooted in human nature. Or as Peck writes: "What is the cause of this arrogant self-image type of narcissism? Basically, it is fear. [Malignant narcissists] are continually frightened own evil... This terror is so chronic, so interwoven into even feel it as such. And if they could, their omnipresent narcissism it." M. Scott Peck, People of the Lie an immoral or evil act, they acknowledge their to make amends by returning to the side of Most of us, in other words, have a functioning on our behavior. The conscience of the malignant narcissist, by continual acts of self-deception. As the malignant narcissist's identity is goodness, when he morally falters, he resorts defense mechanisms to maintain a feeling of and escaping feelings of guilt. Because the malignant narcissist silences he can repeatedly lie and behave in ways that on the side of good. Or as Peck explains further: "It is not their sins per se that characterize subtlety and persistence and consistency of This is because the central defect of [malignant to acknowledge it...Rather than blissfully [malignant narcissists] are continually engaged the rug of their own consciousness...It is trial that their evil arises." One of the main self-deceptive mechanisms awareness of his morally imperfect self, is, him to commit some of his most evil acts. This mechanism is scapegoating, which, as call projection." The malignant narcissist unconsciously externalizes in himself, attributing them to other people, in reality are his own moral failings and "A predominant characteristic...of the behaviour Because in their hearts they consider themselves who does reproach them. Since they must deny their own badness, they of themselves as evil; on the other hand, M. Scott Peck, People of the Lie in the political world. Many politicians today are so desperate to refuse to consider the possibility that their the primary drivers of much that is wrong When presented with evidence of their catastrophic morally flawless self-image, political malignant down on their policies and heap the blame scapegoats - be it other nations, political to hold differing political views. Or as Peck explains: "Strangely enough, [malignant narcissists] to destroy evil. The problem is that they misplace the locus Instead of destroying others they should be life often threatens their self-image of perfection, in hating and destroying that life--usually others to preserve their self-image of perfection...They sick society." M. Scott Peck, People of the Lie may be tempted to impose the diagnosis of disapprove of. But in doing so we run the risk not only of malignant narcissist's scapegoating behavior. Or as Peck reflects: "Indeed, might I not be guilty of evil myself opinions? Might I not be misusing the concept of evil oppose my judgment?" M. Scott Peck, People of the Lie we need to become more conscious of our dark For the more aware we are of our own moral likely we are to project our dark side onto Or as Jung writes: "Many projections can once he recognizes their subjective origin. " (Carl Jung, Practice of Psychotherapy) than withdraw our projections, we also develop lurks behind the malignant narcissists' For as the psychologist Marie Louise von Franz "If one knows about the evil possibilities second sight or capacity for getting a whiff down into the depths of one's own evil enables of corresponding elements in other people." Marie Louise von Franz, The Interpretation With a heightened capacity to detect evil, regarding the reality of human evil. For the reason malignant narcissists are able of political power, is because most people tries so hard to appear good, can in reality Most people, in other words, do not recognize the good. Or as the psychologist Erich Fromm observed: "...the main fallacy which prevents people they have shown their true faces...lies in evil man must be a devil - and look his visibly that everyone can recognize his destructiveness Such devils exist, but they are rare...much will show a front of kindliness...he will as long as one believes that the evil man man." Erich Fromm, The Anatomy of Human Destructiveness evil that is dividing and destroying society, let anger and hatred sully our attempts to Malignant narcissists are easy to hate, but and makes us easy targets of scapegoating. Hatred also harms us through the stress it Rather than stewing in hatred, we should focus is one of the greatest weapons against evil "the father of lies". We should call out the hypocrisy of the political mock their overweening moral pride, and watch desperate, erratic, and eventually self-destructive. "Pride goeth before the fall". Or as M. Scott Peck concludes: "The evil hate the light--the light of scrutiny that exposes them, the light of truth (Peck) M. Scott Peck, People of