Tonight, I want to talk about Not the spelling bee... Cricket. Imagine sitting on the couch with your dad and watching this. Just before lunch. Eleven minutes to go. Boycott bowled in sweater and it looks as though Slight delays out there are not entirely happy with the ball. That live action Brooks Brothers catalog goes on for five days. But now, the game has gone to something that's actually fun to watch. This week, the 2019 Cricket World Cup and that's a big deal India! India! India, India! Pakistan! Barmy army! Barmy army! We win baby, yeah! Oh, incredible! Okay, that guy who looks like perfectly captures &quot;cricket mania.&quot; Now just for perspective, the last time in the World Cup, In terms of viewers, 52 Game of Thrones finales or a billion Murphy Brown reboots. Nobody watched Murphy Brown, I'm sorry. And yet, when Americans hear they think of the insect, the cola, or the data plan you get But cricket Cricket can be used aka, &quot;cricket diplomacy.&quot; India and Pakistan have used cricket and inflame tensions. After the terrorist attacks in Kashmir, India reportedly threatened to boycott But &quot;cricket diplomacy&quot; In the early 2000s, Fidel Castro tried to get Cubans instead of baseball In 2005, China built Grenada for not recognizing Taiwan. Cricket has even played a vital role You guys remember Afghanistan, right? You know, from war. Minus cricket, we are nothing. Because when we were young, Psychologically, cricket takes their mind People won't participate in elections, It has become essential That's incredible. Even American politicians recognize If we are searching for a model to meet tough international challenges we need only look Afghanistan did not even have and last month the team made it You know what's weird? She gave that exact same speech Look, bankers love cricket, too. Cricket is a global sport But here's what's frustrating. In 2019, cricket is becoming because of corruption and greed, and no country is more India has become so dominant it is stifling the growth which is odd because the goal The game was spread by the British Empire, the world's first spam bot. India, Sri Lanka, the West Indies, Yes, England straight-up built and called it Australia. They took cricket to Canada, America used to play cricket, &quot;Yo, fuck your sport. Fuck your tea. fuck your pronunciation and take us off your schedule. Cheerio.&quot; And then, Americans took their slaves The Empire spread cricket and they used cricket and civilize the locals. Cricket has been called which is basically Winston Churchill's It's super fun. but if you go, R1, R1, left, right, you unlock smallpox. Now... as the colonies got better at cricket, it became a way to beat the colonizers Most of the countries, has that little element of wanting At least against an Englishman holding a ball, he could smash him for six after six The question of self-esteem, the question that here is an Indian, who could measure up to a white man. I love that. India whooped Britain's ass The only thing is if India also took Michael Caine. That's right. But today, India runs shit. India commands 70% of the global revenue, and in 2017, generated and it's mostly thanks to three letters. -The IPL, the Indian Premier League. You're a fan? There's just, like, one random This is my episode. Last week you did NRA, Meanwhile, there's 200 other people like, &quot;What the fuck is going on? You know crazy shit is happening This is for you. The IPL... plays a type of cricket called T20, okay? It's a shorter, explosive type of cricket, that looks like it was invented and turned it into a cultural phenomenon. Oh, yes! Oh, wow! Du Plessis! Oh, the ripper! The Mustard Man is back, baby! Look, I think-- I think he just lives at the stadium. IPL cricket has so many viewers in India, cars, even condoms, which is not ...right bowler If you're not watching the match, Love sex? Durex. What the fuck? Wait. Wait, wait, let's break this down. He handed her the remote with his erection through the fabric of his clothes. Like, how did the director direct this? I need you to get a boner.&quot; In the prompter, it just says &quot;tense up.&quot; Now as cringey as that video is, sex and spectacle made cricket In 2008, the IPL flew in NFL cheerleaders in and it broke every Indian man Okay, wait, this dude is talking about like it's the solution to global warming. Then there's some random army general showing off a picture of cheerleaders Meanwhile, the horniest man in South Asia while his best friend is just whispering, &quot;Please send bobs, Turning cricket into a thirst trap, It was something that came directly Lalit Kumar Modi, Did you not violate certain norms The pom-pom girls, If I were in India, I'd see that as a slap Again, you know, we did things Actually, they talk about the IPL as a family product, the whole family from the grandmother, to the grandchildren, are all actually looking forward I don't think he meant to say &quot;hot wife,&quot; Lalit Modi started the IPL in 2008 Two years later, Modi made cricket exciting. and he paid the best players in the world Everyone was giving Lalit props. Most innovative business leader of India You're such a celebrity now. Is it true you can sell oil to the Arabs? I wish I could do that. IPL without Lalit Modi is like... A sugar-free candy bar. Modi was celebrated for years and by years, I mean two. Exactly two. Once the most sought after man now an outcast, Modi has been He has also been found guilty to the tune of $80 million. The 49-year-old is also guilty that his relatives had stake in a company In 2013, the BCCI, found Lalit Modi guilty of eight counts and kicked him out of the IPL. Can you imagine firing someone billions of dollars No, I'm asking you. Please. Modi denies the charges, he left India and started showing up -I am sorry. I am really sorry. -of doing this. Who the hell do you think you are? You are sounding bitter. I am not going to argue with a person He tells me the question. Before I can answer, My complaint is-- My complaint is-- I think he was just trying and his whole system just crashed. He's just like, &quot;My complaint is-- Just recharge.&quot; But then, while Lalit was in Thailand, There must be a charge sheet Where is it? -Okay. That-- Seven years have gone by. where is the charge sheet? Oh, my God! Every brown person on the planet There's just some fob in cargo pants and then we all do the same I'm using my entire body Please shut the fuck up and let me leave Now, look. I gotta give props What Lalit Modi did with the IPL Okay? Thanks to him, between TV, streaming, live matches, condoms and sponsorship deals. It was like India had an oil boom. This influx of cash and eyeballs redefined the way and that's the problem. Now, fair warning. So, if you have friends, On paper, global cricket is governed the International Cricket Council, The ICC oversees all 105 They're top of the food chain. Indian cricket is governed by aka, the BCCI, okay? And they are, and I mean this nicely, gigantic assholes. In theory, the ICC oversees the BCCI but thanks to Indian cricket, and commands so much viewership, they've made the ICC their bitch, and every other country is forced They bully other countries They make it practically impossible in any foreign T20 tournaments, and you just can't say no to them. Just look at the upcoming World Cup, okay? Sixteen teams played in 2007. Now it's down to ten, the fewest number of teams Fewer teams increases the odds Now, India in more World Cup matches in Indian cricket. So the BCCI is constantly just throwing The most striking example called Monkeygate. Now I know that sounds like Jane Goodall but it had nothing to do with that. Indian bowler Harbhajan Singh faces a three-match suspension he called Andrew Symonds, Australia's only non-white member, during the two teams recent match Wait, there was a racism scandal and the bad guy wasn't Australian? Harbhajan Singh denied saying &quot;monkey,&quot; and India threatened unless the ICC So Australia fell in line and was like, &quot;Hey, don't do that. We need the money and the viewers, we shouldn't have had a black player Think about how insane that is. It's like even though their team That's like forcing a black family over to their next cook out. They're like, &quot;This is good These behind-the-scenes power plays In 2014, India launched a cricket coup to take over international cricket by combining forces with England They're known as &quot;The Big Three,&quot; The Big Three, of the International Cricket Council's and the way its funds are distributed. In the next eight years, ICC events, including the World Cup, of at least $2.5 billion. The Big Three will take the lion's share, with India alone netting upwards Now, you might be wondering, why would all the other countries agree Well, they didn't really have a choice. I know of a lot of countries They voted against it initially, and then and said, &quot;Listen, if you come with us, This is what you will get.&quot; And eventually, they all fell in line. Holy shit. These guys sound like the Mafia... or FIFA. Now before 2014, every member of the ICC But under India's proposed plan, than to all other nations combined. With India getting by far the most. Think of this like an Indian nesting doll, okay? The outside is the BCCI. Inside that is the IPL, Now... Even though he's long gone, of how Indian cricket ended up here. because he would likely get arrested, So these days he lives I had to meet the guy to ask Lalit Modi about and his role in all of it. How would you describe yourself And you cannot use the words Controversial. Controversy was the central pillar To me, you're like P.T. Barnum with a dash of Billy McFarland Thank you very much, That's a real compliment. I like it. You like those three-- There's not many people who can play -You mean just shady, shady... That's it. It's weird that he openly identifies It would be like if Imagine Dragons Now this isn't new. Lalit Modi has been doing shady shit It was as a student got caught in the circle of drugs. In 1985, he was arrested on charges and assault with a deadly weapon Modi pleaded guilty to his crimes Hey, come on. It was the '80s, baby! Everyone was pushing coke. Now, I know we've got to talk I had to ask Lalit Modi To me, you're like Zion Williamson. -He was one and done to go to the league, and you left to avoid jail time Oh, no. There was no jail time. I had to do 200 hours There were no drugs there. You were on the way -And we got robbed on the way. But it doesn't matter. You know, I have no shame about it. Yeah! I mean, look, Lalit. -It's fine! I have no problem with it, others do. -The haters hate. -I'm saying-- you'll do a bump -Absolutely. They can pop off, Law enforcement agencies are just gonna During his time with the IPL, Lalit Modi built up a rap sheet to write a song about him. But I had to push him on it Lalit Modi is complicit. His alleged corruption is indicative You've repeatedly said, -Yes. &quot;The BCCI found you guilty including rigging bids and accepting kickbacks -One minute. &quot;The Indian government has opened into your financial dealings with the IPL, The haven't found zilch, and as far as I'm concerned, 'til the cows come home. And they ain't going to find zilch The majority of the people Are kind of guilty. And then have given interviews. I'm on every network all the time -And I'm there because I have no guilt. I can look myself and be very happy and look at it, &quot;Carry on.&quot; That's a joke. I wish I was that confident, Because he created the IPL, Lalit Modi knows the power dynamics and he has strong feelings Does the BCCI have too much power What do you mean? There is no ICC without the BCCI. Do you think even a single match No. You think any broadcaster will buy No. Is the BCCI preventing cricket -Yes. Very bad for the sport. Lalit Modi got banned for life in 2013, but the problems continued One of the best-known scandals involved During his tenure, players were arrested for rigging games One of the teams involved and one of the arrested officials Even though Srinivasan was not charged, it was so messy, forced him to step down, and called The even got RM Lodha, to set up a commission to clean up Indian cricket. Do you understand what I just said? Can you imagine if RBG was in charge Look, you know Roberts would side The Lodha Committee was set up many of those court-ordered changes Indian cricket has gotten to a point Don't you think you created this problem I did, and I didn't foresee this. That's right. I am to blame for it. This is the only thing I am. I take blame for creating Out of all the things I've said Yes. Those I don't care about. You created the behemoth the rest of the world and preventing That's right. Modi helped create the cash cow They always seem at the expense of the global game. Now, Ayaz Memon is one of the most prominent and he echoes the same concern. Indian cricket establishment and I think that it's a bit of a shame to take that agenda forward. They should be in the vanguard Why don't they want to spread the game? They're caught in a bit of a dilemma. We are the most powerful cricket body and if we take it further will it dilute our power? Indian Colonel Sanders is right. Look, one of the most significant ways India is holding back cricket Possible Olympic gold medalist? Well, not if the BCCI have a say The ICC for a while now have been trying as an Olympic sport, because they believe The BCCI, on the other hand, interfering with their business. Come on! India should love the Olympics. We love recognition, and we love gold, but we have neither, India sucks at the Olympics. India is a country of 1.3 billion people In that time, -Whoo-hoo! Michael Phelps is a stoner dating back In that time, he's won 28 Olympic medals. Our whole country is equal But cricket could actually change that. I think cricket can become where you have at least 16, at a certain level -of the Olympic Committee. The stumbling block would be the BCCI. &quot;Why get into the Olympics? It's very lucrative. It's very popular.&quot; -Ayaz, we need cricket in the Olympics. I think a lot of players are saying Do you know how many medals -28, yes. Badminton. No, don't undermine badminton. -I'm not-- I'm just saying-- That sounds great, Ayaz, in sports that electrical engineers My research team told me that in field hockey than badminton, Now if you don't think the Olympics how the hell do we know what this is? Do you guys know what this is? Curling, yes! We have a better understanding than one of the biggest sports The saddest part about all of this is that cricket can be We've already seen Afghanistan went from playing cricket to playing cricket at the highest level. Now, here's the crazy part. India was one of the first countries and on June 1, in the opening round Their rise shows what the spread Now as an Indian, I'm proud and that the game is finally exciting Look, we took something our colonizers But my complaint is... My complaint is... My complaint is... My complaint is... My complaint is we're so concerned that it isn't about It's about colonizing it for ourselves.