Are you sure you want I got this question Like anyone who has traveled to places I got some looks when I told others where I was going, What was surprising, I heard when I arrived in Iran He asked, almost in disbelief, why are you here? If you're a Christian, the answer to that question will shape you look at money, the things you spend you look at the person It might take you to places you'd go to, Not all mosques but they're all fascinating and they're the center of religious life For devout Muslims, daily life They pray five And mosques are built Before they pray, they perform a ritual Then men and women separate behind the Imam, or the leader who stands on the Minbar, This all involves standing, all an act of submission to Allah. So when Muslims pray, Mecca, the city where it's believed And we see this in the architecture or a niche in the wall There's even a tower called a minaret Plus, you've probably also noticed and that's because it represents the vault building has representative elements So you won't see the same type that you'd see in a Catholic You know, I've been to a lot of mosques Many of them are huge, beautiful buildings As soon as I got to Iran, mosque of different But there were no tourists here. Just hundreds and even thousands There are places on this earth of spiritual warfare You can feel the enemy. And we realize the danger Just getting these shots required us And yet this is just a small taste There are no church buildings. There's no freedom to worship To follow So if you ask me why I went to Iran, of my brothers and sisters and what life Ultimately, I came to find the What does the church look In spite of travel in Iran is a growing economy, and it's In 2019, right before the pandemic, Iran was visited by 9.1 million tourists, about 2 million That makes Iran the fourth only behind Saudi Arabia, And there's a lot to see. For any Bible you can visit Esther and Mordechai's tombs or Persepolis stories of leaders and empires Or you could visit Tehran's Grand Bazaar, with everything, Or you could race down There is so much to see in Iran, one thing you can't escape Islam is everywhere. There are pictures of the Ayatollah Our hotel They had Qurans and prayer mats pointing you to Mecca. As we were exploring throughout the day at different mosques It all got me wondering. In a country how would anyone even Tell me a little bit How did you come to and just what was I was born in a This is Iman. He spent almost a decade as a refugee because of his faith. Unfortunately, Muslims do believe that the Jew and Christian It means that you because if you touch these people, But my father, in the way he taught us, he said: "No, you shouldn't I remember it was Yom Kippur, All the Jews are fasting That night I remember my very good friend Iman if we are and we are doing all of the in the Sharia and in the but we are not believing to the mashiach you are not even Jew. And then, it was in my mind, there was a church, And they said Jesus is the Christ And I heard that, all of my attention came, and was listening to them, They said, if you want a New Testament, And then I sent an email to them, Iman received a copy of the New Testament, Because of both his Muslim background he was already a little familiar but this New Testament gave him the true And after that I went to my friend, And I said, I heard that Jesus and He is the Messiah And my friend and he said many, I was shocked because I really trusted him. -- Your Jewish friend? One night I was And I kept reading I knew I was a sinner. I knew I have no way I knew that. You know? But then I was my heart was full of It was the first time if you are really the Please help me. The minute I prayed that and I finished, in the atmosphere in And I felt like the presence of God, and I heard the voice. It said, Iman, follow me, I want to change And I was just looking and I saw a light and He showed his hand to me, Follow me, I want to I started to cry. -- Government numbers will identify 99% of the population as Muslim. Not really surprising when everyone is automatically assigned But the reality is Some reports even I touched on this in a previous video, that imposes Islam on its people And when that government continues and even oppress its own people, would be dissatisfied But what's most encouraging but rather Because even though many Iranians were it didn't mean -- In my country, Iran, when I grew up, all the things you can do belong So if you wanna play ping-pong We know the real football. Yes, the real football. Exactly. So you should go to mosque. So I was in the mosque almost every day doing the Islamic namaz and everything, so I always had questions. -- This is Milad. He left Iran years ago He told me about how he would often of his community, -- I always had questions. So once I asked one of them, what do these words mean in Quran? And that man told me, And I was like, He said, this is a secret So I was like, I'm hearing that this book is So why do we need to have some secrets and God in the book, which its role is to, you know, guide us in life -- Imagine seeking the truth What a disappointment. But in God's good grace, that just drives them And in that search, -- When I read the Quran in Farsi, a series of questions came to me because we always and I saw that it was written the only one who had the The only person who is going to and as I was reading, questions came to me and when I asked my father, he said only scholars do, and I was so scared because I knew if I would lose my Muslim identity, -- For security reasons, But her story is one of searching for answers. One day I came to little by little God showed me Something happened to me, I realized who came and died, but Islam says that Jesus is alive, Then the question for me was, if Jesus then why does God send a prophet who dies When I opened the Bible to read it at once which means savior, and it was there and I said, Jesus, I put -- Remember Nima? He came out in the first episode He knows a thing or two about reaching -- In the west, you can just or just do, you know, public ministry. you have to work strategies like we go for shopping, again, but we go pretending to be shoppers because again, meeting so many peoples But again, -- One year after, some of the other people, They came to faith and they The one you got you would share with Yeah, sometimes we'd print them and give them to them And we go somewhere, like a mountain, And then, we walk into a street and And if we have some opportunity, At one instance, I remember and then he said "ok", and we realized he's So still is dangerous. Out here some people It's a bit risky, but when they are and say, "Jesus is the Savior", they just take off. And God, after three years, we, one time, we came together just thinking, just And then, we came to recognized, that Wow. Just from one on one, through conversation. -- I was walking through of the Ibn Babvieh cemetery, and I came across a funeral service This is a historic site where technically you're But many still do. Funerals can mark some of the most somber And as most Christians have experienced, where we're especially thankful We're supposed to come alongside Weep with those who weep. And it's a time when your pastor join you to pray or share words But all of that got me thinking. What happens when a or someone in your house Or what about other significant moments Baptisms, weddings. Even just regular -- About 25 years ago, we I think about about five or six years ago, So we had house group churches. Everything is underground. Everything is So Iranian churches now in Iran, So they meet in groups, the houses, They have to be really careful They cannot be direct. They cannot call each other They have to be really, really careful singing songs, preaching. Everywhere they have to be mindful, in closed gatherings, like family they have to be careful when they talk because you never know. Maybe your brother members will turn you in. Well, I went to both a church building It was very good to have close But, well, we could never And if I were to say a little bit the fellowship we had together, and the fact that the house on teaching and spiritual nourishment, which was very useful for us. We got more spiritual nourishment. I mean, the service opportunities I never experienced What makes me sad nowadays they make it so complicated But where I grew up, mostly young people, who became Christian, and the family denied They come and join us. We were like a family. We had food and we talk, I play the little guitar We eat food, we read the Bible, We ask the churches in Tehran the more mature Christian to help us to and we grow up. So it was very raw, and it was a very close Although we did we did not have so many people But what is the purpose of the church? to know Christ. And I think we -- Was that something Yes. with other Christians? Like how do you share the gospel? How do you do that -- Secret. Yes, all in secret. We were all 007 agents. We know how to, took off the sim-cards from the phone, safe, and always someone by the window, and not singing with a loud voice, But we know we were risking our life, that's the life that God is giving us That's the point. One time, when I was the government arrested me. and one night I have been in jail, and they bring me out. Because you were evangelizing. And it was Christmas, It's was a small book, named The Way of the salvation. We printed it, and put some chocolates. We put it in the bag and we passed it After I arrived home at 3 a.m. and I see that someone knocked and it was two big guys I opened the door and the other one came to sit in chairs. And then they came and they took everything, like my books And they brought me to jail. I spent 29 days in one room I didn't know if it was morning They put you in a room They brought me to the You are blamed as a spy for Israel. A spy for Israel? against the government. And because in Iran It's like they put you in the category of This is one aspect of the story that's worth exploring The realities of modern society and should technically move Iran with a certain level of dignity particularly to minorities -- I was studying software and I was on my last semester when they And then the school authority This is your last semester finish it or not, And I think that's the many, one of the many few things and they actually They did not give So challenges from everywhere. We, my wife and I, a computer shop. They came and closed and shut it down We would go to our office, It was like official paper on the door come and pay a and that office. And we went and and by the end of the day oh, we're sorry, It was not you. It was just something else. And then tomorrow it was another Seems like the always want to put you in jail, but -- So the story that I'm hearing over from just different people you lose your education, your access your job, business, and you lose access to just because of fear, because you don't Or maybe people don't They're afraid that they'll also They were monitoring us I went to pay a visit to my uncle's and he still isn't After like, about an hour and said, I do really love you, Immediately after you left, and asked me these questions: "What was he doing there?" "Was he talking about Christ?" "Was he trying to make you a christian?" and he was like, and, you know, he was just here, but I don't want this. I don't want them to call me." There's a lot and I can't help but try to put myself Imagine this for your own life. You're born into a culture and searching for truth, into a religion that you are forced could mean losing your job, Following Jesus comes at There's no cultural or It doesn't make life easier. But as we'll see in the next and final Jesus does make life, with all of its