Hello everyone and welcome to Voice and the first episode &quot;Let your voice soar&quot;. I'm a vocal coach here in the North I'm thrilled that you're here to join me for many informative videos designed to help understand your voice, how to keep it I'll be sharing vocal exercises that let your voice soar! In addition to the I will give you tips on things you can do which brings me to my first tip, the back in July 2012 I wrote an article on voicesoaring.com about the straw and how it can help singers and speakers Since then I received many many emails it seems a few you would like a little more works So the first thing you're gonna need are The reason is that two of them create and back pressure in the pharyngeal cavity to Okay so now, hopefully you have your First, we're going to actually be What this does is it creates pressure in or scientific name the &quot;Pharynx&quot; By throat we're stretching open the pharyngeal allows the vocal cords to thin out Vocal cords function best then and lean so they can close more If you find that your voice gets husky a this is a sign that you're using too thickening of the vocal cords. As vocal thicker from either over-singing, using too mix, screaming at a sporting event or just with your head to one side they become case you don't have access to a piano smartphone or tablet. their are lots a free piano app that works Now, put the straws between your lips the straws on ascending 3 tone scale. Ladies you're middle C or C4, guys are gonna be starting I'm gonna be demonstrating in my range I'm gonna be singing an octave above you. So if I'm singing here, you're gonna be singing here mmm mmm mmm As you sing the scale, you may notice if you are getting a lot of sound you're escape through your nose. If this is the like this. mmm mmm also to check that you doing it the sound should stop completely if you fingers. you should notice a bit of pressure a couple things to be aware of: make sure Also be sure to seal the area around the We don't want any air escaping around the sides. Make sure your tongue is nice and relaxed. If it will stiffen up the pharyngeal space let's take it up!! mmm as you sent you may notice the need to me also notice that your abdominal This is good. Let's go back to middle lets do a five tone scale. Once you begin to master this concept, you more internal vibration in the head. and vibrating and the thin edges Thus producing more head-voice. Once comfortable sending 5-tone scale, it's a up and down on octaves. If you would like so Lets glide up and down on an octave. mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm You may notice I'm taking a breath between As you begin to difficulty reaching the upper notes. This is because the vocal they need to. Give this a little time. Try not to too much sound or breath pressure. pharyngeal space stretch. Ok, once easy glide up to about G5 for the ladies then it's time to add a song. You can I recommend something easy like &quot;Happy Let me demonstrate using &quot;Amazing Grace&quot; Amazing grace how sweet, the sound. that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I see. T'was blind but now, I see. Once you're able to sing an entire verse a song like this, your voice is gonna Of course no amount as singing through a straw can replace healthy vocal technique. In future will be covering every aspect that of healthy vocal technique based on the concepts at the if you're lucky enough to have some good I highly recommend schedule lessons with Now if you don't have coaches in your studio as well as in-person lessons at the and the Montclair, New Jersey studio. If you topic today please feel free to write me You can also below. in the coming months I'll be releasing for Pop, Rock and Musical theater singers Italian school of singing. don't forget to subscribe to the you you can also find me on Facebook at Until next time keep singing and let your voice soar! Peace