History of the human race has thousands of and cultures, but it is difficult to find future events as the conquest of Greece by through the millennia. Welcome to our video that will cover the first Macedonian Wars, Seleucid War, Aetolian War These long videos take forever to make, so social media. The year is 231BC and the Mediterranean world upheaval. Just ten years before, the burgeoning power in the First Punic War, establishing naval In the east, the Hellenistic kingdoms - Macedon, for dominance over their border territories. Sandwiched between these greater polities and the nominally independent Greek city-states. This is the world of the late 3rd century two rising powers - Rome and Macedon, will The which was Illyria - currently modern Albania third century as a thoroughly barbarian region, and Macedonian neighbors. Though contact with the Greek world had led along the coast, the region in a political chieftains. The population of Illyria had been regarded and warlike by the more traditionally civilised From time to time, one of the many Illyrian most of the others, and in the 230s this was Ruled by their energetic king - Agron, they peoples, but also prominent figures, such Coinciding with the rise of this new Illyrian formidable strength had waned and whose monarchy Taking advantage of this weakness, the Illyrians territory far south of the traditional border, wealthiest city of the kingdom. Despite these successes however, Agron perished his son. In reality, it was his wife Teuta who wielded for her stepson. Her ascension did not stop Illyrian belligerence, a major problem in the Mediterranean. Seizures of more southerly territories in staging points from which brigands could sail. This had been occurring for a long time already, increasingly loud complaints of Roman merchants prompted the senate to act. Uncharacteristically peacefully for the notoriously in 230BC was not to send in the legions, but brothers to investigate the situation. In the typically harsh style of Roman diplomacy, about the increasing piracy and demanded that The demand was not negotiable and the Illyrians it would be war. Teuta refused this demand, either because her decentralised tribal allies or because Whatever the case, this did not please the murder of a Roman envoy, possibly by Teuta or on the journey home by those very pirates While the death of the Roman envoy was the the Ardaei tribe's power over the region not want any powerful rival in the Adriatic. Late in the campaigning season of 229BC, a bore down on the Illyrians. Though details of the short campaign are unknown, a complete success from north to south. Teuta's appointed governor of the recently Pharos, went over to the Roman side almost were defeated in the field. By spring of 228 Teuta had been forced into kingdom into weaker segments and forbidding Sea. The Romans withdrew their troops and left - a benign sounding term which would soon In essence, being a 'friend' of Rome included client state. A primary beneficiary of the peace of 228 was granted a small independent principality of the Ardiaean kingdom and the Greek cities. Despite these gains under Roman auspices, not content to remain in his small kingdom, he married Triteuta - the Ardiaean king's By becoming the young boy's formal regent recreated the powerful Illyrian kingdom abolished Even more boldly, he began to launch pillaging It could be that Demetrius was 'testing response, he believed they either could not This was an illusion, as the Romans were instead and it would prove to be a fatal illusion Further trying his luck, Demetrius set out on a grand piracy expedition, ravaging cities of the treaty eight years before. He had finally gone too far, and Rome now posed the same threat to Roman interests that friend for betraying them and not acting like The disproportionately massive Roman action by the Republic's desire to swiftly and before a new war with Carthage began, as it Demetrius' strategy was to hold the fortresses took the former in only seven days, while The man himself evaded capture because he a secret cove, fleeing to them when the battle On these ships he fled to the south, abandoning to death at Roman hands. Not long after, Demetrius reached the Adriatic great Hellenistic king - Philip V of Macedon, When he arrived, the king welcome Demetrius Meanwhile, the Romans once again withdrew no military presence. They once again left only their friendship Macedonian kingdom to the south that they Before continuing, we need to reverse time of Macedon after its would-be conqueror - Pyrrhus The victor in that battle - Antigonus II Gonatas, had also established hegemony over the Greek Having gained the loyalty of his turbulent it. He raised a great sacred mound to honour the provincial system to increase its efficiency a high quality currency. Making good use of Macedon's depleted resources mobility, extensively utilising the Antigonid Chalcis and Corinth to ferry troops to strategic An Athenian-led, Ptolemaic-supported attempt in the Cheromidian War from 268 to 281. Though Antigonus managed to quell this revolt, were lost during his reign, which finally His successor - Demetrius II, ruled for a Macedon's situation weakened ever further, The late king's own son - Philip V, was death, and Macedon could not afford a child A regent was clearly required for the time chosen for the task - Antigonus Doson. As one of the lesser known but more highly century BC, Antigonus Doson began to raise same time energetically set to campaigning He first marched north and expelled the Illyrians crushed the Aetolian League. After securing his borders, Antigonus proceeded the Thermopylae pass, wisely hoping to consolidate The response of the army was to demand that While he did this, Philip V's rights to and Antigonus swiftly appointed him the official After another series of victories which including army, Antigonus III Doson perished in 221, powerful Macedon to Philip V, who now ascended Soon after taking the throne, Philip V and by the Aetolian League and its allies during was too young to be an effective ruler. It was during this war that Demetrius of Pharos Cataclysmic events in the west now began to world. The Second Punic War had broken out in 218 crossed the Alps to invade Italy. There, he had already defeated one Roman field of 217 he crushed another at Lake Trasimene Hearing of these massive Roman defeats, Philip at the expense of an apparently dying Roman This new direction was encouraged by Demetrius Adriatic dominion by Rome, now argued that of the Illyrian coast and attack Italy himself. Accepting the military status quo and ending drove the Illyrians from Macedon once again light warships constructed. In summer of 216 the king made his first attempt fled home upon hearing news of an approaching The decisive Roman defeat at Cannae was another envoys to Hannibal asking for a formal alliance side and make gains at Roman expense. The story goes that the envoy - Xenophanes, to speak with Hannibal, but managed to talk instead there to make peace with Rome. However, the unfortunate Xenophanes was captured formal treaty with Hannibal in his possession. It was in this manner that the Romans learned Following the conclusion of the Punic-Macedonian attacks against coastal Illyria, attacking This intensified in 214 when a major offensive into Illyria through Epirus while 120 Macedonian In this campaign Philip swiftly seized Oricum for help. With a strengthened Adriatic fleet, the Roman 55 heavy Roman warships, lifted the siege from Oricum - two crucial ports which could on Italy. After these victorious, Laevinus wintered ships and retreated overland to Macedon. Having been blocked at sea, the Macedonian making significant gains in 213 and 212. The inland Dassaretis, Parthini and Atintani significant Roman response. The Republic did not have the land troops Adriatic, as they were still fighting against This situation changed during the later part reach the Adriatic. Having battered his way through land to the of Lissus, another possible staging point. It became clear to the Romans that this eastern Neutralising Philip at this point was beyond War, so the senate began to use diplomacy states to do the neutralising for them. A treaty was made between the traditionally former being convinced of the alliance because the summer of 211 at Capua and Tarentum. Terms were generous for the Aetolians - they booty would go to the Romans unless the town Another term allowed for the inclusion of Messenia, the Illyrians and even Pergamum. The war itself was a disruptive, indecisive important centres such as Anticyra, but Philip Attempts at peace talks by non-combatant states actions, but during 206 and 205 they were Though the final treaty ending the war at was clear that Rome's desire to punish Philip were down was not yet sated. One thing was certain, however, Rome was ever would soon be able to harness all of its might When Philip V received reports of the final stop his belligerent behavior. Instead, he began to take advantage of a weakening Since 207, Egypt had been caught in a downward Since the the final division of the Successor had been kept stable by a balance of power - Antigonid Macedon, Ptolemaic Egypt and the If one of the three was becoming too powerful, any one power from becoming hegemon and therefore world. This system began to break down in 205, when of native discontent with Ptolemaic rule and This ignited a devastating revolt which detached and the increasing ineffectual government This was not the end of it. Matters deteriorated even further in 204 when by his six year old son - Ptolemy V. Conflicts the Alexandrian regime even further and rendered Unfortunately for them, this was the worst world. The First Macedonian War between the Romans of the third century, and Seleucid king Antiochus Both of these great kings now hungrily eyed possessions, and Antiochus launched the Fifth disputed territories in Cyprus and Coele-Syria. The predatory Philip V of Macedon swiftly established good relations with the many Greek Bulldozing his way through the Aegean would earned the ire of both Rhodes and Pergamon, expansion and declared war in 201. Soon after, Philip defeated a joint Rhodian-Pergamene heavy losses, and then attacked Pergamon itself. Though Philip decisively defeated the land failed to take the city. Realising that attempts to do so would only of Caria and the Rhodian Peraia directly into In the Autumn, Philip's fleet was attacked win anyway. During winter of 201, a Rhodian fleet blockaded where the king apparently struggled to feed They knew that the king would break out at the war against Macedon, so the went west Ambassadors from the various anti-Macedon travelled to Rome, informing the senate of Antiochus III which would divide Ptolemaic It was these smaller, weaker Hellenistic polities into the Greek world, as they saw the main Antiochus and Philip, and not from Rome as As predicted, Philip managed to trick his of 200BC, eventually returning to Macedon. The northern Aegean campaign continued on the region until he reached Abydos, which Observing this blatant Macedonian aggression, monarchies and a seemingly resurgent Macedon, them a mandate for war. However, the people's assembly rejected weariness and the fact that Southern Italy Not at all demoralised by their initial failure, Galba the job of winning over the public assembly. By comparing the emerging Macedonian threat Hannibal, Galba was successful in persuading While the Roman military prepared its lines his siege at Abydos, three prominent senatorial in the east. Their message was clear to all: If Philip Pergamon for their losses, there would be The Macedonian king brashly rebuffed the Roman The Second Macedonian War had begun, and it committed mass suicide due to their reluctance In late November of 200BC the king returned had already landed in Apollonia under Galba, of Corcyra. Deciding to focus initially on the peripheral At the same time, Consul Galba conducted raids the campaign - notoriously sacking Antipatrea fifth century CE. After subsequently failing to invade Macedon was replaced by Publius Villius Tappalus. Things went even worse for Villius, as he the legions upon taking command. 2,000 veterans of the Second Punic War felt for too long, and refused to obey orders. The Roman forces were paralysed for a while, complaints and promised to raise them with As the situation cooled somewhat due to his near a gorge on the Aous river. Philip V had also arrived here not long before, position on the main route from Apollonia Villius' command had run its course and the Aous he was replaced by a vibrant member Flamininus. This passionate, hot tempered and generous as the governor of Tarentum, and in 198 was young to legally to do so. Nevertheless, Flamininus almost immediately troops accompanying him, ignoring the standard a new Consul would undertake in Rome. After reaching the Roman camp at the Aous, sent an envoy to demand negotiations with Roman. King and Consul faced off on opposite sides respective entourages of advisors and generals Philip attempted to bring Flamininus to a each annexed city would need to be different, However, Flamininus was not going to accept his mission was to liberate all Greeks from To this end, he demanded that Philip first been part of Macedon for 120 years. This intentionally irrational demand worked, and returning to his excellent defensive position. The Roman general wasted no time, and ordered with Philip's forces, engaging in projectile This distracted the Macedonians and their guided by an Epirote noble named Charops, mountains. Once this flanking force was in place, Flamininus being trapped in the Roman pincer. The loss of Philip's crucial baggage train loss of confidence that this defeat brought As the king returned with his bloodied army declared for the Romans or remained neutral, most powerful Greek ally. The subsequent campaign was indecisive for at Atrax and then retired for the winter. At the same time, Philip began preparing for even youths and old men for war. Peace talks failed when the glory-hunting him to break off negotiations. When spring came in 197 Philip marched south his army began to forage for supplies and Learning of the Macedonian presence, Flamininus to intercept Philip before he could withdraw. On a bleak, foggy morning, the two armies near a sloping ridge called Cynoscephalae. Before the battle begins, let us take a moment armies which came into contact on the hills Flamininus' field army consisted of two 20,000 lethal legionary infantry, with many 2,000 velites screened this core of the Roman war elephants protected its flanks. Along with these Italian forces, the Roman of Greek allies. 1,200 light infantry joined the army from as well as 400 cavalry from the Aetolian League. All in all, Flamininus had around 32,000 troops. On the other side of the ridge, Philip's were accompanied by 2,000 elite agema peltasts, Greek hoplite mercenaries and 2,000 Thessalian Each commander knew that their counterpart caused disorientation in the two armies. Philip set off marching in the morning, sending ridge's summit in order to get a better As they reached the top, ten Roman cavalry murk and attacked. Both scouting contingents suffered some casualties, commanders of what was happening on the Cynoscephalae Flamininus reacted swiftly, sending 2,000 as reinforcements. Their arrival swung the balance in favour force slowly withdrew to the top of the ridge, Even though the king did not wish to join not going to abandon his scouting party, and to reinforce it. This tipped the scales and the new reinforcements Polybius tells us that they almost routed skirmishing and harassment by the Aetolian At this moment in the morning the sun began visible on the slope visible to the Romans, forces losing. Witnessing the apparent defeat of the Roman army, but their commander handled the situation After ordering his entire army to form up troops at the base of the slope. He used all of the oratory skills that a prominent that "You've fought these men before, As this happened, the triumphant Antigonid Philip, urging the king to attack while momentum So, the order was given for the army to deploy Due to the unprepared nature of the encounter foraging, and he could only form up half of follow up when the others had returned. Having formed the right side of his line, up the slope, hoping to rush and rout the was screened by the agema peltasts and flanked On the other side of the ridge, Flamininus to reinforce the battle which was still going The heavy infantry's presence in the fight up the slope - many were killed while others Two half-armies were now marching up each but were still completely unaware that the slight fog still obscured sound and sight. It was because of this that the Roman left contingent cresting the hill in front of them into view of one another. The phalangists quickly organised into a double-depth down the slope at the unprepared Romans. The remnants of Flamininus' scouting force hit them. Metal pike heads clashed against the heavy the downhill charging and double-depth phalanx The Antigonid and Roman cavalry clashed on with one another, but the main clash was in Though the Roman left fought bravely and stubbornly but surely being chewed up by the bristling The encounter battle had started well for get better when Nicanor's larger contingent flank, in a rushed marching formation. Despite his best attempts at rallying the the line, Flamininus was being pushed back Realising his left would soon collapse under commander wheeled his horse and galloped over screened by the war elephants. Upon arriving, Flamininus ordered his forces at the disorganised men under Nicanors command, had no formed up. phalangists - the core of Philip's army, and the Romans now crushed them. Many Macedonian soldiers were killed outright, the legionaries. It appeared though the battle was in balance but Flamininus had crushed Nicanor. However, an unnamed Roman tribune, who must now managed to halt 20 maniples, or around mostly made up of veteran Triarii. Realising that things were not going well tribune marched his contingent of disciplined victorious phalanx of Philip from the rear. At the same time, the inspired and angry legionaries attack renewed their assault. This intuitive maneuver caused the inflexible were killed. Philip rode up and down the line in a vain realised it was hopeless and galloped off As the Romans were busy butchering the remaining occurred. A group of Macedonian phalangists performed their pikes directly to the sky. However, the furious legionaries charged in The battle was over and the legion had triumphed The Romans only lost around 700 dead, mostly ground under the attack. Antigonid casualties were catastrophic, with Humiliating peace terms were imposed on Philip had to evacuate all of Greece including Thessaly, Minor and Thrace. A large war indemnity was demanded, his navy to Rome as a hostage. Finally and most chafing, proud Philip would a puppet. This war broke any viable attempts at Macedonian After the peace conference at Tempe had been to prove definitively that it was Rome who During the Isthmian games of spring 196, Flamininus that senate, general and consul would leave autonomous after over a century of Macedonian Erupting with jubilation at their apparent the festivities and was showered with honours In Rome, the senate decreed five days of thanksgiving had never been higher. Also, at the games, Flamininus was met by of king Antiochus III, in order to congratulate Romans of their liege's peaceful intentions. Whatever reply they were hoping to receive, and demands . Antiochus was to keep away from those he had already seized and was ordered Now, we need to follow the admonished envoys Antiochus III, of the Roman demands. While Rome and Macedon were fighting at Cynoscephalae, was concluding the Fifth Syrian War against Egypt. By the last year of the conflict the realm Seleucus, became the biggest empire of its and other Asiatic holdings of the Ptolemies. So, it is not a surprise that Antiochus, who of the era, was angry at the Roman intrusion and was confident in his strength. In this period, Antiochus started creating probably planning to invade Ephesus Egypt. However, his fleet's movement to the west The small island wasn't strong enough to had a dominant navy, so Antiochus promised not create a base on Samos in exchange for With a war avoided, in 196 BC Antiochus took in Asia Minor, including the crucial Ephesus. He then decided to conquer the territory of which meant that he now had a perfect location The citizens of the nearby Lampsacus were sign of how things had changed in the last protection. At that point in time the cities in the area obviously knew that restoring Hellenic rule So, he traversed the Hellespont, first taking The fall of the latter forced other cities by rebuilding the city of Lysimacheia, which This might have impressed some of the Greeks, that Antiochus' takeover of Gallipoli was Roman politics was dominated by two men - the and the hero of the war against Carthage, The latter wanted to move troops into Greece prevailed, so the Republic sent a diplomatic leave Europe and return the Ptolemies their However, by the time it arrived, Antiochus marrying his daughter and the 10-year-old his son-in-law, he was not going to fight As negotiations continued, news arrived that Antiochus immediately broke off talks and confirming the Roman suspicions that the Seleucids We don't have all the details, but it is invasion of Cyprus, but the expedition ended Returning to the shore, Antiochus decided that Ptolemy wasn't dead. The campaign was over before it began; Antiochus and then returned to Ephesus. During this period the Seleucid ruler continued situation. Pergamon, ruled by the Attalid dynasty, was eager to change that, he attempted to marry II. The latter came to the conclusion that an rejected the offer, but Antiochus was unfazed of Cappadocia Ariarathes instead. At the same time, his diplomats brought rich to have the backing of the famed Celtic warriors. An event that happened 194 BC proves to the world was, however for the ancients itself complicated. Famous Carthaginian general Hannibal Barca the Seleucid court at Ephesus in the hopes Antiochus received him politely but, probably kept him at arm's length. The Romans, worried about Hannibal's arrival, Trying to sow discord between the king and more attention to the latter. Understanding that this put him in danger father Hamilcar compelled him to swear an This immediately improved the Carthaginian's Between 193 and 192 BC the Romans and Seleucids the Seleucid presence in Europe, but the talks Another regional power looking for allies Fearing that the Roman alliance with their envoys to Antiochus. In 192 BC, the Seleucid ruler agreed to enter the Aetolian assembly. Unexpectedly, the latter passed a resolution settle affairs between the Aetolians and Romans. Although Antiochus knew that it was a move this was an offer the king couldn't refuse promised that they would support him with The Roman historians claim that it was Hannibal the former was at that point in Syria. The first move of the war was made by the Spartan king Nabis, hoping to take over the but the locals rebelled and the invaders had Unfortunately for the Spartans they were left League entered the city and forced it to become forever in the process. The Aetolians weren't discouraged though, to land his army, they took control of the harbour. The king had a small navy that wasn't able a sacrifice to the goddess Athena at Ilium, autumn of 192 BC. It seems that the land route from Thrace through into the anti-Seleucid camp. Antiochus disembarked at Demetrias and moved assembly. Here he was received as a liberating hero Still, the king found himself in an awkward region and the liberator of Greece couldn't lacked a clear military target. In an absence of one, Antiochus once again First, he approached the crucial city of Chalcis, troops ever since the end of the 2nd Macedonian The King attempted to convince the city to had enough troops to take it by force, he and returned to Demetrias. Then he sent envoys to Athens, the Achaeans, The latter were either a Greek or Hellenized of the Diadochi Wars and agreed to help, while Cynoscephalae, was biding his time, and the with Rome. Things were much more dramatic on the Athenian the Romans, the democratic party Antiochus. The former invited the forces of the Achaean during which the Seleucid supporters were Rome knew of the Seleucid activity and the with more than 20,000 Romans and Italics. Despite the fact that they outnumbered Antiochus, aggressor, so they didn't declare war, but in check. Unfortunately for the Romans, they had to of Chalcis asked for reinforcements, Baebius We can assume that this was the last straw to block the narrow Euripus strait between with the remainder of his army. By the time the Roman contingent reached the so it continued south to wait for transports Shortly after this unit was surrounded and war that would be later called the Seleucid Some sources claim that the Romans had already reached Antiochus after the skirmish at Delium. Still hopeful to get the Achaeans and the Antiochus allowed the garrison of Chalcis Soon the rest of Euboea capitulated to the His next targets were the cities of the Boeotian Thessalian League, created by the Romans after Antiochus still attempted to negotiate, however started to mobilize under the cover of these and captured the league's main city, Pherai, He then moved into the League's territory, over most of the cities in the region, save by the Seleucids. While the siege was ongoing, Antiochus sent In a symbolic gesture, his soldiers buried battlefield. By doing that the Seleucid ruler was trying to the barbarous Romans, and how much more The latter considered this gesture a direct Baebius immediately entered negotiations with military access. A 2000-strong legionary detachment under Appius force. The details are unclear, but apparently the a larger camp full of extra campfires to exaggerate Although sources assume that Antiochus was attack was imminent, and raised the siege, situation. In any case, he soon started his retreat to Both sides were now waiting for spring. In Chalcis, Antiochus decided that another he tied a knot himself with a daughter of Greek nobles, who ruled in the majority of Such royal marriages were common in the east sexual activity detrimental to war-making. Additionally, during the celebrations, the of their Macedonian brethren of drinking undiluted activity further diminished his standing. During his stay on the island, Antiochus continued He also sent messengers to Asia, ordering The Romans were not idle. The alliance with the Achaean League, Pergamon, the year, a supporter of Scipio - Manius Acilius army to Greece. In a show of how crucial this war was for Cato and Valerius Flaccus - were chosen by It is also remarkable that both legates belonged the rival parties put their differences aside While the main army was crossing the Adriatic, a diplomatic tour of Achaea and Athens, sarcastically letters and fights with pen and ink". Before Glabrio reached Illyria in March, Baebius the Seleucid garrisons in Thessaly. The only major anti-Roman force in the region quickly, followed by the Seleucid garrisons, in his campaign in Thessaly. Antiochus, meanwhile, consolidated his forces to take control of it and put pressure on to his. Acarnania was also important in terms of gaining line between Italy and the Achaean League. The city of Medeon joined the Seleucid cause now had more than 35 thousand troops in the army from Philip, so the Acarnanians and Epirotes Antiochus' army, even with the additions There were no allies to find in Greece and possibly due to the allied Rhodian and Attalid Outnumbered 2-to-1, he couldn't stay in threatening his supply and retreat lines. At the same time, he didn't want to abandon Initially, the allies decided to defend at an opportunity to outflank them, so in a true This famous location had seen numerous last was a natural choke point, defended by Mount and the waters of the Malian Gulf from the Still, as Leonidas and Xerxes discovered 300 position had a fatal flaw: A small army could passage, but the mountains had numerous paths Both armies were culturally steeped in Greek this. With a few thousand Aetolians left to guard around 12 thousand footmen and only 500 horsemen. As the Roman cavalry outnumbered their counterparts narrow passage to avoid being outflanked. The king sent 2 groups of Aetolians 1 thousand mountain paths. He then built a wall covering the gate, placing His skirmishers were positioned on the high to send their missiles against the advancing front of the walls with the peltasts in ahead Similarly, the Romans had 2/3 of their troops and blockading Heraclea. Glabrio knew that he couldn't capture the attack at the narrow chokepoint and tie-up Two groups under Cato and Flaccus, each 2 take the mountain passes. According to some sources, the Roman camp the battle, so Glabrio was forced to leave it. Sources depicting the battle are somewhat We know that Flaccus was ordered to take the There are authors who suggest that this unit claims that the Romans met Aetolians, but weren't able to break through, losing dozens Cato's onslaught against the Aetolians at Apparently, the Romans caught some of the many, but soon the hoplites managed to form an advantage. Simultaneously, the main Roman force attacked The volleys of the skirmishers and peltasts Romans locked their shields and continued by the field artillery. Seeing that the Romans were getting close, while his pikemen moved forward forming a That is where the Romans suffered most of able to reach the phalangites and it was impossible Slowly, but surely the phalanx pushed the However, by the early morning, the forces as he outnumbered the Aetolians 4-to-1 and Eventually, the Romans broke the hoplite line Shortly, both groups were on the plain, with The phalanx learned that it's rear was now attempts to stop them, fled to the camp in Still, Cato's detachment entered the camp the Romans shortly after, so the phalangites It was now every man for himself. Antiochus abandoned his forces with his cavalry were either killed or taken captive. Livy claims that the Romans lost 200 men, After finishing off the survivors, the Romans against Heraclea, a formidable fortress with its west by Mount Oeta, and a citadel on low The fortress was relatively modest in size, the whole wall. At the same time, the walls were short which their decisive numerical superiority. Glabrio sent a message to the leader of the but this was refused, so the Romans prepared rams. When the siege began, the legionaries assaulted of the front didn't allow them to overwhelm burning some of the rams, and shoving the The first assault failed. However, the Romans had more troops, so fresh attacked on the next day. The garrison didn't have this luxury, which even more. This continued for 23 days, but eventually, His soldiers were ordered to return to the attack. This made the exhausted Aetolians complacent houses. Late at night, a group of legionaries was make as much noise as possible. Glabrio also commanded his legate Tiberius sector of the fortifications. The noise woke up the Aetolians and they started the Romans, but the other group was already Seeing that, the Aetolians vacated their positions The Roman commander allowed his soldiers to devising plans to take the citadel. His engineers started building siege engines while the rest of the troops formed up surrounding The Aetolians had almost no food left, but, so Damocritus capitulated. We don't have the numbers, but it is possible than during the battle of Thermopylae. After the defeat at Thermopylae the king retreated There was a possibility he could defend the but it was scrapped when Glabrio moved south, the Roman navy commanded by Aulus Atilius Andros. So, the king started his journey back to Asia There were many reasons Antiochus was defeated factors: Roman diplomacy and logistics were buy into the notion that the Seleucid king his Aetolian allies didn't commit all of Glabrio did not have a force big enough to to concentrate against the Aetolians. He moved north again and took Lamia, putting The latter sent messengers to Antiochus in so they could continue fighting. Money wasn't a problem for the wealthy king, funds. Despite the fact that the money helped the cause in Greece was getting weaker. The small garrisons of Demetrias and Elis falling into Achaean control, while Glabrio in July. The siege continued for two months, but then a ceasefire. Aetolian messengers and Flamininus then traveled while Glabrio's army went to its winter Meanwhile, events were transpiring on the Seleucid admiral Polyxenidas had around 40 ordered by Antiochus to watch out for a possible with 30 thousand troops to Lysimachia to defend The details are scarce, but by August, Polyxenidas probably quadriremes. The new Roman admiral in the area was the He took command of the navy which had been and started sailing to unite with Atilius' As this was before the ceasefire was agreed Kefalonia and Zakynthos along the way, putting In August he reached Attica, and his fleet large warships. Both sides knew what they had to do: The Romans allies to have equal numbers, while Polyxenidas' happening and take on each of the enemies In September the Seleucid navarch learned to Elaea, and that Livius was to the north Phokaia. However, at some point he lost the Roman fleet Rhodians, so he went for Samos. This was a mistake, as a week or so later commanded by king Eumenes II, bringing their The allies started chasing Polyxenidas and called Cissus. In a short battle, the Seleucid fleet lost Even defeated, Polyxenidas was undeterred to surprise the Rhodian fleet and destroy However, the effects of this victory were and another navy from Rhodes under Eudorus so he took the only remaining safe route to Attacking a navy in a dock protected by land blockaded Polyxenidas for now. At the same time, the Republic was planning king was asked to secure the Hellespont. Eumenes' approach to the Hellespont put He wanted to keep Gallipoli in order to continue navy blockaded in Ephesus and with no way danger that Antiochus wouldn't be able to kingdom of Bithynia and the city of Byzantion and could have prevented King's army from So, the king moved back to Asia Minor and he needed to defend the city, in case of Polyxenidas' Antiochus detached his heir Seleucus to attack to attack Elaea. By that time, another Roman praetor - Lucius he was forced to send a portion of his navy Attalid war effort, while Eumenes rushed to Again, we don't know all the details, but successful in their raiding, but not strong The campaign ended when a small Achaean contingent besieging it. Seleucus returned to his father, but overall, on Polyxenidas enough for when Antiochus sent the Romans really considered the offer and The Seleucid leader needed his fleet to break ordering Hannibal to move his navy towards We don't know what the king was thinking never led a navy, to command one, but apparently, and phenomenal organizational skills to form His movement west was noticed by the allies to intercept him before Hannibal reached their The two navies met to the southeast of modern We don't have the specifics, but Hannibal's Ironically, this naval battle would be the general. With half of the allied navy on different equal in size. It is not clear if Aemilius broke it off due Polyxenidas out, but when the Romans left also sailed out, in hopes of surprising the However, at the battle of Myonessus, the heavier to be superior yet again. Polyexinadas was forced to disengage after Ephesus. After this battle, the Seleucids were outnumbered could cross into Asia Minor without resistance. Antiochus was aware of this fact and started In the aftermath of the battle of Thermopylae, returned to their bickering. During the elections of 190 BC, Scipio's its members became consuls, one of them the - another veteran of the 2nd Punic War, On top of that, Africanus managed to get his with himself as a legate. Being a war party, the Scipios also rebuked to achieve peace. While the Scipios were preparing their forces were informed that the ceasefire was over, Learning that the League's forces were defending would prove difficult, Glabrio turned against The propraetor's next target was Amphissa. The city was besieged, managing to resist The Romans now had more than 50 thousand troops was about to be over and the Romans didn't so when the latter asked for another ceasefire, of 1000 talents. Afterwards, the Romans turned towards Macedon In exchange for forgiveness of the war indemnity, territorial gains, Philip not only supplied his kingdom, but 2 thousand of his warriors In November of 190 BC the Scipios finally Antiochus is often accused of making a mistake in the area could have slowed down the Romans, available forces together for a general battle. That can be seen from the fact that the Roman anything to retake it. Shortly the Gallipoli peninsula was controlled At this point in time, Antiochus attempted his side, but his diplomatic overtures failed crossed the Hellespont in late November. In Asia, the Scipios were greeted by an envoy the king was ready to pay half of the expenses the cities in Thrace and Troada. His offer was rejected and the counteroffer the lands to the north and west of the Taurus Some sources claim that Africanus' son Publius skirmish and Antiochus offered to return him The victor of Zama didn't budge and replied Antiochus III a bit of useful advice: the to avoid battle with the Romans. With the negotiations failing the legions in December. Scipios were worried that Lucius' command so they were eager to fight the battle before Antiochus was at Thyatira where he received He then relocated to the north of Magnesia this was the best place to stop the Romans A few days later the army of the Roman Republic The Seleucid army constructed a walled camp tributary Phrygius, with some of the infantry cavalry to the west of Phrygius. On the 15th, the first legionary units arrived Initially, the Romans lacked numbers, and by the enemy missile units, but more of them At this point, the order was given to the to heavy casualties. Another group of Scipio's troops entered Galatians, who retreated with losses. The clashes continued for a day, as Antiochus numbers of the Romans made the defense of forcing the river in other places, too, so After moving across, Scipios started erecting but were attacked yet again. The building of the camp was stopped a few get into a battle line and push the king's After hours of skirmish, the camp was finally The Seleucids had much more cavalry than their camp in the narrowest part of the valley, his advantage in the number of horsemen and formed up in front of their fortifications. This continued for 4 days, with neither side But January was coming, so it was the Romans However, Antiochus still didn't think that repositioned even closer to the enemy camp. The king considered the battlefield satisfactory The always controversial topic of the sizes Our main sources for the battle are Roman and neither was kind to Antiochus. According to them, the Seleucids outnumbered It seems that both think that 25 thousand further events that we will talk about disproves were equal in size, each around 70 thousand. Scipio commanded an army made up of 20 thousand than 10 thousand Achaeans, Macedonians, Thracians, 20 thousand principes, 8 thousand triarii, They were supported by 4000 cavalry, majority 1000 Attalid heavy cavalry, 3000 Pergamene and others. The Romans had 16 North African elephants, the bigger and more ferocious Seleucid Indian Opposing them were 34 thousand heavy footmen, silver shield hypaspists, 3 thousand Galatian 23 thousand light and missile infantry, among skirmishers. As we mentioned before, Antiochus' army heavy cavalry made up of Armenian and Iranian Macedonian elite, and 4000 light horsemen Asia Minor fighting as Tarentines. The king also had 54 elephants and an unknown The Roman center and left wing, which was legionaries in 3 lines - a traditional triplex reinforced by 1000 Roman horsemen and the The right anchored by the Hermos had Achaean 3 thousand cavalrymen in the second. Various units of skirmishers and velites formed allies remained to defend the camp, commanded The consul Lucius Scipio commanded the center, Gnaeus Domitius Ahenobarbus the left. Scipio Africanus had suffered from sickness Lucius who was the overall commander. On the other side of the plain, the Seleucid around all the phalangites and Galatian infantry, elephants between each battalion, for a total Antiochus himself commanded the right wing 16 elephants and light Dahae cavalry behind The Kings heir's Seleucus was leading the horsemen. In front of his force was a unit of scythed cavalry formed the 2nd line, with the peltasts The primary sources fail to place the missile conclude that the skirmishers and the Arab Again, our understanding of the early stage It was customary for the skirmishers to open in this engagement too. In this case, it is possible to deduce that Livy mentions that it rained prior to the who relied on bowstrings, were at a disadvantage. After suffering casualties, Antiochus' archers as the Roman skirmishers moved forward, it to the front, as they tended to become frenzied The Seleucid center then closed its ranks. With no light footmen to defend the line, counterattack. A scythed chariot was a fearsome weapon against in a loose formation, so when the chariots the enemy through. Skirmishers then turned and started sending then sent his light cavalry to attack them. Many horses and riders were killed and the behind their lines. At this point, the Arab camel archers were the Seleucid officers knew that the camel's the chariot corps. This backfired spectacularly, as the chariot anymore and basically smashed into their own The details are scarce, but the Seleucid left the full force of the king of Pergamon. The light cavalry and the infantry weren't the hetairoi and cataphracts were much more as an attacking force. Slowly but surely, they were first pushed Things were completely different on the Seleucid the battlefield was 5 kilometers, which prohibited Seeing his missile infantry on the backfoot, then counterattacked with his heavy and light This charge quickly scattered the enemy in The cavalry then got into a single line on left, who were marching forward behind their battlefield. Ahenobarbus attempted to widen his front by the flank. This wasn't enough: the Roman horsemen were was now open to further attacks. Apparently, the Seleucids destroyed the enemy the camp. Hundreds died in this chase, but eventually Here Lepidus attempted to form a line, but ordered to kill the retreating legionaries. The harsh treatment finally stopped those Buoyed by the Macedonian pikes the Roman line and Antiochus. The king's light cavalry was supposed to by the riches of the camp, which gave the the walls of the camp. Antiochus hadn't received any news from to attack the pikes, so he ordered his warriors Meanwhile, the Roman center pushed forward, that their center would be surrounded, attempted Indeed, soon the center of the Antiochus' For some time, the Romans tried to use their too effective. Eumenes and Scipio knew that the Seleucid a unit of cavalry to block him and commanded The phalangites formed a pike wall and attempted was difficult while they were attacked from Antiochus's cavalry easily broke the unit the phalanx was finally broken and its desperate cavalry. Some units were able to retreat from the battlefield, army was either killed or captured. We don't have a good source for the Roman they were in the thousands. Antiochus' decision to place himself on the biggest mistake he made, as it precluded on his left. In the aftermath of the battle, Antiochus Romans took Sardis. The king wanted to continue fighting, as his army, but even the mightiest kings should two decisive defeats, and both the courtiers BC Antiochus sent envoys to discuss the terms. The Roman demands were steep, but the Seleucids empire had to withdraw from lands to the west 15,000 talents as war indemnity. Antiochus had to give up Hannibal and a number to participate in any wars in Europe. The king also gave away all of his elephants future. The Seleucids were only allowed to keep a The Romans took 20 hostages, including the The peace would not be signed until the next senate, but in the end, the Seleucid lands while the territories in Asia were divided This weakened the Seleucid empire. Antiochus was killed by a mob in Babylon in who were already somewhat autonomous, rebelled The Seleucid dynasty would rule for another shrink. In 189, Rome sent two new consuls to Greece The first - Gnaeus Manlius Vulso not only terms of the treaty, but also went to war The Galatian War, that the Romans won handily, was remarkable for two reasons: it showed and was the first time a Roman general declared this set a precedent that would lead to the While all that was happening in the east, in early 189 and using the absence of the of Macedon and easily pushed him out of Thessaly. However, soon the second consul Marcus Fulvius Supported by the Epirotes, he besieged Ambracia from Macedon, as they were worried about being Although Ambracia managed to resist for months, be able to fight on without the Seleucids, negotiations with Rome. Again, the demands were heavy, but the Aetolians lost half of its members and territory, and policy without Rome's approval. Although technically independent, the League In 184 the second son of Philip V - Demetrius, After Cynoscephalae Demetrius was the boy emerged from that experience a committed Romanophile. This only intensified when the senate decided support, and he returned to Macedon in 184 Macedonian court politics during this period While the Seleucid conflict was raging, the over the Roman issue, and it was almost as One of these circles consisted of those advisors with Rome, and was gathered around Demetrius. On the other hand, another group formed around and was packed with firebrands who advocated Both factions began an underhand war of propaganda as weapons. Perseus' mother was routinely slandered Therefore, it was implied that Perseus was younger sibling. Demetrius realised that, despite his friendliness father and became certain that his days were He made a mistake at this point, confiding named Didas, telling him he planned to flee This man promptly told Philip, who also discovered for the throne'. Despite it probably being a forgery, Didas the order of Philip. This was the only dynastic murder of the entire in hostility between Rome and Macedon. The situation destabilised even further in Philip V passed away in Amphipolis while preparing With his rival Demetrius also dead, Perseus He did what new Antigonid kings always had and building new ones. Rivals to the throne were eliminated and, to send emissaries to the senate hoping for to the throne. Reluctantly, this was granted. On the diplomatic front, Perseus also entered with the various Greek city-states, making in Greece. Naturally, this was to the great annoyance Furthermore, to the east, Perseus astutely and the king himself married the daughter So in addition to playing nice with the Greeks, of useful allies in Asia Minor, much to the from these affairs. Its king - Eumenes II, played his kingdom's Roman lords in the west. Initial insistences and warnings by Eumenes primarily because they wished to keep their In 175 and 174, repeated Roman warnings to Moreover, he performed a grand spectacle of through Delphi - the sacred centre of the The message was clear: HE was the protector Increasingly urgent embassies from Pergamon and in early 172 Eumenes himself came to plead He not only repeated previous claims that preparations and resolution for war against 189 had allowed Macedon to fully recover its Finally, the Pergamene king played his trump it would be utterly disgraceful if I failed here with his army.". Cynically playing on the tradition post-Hannibalic got his way. The subsequent diplomatic pressure and investigations self-fulfilling prophecy, as the king could Therefore, he was required to take steps to Philip V may have been the aggressor in the for conflict with Perseus. Roman envoys sent to negotiate a truce with him into thinking there was even a chance In fact, the truce was purely a measure in prepare for war, as they refitted a fleet from Brundisium to Apollonia. This Roman 'new cunning' of deception from all quarters. More traditionalist senators remembered a as honoured and honourable men. It turned out that such methods were no way Whatever the case, the Roman senate had decided in Greece was to have no equals at all. The Antigonid monarchy had to disappear, and Roman consul Publius Licinius Crassus crossed order to take control of the legions there. At the same time, Eumenes of Pergamon arrived 6,000 infantry and 1,000 cavalry of his own. At sea the Romans had unquestioned mastery vessels, only retaining Eumenes' assistance. They only wanted the help of those allies to be indebted to friends such as the Rhodians their wartime performance. Meanwhile, Perseus advanced south into Thessaly just to the south of Mount Ossa, having taken rebuild. At the same time, Licinius secured the Greek Athamania. When the consul arrived at the Greek city by a hill called Callinicus, where he was As the Macedonians had grown bolder due to Perseus decided to match them toward the Roman away. After resting his army for the night, Perseus his cavalry, as well as the light infantry The phalangists stayed behind in reserve. Odrysian king Cotys IV commanded the Thracian the left flank, while Macedonian horsemen by Midon of Beroea. Both wings were flanked by the King's Cavalry nations, while the centre was made up of Perseus' in front. Opposite the Macedonians, Licinius' field their camp's ramparts, sending their own The Roman right wing, commanded by Caius Licinius velites scattered between them, while the Greek allied cavalry and infantry on the left. In the centre, Quintus Mucius led a force cavalry. Missile fire from javelins and sling stones on both sides before Cotys' Thracian horsemen They fought like wild beasts, according to right wing cavalry. At the same time, Perseus and his elite agema Believing he could turn the battle into a order his phalanx into the battle, but was the Cretan. Thanking Euander for his wise counsel and withdrew back to his camp. 200 Roman cavalry and 2000 infantry had died, Further skirmishes followed this battle, but over. The Romans proceeded to occupy themselves Boeotia. Haliartus was completely annihilated after and the town remained desolate for decades This type of increasingly notorious Roman victory at Callinicus, made the Macedonian Most who believed this were still too frightened of Epirus did defect. One setback after another appeared to be striking only compounded when Perseus launched a successful ships and spoiling grain supplies. Despite these republican failures and Macedonian grind Rome to victory, he needed a decisive By the end of 169, Rome's position in Greece of the new consul - Lucius Aemilius Paullus Roman cause in Greece. The first century Greek biographer Plutarch Aemilii patrician family did not even want failed during his run for a second term. However, his previous victories against the The senate believed him to be the best candidate again. Eventually, overwhelmed by the constant requests elected and immediately given the Macedonian Plutarch also tells us that after his election his daughter in distress. Naturally, the father asked what was the matter. His daughter, embracing Aemilius with sad little dog was dead. That dog's name, so the story goes, was Possibly apocryphal stories aside, the force two especially strengthened Roman and allied heavy infantry. The allied legions now comprised various peoples enemies of Rome, such as the Etruscans and Supporting the heavy troops were thousands troops and Greek allies. 4,000 cavalry also mounted up in the Roman Numidian cavalry under their prince Misagenes. With the North African troops also came 22 Perseus meanwhile had around 44,000 foot and 21,000 of the infantry comprised the fearsome formation, which reached a mile in length. Supporting this moving wall of pikes were javelinmen and Illyrian archers. After advancing into Thessaly in the summer at the foot of mount Olympus, where he had The Antigonids were dug in on the west bank and had easy access to the nearby town of With typical Roman grit, it seems like the not bother the legionaries and, eager to redeem to attack immediately As a retort, Aemilius the fact that they would fight when and how In order to dislodge Perseus from his defensive - Publius Cornelius Scipio Nasica, to launch infantry and 5,000 legionaries. Under the cover of darkness, he would march Perseus. This might have gotten the jump on Macedon's army defected and informed his fellow Greeks Reacting immediately to this alarming news, Macedonians and 10,000 Thracian mercenaries Though Nasica hadn't expected this resistance, charge. The mountain fighting in the narrow defiles himself supposedly came toe to toe with a the pilum javelin. Rome's legionaries doggedly stabbed and routing the Macedonians, who then fled back defeat. Realising that the loss of this mountain pass king immediately decamped and marched away While Aemilius moved through the mountain Mount Olocrus, Perseus drew up his army behind of Pydna. The handpicked field of battle was fantastic position atop a small ridge and behind the Aemilius knew this and so did not advance The general's officers, especially Nasica, immediately. Stoically, Aemilius smiled and advised Nasica of attacking a phalanx on such ground. The Romans did not waste their time, and constructed When darkness had fallen and the soldiers and sleeping in their tents, the moon suddenly dull red. The superstitious men in the Macedonian camp was apparently a bad omen. A moon which seemed to bleed red, had Zeus At the same time, the equally pious Romans A military tribune of the Roman army - Caius The day before, he approached his general soldiers, informing them that such an event on the following night. He urged the soldiers not to see such a thing and natural thing. Therefore, when the eclipse did occur, the in offering sacrifices to the Greek gods, The gestures worked and the Roman soldier's With both leaders engaging one another in a spark for the flames to ignite. Said spark came in the form of a misbehaving In order to fill up jugs of water for the a small train of mules was led down to a stream Like the stubborn creatures they are, one the water and bolted away from its handlers. The water-gatherers ran after it, and discovered were doing the same. Moreover, the enemy was attempting to steal The irritated, frustrated and scorching Roman and a brawl broke out over the animal. Runners on both sides went to get help, while Perseus saw an opportunity to draw the Romans and marched his entire army out of the camp The Romans could see what was going on from angrily to be allowed to march out and fight. Aemilius risked mutiny if he refused and so, After only allowing his legions a brief amount advance, aiming to save the men at the stream. At that moment, the marching phalangists were In unison, the first five ranks held their kept them at a 45 degree angle. Then, they advanced. Against the barely armoured Roman light troops, the phalangists met almost no serious resistance, Valiantly trying to buy the Romans more time, his unit's standard and threw it into the This galvanised the pressured soldiers, and This resulted in massive casualties, but slowed men to escape. Aemilius' main force was now closing in, threw their missiles at the phalanx, mostly The legionary heavy infantry, having witnessed comrades, became frightened and began to slow They saw the sheer size of the steamroller to wane. Aemilius had to act right now, otherwise his on the flat ground. So, the general ordered an immediate withdrawal the foothills once again. Owing to the phenomenal discipline of the successfully, and Aemilius now had some breathing Wheeling his horse to the right flank, he forward, with a mass of cavalry behind them. The Thracian and mercenary skirmishers immediately for dealing with elephants, but they were missiles. The elephant vanguard caught them on a bad left wing. The cavalry then streamed around the elephants the agema on the leftmost edge of the phalanx The victorious Roman right wing chased the to reform slightly behind Perseus' line. Throughout this battle on the edge of the legions into the foothills and onto rough With the infantry screen already gone, the drove into the phalanx's vulnerable left. At the same time, gaps gradually began to uneven terrain. Aemilius took full advantage of this, riding to attack. Whether or not he was heard, the Roman centurions into the now-exposed arteries of the Macedonian The pressure now began to mount. Fighting in unfavourable close quarters combat slowly fragment. Aemilius, who had retreated to a position of Antigonid troops fleeing from the rear The coup de grace was delivered by the now-regrouped The elephants and cavalry now charged at the routed it. Last to fall were the 3,000 elite agema of Not a single one of these valiant men fled king fled on his horse. One of the greatest phalanxes ever had been legacy was finally buried, the legion would 20,000 of Perseus' troops were killed and himself. This man, who was to be the final Antigonid removing his royal robes and taking refuge When brought before Aemilius, Perseus wept Given the 'title' of Macedonicus by the triumph and rode through Rome on his chariot. The treasures of Macedon and his victorious Finally, Perseus followed them in chains, Macedon proved to be too dangerous for Rome aftermath of the war, the Antigonid monarchy each with a capital, and elected officials, The regions were allowed to keep small garrisons not allowed to have an independent foreign intermarry. Their economy was further weakened by an excessive gold and silver mining, logging, and shipbuilding. On top of that, the Romans enacted revenge 70 of their cities were destroyed and 150 All this caused resentment and impoverishment, Soon those who would use this appeared on A youth called Andriskos, born in Adramyttium to the late Macedonian king Perseus, and in listen that he was the king's son Philip rule over Macedon. Andriskos traveled to Macedon but failed to happy with Roman rule. He then attempted to get the assistance of had his internal problems and didn't want sent into Roman custody. The Senate didn't consider Andriskos to to live in custody, but managed to run away He once again started looking for supporters Andriskos then traveled to Thrace, where the Roman influence, supported him, giving him We don't know all the details but in early The nobles attempted to gather a force to in Odomantice. Thus, Andriskos became the king as Philip Pro-roman nobles lost their standing, while The Fourth Macedonian War had begun. In the same year, he invaded the Roman-allied The timing was perfect, as the best generals during the Third Punic War and fighting in The Roman commander in the area, Publius Cornelius negotiating with Andriskos, hoping to buy Pergamene garrisons to join him. Indeed, the general was reinforced by these This was a signal to Andriskos that his enemies crushed the allies, taking over most of Thessaly. Inspired, Andriskos sent envoys to Carthage The winter stopped the hostilities, but the A veteran of the Third Macedonian War, praetor form another army, and in early 148 his legions In the past, the Roman armies landed in Epirus there, but Metellus decided to outsmart his his way south. This threatened Andriskos' kingdom and forced The two sides met at the same place the fate years ago - Pydna. Unfortunately, we don't know much about is a mystery. The battle started when the cavalry vanguards Macedonian horsemen had the upper hand, sending Emboldened by that Andriskos sent some of the conquest. Soon the main bodies of the armies were close Once again, the details are lost to time and their traditional phalanx, but initially the and it seemed that the battle would come down That is when Andriskos was betrayed by the Telestos. The Macedonian center was attacked from all After the battle, Andriskos attempted to flee draw the ire of the victors even more. Andriskos was captured and given to the Romans, This was the end of the Fourth Macedonian This time Macedon didn't even get a semblance Commanded by the Senate, Metellus turned Macedon, into the province of Macedonia and became However, the situation was getting volatile Sparta, now led by Menalcidas, had been trying some time. In 147 BC, their delegation went to Rome to the Romans were able to respond, Spartan territory Damocritus. Menalcidas was defeated, but the Achaeans For that Damocritus was deposed and replaced That is when a Roman embassy arrived to meet Unexpectedly for the Achaeans, the embassy but also demanded Argos, Corinth, and Orchomenus, The Achaeans obviously refused and sent their to be rescinded. The Senate said no. It was clear that the Achaean league and other Macedon and Epirus, so, joined by the Boeotians on the Roman Republic, starting the Achaean Another anti-Roman strategos - Critolaos - was marched for Thessaly. However, before they were able to reach Thermopylae, at a place called Scarpheia in Locris. The Greeks didn't expect a battle; their Afterwards, the Roman governor continued south. The Argives attempted to stop his advance Diaeus took over command in Achaea and in army, hoping to defend at the isthmus of Corinth. Unfortunately for him, the Roman army was well as a Pergamene detachment, bringing its The two sides met at a place called Leukapetra. Once again, we don't have much in terms Apparently, the Romans didn't want to charge the enemy 2-to-1. For some time, the Roman army remained in as Diaeus was able to use his light infantry The next day, the Romans marched directly by the Pergamene navy, Diaeus was forced to The two infantry bodies clashed in the center However, Diaeus had very few horsemen and cavalry destroyed their counterparts and then The battle was effectively over and the whole In the aftermath, the Romans razed Corinth, were killed, all women and children enslaved, This left Rome without trading rivals in the oppose the Republic, the Achaean League, Aetolian entire region was added to the Province of Greece would remain under Roman control for and an attempt by Greek cities to support The Roman takeover of Greece was a prime example the Republic managed to ally with one faction states, and leagues constantly divided, until Still, Greek culture flourished and over the Pax Romana, Christianity, the Muslim Golden of Enlightenment. We will talk about Greek and Roman history Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and