When we imagine what it would be like to of enjoying an elaborate banquet in reclined among the upper classes it doesn't reflect the Instead these individuals would for a dine in or take out experience with of this from a variety of archaeological sites, at Pompeii which shows the fantastically In this video we will seek to bring by rebuilding these establishments, and taking a seat with their customers. Max Miller from Tasting History who can So today let's explore what like to experience the street as we dive into the variety of food the huge diversity of units which exist in rise of kingdoms is a free-to-play mobile strategy with awesome historical what-if match-ups own unique bonuses architecture and units led and scipio africanus to add yet more variety the ragnarok brook and bjorn ironside leading the on a shared map to build cities form alliances kingdom in real-time combat progress across the you can support the channel by click the link in the description below to claim and massive in-game resources using the gift in the promotional contest with tons of cool We can begin by resetting our expectations All too often courses and books leave the false filled with copy-pasted versions These were buildings whose floor plan provided a main entrance, a living room, a storage a study, and some bed rooms, all of which In reality though most people would Rather they would have lived in the Roman version multi-storied dwellings filled the city and are But without any regulations on their construction, cheap, cramped spaces for their occupants. In such alone cooking. Thus the vast crowds of apartment What developed was a massive food service spread across Rome. These fit into For instance public buildings like baths and while the first floors of apartments and space that could be run by the owners or rented known collectively as tabernae, provided You'd find metalworkers, woodworkers, potters, butchers, fishmongers, produce merchants, and video we will be focused on the tabernae which For most of the day, the tabernae would be At closing time they would be boarded The shopkeeps might then walk home if they were they were owners. To give you a sense for just how identified some 200 bars, taverns and shops where that about 40% of Pompeii's 12,000 citizens So what did these shops look like on the inside? remains of Ostia, Pompeii and Herculaneum. Here was the snack bar known as the popina. Its meant to draw in customers. Immediately facing around waist height and had a marble or stone orders. As such it had several key features. The access to in-built round amphorae known as dolia These in turn were often heated by a small to cover them while not in use. The end effect Another feature of this front bar was a small It would have been used to hold plates, cups, Just behind the bar would have been Often you'd see a small oven for food preparation, dishes, a rack of amphorae for drinks or sauces, vegetables, fruit, herbs, and cheese. Depending on with the curtained doorways leading to the though might have some additional floorspace So what would be on the menu at these sorts of and meal to meal. Broadly speaking though appetite might desire. The store owners were often decorated their stores with evocative Examination of the sewers of Herculaneum Here are a few tables summarizing this At the very low end of the menu would beans, and boiled or roasted chickpeas. have cost you little more than an As, Rome's tiny The rich often looked down on calling them derisively a ciceris At a tier slightly above this you Paying a sestertius, or 2 1/2 Asses, you could get spices or real bread and pastries. You could also or grown locally in the urban gardens. These would figs, cabbage, beats, apples, pears, and all A clever owner might put the to appear even juicier for his customers. These Starting at this price you could also This might mean getting straight up cuts of meat Alternatively you could get other desired bits and vulva or byproducts like eggs and cheese. Seafood anchovies, mackerel, cod, eel, squid, cuttlefish, Each of these items may have been sold of sauces and spices, the most common seasonings However it was quite common to see separate For instance, at a slight premium, skewers, sausages, wraps, and sandwiches. Another important menu item would be your go-to refreshment would have been wine. One mixing wine-vinegar with water, and some herbs. This involved mixing warmed wine and water with get you a small bowl's worth of these beverages If you had a sestertius or two to spend, the his table wines. A few more coins and you could Ancient Romans had both red and white wines which Just as today, each region had its reputation. inscription we've found at Pompeii, it for two, you can drink the best; Now that we've laid out the options, we For starters it must be said that the The first, ientaculum, occurred in the morning. dipped in wine or olive oil and perhaps The second, prandium, occurred at noon. meant to tide them over to dinner. However for the This is when you'd get your bread, meat, nuts, The final meal, cena, took place in the enjoy an elaborate, multi-course feast. The poor and thus would have had a relatively lighter cena would have provided food for these various meals At this point I want to pass you over briefly who can give you some insight on what Roman cooking from both sides of the kitchen: Thanks for the insight Max. Now in terms of the actual dining experience, place of choice. At peak hours this could stretch support this, it's possible that there may have I've conjured up a few franchise ideas for As you approached, you would be treated to all up your appetite. Upon reaching the counter be listed on the wall, made apparent by the food made your selection you would pay up. Prices For some items it was a fixed price It seems that the coinage would go into a which was usually just an empty pot. At archaeologists for instance have found around For the truly fast food shops your food and drink the amphora as you watched. For others it might to bring you the order. Meal in hand you could or take out? Small shops only really offered a spilling out into the street. These would fill two of tables where you'd be more likely to find a expect to be reclining unless it was evening Should you choose to stay you'd be People would be chatting and laughing If you left, your food would often be carried made from cloth or random bits of paper. Martial end up as a "greasy food wrapper." This food might evidenced by the remains we find in the latrines take out food would be consumed along the streets. could meet up with family and friends. As people of such boards being scratched out into the reminiscent of the thriving street food cultures If you really wanted to make meal time a These also served food and drink, but offered significantly more floor space. and they were often associated with all of drunkenness, rowdiness, prostitution, a major attraction despite the fact that As one might imagine, these places could in common rooms, with innkeepers impotently It's no surprise that the elite derided sleazy establishments. There was definitely some they did have a point. At one inn for instance "We have pissed our beds. I admit, But if you should ask us why, it's In addition the food itself was likely quite regulations, or inspections that we expect multiple laws were passed throughout the and the quality thereof. These did things like the laws themselves were toothless without Nonetheless people continued patronizing attempting to sanction them was met with open We hope you've enjoyed this I've absolutely loved digging into this aspect cover more episodes on the topic. Do you think What kind of ancient foods would you like to A huge thanks to the patrons for sponsoring and artists who made this episode possible! anc check out these related