Hello, my name is Matt. I've decided to leave college and build my dream log cabin, all by myself, in the middle of an off-grid bush. I spent all the money I've earned and my savings on trees and hand tools. First I have to peel all the logs. They are fir logs and they are still fresh so they are very heavy due to the moisture they contain. At this moment I still don't know if I will be able to build the cabin. The logs are very heavy and I have no experience in building a log cabin... I'll have to risk it :D To peel the logs I'm using a tool called draw knife. I'm almost done with the peeling. Every time I have to line up all the knots so I can peel off the bark. The last log peeled. Now I stack the logs and let them dry a bit. They will be lighter then. I prepared a total of 67 logs. The build site. I will build on the land that I bought myself. Thank God for that. Measuring where the foundation will be. The soil here in Croatia where I build is hard and rocky. The concrete is poured. It's time to eat something. These logs are smaller, I'll put them aside. The logs are now much lighter because they have dried. Bringing the bigger ones. I need to split this log in half. It is the first foundation log. It works. Gransfors Broad Axe. I extended this log because it continues onto the porch. Carving the saddle. This is done to keep the log in place and sit better. Calibrating the scriber. Scribing the first notches. I'm testing how firm it is. I need to make a wooden mallet. I can finally make my first full-scribe log. Scribing takes a lot of time. Adze from Narex. You use that for the &quot;belly groove&quot;. Full-scribe cabins have no gaps. The logs fit together perfectly. That's why they don't even require chinking. Full scribe log cabins take the most time to build, but they are the most beautiful. I put moss between the logs. It has good insulating properties, it is natural and it is free. Sheep wool is also often used. What sticks out is cut off. I got this auger. I cleaned it and then I discovered it is from 1916 by Cornelius Whitehouse &amp; Sons, Cannock. When I think about it, it's crazy. Someone used it 100 years ago and now it's in my youtube video. I drill holes through the log into the previous one to connect them with wooden dowel. I work even in the rain because I said to myself, I really want to finish this work within one year. I realized that I can't put this log here, I have to put it on the other side. The pencils I use write better on a wet surface. I've done the first three layers and the walls are already too high. That's why I'm going to build the floor construction to have something to stand on while working. My father helped me transport these boards to my property with his truck. The boards are only temporary so I have something to walk on. After the roof is finished I will put real flooring and insulation on top of this structure and in between. I'm hungry. These are all the tools I use. Calibration of the scriber in relation to the perfectly vertical line. Scribing - copying the irregularities of the lower log onto the upper one. I peel each log once more. It is not necessary, it is only about aesthetics - the logs have a lighter color. I don't have many large trees on my property. I will plant them. Finding the widest gap. Lifting logs becomes difficult. Rough notch. The gap is now the same everywhere and I can start scribing. Scriber I need to rest. I built this little cabin while I was building the main cabin. It is super small and simple. I use it for resting while I'm building the main log cabin. Now I will make a simple system for lifting heavy logs. I scribed these logs yesterday. The log was too short, so I cut it into two pieces and there will be a window in the gap. Bee The window will not be so high. Later I will cut the opening so that it is in the right place and height. This is the front of the cabin. There will be another window and door here. There will also be a window on this side. Soon I will be cutting all the openings. It's time to cut out the first window. If you like the video, I'd appreciate it if you subscribed. It would help me. Thanks! Back to work. This window is done. I still have to cut out the doors and two more windows. I cover the log cabin temporarily with a tarp. Moss I will still use all the cut pieces. Sometimes I can't believe it's happening. I'm really building a log cabin. Tomahawk steak Openings are done. The logs that follow will extend to the porch. I need some temporary holder for the overhang logs. These extended logs are 30 feet. The logs on the porch must be supported by columns. Last logs for walls. Lock notch. After one year of building, I finished the log cabin walls.