As you enter my house my wife and I wanted to have some kind of artwork that was personal to the house and also related to the work that we do; and so you see two things: one of them is the dragon curve, I'm gonna explain to you more about in a minute, and another one is this work here which is a grook by Piet Hein. 'Road to wisdom? Well it's plain and simple to express. Err and err and err again but less and less and less.' It's one of my the story of my life is making mistakes and trying to learn from that. They designed it in the which is Piet Hein's great great discovery of a- of the ellipse that that is is more full and has been used in in many architectural products. So what's the idea of the dragon curve? This is something invented by a couple of physicists, late 60s, and you start with a piece of paper and you fold it, fold it again, and you fold it again. And you do this n times, where n is nine in the case of the dragon curve to our left but here n is four or something. But wh- when you look at it you see that some of the folds go in mountain folds some are valley folds. If you imagine walking here you're turning left here, you turning left here, but then you're turning right; and another left turn and so on. So- so there's a pattern of lefts and rights. The amazing thing is that if you continue this like nine times and then you open all these folds up to ninety degree then you get a path starts to fill the space and makes a- quite a nice fractal pattern. So start here with- at this tile for example; if you if you zoom in on it you'd that my wife and I had signed our names here, but we can talk about that story later. But it starts out and makes a left turn, and a left turn, and a right turn, left and so on; so this is exactly the- the pattern that you get from folding. Since I folded nine times there's 512 steps to this - well 511 probably - to this pattern. So it ends- it ends over here; and it keeps going but in the middle it gets very intricate. And the great thing is though from a standpoint of geek art, you know, is that you only need three that's completely blank, or a tile that has one loop in it like this one, or a tile that has two loops in it like this one. And of course I could take the tile with two loops and I could tip it this way, then it wouldn't be joining from here to here but it would be- that would make this into an isolated circle. All right, yeah, I had to count how many blanks- how many single loops and so on. And so we made a mock-up in in brown paper and cardboard and had it in the apartment where we were living while our house was being designed. And cool design, it'd be in our house when when the built. So then we we both loved the tiles that are made by Heath ceramics in Sausalito, California; and we had a mock-up of the design so we went up to see the Heath ceramics and talked to the people there; and we wondered if they could make custom tiles for us, certain number blank, And the answer was, well, we could do it except that we all- we only make tiles that are three and a half inches square. And what- my design called for two inches square. If this- the mathematics could not be changed even if I went down to 8 instead of 9 it wouldn't have been- it wouldn't have been as interesting a pattern, but also it would be huge and wouldn't look right at scale. This- this kind of pattern is very appealing at this size but not at a bigger size. So we were down, we looked very disheartened evidently because the person we were talking to saw that we were very disappointed, that up here and had this nice idea. But they One week in June we're going on close our factory, and you- but but we have workers, person, you could come in and use our equipment. We let you use our clay and extrude tiles and if you cut them to the size, two inches by two inches, then we'll also let you put on our glazes and we'll fire the tiles for you afterwards. And so that's- that's what we did, we we went up there and spent a day making all these tiles, and a few spares, and put our initials in this one for the starting point. Then they fired it and- there are some of the accidents in the fire and you can see, sometimes it cracked a little bit during the during the firing. So we had- we had nine of these actually so I could- so I put those in so that after- after 8 steps it's here. And then after 16 you're here, 32 I'm here. So years went by and and I finally put a chapter in my book on fun and games that talks about this. And I reread all the papers I had written about the dragon curve and come to a shocking discovery; that is that this is wrong. You get this by making nine folds but the ninth fold I made in the wrong direction, instead of going this way I went that And so actually this is- the last half of has a different bend, mathematically I've been living with this for thirty years and didn't realize that I had a mathematical error in the design. Well I feel the moral is: err and err and err again Numberphile is made possible by support from the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute. We'll have more from Don Knuth coming soon so stay tuned to Numberphile, and our sister channel Computerphile, where those videos will be appearing. And if you'd like to watch even more about the dragon curve we've done some previous videos on that which go into more detail. Links are on the screen and in the video