I want to share with you a message that I have And if you're taking notes and I'll give you to write this down. And this is the message [Applause] It ends with me. Majority of demons we deal because demons don't die with our ancestors, they why a lot of people get demons at the cemetery and they say, &quot;Something happened to me, something will say, &quot;Well, it's just your grieving.&quot; But you come out. And when people don't come out of characteristics of what their mom and dad battled appear in their body at the age of 30, at the they're exercising, they're going to the gym, tumor appears, out of nowhere the cancer appears, The depression comes in, mental attack comes in. Spirit of God is upon me to proclaim, that it ends but it ran to you and it will end with you. And only to preach, not only to anoint the preaching generational demons that go from one generation like Joseph. You know in Joseph's family, though life was struggling. He was lying, his wife was his grandson took lying to another level. Jacob, to trick and Jacob's wife could not have Joseph came, and Joseph experienced more attacks something happened with Joseph, that lying got why? Because that generational curse was broken a time as this, to break the curses over your have your Bible I want you to go together with Chapter 2 verse 5, it says that Mordecai was a Benjamite. If you read chapter 3 verse 1, it advanced and had a seat above all the princes who of Egypt, the first enemy that attacks them and attacks them viciously and attacks And God made a promise and He said that I will God anoints the first King of Israel, his name I want you to go. And a hundred years the consequences of sin do not get canceled Time does not erase sin, you can bury it in and the Amalekites sin was not removed God uses Saul to punish Amalekites. But of instead of execute vengeance on God's enemy. embarrassed of the ministry of deliverance because the puking, that it could potentially offend to get some friends who would call me with the grapevine of what they were saying about invited anymore and I remember, I went to prayer &quot;Could we do it like everybody else in And I fell a sharp warning from God &quot;If you don't execute judgment on My Amalekites is God's sworn enemy and God said to me what He said to Saul. He says, I have anointed you, not because you're are connected or because you're special. It's If you stop pleasing people punishment upon My enemy, My anointing will if you become a people pleaser and you Amalekites so I can win popular world with You know what happened to Saul? The anointing lifted and when the anointing You're either in bondage or in the battle. There is no middle ground. If you refuse to You could kill lions, bears and you can Bathsheba will lure you in and you will go from I now remember I shook off the dust and I I'll rather be made fun of, I would rather have they are stained. I'll rather call us demon them call us whatever they want to call us but want every Amalekite to face the judgment of every curse to face the judgment of God and free, because you and I were anointed for When Saul refused to kill Amalachite, he end up you will attack those that attack If you don't attack demons, you will attack idle because you were created to fight. If you trying to fight them. So I just want to encourage and blood and get into the army and begin to find enemy of God out of this place and out of people's Look at this, Amalekites that Saul did and guess whose descendants are facing Mordecai is facing his daddy's demon. 500 years. Haman should have not existed Whatever is not transformed is Whatever God does not transform in your life, your children and to your grandchildren. Some with you but I prophesy today, it will end with did not start with you but by the presence of that it will end with you Mordecai, it will such a time as this, to put an end to this premature death, accident prone. It will end If you're taking this note, if you take did not start with me but they will end that God visits the iniquity of the fathers to hate Him. Proverbs 3:33 it says that the curse but on his house. If you happen to grow up in &quot;Oh no, that's, that's not how that works.&quot; Oh part, the blessing of the Lord is on the house of real man. I'm a benefit of generational blessings same applies for both camps. The Scripture Not just on the person of the wicked, meaning his wicked man has brought, and the house of the just says to Timothy, &quot;I recall the remembrance of your in your mother and right now it's in you.&quot; curses, they get passed on from one generation to the family to the ark, Lot took the family out. Rahab and the whole family was rescued, me and A centurion with his household believe, Cornelius believed with her household, a jailer was the of the synagogue believed with his household, Paul Science confirms that traits get passed on until they're activated by our choices and our is passed on to you. God will not hold you to pass that on to a next generation. You can like Esther did. That maybe our great, great, till the end but this will end with us. We were claimed every woman in our family but it stops our family but it ends with me. Poverty has run this family it will end with me. It stops with be upon my family. I am a curse breaker. I am a started and I will start to what God wants When one time me and my wife bought a A duplex. The guy who sold it to us was I bought it. It was mine. But the weeds were in lawn, the weeds would keep showing up. You know I didn't plant them. The guy before me did, fix the weeds problem. The weeds had to be not with a lawnmower but with special poison. Some to receive some nourishment called poison and dry I cleaned the weeds that my previous owner let became a Christian you're still dealing with the from your parents and you keep mowing that lawn, I will try to do better.&quot; But I came here today not responsible for the weeds of your parents, Don't tolerate depression, it's not your pet. to declare war against it. It's your time to rise So that the person after you doesn't have to them and you put an end to them and they can When David was dying he gave his money, he gave his son a blueprint for a temple And right on his bedside David pulled his son everything, the kingdom but unfortunately I'm also was a smart dad because he told and prepared exterminate my enemies. And the Bible says when it says, &quot;and then his kingdom was established.&quot; will not establish your Christian life. you will not establish your Christian life. Some with you. The attitude problem, the sickness it's to battle the spirit that your mom did not it's to battle the curse that they did not the goal is to take on the responsibility to die. Depression has to die in my family, family, this demonic curse has to die in my The Bible says that Mordecai comes to Esther and in your house, you have a battle in your life even where you live but you have greater authority. and authority trumps access. If you're an owner of your authority trumps their access. You can revoke I want to tell you something. Haman may and your husband is the King of kings and territory for a long time but you have the and exercise that authority. I love this about strings. See Ester realized that Haman was not Why? Because if this was a political problem all but the first thing Esther did is pull three-day Because you don't bring a knife to a gunfight. bring a knife to a gunfight. What does this means? you don't fight generational curses with nothing wrong with the knife if it's a knife that is on the level of your genes, when you're you don't bring just more discipline to fight they are removed by the name of Jesus. So the first thing that I mentioned is that it may Number two is that I don't deal with generational curses by spiritual means. Understanding therapy has its place, discipline has its place, it's generational, when your father has had 20 car child doesn't have a license and already had three You don't have to be a rocket scientist and you this is not normal. And if it's not normal that cast it out. You're dealing with a spiritual seeing the spider web again, you're dealing your wiping skills you need to improve your the snake and you gotta bring that head down. Esther. It's not a political game, it's not and you don't win it with the sword when it's a that's where the battle is. That's where the you'll revoke the access and you close Spiritual world has all the roots of the physical Spiritual world is eternal, natural world is it will be after this world. All the roots of In fact even the real you is in the spirit right cannot be seen by my natural eyes. If you go root of the tree is never visible to a human eye eye. So when you're dealing with a generational you'll always see the symptoms. If If there is Haman, there is a spirit behind that to another generation, you cannot fight it amen. After the fast, the Bible says that she it says in chapter 5 verse 1. If you're Not only we have to deal spiritually, meaning anointed to end those curses. We break those we have to dress up mentally in the royal of our problem. Nothing was fixed yet. Esther not in the natural. When you're a spiritual your kid can still be smoking weed, The curse got broken. They still came drunk in the rags of the problem but in the royal Everything is about to change. It's a matter of The root is dead, the fruits will fall off, the realm of the spirit. What does this mean? This means when when you renounce the curse, when you break out. You don't wait for your life to improve The Bible says to put on the armor of God, not breaking loose. What royal garments are for What Esther 5 is for Esther, Ephesians 6 is that means when I broke the curses, I I don't talk like a victim, I'm a more than a have an attitude of a cursed person, I walked there but something shifted in the realm it will manifest in the natural. I have to they do after deliverance is this, is they keep &quot;Until I see it, then I'll believe it.&quot; But my open your eyes and see something shifting in the happen in this room today. Those of you that came with generational curses. Today when we're gonna but I have to warn you and encourage you, Because those very demons will show up and make sure the person that answers it is the Don't let Haman dress you up. Don't come in naked. fill your mind with becomes your mindset. Resist faith. Faith thoughts are not going to stay, they to leave, they need to be resisted. Align your of God because your life will move in a direction in your spirit that everything changed, you align your confession. This is not about confess grab it. This is about dressing up like a queen your time to realize that when you got delivered, not a blind Bartimaeus anymore. Your life will not of the spirit, it's a matter of time everything mental state has to change, the way you talk has way you even see yourself has to change. Otherwise Number four. The Bible says she comes to the king and she because something has shifted And the King says, &quot;Esther what do you want?&quot; and cry out loud and say, &quot;I'm about to And Esther has this gentle request, she How can you be asking a king on a date, The king comes on a dinner with Why? You have to learn to eat And many of us we don't see because we say, &quot;I won't eat I'll starve to death.&quot; But the Bible says, &quot;He in the presence of Haman.&quot; That means &quot;I got you.&quot; And you say, &quot;Oh no you don't. you keep on eating and you'll drive the devil presence of your enemy, if you learn if you learn to read the Bible in the presence I hear people say, &quot;I can't come to What about you bringing them to &quot;Vlad, I can't read the Bible, mind.&quot; What about opening the Bible and &quot;I, I, I can't worship.&quot; What about worshiping Ester did not get rid of Haman until she tortured him. He did not know he was being thrown in And right there and then the king says, &quot;Esther, he's already eaten, he drunk the wine. This please save me,&quot; and Esther doesn't do that. She because to her and listen to this very carefully, He was her husband. Many people, and God is not a means to your freedom. God is a goal We don't seek deliverance and use God as a means Egypt and when God got them out, they forsook to worship a calf, they started to worship other of torment, you get so desperate, that all that you need to be free,&quot; and while that is admirable, God is worthy to be worshiped and like those two demon-possessed guys. Whether I Jesus and I'm gonna worship. I'm gonna run to my Bible and I'm gonna read the Bible, God is my goal. The reason I want to be reason I want deliverance is so be delivered is so I can pray more. The reason I And I think a lot of times, God waits to see, As you feed the king, there is a shift starve and you don't starve. I love Haman is eating right in her presence. What think Esther is looking at him and I think she's and there came a right time and she removes the presence of God. And she tells the king that There's something about her the King has happens when you come to the altar today, because confession begins to open the door she doesn't remove her crown when she removed a part of her life nobody knew and that opens Not against Esther but against the very thing &quot;Haman gets on his knees, begging for his life.&quot; now the demons are screaming and yelling, &quot;Don't &quot;I can't stand this church anymore. I can't stand how many demons I've cast out and all the demons tired of her fasting. I am sick and tired of her anymore, she keeps going from one conference keeps watching this person. We are sick and Somebody said, &quot;Come out in Jesus Somebody say, &quot;It ends with me.&quot; The last Haman gets killed. Haman is done and it's a She knows it's not enough to defeat him, you and you have to do it twice because Saul made that mistake again. There will be no more And she asked the king for this, in Esther 8:11 Jews who were in every city to gather together, to kill and to annihilate.&quot; Guess what is Esther asking? &quot;King we got can we ask for your permission to destroy, to kill and to annihilate all that will assault them, both little children This is what I want to end with, whatever God The king did not remove the plot What about the plot? It couldn't be stopped. marked for destruction and he says, I'm backing of being stolen, killed and destroyed, I give you the power over the enemy, to trample and the gift of righteousness you will reign authority. God is not going to remove every single of your soul but He will give you the power to the devil. If you've been through deliverance, if something else is still, you feel like attacking up Esther, rise up Mordecai. You're no longer and give the devil a fighting. Submit to God and will see victory in your house and do it again do it again the next today. The devil is called a Lions get tired really fast. Lions give small if your persistent he'll quit, if you persistent he will give up. If you don't quit he will run. amen. Thank you.