- Hi, it's me Tim Dodd, Behind me is SpaceX's Starship prototype, and it's missing something. Well actually it's missing But one thing that's missing that there's no plans to put on it is a launch escape system, or a launch abort tower of any kind. No mechanical aborts are gonna Is that a good idea? Hindsight is always 2020, and one of the biggest which also claim to be reusable, and airliner like reliable, was it didn't have any kind And that's the same type of thing SpaceX is claiming the Starship. So why are we doomed to And as we know, spaceX's Dragon Capsule both have had problems with So today we are going to debate is all that extra stuff necessary? Does it actually make for a safer vehicle? And hopefully by the end of this video we'll know whether or not it's a good idea to put people on top of this rocket without any kind of Let's get started. - [Controller] Three, two, one, liftoff. (upbeat music) - [Neil Armstrong] That's - [Controller] Subjects to the test zone. - This is another one of those topics I've been asked about over Especially now that we're seeing the commercial crew program put launch abort systems And this has come up even we've witnessed the failure of the MK-1 Starship prototype while it pressure testing What if there were people onboard? Why isn't SpaceX thinking about putting a launch abort system on it? As you may know, I've already talked a good amount about abort systems in a video explaining why both SpaceX's Crew Dragon capsule and Boeing's Starliner have opted for liquid fueled pusher abort systems, as opposed to a more with solid rocket motors. So if you need an definitely check that video out! It should help give you some extra perspective Now in case you didn't notice when you clicked on this video, this is a again another pretty long one. As you may know, I don't like I like to actually dive in deep and get into the data and history in order to find the answers. So we're going to get into charts and data and more We'll go over certifications of rockets, the reliability of rocket engines, the risks and benefits and even look at the whole history of human spaceflight and figure out how many times an abort system has actually saved the By the end of this video on whether Starship is a good idea or not, it'll mostly be an So to make it easy for here are the timestamps of each topic we're going to talk about in case you want to go There's also links in to those timestamps and an as well for you to easily go back over some numbers and sources. (upbeat music) Okay, so abort systems. The idea is pretty simple. Rockets are fickle beasts. They're riding the finest They need to handle temperatures and environments while also being as Since there's literally it's honestly a miracle they work at all. So when you're putting it's basically a giant bomb with a nozzle that has to have in order to not fail, it's generally considered a back up if things don't go as planned. Throughout most history there's been one method that has dominated launch abort systems, a solid rocket motor launch escape tower. This is the tower that sits on top of the crew module that you may have noticed on vehicles like Mercury, Soyuz, Apollo and even NASA's Orion capsule. A few vehicles like Vostok, Gemini and early Space Shuttle's had ejection seats as an escape system, and I've got a video about that if you want to hear more about it, but regardless of whether a launch tower, or a more the concept is the same. If the escape system detects a severe deviation in flight path, or even detects a rupture in the tanks, it'll triggers the abort system. Early rockets, and I couldn't actually have a trio of sensor wires running the length of the fuselage. If any two of those wires lose contact, this indicates the fuselage had broken up, which then would trigger the abort system. The launch abort system can by an astronaut who may notice a critical flaw that the Once an abort system is triggered, the stage separation the spacecraft as the so it can pull it clean from the rocket. When the motors actually fire it accelerates the crew Abort motors can pull some So launch abort systems were pretty much considered the best But what if you just made What if you made more redundant systems and over-engineered every single part to even greater safety margins? (upbeat music) Designing a rocket to be that's exactly what NASA was hoping to do when engineering the Space Shuttle. - [Narrator] The vehicle an airliner like spacecraft capable of over 100 trips from Earth into Earth orbit. - The thought being if the Space Shuttle was over engineered, the chance of loss of vehicle So low it might actually be safer than adding additional moving parts and systems necessary to make During the Apollo era when NASA had what now seems like unlimited funding, they contracted General probabilistic, how do you say that word? Probabilistic risk assessment of landing a human on the Moon and The number GE came up with was five, 5%. A 5% chance of successfully landing a human on the Moon NASA administrator James Webb and instead of making changes decided to change the way Which let me point out, isn't They developed something and Effects Analysis which was a way to identify designs and hardware that would worse case These were ranked as Criticality one, which would threaten the existence of the vehicle. Criticality two which would threaten the mission or Criticality They also added an R as in these parts and design analysis. With NASA's budget beginning to dwindle once humans landed on the Moon, and congressional support for the upcoming Shuttle Program waning, NASA had to sell the Space Shuttle as a cheap and reliable workhorse. And its exact risk even had to be calculated in order to launch plutonium-fueled spacecraft like the Jupiter Probe, Galileo. Testing the reliability of a complex system involves identifying potential fault points, and then gathering the limits on these potential fault points over different environmental conditionals. You also test them in statistical models and and iterating them to make sure that the computer simulations meet the real world performance the probability of success is Each and every single part will have a design specification and for how much more it can handle beyond its design specification. The general rule of thumb for most parts on a rocket is a All this really means is if a part needs to handle when testing it it should be able to handle 15 newtons of But when there isn't good test or heritage data of a part, a factor of safety of 2.0 is considered a good rule of thumb. In other words engineered to handle twice that what's necessary. But by the start of the estimates of catastrophic failures ranged from less than 1% to less than 0.001%. So a couple orders of magnitude in its estimated range Despite the optimistic nature of NASA, the first four flights had ejection seats active, but were later ditched due to and the fact that they the upper deck since the rest of the crew was on the mid deck below them. After the Challenger disaster, NASA actually did consider utilizing an ejection cabin that could eject the entire crew module the F-11s and early B-1 prototypes, but it was deemed too complex, too heavy, and required way too many modifications to really make it feasible. So in hindsight, we know with two failures out of 135 flights, one during launch and one during reentry, giving it a success rate of only 98.5%, which is way off from even the most conservative estimates of safety. Likely due to the Space NASA changed their the Commercial Crew Program, which is required to have a probability of loss of crew at 1:500 on ascent, 1:500 on descent, with a 1:270 chance of To actually certify and validate systems, sometimes it comes down to the ringer to test the system as a whole alongside testing Testing the system as a whole that's what NASA coined In the long run all-up testing might actually be a quicker route to verify the system versus through more ground tests, analysis and using heritage data that might require a higher factor of safety per part if it's not You can see this difference in how SpaceX chose to validate system by opting to test has opted to certify their more stringent certification Since the Space Shuttle and Starship both lack abort systems, what design considerations did the Space Shuttle have And does Starship share (upbeat music) There's a few things that made the Space Shuttle but let's start off with those solid rocket boosters. Those giant white solid rocket external fuel tank actually provided over 60% of thrust at liftoff. Here's the thing, once they ignited, there was no shutting them down, you're going somewhere and you're going somewhere in a hurry. Hopefully the pointy end is up This meant any abort no matter how bad or dire, required the crew ride out the boosters, seriously. So for an entire 127 seconds, if there was a problem, you just had to cross your fingers and toes that it wasn't too This is mostly because by either detaching the tank or by trying to jump out, you'd end up within the which would be very, very lethal. Unfortunately, some problems like on January 28th, 1986 when the Space Shuttle Challenger took to the sky on its 10th mission. A leaky O-ring that sealed the Solid Rocket Boosters ended up causing separation of the joint that held the SRB to which then led to complete the vehicle and tragic But perhaps the biggest problem with the Challenger disaster but a problem with program management and pressure to get that It was known that they would the predetermined operating it was recommended to not launch that day. Although utilizing liquid they probably wouldn't eliminate and it could arguably be less reliable than a solid rocket booster, but liquid rocket boosters can at least be shut down which in general can open up more abort options. Take a look at this chart. Notice the black sections. Yeah, those are sections of ascent where there would be and/or structural failure to lose two or three main engines. So basically lose two of the three main engines and you're screwed. And you're not even talking about having any problem with But after Challenger disaster NASA did come up with a including alternate runways and the iconic orange to you know, escape if things went wrong. Literally escape, Here's the new abort profiles see these gray sections during ascent? Now the plan was for the crew to literally jump out As in, carefully ditch get the orbiter into a stable glide, literally unbuckle, blow the hatch, extend a freaking pole that made it so you wouldn't hit the and then jump out, seriously. Speaking of hitting the wing, that's another major flaw The orbiter was hanging off which put the crew module and system directly in the path The orange external fuel tank and oxygen which had a in order to keep them at You can actually see sheets of ice fall off basically any liquid fueled rocket at lift off, it's a known variable, and even large chunks of foam the Space Shuttle's external fuel tank but NASA grew more and more When you combine a large chunk of foam and the fragile nature system on the Space Shuttle, you wind up with a real And this is exactly what A large chunk of foam struck the leading edge of punching a large hole in the reinforced carbon-carbon section of thermal protection on the left wing. The shuttle and the seven to carry out their mission for 15 days with a hole that would On February 1st, 2003, as Columbia reentered the large hole in the to essentially destroy the tragically ending the seven Besides the orbiter being the rocket and in harm's the danger was amplified by how fragile the Space Shuttle's thermal The Space Shuttle's were literally glued onto of the orbiter which covered the entire bottom portion of the vehicle. Their fragile nature caused but also led to some close calls. Perhaps the most well noted a debris strike 85 This knocked a tile clean off and damaged OVER 700 other tiles! Whoa! In the absolute luckiest of circumstances, the tile that went missing mounting plate for the L-band antenna, which steel has a higher the aluminum airframe and by sheer luck the orbiter survived a disaster like Columbia (upbeat music) So now that we know some that plagued the Space Shuttle, let's go over Starship and Well right off the bat, Starship is on top of and not slung off the side. As we've noted, this is clearly a safer place putting it ahead of any But we should note something that will definitely need to be studied. Remember, Starship also that are vital to its reentry. This does mean there'd the liquid oxygen and liquid methane tanks on the Starship upper edge of the flaps. Here's where a stainless steel body and the fact that the will be bolted on has a huge advantage over the fragile silica tiles and reinforced carbon-carbon So let's not forget, the leading edge and underside of the flaps of Starship will but unlike the silica they're supposedly much more durable and actually bolted to the We've already seen SpaceX and material options on Starhopper, putting them through extreme environments, vibrations and temperatures. They've also experienced a few small pieces of a Dragon Capsule to Steel body panels and some variant of a TUFROC heat shield bolted more resilient than the Space Shuttle, considering steel can dent shatter like reinforced carbon-carbon or simply fall off like the silica tiles. But also, just like STS-27's steel has a much higher This allows for much greater the aluminum airframe of the As a matter of fact, it's likely Starship could with little to no as other stainless steel components have survived reentry pretty Now I've already done a video about, because it even talked to do a form of transpirational cooling, but that since either fallen off the table or might be utilized in some hotspots. This is one of the biggest to The full over carbon fiber because by the time you factor in how big of a heat shield is necessary, stainless steel starts to come ahead as it can handle much higher temperatures in general before it begins to fail. Okay, so hopefully a stainless steel body and a more resilient bolted along with putting Starship on the top of the rocket stack should all help mitigate the risk of a reentry So now what about putting a rocket booster that the world's most advanced that is of course the full flow staged combustion cycle Raptor engine. How could this possibly be safer and have less failures than a simple pair of solid rocket boosters that have virtually no moving parts? Now here's where SpaceX has some good knowledge and experience. Their Falcon 9 does in the rocket world, which is having nine smaller engines on the booster instead of This actually allows multiple Now depending on which engines fail and at what point in nine engines gives the Falcon 9 a lot of extra safety margin Each engine is isolated within a blast containment cell as part of the Octoweb configuration. This is why they can have an engine fail and have it not affect other engines. Mix this in with modern sensors and quick acting computers, and the rocket should be able to shut an engine down before that engine has a catastrophic failure. SpaceX has developed the point of extreme reliability. In fact, only one Merlin out of over 800 merlins Not to mention that was very the fourth flight of a Falcon 9 for mission CRS-1 to be exact. And since then the engine So in total, the Merlin engine to date has mix that with redundancy and you wind up with an Not to mention the fact the first stage of the and extra two or three times But just for funsies, let's actually take a look at some other rocket and see how reliable they have been. But just a little caveat, it gets really difficult because there's so many other factors, especially when you factor or running out of TEA-TEB But still, looking at these a decent perspective on how reliable liquid fueled So again, SpaceX's Merlin at 99.88% reliability in flight, which makes it slightly more reliable than the RS-25 Space Shuttle main engine which also only shut down once in flight, but with only three it wound up with 99.75% Then there's the RD-180, which technically shut on one of its 86 flights to date, making it 98.83% reliable, although it's also kind of 100% reliable since that particular mission, OA-6 was able to continue on but just barely. So we can say between how you define engine reliability. I mean, shutting down before a failure of the engine, had that happened at the mission would have failed. But I would consider for the Atlas V since could compensate for the failure. But how about another Russian engine? The RD-107 and its brother the RD-108 that power the Soyuz rocket. Now this rocket has flown so many times and for so long in so it's definitely not fair to compare the early days of the Soyuz rocket, besides that the data So let's look at the 267 flights in the 21st century which of the 1,335 engines only one has failed, giving the RD-107 and RD-108 a But one of the most was actually the monster F-1 engine that powered the Saturn V. The 13 times the Saturn V flew, all 65 F-1 engines that powered those flights were 100% successful. Now before you hop in the comments section and say but didn't Apollo No, that was a J-2 on the second stage. There seems to be a Mandela effect on F-1 reliability where everyone, including myself, tends to think an F-1 failed on ascent. So let's assume since the Raptor engines since the and they fly Starship a that SpaceX will eventually the Merlin engine with the booster should be a Assuming SpaceX does their an engine failure from affecting other engines nearby like they and how the N-1 didn't do Having dozens of engines can make for an incredibly robust and reliable vehicle. Okay sure, having dozens could help make the But what about the big In order for humans to the Starship itself a pretty wacky landing maneuver, but it also relies on two out of three raptor engines working Is that actually safe? Can we actually rely on propulsive landing for human lives? Well, let's go ahead and take a look at the Falcon 9 again, as it's one of only to perform propulsive but remember, it isn't reaching like Starship is, so we're we're only going to be looking at the landing aspect of it, and using engines as Because the very end of will look and function almost To date, SpaceX has landed 46 That doesn't sound great, but remember, before the first landing, it was literally considered impossible. No way, when it happened If we look at just landing attempts starting in 2017 after it became and they had it figured out, we get some pretty surprising numbers. There's been 45 attempts since 2017 and only three of those None of these three a failure of a Merlin engine itself, although again that gets complicated. Going in order, on February 6th, 2018, SpaceX launched the first mission and landed all but the center core of the Falcon Heavy. The center core ran out of TEA-TEB which is the pyrophoric starting fluid that actually ignites the engines. It sounds like there was a pretty easy fix and it wasn't actually that but just needed to switch the TEA-TEB from and at what Then later that year, for the CRS-16 mission, a brand new Block 5 Falcon when the hydraulic system that controls the grid fins seized up. The solution was simply a bleed valve that would prevent it As far as the merlin engine goes, it performed perfectly fine and allowed the vehicle to touch down so soft that it didn't break apart and could Lastly the latest Falcon 2019 for the STP-2 mission had a failed center core landing attempt as well. SpaceX didn't expect the core extremely high velocities and pushing the vehicle to the absolute limits. So far as we know, the engines themselves still but the thrust vector was destroyed due to which made the vehicle lack So the engines themselves were fine but the TVC kinda got destroyed, so it's hard to say. Since this was at the outer limits of what the booster is capable of, the solution is just don't push it that hard if you need to land. So if this were a Starship they would've made sure that are safely within of Starship and not even accept a mission or design a mission where they push it to the So can we ever rely on Eventually, sure. Think about it, the Apollo missions relied on purportedly landing on the moon, and that worked out pretty well. As far as everyday usage, as long as there are Having three engines light and having engine out capability But what about other systems What about those giant What if the hydraulic system fails on those and they get stuck, like what happened on CRS-16? Well for this, we need to look no further than airliners and the Space Shuttle. Here's where good old Airliners would lose control their landing gear as intended if the hydraulic systems failed. Same goes for the Space Shuttle. Which is exactly why there redundant pumps, redundant lines, basically everything in It's actually not very wise to compare the CRS-16 failed see, what if that happens on Starship? Because a Falcon 9 booster let alone required for human safety, so they have intentionally But there is one big and can be catastrophic if it fails, and boy do I mean big, because that's the fuel This is honestly my And to be quite frank, it's the one thing SpaceX has had bad luck with over and over and over. The first failure of a Falcon 9 was due to a helium filled composite or COPV, these pressurize and one broke loose in the upper stage oxygen tank on June 28th, 2015 for the CRS-7 mission. This caused a rapid and complete loss of the The next failure was the on September 1st, 2016. Again, an over pressurization in the upper stage caused a the vehicle as it was being fueled up on the launch pad for a static fire test. Then we have the Crew Dragon This is when SpaceX was testing the launch abort system on the ground and had a frozen chunk of through a titanium valve causing a rupture in the system and And most recently and we actually saw a failure of a Starship MK-1 prototype 2019 when we watched it blow its top off from over-pressurization Now this I'll give a bit of a pass to. This vehicle and that test was nowhere near future SpaceX was pushing this than normal operating the shotty welds of the and they don't represent a future, the more refined vehicle like it will be. But it sure does get a that if that was a fully fueled Starship, and there were people on board there would have been no aborting from it. (upbeat music) So I guess this leads us to the question of what options does We've already gone over make it avoid the same design but it still is lacking an actual abort system. So can it abort at all? Well, let's first make sure we're clear on the types of abort options. There's a big difference an inflight abort, aborting to orbit and A pad abort is the option from the rocket while still on the pad. This is actually a pretty dangerous time while the vehicle is fully fueled, full of highly pressurized So can Starship do a pad abort? Yes-ish and no. If the problem is in the like a tank rupturing or something, the simple answer is no. But what if the problem If the booster suddenly ruptures, the upper stage of Starship start of the Raptor engines the Starship from just falling down onto a pile of what was once and is now a flaming hellish landscape. If all engines are fired, including its vacuum optimized engines, Starship would have just barely enough thrust to slowly get away from the pad and divert to a safe landing area. That is assuming a failed didn't damage the Starship bad Don't forget, you're not trying because spoiler, unless you can go zero to the speed of sound literally instantly, you can't outrun it. So if you're inside a pressure vessel, you should at least You also might ask how could they fire vacuum optimized That was a big part of the air spec you can't really do that. Well according to Elon, they could have dual bell nozzle design and fix the nozzle to the hull And in general, yes, you can actually fire a at sea level in an emergency, but it's very likely to the other option is So pad abort, kinda, maybe a little, well it's at least better than the Space Shuttle's full lack of abort options while sitting on the pad. The same goes for an inflight abort. An in-flight abort is aborting while the rocket is flying. Again, assuming the upper stage isn't the culprit of the problem, the Starship could theoretically pull away and perform whatever maneuver somewhere else or worst case scenario do a soft splashdown emergency landing. Again, it should have more options and opportunities than Once Starship has there really aren't than aborting to a safe reentry profile and then reentering if But luckily, with the they could greatly alter the dynamics for a handful This is helpful compared to say a capsule which can't change its shape a launch profile that the For instance, if a standard upper stage was used there would be large an abort would be deadly due Boeing and ULA therefore had to opt with a two engine variant of that could fly a safer a safe abort window And of course, on reentry there really Reentry just needs to work. Even if there was a mechanical it likely wouldn't be very helpful. Now of course a passively a simple ablative heat shield has very little that could go wrong, but again, redundant hydraulics for control surfaces and a structure that can handle high temperatures a decent buffer in reentry for Starship. (upbeat music) Okay, we're finally getting to the true meat of the question. Is it actually better to have an abort system on a rocket, period? To do that, let's quickly go over all the aborts and all the accidents of human spaceflight and determine whether or not an abort system could've helped. Looking at the history there's only been 18 deaths orbital spaceflight activities. The first death being the very first Soyuz mission in 1967 which killed An abort system would not have helped. The next tragedy was Soyuz 11 in 1971 which decompression of the to the deaths of three cosmonauts. To this day, this is the only incident in which humans died in An abort system would not have helped. Next we have the Space in 1986 which we've already talked about. A mechanical abort system would have likely saved the crew of seven. Lastly we have the Space in 2003 which again, tragically An abort system would There's a chance if an escape pod had its own heat shield and the like, it may have helped, but it's unlikely aborting during reentry would Now let's look at the number of times a crewed orbital launch This number is very small. Today, an abort system actually armed for a flight has only been The first time an abort on an un-crewed test flight of Soyuz for the Soyuz 7K-OK number The launch was reset when a strap-on booster failed to ignite. The ground crew went out to inspect the rocket when suddenly, 27 minutes after the scrub the launch tower activated it was 8 degrees off axis it should be due to the Earth's rotation. The firing of the abort system ended up lighting the third stage on fire, and then the rest of the rocket blew up on the pad killing one ground crew personnel. In this case an abort system The next time an abort system was fired, was the only time there's been a pad abort with crew on board. On September 26th, 1983, when the crew of Soyuz T-10-1 had to abort from their Soyuz rocket that had caught on fire while still on the launch pad. After safely aborting and landing the crew was bruised up and shaken when they were met by the recovery crew. They were given cigarettes In this case obviously the Lastly, the abort system was triggered on another Soyuz mission was a problem at booster separation that caused a booster to This triggered the abort system, not the full tower which had just been jettisoned a few seconds prior, but a smaller abort system integrated onto the fairing covering the crew module. In this case, the abort but perhaps simply and detaching from the booster would have been sufficient without a mechanical escape system active. There are really only about two other flights the first was Soyuz 7K-T-39 in 1975, which aborted after the escape tower and fairing were jettisoned, An abort system obviously wouldn't have helped as it had Then there's the only STS-51-F in 1985. It performed an abort to orbit maneuver when one of the Again, an abort system wouldn't have helped as it was unnecessary. So in the grand scheme of things, to date, a mechanical abort system it may have prevented one tragedy and in one case it So out of the 320 orbital only three missions in total necessitated the use of an abort system, or less than 1% of crewed launches. There were another three launches where an abort system and two that aborted without And if we look at the last 30 from the 90's on, only one launch out of a launch abort system actually be used, so only about half a percent of flights would see any benefit from a launch escape system at all. (upbeat music) Now before we answer the question are abort systems necessary, let's just take a look at one more thing. How can we improve the so we don't need an abort system period? I think the answer to this question is we need to fly more a lot more, a lot more. And we need to reuse systems over and over so we can see where things are weakest and where we can make the Let's look at airliner safety. This is a chart showing of commercial airline travel happen per accident over time. Unfortunately this data only even show the very early, wild, wild west days of air travel. But in less than a century, the industry's safety record improved by three orders of magnitude. Now I really really wish we had data on the first three decades but unfortunately the but I wouldn't be too surprised if it didn't look too Now this is actually the orbital launch success rate per year. Notice how quickly humans got But then it stalled. Let's compare that to the the same time frame. Yeah, humans had pretty much it isn't until you zoom that you can actually an improvement on flight success rate because we're well into chasing the nine's in reliability at this point. And I think there's a First off, in total there hasn't even been 6,000 orbital launches ever. Compare that to the almost 40 million commercial air and you realize just how I'll bet the first 6,000 flight a similarly awful flight record as well. 6,000 flights was a much, much quicker timeframe and with a significantly than building a rocket. Now we probably shouldn't be comparing rockets to airplanes, because getting a rocket to space and bringing it back safely orders of magnitude harder than flying an airplane to begin with. You can make airplanes out of paper, or if you are Peter Steeple you can make airplanes out But it is fun to see how quickly we can actually really it just takes more and more time. But it is fun to compare can become reliable The answer to what can we do to make rockets more reliable is simple. Fly them more often and and over instead of throwing them away. Only then will we begin to get anywhere near airliner like reliability. (upbeat music) So it's time we finally wrap this all up. Launch abort systems. Are they necessary. Do they actually make astronauts safer? Do we need them going forward? If so, will we always So remember when we a launch abort system would have saved the lives of crew and it's Well, I still think it's a good idea for this generation of rockets. I think NASA, SpaceX and Boeing are right to assume the Falcon 9 and Atlas V, as reliable of rockets as they are, still lack significant flight data to really be considered a launch abort system. But don't forget launch abort own complications and problems with them. Remember how SpaceX's Crew when testing the abort system? And actually Boeing launch abort system catching You're basically taking more parts and a small rocket and attaching that can also fail, and you are putting them directly on your crew module anyway. Sure, a lot of work goes but you're solving the problems of rockets by sticking more rockets on them. That would be like putting a Cessna prop plane the 747 fails you can You're probably better maintenance is up to and buying a Cessna. It's like how people ask all the time if the Super Draco Abort backup to the parachutes and the answer is, technically, But by the time you those systems, and make you probably would've been better off just making sure your parachutes don't fail in the first place and make them more reliable. In the same way, would you put together all these procedures and envelopes and subsystems or focus on making the entire At some point, you can a more reliable system over I think Elon Musk has a good point when he said this in - The best part is no part. The best process is no process, it weighs nothing, costs So as obvious as that sounds, the best part is no part. The thing I'm most impressed with when I have design meetings at SpaceX is what did you un-design? Undesigning is the best thing. Just delete it, that's the best thing. - So I guess the question should be would I ride on a Starship For now, the answer is no. I think we should see at least a few dozen flights without crew first, We should find the limits and boundaries, maybe have some failures or two and only once we've seen Starships flying 10 plus times reliably would I consider getting on one. But I'm also a chicken, I don't think I'm cut I do think it could be possible we see humans who are willing to risk it on Starship early on in the program, and if it's NASA astronauts on board, I wouldn't be surprised if they would require an abort system. Especially since SpaceX will just like they do the Falcon 9, meaning the crew will need In general, it's more and pressurizing a vehicle than to have it sitting there So unless SpaceX can change I honestly can't really of their astronauts on board without an abort system again any time soon. At the end of the day you can't fix the problems you don't know are there. Just like how SpaceX was so surprised to discover problems with cryogenics and composite over-wrapped or the failure of a strut, or titanium valve exploding, sometimes you simply don't discover a design flaw until it So that's why I think it's vital we see these things fly, fly often, and fly over and over. Only then will I think there's a proven reliability track a safe enough option to So what do you think? Abort systems, are they Would you get on a rocket that At the end of the day that's I can see both sides of this argument. I can see where you might say obviously it can make things safer Because if the rocket fails you at least have a backup rocket, at the same time you're adding more parts. So maybe there's some elegance to the simplicity of the design that doesn't have all these extra parts, and just focus on making But I don't know. Let me know your thoughts And also be sure and let me know if you have any other questions about Starship, abort Raptor engines, Space Shuttles, anything. Let me know if you have any questions and I'll be sure and try to I have this never ending video list that I just cannot keep up with, but I'm really excited to So stay tuned, there's a lot As always, I owe the biggest thanks in the world to my Patreon supporters, who literally helped me They have been a big, trying to find all these fun facts, and find little nuggets crunching numbers and So if you want to help do what I do, please consider becoming By going to Patreon.com/everydayastronaut where you'll gain access Patreon, and exclusive live streams. Thank you. And while you're online everydayastronaut.com/shop Now do notice that the they are all hand screen printed, hand sewn-on patches. Custom neck labels, all And these awesome So if you like something because there's a good chance it won't be there next time you And I guess you can even grab what's apparently one of the full flow stage We also have that as a just in time for the cool weather. So get in there while you can and get some awesome That's everydayastronaut.com/shop. Thanks everybody, that's I'm Tim Dodd, The Everyday Astronaut, bringing space down to (upbeat music)