Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today we are leverage artificial intelligence Here for instance, I can I can also highlight an area of a photo and Uh, where did my son go? I can also give the a song for the Kevin Cookie Company. Wow, that's much to also have the computer sing it to me. The Those are just a few of the examples that we're The first tool that we're going to look at is your voice in real time. You can download the tool They have voice actors record all sorts of text speak into a microphone, and they'll convert your you finish downloading and installing VoiceMod, Up in the top left-hand corner, let's click on voices that are available in VoiceMod, and Currently all of the AI voices are in beta, so Let's test some of these out. The Kevin Cookie Company has When you have an authoritative voice Let's test out some of these other Ladies and gentlemen, this is your pilot crew will soon be delivering Over on the right-hand side, here so the pilot has Michael. You could so you could customize who the character I'll select Alice. Be sure to finish You could really just spend all day playing Next, we're going to look at how you can remove cleanup.pictures. Here I am on the website a photo where you would like to remove an object. mountain of snow. Now for free, you could continue want to work with an HD version. For this, I'll of my son standing on this mountain of snow. Down need to do is simply highlight my son. Here I'll I'll release my mouse, and now the AI is doing disappeared from the photo, and it even recreated right-hand corner, you can click on this toggle back to the version where it's removed him from Now there are a few issues with shadows impressive for such a short amount of time. It The next app that we're going to look at is called infuses AI throughout the entire experience. You mouse. You can even enhance the way you look. take a look. To get the CapCut video editing app, you can use CapCut in your web browser or you can functionality, I would recommend downloading and Once you finish installing CapCut and you launch the first thing you need to do is drag some type and then I'll drag it down here onto the timeline To remove the background, here I'll make sure corner, I'll click on video, and then cutout, I'll click on this and right now it's processing work is happening, and check that out. It and that's without a green screen. The AI detects one thing that's really neat, here I can pull in I'll take my video on the timeline and I'll move picture in. I'll place it on the lower layer and video. And now when I play it, look at this. location. Here I'll pull these handles just so the Once again, no green screen at all. That's pretty CapCut has some other very impressive AI the top right-hand corner let's click on enhance. here CapCut places a rectangle around my face, and maybe I give myself smoother skin. Or maybe I want whiter teeth. I could do this with other parts of long or short my face is. Down here, I could way my body looks. So, who needs plastic surgery you can make yourself look amazing. To watch even check out the video up above. Next, we're going computer some instructions and it'll respond Click on the link up above or down below the OpenAI playground. Over on the left-hand and over on the right-hand side, you have various can choose the AI model. Currently it's set to the enter in instructions for this AI, and I've always I'll type this in as the instruction and then down we now have an official song for the Kevin Cookie to sing it, but it does sound pretty good when have the chorus. This is really solid. This is all recently had poor financial results, so let's see explain why the Kevin Cookie Company financial click on submit. Wow. That's a pretty thorough include changes in the food industry, increased This is a pretty solid explanation. Now I really high school. Here, let me ask the question give finish my homework. Here, I'll click on submit finishing my homework. I had a family emergency was unable to finish it. You can't argue with excuse. Down below, there's also a link for and forth with the AI. Let's test this out. my conversation with the AI, so maybe I want to and let's see what the AI says. Oh wow, this passionate about? What are your viewers interested Wow, coming from an AI, this is really a nice and now if I want to, I could also Lastly, we're going to look at Microsoft Excel. and Microsoft has started infusing AI into the automatically analyze it for you, and also come thought of on your own. Here I am in Microsoft the Kevin Cookie Company, and I'm on point to Luckily, I could just rely on my computer let's click on the home tab, and all the way let's click on analyze data. This now opens up with analyzing my data. Now instead of me going in here I could simply ask Excel about my data. For And when I typed that in here, I see that we cool, but now check this out. Down below, Excel Here I see some interesting views, and as Product chocolate chip has noticeably higher and here I can even insert a pivot chart. Down This shows me even more insights about my interesting things that I probably wouldn't have you'll also find similar functionality there. In click on this button that says explore. about the data and down below we see all so well worth checking out whether you use Excel scratching the surface on all of the different Let me know down below in the comments if watch more videos like this one, please consider