The man known to history as Thomas Cromwell in 1485 or shortly before this, in Putney His father was Walter Cromwell, a blacksmith as a fuller and as a cloth merchant. Virtually nothing is known about Cromwell's Katherine Marvell and came from Staffordshire, family who were members of the gentry from Much like his mother's identity, most of His father evidently prospered in his business was able to organise a number of good marriages local gentry, whilst Walter also served on wealth requirement. Yet Cromwell himself was somewhat disorderly in his youth and was even rumoured to have Much of this chaotic behaviour in his early Walter Cromwell, despite his success in the was regularly in trouble with the law, for He also clashed with his son and may have Thomas, at a time when some degree of corporal Whatever the exact specifics of the family unhappy with it and as a consequence he left And he would spend the next several years As with his childhood and teenage years, we Cromwell's early adult years. He travelled throughout Western Europe in As a consequence, later in his life, he was We do know that he served as a soldier during Battle of Garigliano, a substantial engagement, of December 1503 between the French and their and their allied states on the other. The Iberians and the Galicians had been engaged Italian peninsula, since the early 1490s and half a century. Cromwell, though, resolved quickly that he and by the late 1500s he was working in a Frescobaldi in the city of Florence, the home Cromwell spent the next ten years there as Countries and France, where he worked in the Thus, by the time that he returned to England of European contacts, knew the continent's Shortly after his return to England Cromwell Williams, a Yeoman of the Guard, and a woman Putney herself. The couple would have three children, Gregory, Moreover, Elizabeth's father Henry had served as a consequence, Thomas was able to obtain his father-in-law's contacts. This was a period in England's history, to rise far. The ruling dynasty, the Tudors, were themselves very tenuous claim to the throne of England. However, the founder of the line, Henry VII, in England's long civil wars of the fifteenth after which, he ascended to the throne in Nevertheless, the Tudors' hold on power son and namesake, Henry VIII, became king legitimate male heir, conceived in wedlock, And his quest to do so, would come to define the course of England's political and religious process. That, however, lay some time ahead and in was building his business links. His work in the cloth trade also saw him straying such employment did not require a legal degree A jack of all trades, Cromwell also worked 1517, was sent as a deputy for the town of plenary indulgences from Pope Leo X for the after a private meeting with the head of the On his return to England, he continued to By 1520, he was well established amongst the reputation as an efficient legal representative. This work gradually brought Cromwell into who had extensive connections outside the around Whitehall, Westminster and Lambeth. And it was through these connections, that king's most powerful minister at that time, It was the beginning of a relationship which Thomas Wolsey was the son of a butcher from early sixteenth century to become the archbishop Leo X in 1515, an office which made him the And that same year, he was also appointed He would gradually increase his control over followed. Henry was a traditional king who saw his role vein as his medieval predecessors. Accordingly, the minutiae of day to day government as Wolsey, and the cardinal was so effective attained a position as Henry's chief minister, in England next to the king himself. Following his initial encounter with Cromwell and lawyer sporadically in the years that with the powerful London merchant community. As a result, Cromwell's financial interests in 1523, he was elected as a Member of Parliament Thus, as he neared his fortieth year, Cromwell There is substantial evidence to suggest that also quite broad by this time. A document of his from this period, contains with France. Henry VIII was one of the last monarchs to on the continent, a role inherited from England's of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. However, by the time Henry ascended to the had been reduced to the Pale around Calais Nevertheless, Henry believed that war could exorbitant amounts of money in order to do In his text, Cromwell rounded on this policy, or financial perspective, for the English And instead, he proposed that Henry should in a more secure position to in time, consider It is an interesting early statement of his For Cromwell, politics was the art of what could be paid for by a fiscally limited English Throughout the mid-1520s, Cromwell continued subsidy commissioner for Middlesex, an office lands and goods for the imposition of crown He was also elected as a member of Gray's in London, but it was his skill in one particular as by the mid-1520s Cromwell had established in land conveyancing, at a time when the enclosure was making vast tracts of land available for Consequently, during this time, Cromwell represented in a series of land conveyancing arrangements, It was as a result of this business, that by Wolsey on a more permanent basis in 1524. Then, in the years ahead, he grew ever closer so, as he became involved in a scheme which monastic houses and their lands and possessions its servants. This work was enormously profitable for all to it on a much grander scale in years to By now Cromwell was well liked by Wolsey and to his private council of advisors. It is noteworthy though, that Cromwell did government. Henry VIII's administration was largely third Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Howard, and Charles Brandon, as well as administrators Additionally, a large cohort of lower-ranking clerks and officials, but Cromwell did not Rather throughout the late 1520s, he was employed and it is unclear exactly what relationship these years. Nevertheless, his prominence as Wolsey's recognised as an important figure in political Conversely, though, his personal life was Cromwell's wife, Elizabeth, died sometime Anne and Grace also passed shortly afterwards, 'sweating sickness' in London, a mysterious and the cause of which, is still unclear. As well as this, all was not well at court. Henry VIII had been married to Catherine of since 1509. A son named Henry was born shortly afterwards at a time of very high infant mortality. A daughter, Mary, followed in 1516, but a VIII. Given the weak claims of the Tudor dynasty obsessed with producing a legitimate son to By the early 1520s, he had despaired of this to Catherine. And so, by 1525 Henry was looking elsewhere Boleyn, the daughter of a prominent court Duke of Norfolk. From 1527, the king had become determined ran contrary to Catholic doctrine and Wolsey this regard. Moreover, the city of Rome was under Spanish was Charles V, Catherine's nephew. He was determined to prevent any Pope from The quest for such an annulment would define By 1529, as Cromwell was reaching the height was increasingly under attack by Anne Boleyn cardinal's failure to obtain a divorce for arguments and in the autumn of 1529, he stripped wealth and power and banished him from the The following year Wolsey was accused of treason the charges, on the 29th of November 1530. Now, Cromwell was understandably convinced, end of his own political career and would faction decided to follow up their victory former servants and allies. Additionally, Thomas was genuinely distressed a man with whom he had formed a personal connection But he survived the fallout from Wolsey's By utilising a number of other court connections was able to be returned as an MP, to the parliament he had lived to fight another day politically. The next few months were critical in Cromwell's During early 1530, he acted as an agent at archbishopric of Yorkshire upon his downfall At this time, Henry still retained considerable figure whom he had removed from power owing and her associates. And Cromwell ingratiated himself to Henry For his part, Cromwell remained loyal to his moved in to destroy Wolsey completely, late Moreover, by the time that Wolsey died in to the king and his skills apparent enough He was made a member of the king's private a significant posting within the royal exchequer. A sign of his growing influence is seen, in was receiving, from individuals all over England Such petitions were generally addressed to influence with the monarch of the day. Cromwell's real ascent though occurred between role in acquiring the king the divorce which to as his 'Great Matter'. Previous efforts at obtaining a divorce, had had been previously married to Henry's deceased that Henry's subsequent marriage to Catherine, Catherine had been consummated. However, when this particular approach had during Wolsey's last years in power, several entirely from the Roman Catholic Church and an independent Church of England. This emerging doctrine of the Royal Supremacy, who were collecting evidence from the Bible the idea that the English Church had always Kings of England, an argument which, it must to it. But it could potentially be very beneficial. As head of the English Church, Henry could Cromwell was soon involved in the movement a resolution to the 'Great Matter'. For instance, early in 1531, Cromwell was William Warham, over to the king's camp Warham reluctantly agreed, in large part because establishing the Royal Supremacy would even After this, Cromwell was drafted into a small were charged with establishing the Royal Supremacy of Henry's marriage to Catherine. In 1532, the king and his counsellors turned as a precursor to eventually bringing the It met with mixed success and on the 14th Then, two days later, the Lord Chancellor in the supremacy of the Pope and someone who his position. The problem for More, was that the question was increasingly getting tangled up, with apart, a topic to which we now turn. Henry's quest for a male heir and the marital quest, might have remained a rather limited occurred during another historical period. But they would acquire a much broader significance 1520s. Because Henry was seeking his divorce at this up with the wider religious and political at this time. In 1517 a German religious reformer by the of 95 theses up in the town of Wittenberg the Papacy in Rome for its corruption and Luther was particularly castigating of the sin for cash, and other abuses such as the the family members of well-connected aristocratic Ultimately Luther's actions set off a chain In the years that followed, thousands of political about Christian doctrine and the hierarchy all over Europe, using the new medium of the As these appeared, huge sections of Western protestors or 'Protestants'. This was what has become known as the European During the course of it, many new religious Protestants and Reformed Calvinists, as well who believed in adult baptism. These groups had new views on Christian doctrine, believed that the Bible should be read in rather than in Latin. And some of them even argued that priests and ostentation which was on display in churches, in a more austere setting. Although these ideas were initially confined the Low Countries and France, by the mid-1520s, Henry was initially very hostile to the Protestant Defence of the Seven Sacraments, arguing against This action led Pope Leo X to bestow the title but the emergence of his divorce as a political it, soon saw him being pulled in the direction The question of Cromwell's own religious He was not a hard-line Protestant, or at least government. Indeed it is clear from his correspondence 1527, he held very traditional, Roman Catholic However, the late 1520s witnessed a change, were arriving to England from the continent, the man who would go on to publish the first in the mid-1530s. Thus, in 1530, we find evidence of Cromwell Consequently, just as Cromwell was transitioning the direct employ of the king, he was also stance. And this may have become more radical as the early English Protestants. Coverdale, for instance, was a Roman Catholic moderate Protestant in the late 1520s, but had come round to being a radical Calvinist It is possible that Cromwell also experienced Protestantism as the years went by. Cromwell, though, would not be the only influence into England during the 1530s. The prevalence of Henry's 'Great Matter' 1530s, allowed others who wished to initiate king's ear at this time. And none was as significant as Thomas Cranmer, in efforts to build a portfolio of evidence, of his marriage to Catherine since the late As part of this work, Cranmer was sent to 1532, during which, he met many Protestant Then, having visited the Protestant city of Osiander, the niece of the leading Protestant marriage. Cranmer returned to England as a moderate He was soon appointed as Archbishop of Canterbury figure of the early Protestant Reformation Cranmer and several other reformers such as to introduce the Reformation to England in It had become clear by mid-1532, that the forward with and that this would act on some his first wife and marrying Anne Boleyn. However, even before the break with Rome or his new bride. And on the 14th of November 1532 they were The king would later justify this action, Catherine and his deceased brother Arthur a result, their own marriage was invalid. Nuptials were undertaken more formally in that Henry had Archbishop Cranmer officially void. By this time, Catherine had been in exile at various royal castles away from London. She had maintained a dignified court and claimed She did not return to Spain, but rather spent in Cambridgeshire, where her servants continued Henry, who had a great affection for Catherine so, although it nevertheless removed a problem January 1536. It now remained for the Royal Supremacy to to be formally entered into. After months of wrangling in parliament throughout Highness to be Supreme Head of the Church the 3rd of November 1534, though the wording that this was just recognising a Supremacy Already months earlier, Cromwell and other the clergy and political figures into swearing acknowledged as the supreme head of the Church Many refused, among them Sir Thomas More, ultimately executed, in July 1535. Then once the initial campaign had been waged were dispatched far and wide throughout the swear their allegiance to Henry, as the new And the importance of this was perfectly clear. The price of Henry obtaining his long sought-after split from the Papacy in Rome. It just remained to be seen, what other religious With his divorce finalised and his marriage those who had helped him resolve his 'Great Already in 1532 and early 1533, the king had those of master of the jewels, clerk of the Then, in April 1534, just as the supremacy Cromwell as his principal secretary and chief The significance was clear. Cromwell had now succeeded Wolsey to a large downfall. The new secretary brought great energy to With a forensic attention to detail, he began mid-1530s, introducing new taxes and cutting And his range of interests was wide and humane. Amongst his papers, are numerous memoranda England's education system, its agriculture, His greatest achievement in this respect, individual localities responsible for providing Here Cromwell was effectively responsible whereby the state made provision to aid the This was Cromwell the secretary. Cromwell the man is more difficult to pin We know a great deal about how he managed to decipher his own views on matters and his This is for the very simple reason, that amongst Cromwell, housed amongst the States Papers written by others and sent to Cromwell, far Moreover, the correspondence which he composed and we have very few instances of documents to express his private thoughts and emotions. Indeed, sometime around 1533 or 1534, he sat Renaissance artist and Henrician court painter, Copies of the painting today in the Frick Portrait Gallery in London, show an administrator impassive. He doesn't display any discernible emotion is how Cromwell wanted Holbein to depict him. Tellingly, this is in contrast to Holbein's in England, notably Sir Thomas More. Though Cromwell's star was on the rise throughout helped to become queen was not. Anne Boleyn had been crowned as Queen of England She was already pregnant by then and the entire the late summer and autumn, to see if the But, when Anne gave birth to a girl on the Henry professed to still love his new wife, encountered the king around this time. And things only deteriorated further in the Having finally obtained the crown, she had arrogant at court and the enemies of the Boleyn-Howard Then, a major rupture between the queen and Anne suffered the first of either two or three By late 1535, the relationship was in terminal of his ministers, ways by which he could divorce His mind seems to have been made up by the of 1536 and Cromwell would be critical in Anne Boleyn's eventual demise came as a treason which historians generally agree were to bringing against her. Ever since she had gained the king's eye Anne's past sexual liaisons. Now, in early 1536, new charges surfaced, with multiple individuals including a musician, Wyatt, a prominent courtier, Sir Henry Norris, the latter bringing with it, charges of incest. Cromwell moved quickly and after days of investigations, and circumstantial evidence and witness testimonies Anne herself was arrested on the 2nd of May Henry, as ever, unwilling to deal directly from sight. Trials of the accused followed in mid-May was found guilty and sentenced to death. Hence it was, that Anne Boleyn, the woman to marry, was executed on the 19th of May, as Queen of England. Anne's demise was hastened by the fact that His latest interest was Jane Seymour, the courtier whose base was at Wulfhall in Wiltshire. Jane had served as a maid of honour to Queen came to the king's attention in February Cromwell favoured and promoted the union, would mark a departure as queen, from the She and Henry VIII were married on the 30th execution. It would be a short-lived marriage, but in it was highly successful. On the 12th of October 1537, Jane gave birth The young Prince Edward was christened three a week later from post-natal complications Henry, who was capable of eloquence at times, Providence ... hath mingled my joy with bitterness She was buried in St George's Chapel at to be afforded a queen's burial. Ten years later, Henry would be buried alongside The arrival of Jane into the king's orbit the kingdom's politics. As it did, Cromwell was free to focus to a Tudor dominions. And one of Cromwell's greatest successes Henry from entering into any major wars. Henry perceived of his role as king, in the and he admired earlier kings such as Henry England had found itself at war with France and 1514 as part of the wider War of the League between 1522 and 1526. These earlier conflicts had proved very costly made. Conversely, Henry had managed to compromise had worked carefully to put on a sound footing, Cromwell, who was opposed to such costly overseas the most peaceful period it enjoyed during be credited with. Indeed, no sooner had he passed from the scene of wars with Scotland and France in 1542, of the decade and which proved ruinous to Cromwell's role as an innovator in administration Between the 1950s and the 1970s, the leading Elton, published several works which hypothesised in Tudor government. Cromwell, Elton argued, had fundamentally VIII's government worked in the 1530s. And while some aspects of that thesis have is little doubting that Cromwell was largely Council in England. During the Late Medieval period, the king council, usually composed of five to ten leading Already under Henry VII, there was an increasing were not members of the aristocracy, but Cromwell became known as the Privy Council. This would eventually consist of between ten as Secretary of State, Lord Chancellor, Lord And the Privy Council would govern England forerunner of the modern-day government's Cromwell, more than anyone else in English it. One of the more overlooked aspects of Cromwell's on the governance of Ireland. The English state had conquered much of the centuries, but in subsequent years, the English east of the country, by over two dozen independent Thus, by the early 1530s, the English presence on the east coast and a number of counties And the bulk of the country was actually controlled and O'Donnells of Ulster and the O'Briens lords there, such as the Fitzgeralds of Desmond in that they had adopted the Irish language Moreover, London's control over even the tenuous and real authority there actually of Kildare. Wolsey, though, had attempted to rejuvenate in the House of Kildare. When Cromwell continued this policy, the Fitzgeralds This was a threat to Tudor rule, but also The Kildare Rebellion which erupted in 1534, army to Ireland. And it quickly crushed the rebellion and by under arrest and the earldom was temporarily There was now an opportunity to adopt a wholly Many English officials had arrived in Ireland and they now began petitioning Cromwell to of Ireland, beginning by reducing the Irish its hinterland. But, while Cromwell was broadly favourable 1537, arguing that it would prove too costly. Accordingly, Cromwell began to consider other be reformed by having the Irish lords take titles of nobility. This policy of Anglicisation was adopted in in favour of a programme of military conquest bring all of Ireland under English rule at In this respect Cromwell was significant, English rule in early modern Ireland. As significant as Cromwell's work as an policy on the continent and in Ireland was, the ongoing religious reform which occurred of the English Reformation. The split from Rome and the establishment had divided England from the Roman Catholic Church of England remained doctrinally Catholic. And there is little doubting that Henry VIII Christian. But the reforms which were required to ensure had opened the floodgates for further reforms, the heart of government and was increasingly Thomas Cranmer, a man who was becoming more each new year, had risen to become the Archbishop to Henry in the resolution of his 'Great Together, Cromwell, Cranmer and a cohort of religious reforms in the mid and late 1530s, the Protestant camp. One of the clearest early signs of this, occurred the religious houses within the Tudor dominions Continental religious reformers had been deeply which held enormous wealth and which were Accordingly, some religious orders had been states on the continent and Cromwell now elected England. Henry was won over, not by any theological the exercise could generate an enormous financial suppressed and their lands and assets confiscated. And this was money, Henry imagined, which and indeed after Cromwell died, it was there Having convinced the king, the suppression the 1530s hundreds of monasteries, friaries to an end the religious orders in the Tudor for everything from poor relief, to local Ireland and Wales. The foremost changes in religious practice and 1538. In July 1536, the Ten Articles of Faith were of the Church of England. These were hardly radical and adhered to many there were a number of innovations. For instance, while the Articles affirmed in the Eucharist and that penance was necessary the continental reformers were challenging, doctrinally uncertain, but indulgences for and icons in churches were of only limited with the Lutherans in Germany and elsewhere. These beliefs were further strengthened in interest in rooting out what was deemed to and their relics and the use of too much iconography Yet it would not be until the reign of Henry's took off, with English churches stripped down removed. The Ten Articles were augmented and expanded named, The Institution of the Christian Man, Compiled by the archbishops and bishops of such as Cromwell, the Book effectively offered be conducted in England, as well as the status and numerous theological matters. And in its totality, it moved the Church of closer to Protestantism. For instance, the Book confirmed that henceforth, the Eucharist and Penance, were actually ordained There were further proscriptions on the veneration But most significantly, the Book leaned towards a core Protestant principle which rejected could be earned through good works. This new Lutheran and Reformed principle argued, faith in God. With the inclusion of this principle in the pushing the Church of England closer to outright The religious reforms did not go unopposed, populated by traditional Roman Catholics. The most severe reaction came from the north religious innovations became mixed with popular The revolt which resulted, is known as the It was sparked by the arrival of commissioners several monasteries there. These officials were attacked in October and Simultaneously, a more substantial rising named Robert Aske. These rebels seized the city of York on the 30,000 men by the early winter. Little could be done to quell the unrest in a series of demands at Pontefract in December and his role in government. Eventually the Pilgrimage failed, because suppress it, convinced Aske that some of their dispersed. This weakened them and Norfolk was able to winter and early spring of 1537, in the process Aske included. Cromwell's downfall, though, would not arise broke out in the north of England in 1536. It would come from much nearer to home and with whom he had served in government for The king's secretary had made many enemies Thomas Howard, the most powerful magnate in commoner and an upstart. Furthermore, Norfolk was increasingly at the of the course of religious policy. He was joined in his opposition to Cromwell notably Stephen Gardiner, the conservative From 1537 onwards, they began to exploit the of religious reform, to begin undermining eyes. They were able to do so because, despite the into the Protestant camp in the 1530s, Henry This reality would be further compounded at coalesced to fatally undermine Cromwell's Surprisingly, some of the damage which was France. Firstly, a controversy arose in the English of several radical preachers there, who Cromwell England. Then there were issues surrounding the official of the Bible by Miles Coverdale that same And Henry was uncomfortable with these developments. As such, they provided room for Norfolk to just weeks later, which constituted a backlash Bishop's Book of 1536 and 1537. In these new Six Articles, renewed emphasis of transubstantiation, ideas which had been the mid-1530s. And all of this brought the enmity between Then, on the 29th of June 1539, when dining Cranmer's residence, a heated discussion the course of which, Howard accused Cromwell Norfolk was disloyal to his king. It was now a duel to see which of them could Those who opposed Cromwell were presented the secretary in the months that followed. Beginning in 1538, Henry's government had Protestant states in Germany, known as the It was believed at this time, that Catholic other, against newly Protestant England, and England needed allies of its own. Thus, by the spring of 1539, negotiations between Henry and Anne of Cleves, the sister Cleves and Berg in western Germany. Cromwell greatly favoured the marriage alliance, the Protestant settlement in England, but A treaty was signed between England and the in England in December, Henry decided she All the same, he went ahead with the marriage later, the union was quickly annulled after Henry allowed Anne to remain in England and was badly damaged by the entire affair. The Anne of Cleves affair was the beginning His enemies had him on the ropes now and in Charles de Marillac, reported back to Paris, Much as had happened with Wolsey a decade but the king was so swayed by a growing coalition that he could not resist the temptation to Then, when a new parliament opened a few days back of many of the religious reforms, which Conversely, in a highly anomalous move, Henry he bestowed the title of Earl of Essex on Lord Chamberlain. On the surface, there was an air of normality In the early summer, Cromwell was overseeing new court which supervised the raising of minors and administered their estates during But then just days later, Cromwell's career On the 10th of June 1540, Cromwell arrived Upon his arrival into the Privy Council Chamber, of treason and heresy. Revelling in his victory over his long-time removed the symbols of the Order of the Garter, The secretary was then led away and taken Trumped up charges were placed against Cromwell, secretary was conspiring to marry Henry's line to become a royal consort when the king Henry as ever, was nowhere to be seen in all Cromwell wrote to him near Midsummer to appeal enough knowledge of his monarch by now, to On the 28th of July, Cromwell walked out onto In his last speech he denied having aided His execution a moment later was botched. It took several blows before his head was His head was then set on a pike on London Norfolk's niece, Catherine Howard, and a reformation was initiated. Thomas Cromwell is an enigma. He rose from shadowy beginnings in Putney, in England in the 1530s. Yet, while his career and work profoundly the man himself remains impenetrable and largely Unsurprisingly, historians' views on Cromwell Most generations have tended to see him as rip apart the social and religious fabric to the one man who could guarantee him power, But others, following the work of Geoffrey remarkable administrator, who fomented a revolution government cabinets function. Indeed, his power within the government is Was Cromwell effectively Wolsey's successor or was Cromwell just one part of a wider council energy as a bureaucrat and administrator, decisions that were made at Whitehall and In reality these divergent views have emerged For instance, he is someone for whom we have others. Cromwell was genuinely distressed about Wolsey's And yet we also have evidence of how ruthless Boleyn and her supposed lovers, when it suited Indeed we get the sense that Cromwell tried in interest or emotion. This was an act. He was actually a cultured man, who had lived patronised the arts and music, and spoke multiple He provided alms and food for up to 200 poor and had a genuine commitment to social reform. Equally his religious views were relatively introduction of the Protestant Reformation or Puritan. Perhaps what he was above all, was a hard-working loyalty to his monarch. Even Henry, months after he had consigned had been, "the most faithful servant he Thus, what we are left with, is a peculiar He rose on the strength of a sincere loyalty his powers by facilitating the borderline monarch. But in facilitating that same king, he was of genuinely progressive reforms, ones which government, introduced many sorely needed Church and attempted to bring about a series which was on the cusp of enormous economic But it was a Faustian bargain, with a man apart, in order to see that his dynasty was And ultimately in 1540, Cromwell became just What do you think of Thomas Cromwell? Was he a 'Machiavellian' schemer who plunged order to acquire power, or was he a faithful best to temper the worst impulses of a tyrannical Please let us know in the comment section, much for watching.