When I was a woman, men had a problem When I was a trans guy, trans and queer people had a problem with me. Now that I'm detransitioned, Christians men, and a lot of radical feminists all have a problem with me. Growing up in Cleveland was interesting I think it maybe gives you a little bit of So this is the house I was born in on West 54th Street. I was born at home so this is actually where Ianded. My first memory of gender was I think that was the first time I felt Right before I went to high So my high school's uniform was a polo Going to and getting home from high school was just a lot of dealing with men. Men's reactions to me and men wanting to talk to me and men trying to get my phone number and stuff. Once I said to a friend of mine that I disrespected and my friend was like, 'oh that's weird that makes me feel like studious'. It felt so unfair to me that I had to After I went tohigh school I went to Ohio State. My sophomore year I was sexually assaulted. It absolutely contributed to just this After college I moved to Chicago. It was partly about doing stand-up and it was partly about being away from my hometown So I could date women. Hey everybody, how is everyone doing tonight? I'm doing awesome. I moved to Chicago from Cleveland in September. It's a big thrill for me. Clap it up for the move. And when I moved to Chicago trans guys were kind of all around. The first trans person I met, my first emotion when meeting him was like intense jealousy. I was just so jealous that he got to get a mastectomy. I found a therapist who like advertised get hormones and I got my hormone letter When I got the letter I was just like so It felt like everything was beginning. I started testosterone October of 2012 I would inject every other Wednesday. People tend to inject in either the thigh or like the butt you just want like a big muscle to get it in. Very quickly after I started testosterone I was like this is obviously what I needed. Testosterone made me like exclusively and I was like, if I'm going to be a gay trans dude, I have to be in a place where that's a thing. I moved to San Francisco in March of Things in California were going badly like pretty immediately. The fact is that like lots of people will not hire you being a trans person. and it is like true that when trans guys pass they get to see an even darker side of men I was hearing a lot of rape jokes, the worst thing that happened to me is intensely funny to some guys. It's a weird and dark thing to learn about the world. I had kind of like gotten to a point where I was very very like desperate and low. For a couple months been like thinking about suicide every day and stuff. And I was like like, I think that I just got this wrong, like this is not a trans thing this is a trauma thing. I felt like it was time to to throw in the towel. I moved back to Cleveland when I decided I use the word regret, I regret it. I It was a waste of my time. it was more time that I didn't do what I needed, which was like address my dissociative symptoms. So I regret it. Maybe that sounds like me whining since But if I had to do it over again I would not. I started writing to process the experience and make it make sense. A pretty prominent trans writer wrote an and I was incredibly pissed off. I made a YouTube video pretty much coming out. My response and other detransitioned women's responses it kind of the community got a lot more public. I know one of the presenters Carey Callahan, she is a very talented compassionate and insightful person. These women are very important. It's important to remember though that detransition isn't just a controversial subject people argue about online. Detransition is something some people live through, people who often suffer and face difficulties accessing resources because You know. I just know like how much work Crash puts in to all the content she there are repercussions in your real life to posting this stuff online I get attacked on a pretty regular basis. Two camps that give me a lot of trouble it's kind of like fundamentalist Who think that my story proves that no one's gender dysphoria can be alleviated through medical transition and people thus should not I also get people in the trans community story is like unethical because it gives material to say that. On my Twitter feed someone linked to a book review and it was a review of this book by Ryan That initial YouTube video I he pulled quotes from it to argue that So what I do in the book is I tell transitioning, while it went well brought immediate sense of relief it wholeness that they were looking for but Here we go, Crisis Magazine. that I was in the Heritage Foundation I felt like violated on such a deep level. The complexity of our viewpoint is pretty inconvenient to people on all sides of the political spectrum. Yeah, why am i actively participating in Maybe there is a sense that like, if you tell the story and it gets misused and you tell the story and misused again ... then you just like keep telling it until I think the end goal is that other know that we're out here and we're doing okay. so, yeah.