Transcriber: Radu Chirila 26% on the nation's report card, that's the percentage who are proficient in Math. In America, we pride ourselves But does 26% sound exceptional to you? Raise your hand if you think as a country I'm with you. We all need Math, but why Is it because only 26% of people while 74% are not? After working with thousands of kids, this isn't the case at all. Kids don't understand Math because we've been teaching it But if we make Math human again, You're probably wondering: &quot;How was Math ever human So, think about it. (Laughter) Math is a human language, because it allows people Even in ancient times, to conduct trade, to build monuments, and to measure the land for farming. This idea of Math as a language A great philosopher once said: &quot;The laws of nature are written So you see? (Laughter) But somewhere along the line, we've taken this language of math, which is about the real world around us, and we've abstracted it And that's why kids are confused. Let me show you what I mean. Read this 3rd grade and see if it would make sense &quot;Understand a fraction 1/b when a whole is partitioned Understand the fraction a/b as the quantity formed (Laughter) And if you gave this description you'd probably get a reaction... (Laughter) To a Math expert, But to a kid, it's absolute torture. I chose this example are fundational to algebra, So if kids don't understand fractions they have a tough road But is there a way to make fractions Yes! Just remember that Math is a language For example, when I teach 5th graders I start with the apples + apples lesson. First I ask, And kids will often say 2, Have them include the words as well So it's not just 2, it's 2 apples. Next is 3 pencils plus 2 pencils. You all know that pencils + pencils so everyone, how many pencils? Audience: 5 pencils. 5 pencils is right. And the key is you included the words. I tried this lesson After she added pencils and pencils, &quot;What's 4 billion plus 1 billion?&quot; And my aunt overheard this &quot;Are you crazy? She's in kindergarten! How's she supposed to know (Laughter) Undaunted, my niece finishes counting, &quot;5 billion?&quot; And I said: My aunt just shook her head and laughed because she did not expect that But all you have to do and Math becomes intuitive Then I asked her a question that kindergartners &quot;What's one third plus one third?&quot; And immediately she answered: So if you're wondering when she doesn't know about You see, she wasn't thinking She thought of the problem this way. And she used 1 apple + 1 apple to understand 1 third plus 1 third. So if even a kidergartner you better believe that (Applause) Just for fun, I asked her What's 7 x2 plus 2 x2? And this little 5-year-old girl 9 x2. And she didn't need any exponent rules So when people say that we are it's not true. Math is a human language, so we all have the ability (Laughter) We need to take a language because too many kids are lost and it doesn't have to be that way! I worked with an angry, who couldn't pass algebra because she only knew 44% I told her, &quot;That's like trying to read It's holding you back.&quot; She couldn't factor or solve equations As a result, this teenager I told her, because once you know all your facts and it'll be like having a fast pass (Laughter) What do you think?&quot; And she said &quot;Ok.&quot; So she systematically learned and yes, even multiplication You'd be surprised how many kids can be spelled out as &quot;seven times&quot; 3, which just means 3 seven times, So when kids see it this way, they quickly realize is slow and inconvenient, so they gladly memorize So for this teenager becoming fluent was a game changer. Because for the first time instead of counting on her fingers. I knew she had turned the corner when she figured out at $445 a month and she looked at me disapprovingly &quot;Mr Polisoc, that's expensive!&quot; (Laughter) At that moment, math was no longer but she was using math to solve problems As an educator, it's my duty so I leave you with this challenge. Our country is stuck at 26% proficiency, and I challenge you This is important because mathematical but our kids need it to imagine Meeting this challenge can be Insist that we teach Math and we will get there sooner, Thank you! (Applause)