T.E. Lawrence was dubbed &quot;Lawrence of Arabia&quot; the Middle East. But what the public knows part of the story. This is the tragic real-life Lawrence's beginnings were, according to his Victorian Britain. His father, the Irish nobleman to elope with their Scottish governess, Sarah. and lived under it as husband and wife, eventually August 16th, 1888 in Wales. Later, the family T. E.'s youngest brother, Arnold, once remarked was harder on T. E. than the war. Some of Sarah Lawrence thought T.E. was destined for he be a high achiever; he had to be perfect. home and into a cottage at the edge of the Lawrence thrived as a student, first in high history and wrote his thesis on Crusader castles. an archaeological dig in Syria. The British in Cairo where, again, Lawrence distinguished A desk job wasn't enough for the driven Lawrence. his brothers, Will and Frank, were killed to this survey of Lawrence's life, losing for joining the Arab Revolt against Turkish He felt horribly guilty that his brothers freedom and wanted to be part of history rather &quot;I deem him one of the greatest beings alive In 1916, Arabs living in the Hejaz region against the oppressive practices of the Ottoman itself with Germany, the British took the to the conflict zone to act as a liaison officer of Mecca. According to this review of a recent Lawrence, having eschewed Western dress for led a motley band of fighters to an unlikely tactics Lawrence invented himself. His battlefield heroics caught the attention who, as this PBS piece details, saw in Lawrence public's imagination. Thomas filmed Lawrence footage into a reel he debuted in New York whom he described as vulgar, of exploiting he published his memoir, The Seven Pillars hounded him. He became, at 30, a reluctant adventure and attention, he now entered the man under a series of assumed names. On one hand, hundreds if not thousands of E. Lawrence an inspiration and a hero. The in 1920s and 1930s Britain and America. Lawrence Having received absolutely no combat training his fight against the Turks, Lawrence showed military strategist. On the other hand, Lawrence was a product but, according to Commonweal Magazine, he he considered beneath him. He was, in some century Arabs as illogical and city Arabs &quot;The perfectly hopeless vulgarity of the half-Europeanised the Arab untouched.&quot; In addition, many of the guerrilla warfare much more powerful Turks, including improvised and systematic destruction of lines of communication, Eastern conflicts. Meaning that Lawrence might the Turks, but he also undeniably has modern In January 1917, Lawrence, by then embedded a leader in the so-called Arab Revolt and raid on Turkish soldiers in which, according Lawrence and a group of 35 armed tribesmen back to their camp for questioning. It ended, no choice but to execute a member of his own The killing haunted Lawrence the rest of his During this time, Lawrence was very ill, struggling also plagued with uncertainty about the mission. He worried constantly that, as he and his the coastal city of Aqaba, blowing up railways that it was all for naught, that the Arabs in his personal journal that he wanted nothing Neither happened, of course, and Lawrence In his memoir, Lawrence writes lovingly of which, in Arabic, means &quot;the little dark one.&quot; on an archaeological dig in Carchemish on was impressed with the young man's intelligence In return, Dahoum taught Lawrence Arabic. going on expeditions together and fueling platonic. In June 1914, Lawrence left Dahoum behind between the British Army and the Arab rebels while Lawrence prepared for the pivotal battle of typhus during a famine that wiped out thousands When all the fighting was over and Lawrence The Seven Pillars to &quot;S. A.,&quot; whom most scholars the book with a poem in which he claims that by his love for &quot;S. A.,&quot; writing, &quot;I loved you so I drew these tides of men stars to earn you Freedom.&quot; Almost from the beginning of the Arab revolt about how the conflict would end and what on, once Britain and France became involved. in 1919 and the Cairo conference in 1921, to negotiate Arab independence was deeply Rather than hammer out the details of a peace and French dignitaries simply divvied the of diplomacy became known as the Sykes-Picot Lawrence, still intent on furthering the Arab in 1920 to try to exert some influence, but disillusioned that, according to the Virginia quote, &quot;a madman's notion.&quot; Around this time, a Scotsman confessed to him to administer periodic beatings. Whether and tied somehow to Lawrence's powerlessness or if it was something else, is unknown and T. E. Lawrence had all the qualities of a to live his life in search of the next great as an archaeologist, to the battlefield, where, helped an oppressed people defeat their Turkish masculine, at least in the conventional, Victorian &quot;Cross my heart and hope to die, it's all What many casual fans might not know is Lawrence his relationship with Selim Ahmed, he took closely bonded young Arab servants, of whose &quot;They were an instance of the eastern boy women made inevitable. Such friendships often our flesh-steeped conceit. When innocent they Lawrence, it would appear, was not unashamed. hidden from the public until his early death asexual is up for debate. Back from the battlefield and having gotten retreat to private life and, in 1922, entered John Hume Ross. According to History, Lawrence outed him as Lawrence of Arabia, even going a spy in India, and he was kicked out of the Lawrence was not one to rest on his laurels. under an assumed name. This time he picked playwright and Lawrence's good friend, George and expelled from the tank corps, too. His In 1925, he reenlisted in the RAF. Ten years achieved his goal of near obscurity. He was, in Dorset. He had no time to enjoy his freedom, he was killed in a high-speed motorcycle crash. T. E. Lawrence was an unabashed motorbike owned eight expensive and state-of-the-art bikes. On the morning of May 13th, 1935, Lawrence, was speeding through his neighborhood of Dorset to avoid the boys, sideswiping one of them. his bike's handlebars and, six days later, The circumstances of the accident itself seemed he wrote to the head of the Royal Air Force's his death, has some scholars wondering if part. In the letter, Lawrence wrote that, he were dead. He also expressed dismay at He knew the press would follow him wherever ended the letter by saying he did not want Tragic irony of ironies, Lawrence got his most legendary and intriguing figures. Of like an early death. If you or anyone you know is having suicidal the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at