The Hindu-Yogi A Complete Manual of The Oriental Mental, Psychic, and Spiritual Development. By Yogi Ramacharaka Read by Adam Hanin Originally published by the Yogi This recording is a production Copyright 2021, Master Key Society. CHAPTER I The Western student is apt to be somewhat confused philosophy and practice. Travelers to India have mendicants and mountebanks who infest the great and who impudently claim the title &quot;Yogi.&quot; blamed for thinking of the typical Yogi as an who either sits in a fixed posture until his in the air until it becomes stiff and withered and clenches his fist and holds it tight until his That these people exist is true, but their claim Yogi as does the claim to the title &quot;Doctor&quot; seem to the eminent surgeon, or as does the street corner vendor of worm medicine, There have been for ages past in India and their time and attention to the development The experience of generations of earnest seekers pupil, and gradually a definite Yogi science was was finally applied the term &quot;Yogi,&quot; from the same source comes the English word &quot;yoke,&quot; with a teachings is difficult to trace, different but probably the most ingenious is that which for the idea conveyed by the English phrase, as the Yogi undoubtedly &quot;gets into harness&quot; in his Yoga is divided into several branches, ranging to that which teaches the attainment of the we will not go into the higher phases of the touches upon the same. The &quot;Science of and although chiefly concerned with the has also its psychic side, and even In India there are great schools of Yoga, that great country. The Yoga philosophy The pure Yogi teachings, however, the masses being satisfied with the crumbs which the Oriental custom in this respect being opposed are beginning to have their effect even in the to the few are now freely offered to any who are growing closer together, and both are profiting The Hindu Yogis have always paid great for reasons which will be apparent to the student touched upon this phase of the Yogi teachings, the writer of this work to give to the Western the underlying principles of the Yogi Science Yogi breathing exercises and methods. We have showing how one dovetails into the other. We have avoiding the Sanscrit terms, so The first part of the book is devoted to then the psychic and mental sides are considered, We may be pardoned if we express ourselves as Yogi lore into so few pages, and by the use by anyone. Our only fear is that its very as unworthy of attention, while they pass on their and non-understandable. However, the Western it is only a question of a short time before it We greet our students, with our most profound lessons in the Yogi Science of Breath. &quot;BREATH IS LIFE.&quot; upon the act of breathing. &quot;Breath is Life.&quot; terminology, the Oriental and the Occidental To breathe is to live, and without breath there is upon breath for life and health, but even the and plant life is likewise dependent The infant draws in a long, deep breath, retains properties, and then exhales it in a long The old man gives a faint gasp, ceases to breathe, and life is over. From the first faint breath it is one long story of continued Breathing may be considered the most important of the other functions depend upon it. Man may exist without drinking; but without breathing his And not only is Man dependent upon Breath for habits of breathing for continued vitality and our breathing power will lengthen our days and powers of resistance, and, on the other will tend to shorten our days, by decreasing Man in his normal state had no need of instruction he breathed naturally and properly, as nature him in this and other respects. He has contracted standing and sitting, which have robbed him of He has paid a high price for civilization. unless he has been contaminated The percentage of civilized men who and the result is shown in contracted terrible increase in diseases of the respiratory &quot;the white scourge.&quot; Eminent authorities have would regenerate the race, and disease would Whether looked at from the standpoint the connection between correct breathing The Occidental teachings show that the correct breathing. The Oriental teachers not only but say that in addition to the physical benefit Man's mental power, happiness, and even his spiritual growth may be increased Whole schools of Oriental Philosophy and this knowledge when and by them put to the practical use which is The theory of the East, wedded to the practice This work will take up the Yogi &quot;Science of known to the Western physiologist and hygienist, It not only points out the way to physical have termed &quot;deep breathing,&quot; etc., but also and shows how the Hindu Yogi controls and develops the spiritual side of The Yogi practices exercises by and is enabled to send to any organ or part an strengthening and invigorating the part or organ. knows about the physiological effect of correct more than oxygen and hydrogen and nitrogen, and oxygenating of the blood. He knows something about and he is fully aware of the nature and manner and is fully informed as to its effect upon rhythmical breathing one may bring himself into unfoldment of his latent powers. He knows that by in himself and others, but also practically do To teach these things is the object of concise explanations and instructions, We hope to awaken the minds of the Western world CHAPTER III In this chapter we will give you briefly the the functions of the respiratory organs, and the In subsequent chapters we will give the of the Oriental school of thought and research. his Western brothers (which have been known to the latter do not now accept, but which they will they will present to the world as a great truth. it will perhaps be better to give a hasty The Organs of Respiration consist of the lungs and two in number, and occupy the pleural chamber of being separated from each other by the heart, the Each lung is free in all directions, except at arteries and veins connecting the lungs with and porous, and their tissues are very elastic. but strong sac, known as the pleural sac, one and the other to the inner wall of the allows the inner surfaces of the walls to glide The Air Passages consist of the interior of and the bronchial tubes. When we breathe, we draw by contact with the mucous membrane, which is passed through the pharynx and larynx it passes into numerous tubes called the bronchial and terminate in minute subdivisions in of which the lungs contain millions. A writer has spread out over an unbroken surface, they would The air is drawn into the lungs by the flat, sheet-like muscle, stretched across the The diaphragm's action is almost as automatic transformed into a semi-voluntary muscle it increases the size of the chest and lungs, When it relaxes the chest and lungs contract Now, before considering what let us look a little into the matter The blood, as you know, is driven by the heart, thus reaching every part of the body, which It then returns by means of the capillaries from whence it is drawn to the lungs. bright red and rich, laden with life-giving venous route, poor, blue and dull, being laden It goes out like a fresh stream from the This foul stream goes to the right auricle of contracts and forces the stream of blood through which in turn sends it on to the lungs, hair-like blood vessels to the air cells Now, let us take up the story The foul stream of blood is now distributed among A breath of air is inhaled and the with the impure blood through the thin walls of walls are thick enough to hold the blood, but When the oxygen comes in contact with the and the blood takes up oxygen and releases products and poisonous matter the blood from all parts of the system. back to the heart, again rich, red and bright, and Upon reaching the left auricle of the heart, it it is again forced out through the arteries on It is estimated that in a single day of the capillaries of the lungs, the blood corpuscles oxygen of the air on both of their surfaces. When alluded to, he is lost in wonder and admiration It will be seen that unless fresh air in the foul stream of venous blood cannot be thus robbed of nourishment, but the waste products the circulation and poison the system, and death lessened degree. It will also be seen that if one the work of the blood cannot go on properly, and nourished and disease ensues, or a state The blood of one who breathes improperly is, of redness of pure arterial blood. This often shows and a consequent good circulation, A little reflection will show the vital importance purified by the regenerative process of the lungs, insufficiently purified and imperfectly cleansed journey. These impurities if returned to the of disease, either in a form of blood disease or of some insufficiently nourished organ or tissue. lungs, not only has its impurities consumed, but it also takes up and absorbs a certain parts of the body, where it is needed in order When the oxygen comes in contact with the blood, and is carried to every cell, tissue, muscle replacing the worn out cells and tissue by new Arterial blood, properly exposed to the air, Not only is every part vitalized by the oxygen, upon a certain amount of oxygenation of the food, in the blood coming in contact with the food It is therefore necessary that a proper This accounts for the fact that weak lungs and To grasp the full significance of this statement, nourishment from the food assimilated, and that nourished body. Even the lungs themselves and if through imperfect breathing the in turn become weakened, they are rendered still in turn the body becomes further weakened. Every before it can yield us the proper nourishment, reduced to the proper condition to be eliminated Imperfect nutrition, Imperfect elimination and The combustion arising from the change in the temperature of the body. Good breathers are have plenty of good warm blood which enables them In addition to the above-mentioned the act of breathing gives exercise to the is generally overlooked by the Western writers on In imperfect or shallow breathing, only a and a great portion of the lung capacity is lost, of under-oxygenation. The lower animals, in their man undoubtedly did the same. The abnormal shadow that follows upon civilization--has robbed race has greatly suffered thereby. Han's only CHAPTER IV THE ESOTERIC THEORY OF BREATH. The Science of Breath, like many other teachings, exoteric or external. The physiological phase the subject, and the phase which we will now Occultists, in all ages and lands, have always that there was to be found in the air a substance life was derived. They differed in their terms and of the theory, but the main principle is to be and has for centuries formed a portion In order to avoid misconceptions arising from the which theories are usually attached to some will speak of the principle as &quot;Prana,&quot; this word Many occult authorities teach that the principle principle of energy or force, and that all or, rather, is a particular form of manifestation us in the consideration of the subject matter of to an understanding of prana as the principle which distinguishes them from a lifeless thing. life--Vital Force, if you please. It amoeba to man--from the most elementary form of Prana is all pervading. It is found in all things that life is in all things--in every atom--the lesser degree of manifestation, we may understand in everything. Prana must not be confounded with around which clusters matter and energy. Prana in its material manifestation. When the Ego under its control, responds only to the orders forming the body, and as the body disintegrates each atom takes with it sufficient prana the unused prana returning to the great With the Ego in control, cohesion exists and the Prana is the name by which we designate is the essence of all motion, force or electricity, the revolution of the planets, and It may be called the soul of Force and Energy operating in a certain way, causes that This great principle is in all forms of matter, but it is not the air nor one of its chemical in with the air, and yet if the air contained be filled with air. It is taken up by the system The Hebrew writer of the book of Genesis knew and the mysterious and potent principle contained which, translated, means &quot;the breath of means the ordinary breath of atmospheric air, and means the &quot;spirit of life,&quot; which occultists claim Prana is in the atmospheric air, but it is air cannot reach. The oxygen in the air plays and the carbon plays a similar part with part to play in the manifestation of life, We are constantly inhaling and are as constantly extracting the latter Prana is found in its freest state in the charged with it, and we draw it to us more In ordinary breathing we absorb and extract and regulated breathing (generally known as greater supply, which is stored away in the brain We may store away prana, just as the The many powers attributed to advanced occultists is due largely to their knowledge of this fact and The Yogis know that by certain forms of with the supply of prana and may draw on the strengthen all parts of their body in this way, from the same source, and latent faculties One who has mastered the science of storing often radiates vitality and strength which is such a person may impart this strength to others, What is called &quot;magnetic healing&quot; although many practitioners are not Western scientists have been dimly aware of this but finding that they could find no chemical their instruments, they have generally They could not explain this principle, to recognize that the air in certain places people are directed by their physicians to seek The oxygen in the air is appropriated by the blood The prana in the air is appropriated by the as the oxygenated blood is carried to all parts so is the prana carried to all parts of the If we think of prana as being the active we will be able to form a much clearer idea of Just as is the oxygen in the blood so the supply of prana taken up by the nervous acting, etc., and in consequence constant every act, every effort of the will, every motion call nerve force, which is really a form of an impulse over the nerves, and the muscle When it is remembered that the greater comes to him from the air inhaled, the importance CHAPTER V THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. theories regarding the breath confine themselves and its use through the circulatory system, while absorption of Prana, and its manifestation Before proceeding further, it may be as well The Nervous System of man is divided the Cerebro-Spinal System and the Sympathetic all that part of the Nervous System contained viz., the brain and the spinal cord, together This system presides over the functions of The Sympathetic System includes all that part the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic cavities, organs. It has control over the involuntary The Cerebro-Spinal System attends to all the It sets things in motion; it is used by the It is the instrument with which the Ego system may be likened to a telephone system, with column and nerves as cable and wires respectively. and consists of three parts, viz., which occupies the upper, front, middle and or &quot;little brain,&quot; which fills the lower and back which Is the broadened commencement of the spinal The Cerebrum is the organ of that part of the mind The Cerebellum regulates the movements of the upper enlarged end of the spinal cord, and from it which reach to various parts of the and to some of the thoracic and abdominal The Spinal Cord, or spinal marrow, fills or &quot;backbone.&quot; It is a long mass of nerve tissue, communicating with all parts of the body. The and the emerging nerves are like the The Sympathetic Nervous System consists of the Spinal column, and scattered ganglia in the mass of nervous matter including nerve cells.) by filaments, and are also connected with the From these ganglia numerous fibers branch out to various points, the nerves meet together and form practically controls the involuntary processes, The power or force transmitted from the brain is known to Western science as &quot;nerve be a manifestation of Prana. In character and It will be seen that without this &quot;nerve force&quot; the lungs cannot breathe; the various organs body comes to a stop without it. Nay more, even When these facts are considered, the importance and the Science of Breath assumes accorded it by Western science. does Western science, in one important feature science terms the &quot;Solar Plexus,&quot; and which certain matted nets of sympathetic nerves with Yogi science teaches that this Solar Plexus System, and that it is a form of brain, playing Western science seems to be moving which has been known to the Yogis of Western writers have termed the Solar Plexus the in the Epigastric region, just back of the &quot;pit of It is composed of white and gray brain matter, It has control of the main internal organs of is generally recognized. We will not go into further than to say that they know it as the great to be instantly killed by a severe blow over the vulnerability and frequently temporarily paralyze The name &quot;Solar&quot; is well bestowed on this &quot;brain,&quot; the body, even the upper brains depending largely Western science will fully recognize the real to it a far more important place then it now CHAPTER VI One of the first lessons in the Yogi Science the nostrils, and to overcome the The breathing mechanism of Man is so constructed nasal tubes, but it is a matter of vital as one brings health and strength It should not be necessary to state to the student the breath through the nostrils, but alas! the simple matter is astounding. We find people in their mouths, and allowing their children to Many of the diseases to which are undoubtedly caused by this Children permitted to breathe in this way grow up and in manhood and womanhood break down and savage race does better, being evidently guided recognize that the nostrils are the proper and she trains her infant to close its little lips forward when it is asleep, which attitude closes If our civilized mothers were to adopt the same Many contagious diseases are contracted by and many cases of cold and catarrhal affections Many persons who, for the sake of appearances, persist in mouth-breathing at night Carefully conducted scientific experiments have their mouths open are much more liable to who breathe properly through the nostrils. An epidemic on a man-of-war in foreign parts, and sailor or marine who was a mouth-breather, The organs of respiration have their only in the nostrils. When the breath is taken through to strain the air, or to catch the dust and other dirt or impure substance has a clear track, and And, moreover, such incorrect breathing admits Inflammation of the respiratory organs often through the mouth. The man who always awakens with a parched feeling in He is violating one of nature's laws, Once more, remember that the mouth affords and cold air, dust and impurities and germs the nostrils and nasal passages show evidence The nostrils are two narrow, tortuous hairs which serve the purpose of a filter or which are expelled when the breath is exhaled. Not but they also perform an important function in nostrils are filled with warm mucous membrane, Warms it so that it can do no damage to the No animal, excepting man, sleeps with the and in fact it is believed that it is only as the savage and barbarian races almost that this unnatural habit among civilized men has enervating luxuries and excessive warmth. of the nostrils renders the air fit to reach the the air is not fit to so reach these organs until The impurities which are stopped and retained by are thrown out again by the expelled breath, in rapidly or have managed to escape through the nature protects us by producing a sneeze The air, when it enters the lungs is as is distilled water different from the organization of the nostrils, arresting and is as important as is the action of the mouth and preventing them from being Man should no more breathe through his mouth than Another feature of mouth-breathing is that the consequently fail to keep themselves clean and are apt to contract local diseases. Like weeds and rubbish, unused nostrils become One who habitually breathes through the nostrils stuffy nostrils, but for the benefit of those who mouth-breathing, and who wish to acquire the well to add a few words regarding the way to keep A favorite Oriental method is to snuff a to run down the passage into the throat, from Some Hindu yogis immerse the face in a draw in quite a quantity of water, but this and the first mentioned method is equally Another good plan is to open closing one nostril with the finger or thumb, Then repeat the process on the other nostril. This method will usually clear In case the trouble is caused by catarrh it is or similar preparation. Or sniff up a and you will notice a marked improvement. A little care and attention will result in We have given considerable space to this subject great importance in its reference to health, to the practice of the breathing and because nostril-breathing is one of the basic We urge upon the student the necessity of it not, and caution him against dismissing CHAPTER VII In the consideration of the question of the mechanical arrangements whereby the mechanics of respiration manifest through (2) the activities of the sides and bottom of the The thorax is that portion of the trunk between (known as the thoracic cavity) is occupied mainly spinal column, the ribs with their cartilages, It is generally spoken of as &quot;the chest.&quot; It has the small end of which Is turned upward, the back front by the breastbone and the sides by the ribs. side, and emerge from each side of the spinal ribs,&quot; being fastened to the breastbone direct, ribs) or &quot;floating ribs,&quot; because they are not so cartilage to the other ribs, the remainder having The ribs are moved in respiration known as the intercostal muscles. The diaphragm, separates the chest box from the abdominal cavity. In the act of inhalation the muscles expand the air rushes in in accordance Everything depends upon the muscles concerned for convenience, term the &quot;respiratory muscles.&quot; expand, and upon the proper use and control depends. The proper control of these muscles will of lung expansion, and the greatest amount of the The Yogis classify Respiration (1) High Breathing. (2) Mid Breathing. (3) We will give a general idea of the first three fourth method, upon which the Yogi (1) HIGH BREATHING. This form of breathing is known to the Western Breathing. One breathing in this way elevates at the same time drawing in the abdomen diaphragm, which in turn is raised. which is the smallest, is used, and consequently addition to this, the diaphragm being raised, A study of the anatomy of the chest way a maximum amount of effort is used High Breathing is probably the worst form greatest expenditure of energy with the smallest poor-returns plan. It is quite common among the and even singers, clergymen, lawyers and others, Many diseases of the vocal organs and organs barbarous method of breathing, and the straining often results in the harsh, Many persons who breathe In this way of &quot;mouth-breathing&quot; described If the student has any doubts about what has let him try the experiment of expelling all with hands at sides, let him raise the He will find that the amount of Then let him inhale a full breath, after dropping an object lesson in breathing which he will be apt printed or spoken. This method of respiration is known to Western Breathing, and while less objectionable than High or to the Yogi Complete Breath. In Mid Breathing drawn in. The ribs are raised somewhat, and the among men who have made no study of the subject. it only passing notice, and that principally (3) LOW BREATHING. This form of respiration is far better than recent years many Western writers have extolled names of &quot;Abdominal Breathing,&quot; &quot;Deep Breathing,&quot; good has been accomplished by the attention of the many having been Induced to substitute it for the Many &quot;systems&quot; of breathing have been built high prices to learn the new (?) systems. and after all the students who paid high prices to money's worth if they were Induced to discard the Although many Western authorities write and of breathing, the Yogis know it to be but a part which they know as &quot;The Complete Breath.&quot; It must with the principles of Low Breathing before Let us again consider the diaphragm. What partition muscle, which separates the chest and When at rest it presents a concave surface to from the abdomen would seem like the sky as arched surface. Consequently the side of the protruding rounded surface--like a hill. When the is lowered and the diaphragm presses upon the In Low Breathing, the lungs are given freer consequently more air is inhaled. This fact has write of Low Breathing (which they call Abdominal science. But the Oriental Yogi has long known of also recognized this fact. The trouble with all Breathing&quot; is that in none of these methods do only a portion of the lung space is filled, even upper portion of the lungs. Mid Breathing fills Low Breathing fills only the lower and middle the entire lung space must be far preferable which will fill the entire lung space must be him to absorb the greatest quantity of oxygen The Complete Breath is known to the Yogis to be THE YOGI COMPLETE BREATH. Yogi Complete Breathing includes all Mid Breathing and Low Breathing, with the It brings into play the entire respiratory air-cell, every respiratory muscle. The entire breathing, and the maximum amount of benefit is The chest cavity is increased to its normal limits performs its natural work and functions. of breathing is the fact that the respiratory in the other forms of breathing only a portion of among other muscles, those controlling the ribs in which the lungs may expand, and also gives Nature availing herself of the perfection of Certain muscles hold the lower ribs firmly in Then again, in this method, the diaphragm is its functions properly, and in such manner In the rib-action, above alluded to, the which draws them slightly downward, while other muscles force them outward, which combined action In addition to this muscular action, the upper intercostal muscles, which increases the capacity If you have studied the special features you will at once see that the Complete Breath the three other methods, plus the reciprocal of the high-chest, mid-chest, and diaphragmatic In our next chapter, we will take up the give full directions for the acquirement of this CHAPTER VIII The Yogi Complete Breath is the fundamental and the student must fully acquaint himself he can hope to obtain results from the in this book. He should not be content with until it becomes his natural method of breathing. without these things nothing is ever accomplished. and the student must be prepared to practice and The results obtained by a complete mastery and no one who has attained them would willingly friends that he considers himself amply repaid that you may fully understand the necessity and of Yogi Breathing, instead of passing it by and given later on in this book. Again, we say to but neglect your foundations and your entire Perhaps the better way to teach you how to develop simple directions regarding the breath itself, concerning it, and then later on giving exercises have been allowed to remain in an undeveloped Right here we wish to say that this Complete but on the contrary is a going back to first savage and the healthy infant of civilization has adopted unnatural methods of living, clothing, remind the reader that the Complete Breath filling of the lungs at every inhalation. One Complete Breathing Method and distributing the to all parts of the lungs. But one should inhale day, whenever opportunity offers, in order to The following simple exercise will give you (1) Stand or sit erect. Breathing through the lower part of the lungs, which is accomplished by exerts a gentle pressure on the abdominal organs, Then fill the middle part of the breast-bone and chest. Then fill the higher thus lifting the chest, including In the final movement, the lower part in, which movement gives the lungs a support and At first reading it may appear that this This, however, is not the correct the entire chest cavity from the lowered diaphragm the collar-bone, being expanded with a uniform and strive to attain a steady continuous action. the inhalation into three movements, and You will be able to complete the inhalation in (2) Retain the breath a few seconds. (3) Exhale quite slowly, holding the chest in a and lifting it upward slowly as the air leaves relax the chest and abdomen. A little practice and the movement once acquired will be It will be seen that by this method of apparatus is brought into action, and all parts are exercised. The chest cavity is expanded the Complete Breath is really a combination of rapidly in the order given, in such a manner as You will find it quite a help to you if you placing the hands lightly over the abdomen At the end of the inhalation, it is well to thus raising the collarbone and allowing upper lobe of the right lung, which place is At the beginning of practice, in acquiring the Complete Breath, but and when you have once acquired it you will CHAPTER IX Scarcely too much can be said of the advantages And yet the student who has carefully read have pointed out to him such advantages. make any man or woman immune to Consumption and all liability to contract &quot;colds,&quot; as well as due principally to lowered vitality attributable The impairment of vitality renders the system open allows a considerable part of the lungs to inviting field for bacilli, which invading Good healthy lung tissue will resist the germs, is to use the lungs properly. What does this mean? Simply that these people and consequently their chests The man who practices the Complete Breath will man may develop his chest to normal proportions Such people must develop their chest cavities be prevented by practicing a little vigorous are being unduly exposed. When chilled, breathe all over your body. Most colds can be cured by The quality of the blood depends largely and if it is under-oxygenated it becomes poor in and the system suffers from lack of nourishment, products remaining uneliminated in the blood. is dependent upon the blood for nourishment, upon the entire system. The remedy is The stomach and other organs of nutrition only are they ill nourished by reason of the oxygen from the blood and become oxygenated it is readily seen how digestion and And when assimilation is not normal, the the appetite fails, bodily vigor decreases, declines. All from the lack of proper breathing. breathing, inasmuch as the brain, the spinal cord, improperly nourished by means of the blood, become storing and transmitting the nerve currents. if sufficient oxygen is not absorbed through whereby the nerve currents themselves, or rather becomes lessened from want of proper breathing, which is treated of in other chapters of this attention to the fact that the mechanism of as an instrument for conveying nerve force, as The effect of the reproductive organs upon the at length here, but we may be permitted to say condition the entire system feels the reflex Breath produces a rhythm which is Nature's own in normal condition, and, from the first, it will strengthened and vitalized, thus, by sympathetic By this, we do not mean that the lower sex Yogis are advocates of continence and chastity, But sexual control does not mean sexual weakness, and the Yogi teachings are that the man or woman will have a stronger will with which to control of the perversion of this wonderful part of and results from a morbid rather than A little careful consideration of this question This is not the place to discuss the subject be conserved and used for the development instead of being dissipated in unnatural excesses By special request we will give in exercises for this purpose. But whether Yogi theories of continence and clean-living, will do more to restore health to this part Remember, now, we mean normal health, not that normal means a lessening of desire rather find a toning up and a relief from the weakness not wish to be misunderstood or misquoted on this its parts, under the control of a masterful In the practice of the Complete Breath, during a gentle pressure upon the liver, stomach and rhythm of the lungs acts as a gentle massage and encourages normal functioning. Each and assists in causing a normal circulation In High or Mid Breathing the organs lose the The Western world is paying much attention good thing. But in their enthusiasm they must not is not everything. The internal organs also need is proper breathing. The diaphragm is Nature's Its motion vibrates the important and massages and kneads them at each inhalation and then squeezing it out, and imparting a of the body which is not exercised gradually and lack of the internal exercise afforded by the The Complete Breath gives the as well as exercising the middle and upper From the standpoint of Western physiology philosophies and science, this Yogi system of every man, woman and child who wishes to acquire thousands from seriously considering it, while complicated and expensive &quot;systems.&quot; Health Verily the stone which the builders reject is CHAPTER X We give below three forms of breath, quite popular Cleansing Breath, to which is attributed much of They usually finish up a breathing and we have followed this plan in this book. We which has been handed down among them for ages, teachers of Physical Culture, although some of We also give the Yogi Vocal Breath, vibrant voices of the better class of the contained nothing more than these three exercises, Take these exercises as a gift from your THE YOGI CLEANSING BREATH. The Yogis have a favorite form of breathing necessity of ventilating and cleansing the breathing exercises with this breath, and This Cleansing Breath ventilates and cleanses general tone to the respiratory organs, and is Besides this effect, it is found to greatly etc., will find this breath especially restful, (1) Inhale a complete breath. (3) Pucker up the lips as if for a whistle a little air through the opening, with retaining the air, and then exhale a little more Remember that considerable vigor is to be used in This breath will be found quite refreshing A trial will convince the student of its merits. This exercise should be practiced until it can to finish up a number of other exercises given in THE YOGI NERVE VITALIZING BREATH. who consider it one of the strongest nerve Its purpose is to stimulate the Nervous System, This exercise brings a stimulating pressure to stimulate and energize the entire nervous force to all parts of the body. Inhale a Complete Breath, and retain same. letting them be somewhat limp and relaxed, with (4) Slowly draw the hands back toward the and putting force into them, so that when they clenched that a tremulous motion is felt. push the fists slowly out, and then draw them (6) Exhale vigorously through the mouth. The efficiency of this exercise depends greatly and the tension of the muscles, and, of course, to be appreciated. It is without equal as THE YOGI VOCAL BREATH. The Yogis have a form of breathing to develop the which are strong, smooth and clear, and have have practiced this particular form of breathing voices soft, beautiful and flexible, imparting to combined with great power. The impart the above-mentioned qualities, or the Yogi It is to be understood, of course, used only as an occasional exercise, (1) Inhale a Complete Breath very slowly, taking as much time as possible in the inhalation. (3) Expel the air vigorously in one great (4) Rest the lungs by the Cleansing Breath. of sound-production in speaking and singing, we the timbre, quality and power of a voice depends but that the facial muscles, etc., Some men with large chests produce but a poor produce tones of amazing strength and quality. Stand before a glass and pucker and note the shape of your mouth and Then sing or speak as you do naturally, and again for a few seconds, and then, _without sing a few notes and notice what a vibrant, CHAPTER XI The following are the seven favorite exercises ligaments, air cells, etc. They are Do not let the simplicity of these exercises of careful experiments and practice on the part intricate and complicated exercises, the and the essential features retained. This is a very important exercise which tends to as well as the lungs, and its frequent The Yogis have found that an occasional holding with the Complete Breath, is very beneficial, not of nutrition, the nervous system and the blood of the breath tends to purify the air which has and to more fully oxygenate the blood. They up all the waste matter, and when the the effete matter of the system, and cleanses The Yogis recommend this exercise for various also find that it frequently relieves bad breath, We recommend students to pay as it has great merits. The following directions (1) Stand erect. (2) Inhale a Complete Breath. comfortably. (4) Exhale vigorously through the At first you will be able to retain the breath also show a great improvement. Time yourself (2) LUNG CELL STIMULATION. This exercise is designed to but beginners must not overdo it, and in no Some may find a slight dizziness in which case let them walk around a little (1) Stand erect, with hands at sides. (2) (3) While inhaling, gently tap the chest with (4) When the lungs are filled, retain the breath (5) Practice the Cleansing Breath. This exercise is very bracing and stimulating to Many of the air cells of the lungs become and often become almost atrophied. One who will find it not so easy to stimulate all these by the Complete Breath, but this exercise will and is worth study and We have explained that the ribs are of considerable expansion. In proper breathing, well to occasionally give them a little special Standing or sitting in unnatural positions, to is apt to render the ribs more or less stiff to overcome same. (2) Place the hands one on each side of the the thumbs reaching toward the back, and the fingers to the front over the breast. air for a short time. (5) Then gently squeeze (6) Practice the cleansing breath. Use moderation CHEST EXPANSION. contracted from bending over one's work, etc. This natural conditions and gaining chest expansion. (3) Retain the air. (4) Extend both arms forward and on a level with the shoulder. vigorously until the arms stand out (6) Then bring back to Position 4, and (7) Exhale vigorously through the opened moderation and do not overdo this (1) Walk with head up, chin drawn slightly (2) Inhale a Complete Breath, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, one count to each step, making (3) Exhale slowly through the nostrils, counting as before--1, 2, 3, 4, (4) Rest between breaths, continuing 5, 8, 7, 8, one count to a step. Then rest for a while, and resume at Some Yogis vary this exercise by retaining and then exhale in an eight-step count. Practice (6) MORNING EXERCISE. head up, eyes front, shoulders (2) Raise body slowly on toes, inhaling (3) Retain the breath for a few (4) Slowly sink to first position, at the same (5) Practice Cleansing Breath. varying by using right leg (7) STIMULATING CIRCULATION. (1) Stand erect. (3) Bend forward slightly and grasp a stick exerting your entire strength upon the grasp. and slowly exhale. (5) Repeat several This exercise may be performed without the use of using the will to exert the pressure. The the circulation by driving the arterial blood blood to the heart and lungs that it may take up In cases of poor circulation there is not enough of oxygen inhaled, and the system does not get In such cases, particularly, It Is well to the regular Complete Breathing exercise. This chapter is composed of seven minor Yogi but each distinct and separate from the Each student will find several of these exercises particular case. Although we have styled these valuable and useful, or they would not appear in &quot;Physical Culture&quot; and &quot;Lung Development,&quot; and a small book on these subjects. They have, of forms a part of each exercise. Do not pass them or more of these exercises may be just what EXERCISE I. (2) Inhale Complete Breath. (3) Raise the arms slowly, keeping them (4) Retain the breath a head. exhaling slowly at same time. EXERCISE II. Stand erect, with arms straight In front of you. (2) Inhale Complete Breath and retain. then back to first position; then repeat several (4) Exhale vigorously through EXERCISE III. (1) Stand erect with arms straight (3) Swing arms around in a circle, backward, retaining the breath all the while. You may vary this by rotating them (4) Exhale the breath (5) Practice Cleansing Breath. EXERCISE IV. Lie on the floor with your face downward and (2) Inhale Complete Breath and retain. up by the strength of your arms (4) Then lower yourself to original (5) Exhale vigorously through your EXERCISE V. Stand erect with your palms against the wall. (3) Lower the chest to the wall, (4) Then raise yourself back with the arm (5) Exhale vigorously through the EXERCISE VI. (1) Stand erect with arms &quot;akimbo,&quot; the waist and elbows standing out. (3) Keep legs and hips stiff and at the same time exhaling slowly. and take another Complete Breath. (6) Return to first position (7) Then bend sideways, exhaling slowly. (8) Practice Cleansing Breath. (1) Stand erect, or sit erect, (2) Inhale a Complete Breath, but instead take a series of short, quick &quot;sniffs,&quot; as if did not wish to get too strong a &quot;whiff.&quot; Do not the other until the entire lung space Is filled. Exhale through the nostrils in a long, restful, CHAPTER XIII All is in vibration. From the tiniest atom to vibration. There is nothing in absolute rest would wreck the universe. In incessant Matter is being constantly played upon by varieties result, and yet even the They begin to change the moment they are created, which in turn change and give rise to newer Nothing is permanent in the world of forms, Forms are but appearances--they come, they go, The atoms of the human body are in constant In a few months there is almost a complete and scarcely a single atom now composing your body constant vibration. Change, constant change. Rhythm pervades the universe. The swing of the the sea; the beating of the heart; the ebb laws. The rays of the sun reach us; the rain All growth is but an exhibition of this law. All Our bodies are as much subject to rhythmic laws Much of the esoteric side of the Yogi Science of nature. By falling in with the rhythm great amount of Prana, which he disposes We will speak of this at greater length later on. running in to the land from the sea. Although it is really subject to the ebb The great sea of life is swelling and receding, vibrations and rhythm. In a normal condition we ocean of life, and respond to it, but at times the and we fail to receive the impulse from Mother You have heard how a note on a violin, will start into motion vibrations The same result is true when a regiment of given to &quot;break step&quot; on such an occasion, lest These manifestations of the effect of rhythmic the body of rhythmic breathing. The whole system the will, which causes the rhythmic motion of will respond readily to orders from the will. difficulty in increasing the circulation in and in the same way he can direct an part or organ, strengthening and stimulating it. &quot;catches the swing,&quot; as it were, and is able to prana, which is then at the disposal of his will. forth thoughts to others and for attracting to vibration. The phenomena of telepathy, thought which subjects are creating such an interest but which have been known to the Yogis for If the person sending forth the thoughts will do will increase the value of mental healing, In rhythmic breathing the main thing to be those who know anything of music, the idea the rhythmic step of the soldier: right; one, two, three, four; one, two, The Yogi bases his rhythmic time upon a unit The heart beat varies in different persons, but rhythmic standard for that particular Ascertain your normal heart beat by placing your 3, 4, 5, 6; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,&quot; etc., until A little practice will fix the rhythm, so that you usually inhales in about six pulse units, but he The Yogi rule for rhythmic breathing is should be the same, while the units for one-half the number of those The following exercise in Rhythmic Breathing the basis of numerous other exercises, (1) Sit erect, in an easy posture, being sure straight line as possible, with shoulders slightly In this position the weight of the and the position may be easily maintained. best effect of rhythmic breathing with the (2) Inhale slowly a Complete (3) Retain, counting three pulse units. (4) Exhale slowly through the (5) Count three pulse beats between breaths. but avoid fatiguing yourself at the start. practice the cleansing breath, which After a little practice you will be able to exhalations, until about fifteen pulse units the units for retention and between breaths is Do not overdo yourself in your effort but pay as much attention as possible to acquiring length of the breath. Practice and try until and until you can almost &quot;feel&quot; the rhythm body. It will require a little practice your improvement will make the task an easy one. and his great attainments are due largely CHAPTER XIV With the exception of the instructions in the exercises heretofore given in this book relate to important in itself, is also regarded by the Yogis for efforts on the psychic and spiritual plane. physical phase of the subject, for remember that and also that the body is the temple of the Ego, Everything is good in its place, and is the &quot;all-around man,&quot; who recognizes body, Neglect of either is a mistake sooner or later; a debt which We will now take up the Psychic in the shape of a series of exercises, each You will notice that in each exercise rhythmic &quot;carry the thought&quot; of certain desired results. track upon which to exercise its force. We of the power of the Will, and must assume If you have no acquaintance with the subject, exercises themselves will give you a much clearer for as the old Hindu proverb says, knows more of its flavor than he (1) GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR YOGI PSYCHIC BREATHING. The basis of all Yogi Psychic Breathing is the we gave in our last chapter. In the following we will say merely, &quot;Breathe Rhythmically,&quot; and psychic force, or directed Will power working in After a little practice you will find that rhythmic breath, as the mind will grasp the idea rhythmically at pleasure, almost automatically. of the psychic vibrations under the direction for directions in using the Will.) Lying flat on the floor or bed, completely the Solar Plexus (over the pit of the breathe rhythmically. After the rhythm is will draw in an increased supply of prana which will be taken up by the nervous At each exhalation will that the prana or vital to every organ and part; to every muscle, from the top of your head to the soles of your every nerve; recharging every nerve center; the system. While exercising the will, try to coming in through the lungs and being taken up at effort, being sent to all parts of the system, It is not necessary to use the Will with an to produce and then making the mental Calm command with the mental picture is far better needlessly. The above exercise is most helpful system and produces a restful feeling all over the one is tired or feels a lack of energy. Lying down or sitting erect, breath rhythmically, Then when you exhale, send the prana to the nerve current. Then inhale more prana for the then exhale, holding the thought Alternate the two above mental commands, and with the next drive out the pain. Keep this up for and rest a while. Then try it again until Many pains will be found to be relieved If the hand is placed over the painful part, you down the arm and into the painful part. Lying down or sitting erect, breathe direct the circulation to any part you wish, This is effective in cases of the blood being sent downward in both and in the latter, relieving the brain from try the Pain Inhibiting first, then You will often feel a warm feeling in the legs as is largely under the control of the will and (5) SELF-HEALING. breathe rhythmically, and command that With the exhalation, send the prana to the Vary this occasionally by exhaling, with the forced out and disappear. Use the hands body from the head to the affected part. In always hold the mental image that the prana tips into the body, thus reaching the affected general directions in this book without taking a little practice of the above exercise, varying will produce wonderful results. Some Yogis follow part, and then breathing rhythmically, holding the into the diseased organ and part, stimulating as pumping into a pail of dirty water will with fresh water. This last plan is very effective the inhalation representing the lifting of the (6) HEALING OTHERS. We cannot take up the question of the psychic this book, as such would be foreign to its plain instructions whereby you may be The main principle to remember is that by you are enabled to absorb a considerable it into the body of another person, stimulating and driving out diseased conditions. You must of the desired condition that you will be and the force running down your arms and out of Breathe rhythmically a few times until the bands upon the affected part of the body of the Then follow the &quot;pumping&quot; process (Self-Healing) and fill the patient full of Every once in a while raise the hands and off the diseased condition. It is well to do after treatment, as otherwise you may take on a Also practice the Cleansing Breath several times prana pour into the patient in one continuous pumping machinery connecting the patient with to flow freely through you. You need not work the prana freely reaches the affected parts. The during the treatment, so as to keep the rhythm It is better to place the hands on the bare place them over the clothing. Vary above method body gently and softly with the finger tips, This is very soothing to the patient. In cases of mental command in words, such as &quot;get out, case may be, the words helping you to exercise these instructions to suit the needs of the case, We have given you the general principles and ways. The above apparently simple instruction, one to accomplish all that the leading &quot;magnetic more or less cumbersome and complicated. They are If they would combine rhythmic breathing they would double their efficiency. Prana colored by the thought of the sender who are willing to receive it, and healing the &quot;absent healing,&quot; of which the Western The thought of the healer sends forth and it flashes across space and finds lodgment It is unseen, and like the Marconi waves, seeks the person attuned to receive it. you must form a mental image of them until you This is a psychic process dependent upon the sense of rapport when it is established, That is about as plain as we can describe it. It will get it at the first trial. When rapport is &quot;I am sending you a supply of vital force or Then picture the prana as leaving your mind and traveling across space instantaneously and not necessary to fix certain hours for treatment, condition of the patient, as he is expecting attunes him to receive your If you agree upon hours, let him place himself The above is the great underlying principle world. You may do these things as well as the CHAPTER XV (1) THOUGHT PROJECTION. Thoughts may be projected by following the last feel the effect of thought so sent forth, it being injure another person whose thoughts are good. and bad ones always negative to good ones. One of another by sending him thought waves in this wishes to convey. If you desire another's love and you can send him thoughts of this kind with however, attempt to influence another to as such thoughts only recoil upon the sender the innocent party is not affected. Psychic force &quot;black magic&quot; or improper and unholy uses of it, and the person attempting such things will be However, no person of impure motives ever and a pure heart and mind is an invulnerable yourself pure and nothing can hurt you. If you are ever in the company of persons of a influence of their thought, breathe rhythmically a prana, and then by means of the mental image thought aura, which will protect you from the (3) RECHARGING YOURSELF. is at a low ebb, and that you need to store up the feet close together (side by side, of course) that seems the most comfortable. This closes the prana through the extremities. Then breathe the effect of the recharging. If some friend is deficient in vitality you toes touching his, and his hands in yours. Then image of sending prana into his system, and he Persons of weak vitality or passive will should as the prana of a person of evil desires will be give him a temporary influence over the weaker such influence by closing the circuit (as before closing with the Cleansing Breath. Water may be charged with prana, by breathing the bottom, in the left hand, and then gathering shaking them gently over the water, off of your finger tips into the glass. The mental must also be held. Water thus charged is particularly if a healing thought accompanies The caution given in the last exercise applies only in a greatly lessened degree. Not only can the body be controlled by but the mind itself can be trained and cultivated This, which the Western world knows as &quot;Mental of that truth which the Yogi has known for ages. wonders in this direction, but if the mental effect is greatly increased. Desirable qualities of what is desired during rhythmic breathing. increased power, etc., may be acquired in this cultivating the opposite qualities. Any &quot;treatments&quot; and &quot;affirmations&quot; may be used is a good general exercise for the acquirement Lie in a passive attitude, or sit erect. Picture seeing yourself as possessed of the develop the quality. Breathe rhythmically, mental picture with you as much as possible, and up in your mind. You will find yourself of the breathing assists the mind in forming new the Western system will find the Yogi Rhythmic (7) ACQUIRING PHYSICAL QUALITIES. Physical qualities may be acquired by the same mental qualities. We do not mean, of course, that limbs may be replaced, or similar miracles. But courage and general physical characteristics accompanied by rhythmic breathing. As a man thinks thinking will mean improved looks and actions. To to it, while breathing rhythmically, holding the amount of prana, or nerve force, to the part, and This plan applies equally well to any part of athletes use a modification of this plan in instructions so far will readily understand haw The general rule of exercise is the same as Qualities). We have touched upon the subject of (8) CONTROLLING THE EMOTIONS. The undesirable emotions, such as Fear, Worry, Excitement, Grief, etc., are amenable to enabled to operate more easily in such cases if is &quot;willing.&quot; The following exercise has been although the advanced Yogi has but little of these undesirable mental qualities The Yogi student, however, finds the exercise Breathe rhythmically, concentrating the attention mental command &quot;Get Out.&quot; Send the mental command mental picture of the undesirable emotions Repeat seven times, and finish with the you feel. The mental command must be given &quot;in (9) TRANSMUTATION OF THE REPRODUCTIVE ENERGY. The Yogis possess great knowledge regarding the both sexes. Some hints of this esoteric used by Western writers on the subject, and In this little book we cannot do more all except a bare mention of theory, we will give will be enabled to transmute the reproductive instead of dissipating and wasting it in lustful The reproductive energy is creative energy, and strength and vitality, thus serving the purpose young men of the Western world understood these misery and unhappiness in after years, and would This transmutation of the reproductive energy They will be filled with great vital force, which has been called &quot;personal magnetism.&quot; The energy and used to great advantage. Nature has condensed into reproductive energy, as its purpose force is concentrated in the smallest most powerful storage battery in animal life, as well as expended in the ordinary functions The majority of our students know and we can do little more than to state the The Yogi exercise for transmuting reproductive breathing, and can be easily performed. It recommended when one feels the instinct most manifesting and may be most easily transmuted for Keep the mind fixed on the idea of Energy, and If these thoughts come into the mind do not be of a force which you intend using for the Lie passively or sit erect, and fix your mind upward to the Solar Plexus, where it will be of vital energy. Then breathe rhythmically, reproductive energy with each inhalation. Will that the energy be drawn upward from the If the rhythm is fairly established you will be conscious of the upward passage of If you desire an increase in mental force, you may Plexus, by giving the mental command and holding The man or woman doing metal creative will be able to use this creative energy in drawing up the energy with the inhalation In this last form of exercise, only such portions being done, the balance remaining stored up in that it is not the reproductive fluids which energy which animates the latter, the soul of usual to allow the head to bend forward easily (10) BRAIN STIMULATING. The Yogis have found the following action of the brain for the purpose of It has a wonderful effect in clearing the brain work will find it most useful to them, both in and also as a means of refreshing the mind Sit in an erect posture, keeping the spinal letting the hands rest on the upper but instead of breathing through both press the left nostril close with the thumb, and the thumb, and close the right nostril with the Then, without changing the fingers, inhale exhale through the right. Then inhale through alternating nostrils as above mentioned, closing This is one of the oldest forms of Yogi breathing, worthy of acquirement. But it is quite amusing this method is often held out as being the minds of many Western readers, &quot;Yogi Breathing&quot; sitting erect, and alternating nostrils in the We trust that this little work will to the great possibilities of Yogi Breathing, and (11) THE GRAND YOGI PSYCHIC BREATH. breathing which they practice occasionally, to above is a general equivalent. We have given of the student in the line of rhythmic breathing means of the preceding exercises. The general in the old Hindu saying: &quot;Blessed is the Yogi who fill the entire system with prana, and the student nerve, cell, tissue, organ and part energized and It is a general housecleaning of the system, and had been given a new body, freshly created, from will let the exercise speak for itself. at perfect ease. (2) Breathe rhythmically (3) Then, inhaling and exhaling, form the through the bones of the legs, and then forced out then through the top of the then through the reproductive region; then along the spinal column; and then as if through every pore of the skin, the whole (4) Then (breathing rhythmically) send the in turn, as follows, using the mental (a) To the (c) To the (e) To the of the head. base of the brain. Solar (f) To the region of the navel. Finish by sweeping the current of several times. (5) Finish with Cleansing Breath. CHAPTER XVI The Yogis not only bring about desired mental with rhythmic breathing, but they also develop unfoldment, in the same way. The Oriental which are at present in a dormant state, but which also teach that man, by the proper effort of the the unfoldment of these spiritual faculties, and process of evolution. In other words, one may which will not become the common property of the under the law of evolution. In all of the breathing plays an important part. There is of which produces such wonderful results, but the bring the whole system, including the brain, under this means, the most perfect condition is obtained In this work we cannot go deeply regarding spiritual development, because this then again the subject is too abstruse to interest well known to occultists, why this knowledge Rest assured, dear student, that when the the way will be opened out before you. &quot;When appears.&quot; In this chapter we will give phases of spiritual consciousness, i.e., (1) the the consciousness of the connection Both of the exercises given below are simple, accompanied with rhythmic breathing. The but must make haste slowly, and be content to SOUL CONSCIOUSNESS. The real Self is not the These things are but a part of his personality, manifestation is in individuality. The real Self and is even independent of the mechanism of The real Self is a drop from the Divine It cannot die or be annihilated, and the real Self still exists. It is the Soul. Do for YOU are the Soul, and the body is which is changing in material every day, You may develop the faculties so that they will independence of the body. The Yogi plan for such or Soul, accompanied by rhythmic breathing. EXERCISE.--Place your body in a relaxed, reclining the real Self, thinking of yourself as an entity and being able to leave it at will. Think of and of your body as but a shell, useful and Think of yourself as an independent being, While meditating, ignore the body entirely, almost entirely unconscious of it, and will seem when you are through with the exercise. This is the gist of the Yogi meditative breathing wonderful sense of the reality of the Soul, and The sense of immortality will often come with this to show signs of spiritual development others. But he must not allow himself to live too for he is here on this plane for a purpose, gain the experiences necessary to round him which is the Temple of the Spirit. The Spirit in man, which is the is a drop in the ocean of Spirit, but yet really in touch with the ocean itself, spiritual consciousness he becomes more and more or Universal Mind as some term it. He feels at and then again he loses the sense of contact and of Universal Consciousness by meditation and the highest degree of spiritual attainment The student of this work will not need the higher as he has much to do and accomplish before he him into the elementary stages of the Yogi and if he is in earnest he will discover The way is always opened to him who is ready to found to do much toward developing the Universal EXERCISE.--Place your body in a reclining, relaxed your relationship with the Universal Mind of which in touch with All, and at-one-ment with All. See Feel that you are receiving the vibrations from of its power and strength and wisdom. The two (a) With each inhalation, think of yourself as of the Universal Mind. When exhaling think of at the same time being filled with love for every of the same blessings which you are now receiving. (b) Place your mind in a reverential state, and and open yourself to the which will fill you with illuminating wisdom, and then let the same flow out from you to your This exercise leaves with those who have power and wisdom, and a feeling It must be practiced only in and must not be approached triflingly or lightly. The exercises given in this chapter require and the trifler and person of a non-serious and reverence, had better pass them by, as and besides it is a wilful trifling with benefits those who pursue it. These exercises and the others will feel During meditation let the mind dwell until it becomes clear to the mind, and gradually The mind will gradually become passive and at Do not indulge in these exercises too often, to render you dissatisfied with the affairs and necessary for you, and you must never shirk a the joy arising from the unfolding consciousness and not make you dissatisfied and disgusted. Many of the students who practice to know more. Rest assured that when the time Go on in courage and confidence, keeping your face Peace be unto you, and unto all men. AUM.