Good morning and welcome to The Blair House. I'm Ezra Klein, founder and editor-in-chief of Vox, here alongside my colleague Sarah Kliff. We are honored to be here today to speak with President Obama about the Affordable Care Act. Its performance, its passage and its now uncertain I think we would all prefer to hear from him so I won't waste any more of your time with introduction, please join me in welcoming Hello, hello, hello. Thank you! Thank you. Good morning. Good morning! Thank you for being here. It is great to be here. Thank you so much for all the good reporting Well, thank you. So we will get started. There was an expectation that was shared among many -- many congressional Democrats -- that as the Affordable Care as it delivered benefits to millions of people, that it would become more popular. It would be safe from repeal or even substantial reform. It appears at this point that doesn't seem to be quite true. What do you think that theory got wrong? Why didn't the health care law become more popular? Well... Let's back up and say from the start, no president could get expansion of health beyond the work that had been done for Medicare and Medicaid, targeting primarily seniors. And the reason was that this is hard. The health care system is big; it is very families, I think, recognize the need for health insurance, but it's not something go wrong -- when you have an accident, or And so, any costs, particularly at a time when families -- any added costs, higher premiums, higher copays -- all that ends up having real impacts on families. So the challenge of getting it passed was unlike other advanced countries, we didn't start with a system in which everybody was covered. And we have a very complicated marketplace And what that meant was that even after we got the law passed, anything that dissatisfied people about the health care system could -- even if it had nothing to do with Obamacare. And that was something that we recognized even when we were trying to get the law passed. The other thing is the fact that the unwillingness of Republicans in Congress and around the country, including some governors, to, after the fight was over, to say, 'Alright, let's try to make this work,' the way Democrats did during the time when President Bush tried to expand the prescription drug program, part D. Meant that the public never heard from any concession that, you know what, this is actually doing some good. And that ends up affecting public opinion. And the third thing is that, whenever you look at polls that say 40 something percent are supportive of the law, 40 something percent are a whole bunch of Bernie Sanders supporters And so the problem is not that they think The problem is that they don't think it That it left too many people still uncovered, as rich as they should have been, that there makers in a way that would drive down those costs, and so... All of those things meant that even after be a lot of tough politics. Having said all that, the thing that I've have we gotten 20 million people covered; at which health care costs have been going health care inflation has been as low as it's government hundreds of billions of dollars, extended the Medicare trust fund by eleven years. But, most importantly for the people who have gotten insurance through the exchanges, there has been pretty high satisfaction rates, as So, rather than look at public opinion as a in is, how is this affecting families who These are real families who have gotten real coverage. And... I get letters every single day from people who say, "This has saved my life," or, "This has saved my bank account," or, "This has made sure that my son, who got hooked on some sort of opioid, was been able to get or, "I was able to get a mammogram that caught a cancer in time." That, ultimately, is the measure of the success of the law. Do you think this dynamic where when you reform goes the other way? Republicans are beginning with the repeal-and-delay President-elect Trump has said that he does to replace it with something that covers as or he's said that, at least at certain points. Do you think that the dynamic in which you like is going to hamper Republican movement in their don't like, but does have a lot of people Well, let me start from a very simple premise: If it works, I'm for it. If something can cover all Americans, make sure that, if they have a preexisting condition, they can still get coverage. Make sure that prescription drugs are affordable. Encourage preventive measures to keep people healthy. Make sure that, in rural communities, people or mental health care. That Medicare and Medicaid continue to function effectively. If you can do all of that cheaper than we and with better quality and it's just terrific I think that part of the challenge in this whole debate back to 2010 -- is this idea that somehow care system, that we were rigid and stubborn if we only had, they had all these great solutions. In fact, if you look at how this law evolved if I was starting from scratch, I probably because it's just easier to...for people to understand and manage and that's essentially what Medicare is: a single-payer system for people of a certain age and people are very satisfied understand or to access services. But that wasn't available. We weren't starting from scratch. So what did I then do? I said, 'Well, where's a system out there that politically we could actually get through And, lo and behold, in Massachusetts, there was a plan that had been designed on a bipartisan basis, including by a Republican governor who ultimately that, came close to providing universal coverage. And, I would have thought -- since this was Republican support -- it would continue to And yet, somehow magically, the minute we said, the Republicans said, "This is terrible, So I say all this, Ezra, simply to make something From the very start, in the earliest negotiations in 2009 and 2010, that if they had ideas that they could show would work I would be happy to incorporate them into And rather than offer ideas, what we got was After the law passed, for the last six, "we can provide a great replacement that will be much better for everybody than what the Affordable Care Act is providing." And yet, over the last six, seven years, any credible health care policy experts have said would work better. In fact, many of them would result in millions and the coverage being worse for those who kept it. And so now is the time when Republicans have If, in fact, they have a program that would -- and they want to call it whatever they want, they can call it Trumpcare, they can call it McConnellcare or Ryancare -- if it actually works, I will 'Great! You should have told me that back in 2009. I asked.' I suspect that will not happen and the reason it will not happen is because, if you want to provide coverage to people, then there are certain baseline things that you've got to do. Number one: Health care is not cheap. And for those who can't afford health care or don't that means the government has got to pay some money. Number two: All those provisions that the for example, making sure that people even if they have a preexisting condition -- well, it turns out that the only way to meet that guarantee is to either make sure that everybody has so that they're not gaming the system, or subsidies to the insurance companies so that they're And I think what you're going to see now, you have Republicans control both chambers they made about how they can do it better, are going to be really hard to meet. This is why this strategy of 'repeal first to the American people and is something that whether you're a Republican or a Democrat, you should be opposed to. These are real lives at stake. I'm getting letters right now from people or daughter's insurance, their ability to drug treatment, their ability to get mental us being able to afford and keep our insurance." And if, in fact, there's going to be a massive then the Republicans need to put forward very People need to be able to debate it, they they did when we passed the Affordable Care Act. And let the American people gauge: Is this going to result in something better than what Obamacare has produced? And if they're so convinced that they can they shouldn't be afraid to make that presentation. It is really interesting to try to figure out, 'Why is that they are trying to rush the repeal so quick?' What is it that they're afraid of? Why wouldn't they want to say, 'Here's 'Here's why our plan is better than what Obamacare Because they have said absolutely, adamantly, I am saying to every Republican right now: that is demonstrably better than what Obamacare Obamacare and replacing it with your plan." But I want to see it first. I want to see it first. And I want third-party, objective people -- whether health care experts across the ideological We'd be happy to, yes. -- to just evaluate it. And the public will not have to take my word We can designate some referees. And if they show that they can do it better, cheaper, why wouldn't I be for it? Why wouldn't I be for it? This idea that somehow, 'Oh, this about Obama preserving his legacy' -- keep in mind, I'm not the one who named it Obamacare. They were the ones who named it Obamacare, this and feed on antipathy toward me in their But I don't have a pride of authorship on If they can come up with something better, But you have to show -- and I would advise but you have to show that it's better. And that's not too much to ask. And that's the challenge. And the question right now for Paul Ryan and Why is it that you feel obliged to repeal it before you show what it is that's going to replace it? Because the majority of Americans have been very clear that they think that's a bad idea. You now have Republican governors, and some Republican senators, who have said, 'We don't think that's a good idea.' And there's been no real explanation why before the new president is even inaugurated. What exactly is this rush? Particularly if you're going to delay the If they were making the argument that this to repeal it completely today because it's well I would disagree, but at least I could understand it. But here, you're saying, 'We're going delay its effects for a couple of years.' Well why, if it's so bad? And if the answer is, 'Well, it would be disruptive and we don't want to take people's insurance away right away,' well then that means you have time the American people who need health insurance -- what exactly you're replacing it with. In that sense, Ezra -- I know but in that sense, the answer is: The Republicans, yes, if they choose to repeal something of people and providing benefits to every even if they're getting it through the job, and they haven't shown us what it is they Then they do own it because that is irresponsible, even those who are opposed to me, Let me follow up a little bit on the congressional So we saw yesterday, President-elect Donald "It's time for Republicans and Democrats and come up with a health care plan that really works." Which is something, you know, I remember you when I was covering this debate. Knowing what you know now: about partisanship, -- was, like you said, unable to get Republican what three pieces of advice would you give to attempt to pass a bipartisan health care law? Well. Look, I think I sort of gave the advice just if, in fact, this is not about politics but health care system for the American people, 'What precisely is it about Obamacare that Because you've already said there are some The Republicans keep on saying, 'Well, we and that are working well." So, they think it's a good idea that Obamacare plan until they're 26. They think that's a good idea. They think it's a good idea that, if you you can still get health insurance. I assume they think it's a good idea that seniors have gotten discounts on their prescription drugs -- we closed the doughnut hole during the course of Obamacare. They approve of some of the changes we've a health care system that rewards quality involved, and how we pay providers. So we could make a list of all the things that, as terrible as Obamacare is, actually, they think works -- according to them. Alright, well, let's make, then, a list or the American people are concerned about. Well, what we know is that people would always and their out-of-pocket expenses. And although the Affordable Care Act provides can afford health insurance, to see even higher subsidies to relieve the but that costs money. What we also know is that where we've seen in the implementation of the Affordable Care -- particularly more rural areas, less densely where we're not seeing as many insurers, Well, one way that we've suggested you could to say that, 'If, in fact, there aren't enough and give people enough choices, So, if you look at the things that people the Affordable Care Act, the big things are: the subsidies aren't as high as they'd like and they don't have as many options as they'd like. And I'm happy to provide those...both those I'd sign on to a Republican plan that said, people to make it even cheaper, where there isn't an option." Here's the problem: I don't think that's I don't think so, no. ...to do. So, but, I guess my point is this: that, it is possible for people of goodwill to try to the law that we already have, it is that you think needs to be changed. And that, so far, has not happened. And my advice to the president-elect with him for an hour and a half after he got I said, "Make your team and make the Republican come up with things that they can show will And if they're convincing, I think you would that there are a lot of Democrats out there But, so far at least, that's not what's So I think Obamacare has exposed an interesting between controlling costs in the system and So the law has, until now, come in under budget. But, in part, the way it's done that is higher copays, narrower networks; the excise tax on high-value insurance will and these things to individual people, while they keep the cost of health care down, they they make health care feel unusable. Do you think the Affordable Care Act got the versus insulating individuals from their health expenses? Well, let me make a couple of distinctions. First of all, part of what happened at the beginning of the marketplaces... I was teasing Ezra and Sarah, I said this This is some serious policy detail here. So the marketplaces are basically just those 'Here's...you know, here's the insurance and you can choose from a variety of different and then once you've chosen, you can figure for and it will give you a sense of what your out-of-pocket costs are. And what we've discovered was that a lot they had done surveys and, look, people are purchasing everything else -- they'd What makes health care tricky see what the picture looks like; tempting to initially buy the cheapest heaven forbid, you get sick and it turns out, the specialist I want, this is more inconvenient than I expected. So what ended up happening was, people bought Insurance companies wanting to get as much ended up creating very low-cost plans. But those are going to have restrictions on and that's not just if you're buying health that's generally how it is even when employers Now, I think that what we're seeing is insurers 'Okay, we need to charge more.' And that is something that, the good news -- may have stabilized, that might be kind and now we're in a position to be able to have we gotten this balance right, as you say. We can't get health care for free. You're going to have to pay for it one way Either the government is going to pay more, or... -- and that means, in some fashion, higher taxes for somebody -- or individuals are going to have to pay more out of pocket, in one way or another. The same is true for employers. Either employers pay more for a really good but that takes something out of the employer's or they're putting more costs onto workers And I think that a lot of the good work that had to do not with cost shifting but with And we've done a lot of work on that. What I referred to earlier: incentivizing instead of ordering five tests because doctors you now have a system where you're going quicker and does not return to the hospital. Well, it turns out that that can, over time, Those are the kinds of things that we're as a consequence of Obamacare. The more we do that kind of stuff, the less But the intention has never been to say, 'Let's make it more expensive for people to get health care so they are going to access the system more.' And I think the proof of that is that, even the overall spending on health care has gone up because more people have come into the system. We want people to use the health care system. We just don't want them to use it in the We want them to use it to stay healthy, and getting regular check-ups, and mammograms -- those are the things that will save us as much money as we can. I have a wonky follow-up question... There you go. ...since this is a wonkfest. What about controlling prices? We have some of the highest health care prices Most other developed countries, they regulate for an emergency room visit, an appendectomy. That seems like it's really at the core the fact that we have these very high prices. Americans don't go to the doctor more, we That is something the health care law did and I'm curious as to hear you reflect on that and what you would think about the role of price controls in American medicine. Well, look, this is the irony of this whole The things that people are most satisfied are things that, essentially, in other countries are solved by more government control, not And so Republicans are pointing at these things but when it comes to, 'Alright what's Their answer is less government regulation whatever they want and letting the marketplace I think that there are strengths to our system Our health care system is more innovative. Prescription drugs is probably the best example of this. It is true that we essentially come up with because our drug companies are fat and wealthy enough that they can invest in the research and development. They make bigger profits, which they can then And, essentially, we have a lot of other countries So they can negotiate with the drug companies but they generally don't have a drug industry That's true. This is an example where you probably do want but to have some tougher negotiations around And we are trying to use Medicare as the place where, since there's no health care provider or doesn't in some ways want to get Medicare we're trying to use Medicare as a lever and better prices for consumers. Not just those in Medicare, but also people throughout the system. But as I said, the irony is that when we try the people who are most resistant are the criticizing us or at least telling the American people that you should want lower prices on various procedures. If we want to control prices for consumers And the reason is because health care is not It's not like buying a flat screen TV. If you're sick, or if your kid is sick, to negotiate right there and then. You can't walk out of the store and just You're trying to figure out, like when Sasha make my child better and that's all and And that's the mentality that most people have when it goes into health care. So the traditional models of the marketplace There are areas where we can increase marketplace competition. There are ways in which we can make it work better. But ultimately, if we want to really get at some of these costs, there has to be some more extensive regulation in certain areas than we currently have. So, I recently took a trip to an area of Kentucky that saw some huge coverage gains under the for President-elect Trump. And one of the people I met there was Kathy She is an Obamacare enrollment worker who She supported you in 2008 and 2012 but voted for President-elect Trump in 2016 and expects and she would like to ask you a question about that. Go ahead, Kathy. Is it working? Let's see if it's on. Yeah, it's on. Yeah, it looks on. Oh. Ok, I'm supposed to karaoke now. Hello, President Obama, I'm so excited to President Obama: It's good to see you. Thanks. I'm a little bit nervous, as you can see. But, over the years, I've enrolled and talked and I have signed up some for even the first time, so it was working -- the Affordable Care Act -- and also we've been going over the years but recently we found out that there was fewer premiums and deductibles and our facilities aren't even taking some them. Many Kentuckians now are looking at the &quot;Affordable And I have the opportunity to ask you a few but how do you think this happened? How can we fix it? Do we start all over again? What do you think we should do? Well, first of all, Kathy, I want to thank -- that's been hugely important. [applause] The second point I would make is that Kentucky is a place where this has really worked. And it's worked for two reasons: And we haven't talked a lot about that, Medicaid accessible to more people. And those states that expanded Medicaid have than those states who didn't. And, by the way, those states that didn't? They didn't do so just out of politics. I'll just be very blunt. Because the federal government was going to And states...there are some states, because they had all this uncompensated care, ended up making money by providing more health insurance to your people. It was a hard bargain, a hard deal to turn down, and yet, you got a number of states that turned it down mainly because Republican governors and Republican state legislatures didn't Kentucky, under Steve Beshear, was one of had a really active program. Because I don't poll that well in Kentucky, they called it "Kentucky Connect", right? Right. And so there were a whole lot of people who said, "Well we don't like Obamacare, but I like this program" and we'll sign you up, right? You signed people up. You didn't tell them it was Obamacare all the time. And it's actually worked, right? Now, what is true in Kentucky though, is true You had a governor who ran explicitly on the even though it was working. And so the state marketplace -- the state which means we had to shift everything on to the federal exchange. Most people got shifted, but it indicated in making the thing work. He promised to roll back Medicaid, but he as he thought it was when he was running. So he hasn't done that. But what is also true is -- and this is my Care Act -- is that the subsidies aren't of working people. If you don't qualify for Medicaid, where for your coverage, and instead you're buying -- so you're a working person but you don't and particularly if you are older, where you use the health care system more and you need a better benefit package than somebody 18 or 20 might -- then there are families where the premiums are still too high. And as I said earlier, there are some parts of hospitals and a few doctors and where you And the insurers are looking, and they're So you don't end up having a lot of insurance plans in those areas. So the two things that we could do, that would really make it work even better for people in Kentucky, would be, number one: provide every day but still find the premiums -- even And, have the public option for those communities and insurers aren't coming in. The problem is, is that is not what's being the senator from Kentucky. Instead, what he's proposing, I gather, is you're going to repeal the law, then you're going to come up with something. Except you will have taken away all the... The way we pay for the subsidies for working people is we're taxing wealthier folks a little bit higher. So he wants to cut those taxes, and that money And then he's going to promise you, or those better health care. Except there's not going to be any money And nobody's explained to me yet how that's And so I think this takes me back to the point I made earlier: If, in fact, the people you've been signing fully satisfied with the benefits that they're then, at the very least, you should to say, 'Show us exactly what the deal is before you take away the deal that we got.' Because the people you sign up for, they but -- tell me if I'm wrong -- they like Kathy Oller: Correct, and some never even had insurance. And some people didn't have insurance. Because I get letters from folks who say, had a bad hip for 15 years, and I've been because I finally got insurance." So... The answer is not for them not to have insurance. And if we go to a system where they've got they are not going to buy it. Because they'll have even less subsidy. How much time do we got? I think we're quite low. We've got low time? Because I've got all kinds of more stuff. Well, it's your schedule. We're happy to keep you as long as you like. Well, why don't you ... there are couple but why don't you ask some questions? So, one thing we haven't touched on yet in which are a big part of the law. So what is a policy or an experiment or change expectations, and what's one that has maybe You know, I think a good example of something that's worked as well as we expected, is the issue Now, it turns out that a lot of times you let's say you get your appendix taken out. And then you go home and then there's a into the hospital. That's obviously inconvenient for you and And it turns out that there are just a few things that First of all, making sure that the first procedure goes well. But, secondly, making sure that there is good follow-up. So it might be that a hospital or a health you just getting some phone calls to remind to make sure you heal properly. Because they may have done a study and it supposed to do. They don't follow exactly their doctor's a nurse in their house who's doing it for Well, maybe there are just a few things that what they are supposed to do, and that way What we've seen is a significant reduction this law just by doing some smart incentivizing, you," or, "We'll give you some other benefit That's an area where I think we've made some real progress. The other place, and this is connected, where is just encouraging what's called...shifting where you get paid by the procedure. Which means that you may end up getting five emailed to five providers who are treating And we've started to see some real movement &quot;We're going to pay you for outcomes." &quot;Did the patient do well?&quot; And that has been helpful. In terms of areas where I think we haven't it's probably...one thing that comes to mind is on the electronic medical records. If you think about how wired and plugged in you know, I mean, you can basically do everything off your phone, the fact that there are still just mountains of paperwork and you don't understand what these bills Nobody...and the doctors still have to input time on all this the administrative work. We put a big slug of money into trying to catch up with the rest of the world here. And it's proven to be harder than we expected, they don't all talk to each other, it requires And I'm optimistic that over time it's every other part of our lives, it's become But it's been a lot slower than I would have expected. And some of it has to do with the fact that, as I said, it's decentralized and everybody has different systems. In some cases, you have sort of economic incentives that are pushing against making the system work better. For example, there are service providers -- people make money on keeping people's medical records -- so making it easier for everybody to access there's some folks who could lose business. And that has turned out to be a little more complicated than I expected. Do you have any closing remarks? And one thing I'm interested in is, kind of, what you see your role, in this debate we're gearing up for, as. Well let me make a couple of closing remarks. Number one, I think it is important to remember this law, it is a much more complicated process presented on the campaign trail, as my Republican The way this process is going to work -- there's week, next week, to "repeal Obamacare." But really all that is, is it is a resolution that is then start actually drafting a law that specifically And after that, they'd have to make a decision And how long is that going to take? And that stretches the process out further. And so... I think whether you originally supported Obamacare the one thing I would just ask all of the great state of Missouri: &quot;Show me.&quot; Show me. Do not rush this process. And to Republicans I would say: &quot;What are you scared of?&quot; If you are absolutely convinced -- as you that you can come up with something And I'll even cut you some slack for the fact with something better for seven years, and But we'll restart the clock. It's interesting that we're here in Blair House, the American people with Republicans who had already indicated their adamant opposition to health care. And I sat with them for a couple of hours. How long was it? Eight. Eight hours. Kathleen Sebelius, who was my secretary of health and human services, remembers, for why we're trying to do what we're doing answers than the ones we had come up with. And we spent a year of really significant debate, and I would think that, given that we now have proof that 20 million people do have health insurance, that we are at the lowest rate of uninsured in our history, that health care costs, rather than spiking way up, have actually gone up slower than given that the vast majority of people who get health insurance through Obamacare have said they are satisfied with their care, and that they are better off than when they didn't have care, given that, even though a lot of people don't know it, even if you're not getting health insurance through Obamacare, you've benefited because if you get health insurance on the job it now doesn't have a lifetime limit. It doesn't have fine print that could end Given all of those things, I would think you'd what it is that you want to do. And that, I think, is a minimum expectation out of this Congress and out of the president-elect. I would make a second point. And that is that we just worked on a bipartisan that included two really important bipartisan priorities. One was Joe Biden's cancer moonshot initiative, in so many areas that we have an opportunity which affects everybody in some fashion. Somebody has been touched in your family with this terrible disease. So we got a lot more money for researching that, and the bill also contained a big investment in opioid...the opioid challenge. As many of you know, you're seeing more and initially by prescription drugs, then that Some of which -- like synthetic heroin being rates of overdose death. And this is not an inner-city problem, per se, and in some ways it's a lot worse in a lot of So there was a bipartisan effort for us to But here's the thing: if we just put more money into cancer research opioid crisis, and now we're taking away those very same communities by repealing Obamacare to get new cancer treatments, then we're So that's a second point I want to make. A third point I want to make is that I would encourage local communities to get involved in this process. And... You know, I think that part of the problem with this whole law has been that the people who benefit aren't out there making noise. The people who ideologically have opposed it have been really loud. Well now is the time for people who have tell their stories. Because ultimately this is not a political game. This is really something that affects people My friend Natoma Canfield is here, in the Some of you've heard Natoma's story before: where a cancer survivor who, because she had now a preexisting condition, was faced such a high rate -- the only way she could get health insurance with a preexisting condition was to basically pay so much that she could no longer afford to pay the mortgage on her house. And I remember her writing to me. And I thought, you know, 'That could be my mom; that And that's not a choice that people should have to make. And when most people, even if they're not the stories of other people who have been take away their health care. And it becomes less about who is winning here doing right by our fellow Americans. But those stories have to be heard. And I would just encourage people to start you know... ...you're not always going to get a lot want to know about 'this vote' and 'this But you know what? Tell that story in your local newspapers; that are involved in caring for those in need. Make sure that you're telling stories in Because the one thing that I'm convinced to do the right thing. It's hard to get good information and, unless you're reading Vox everyday, which is hard to do. It's not that hard to do. Getting the details of all this policy is... It is hard. It is complicated. You don't know what's true, you don't I mean, those folks in Kentucky that you've signed up. There are a lot of people who voted for not who said, explicitly, "we're going to eliminate this." Well I understand why people might think, but he will give us something better.' But this is hard. You know, and what you don't want is a situation And I worked on this a long time -- if we had It would have been in my interest to do it. Because I knew I was going to be judged on And those areas that don't work have to and not having a public option. And I'm more than happy to put those fixes But that's not, so far, what the Republicans You deserve to know what it is that that they are doing. So, anyway, I appreciate you guys taking the Real quick sir, Sarah asked about your role Oh, well, my role going forward? Well, look, I mean... I do deserve a little sleep. So... And I've got to take Michelle on a vacation. So, but... I've said consistently that the most important And I will be a citizen, who still remembers younger than I am now. And who didn't have all the insurance and using the healthcare system enough to have her from passing away. Michelle's dad had multiple sclerosis, MS, didn't have a lot of expectations about Those are our stories, so it's not like I will be a part of the work of our fellow country on Earth is able to do the same thing I mean, it's not as if this has never been done before. If you're in Canada, you got health care. No matter who you are. If you're in France, you got health care. If you're in England, you've got health care. If you are in Australia, you got health care. If you're in New Zealand, you've got health care. I remember talking to my friend John Key, He is part of the conservative party in New health care debate, he said, "If I proposed that we took away people's health care, that we repeal it, I'd be run out of office by my own party." Because it was just assumed that in a country rights -- not privileges -- of citizenship So I'll be working with all of you. But my voice is gonna be less important than And so I would urge everybody to make your voice heard. Now is the time to do it. The people who have opposed this were opposing it based on sort of on an ideological concern about people that are helping people who don't role in the democracy, they've been really fighting hard. Well, folks here gotta have to fight just as hard. My final piece of advice would be to the news media. Which is... Generally speaking, when Obamacare has worked well, it wasn't attributed to Obamacare. And when there were problems, they got front And I think that hopefully now is the time where people can be a little -- this doesn't apply to Vox by the way -- but I think it would be a good time for people to be a little more measured and take a look at what are the facts of this thing. Because the stakes are high. Even on this whole premium issue, increase issue, that happened right before the election. It is true, as I said, that insurers adjusted But I kept on trying to explain, number wasn't going to affect your out-of-pocket costs because the tax credit would just go up, but nobody kind of heard that. And, number two, these increases in premiums on the exchanges. In fact, 85 percent of the people And for you, your health care premiums, actually have than they did before Obamacare was passed. The average family has probably saved about if you had seen those same health care cost trends the law was passed. But I didn't see a lot of headlines about controversial enough or it's a little bit too complicated to get in a soundbite. So that's why individual voices are so important journalists who actually know what they're Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Thanks, appreciate it. Thank you.