Hello everyone, this is Tassin Shima. Today I would like to make white sauce. It's getting a little cold now, and it's finally getting colder, so I'd like to make a little more today because it's a sauce that comes in very handy during these cold seasons . So today I would like to make it using 1L of white sauce. The basic way to remember the quantities for white sauce is 1 part butter, 1 part flour, and 10 parts milk. It's very easy to remember if you remember it in 1:1:10 format. If you make the ratio 1:1:10, you will get a fairly solid white sauce. So, it has a consistency that can be used in cream croquettes or in place of roux when making white stew . So today I would like to make it once with 1 to 1 to 10 and show you how hard it is, but when I actually use it myself and say, ``I'm going to make grata'', I find that it's a bit hard when I use it myself. For example , if you don't want to use that much butter because the flavor is expensive compared to butter, or if you don't like the flavor of butter, you can adjust the amount of butter to be 1:1:12. You can reduce the amount from the start, but today I'm going to use the basic amount to remember the basics . First, melt the butter in a pot. Today I'm going to make it using 1 liter, so I'll use 100 grams of butter and 100 grams of flour, so I'd like to try measuring them. I don't usually measure it, but I try to remember how it will look like and then make it randomly, but I think it's better to have a basic amount as an image, so you can arrange it your own way. Even when I'm trying to wrap it up randomly, it's better to hold it in place so I don't have to take it apart and it's more stable, so today I'm going to measure it and make it. Let's start by melting the butter. This is 500 grams, so roughly 100 grams is 1/5. Is this it? It's still frozen right now, so it's a bit off. Normally , I'd just make it as is, but today I'd like to take a closer look. I don't really like Koyu, but I don't care. It's not 5 grams or anything like that, so I think it's better to take it easy when cooking, so I'll just weigh it today. First, put the butter in a saucepan and melt it over medium heat, being careful not to burn the butter since it's in big chunks . If you want it to melt quickly , or if you want it to melt quickly all at once, it's faster to cut it into small pieces and put it in the pot after cutting . Also, it doesn't burn easily. It melted. Then , I've just turned off the heat, but I'm going to add the flour. The same goes for flour and milk, but when you measure flour or milk, if you transfer it to another bowl like this, you'll have to wash that bowl, so I use the minus method. The negative method is just what I call it, but you place something on the scale and set it to zero. This is a scale up to 2 kg, so this minus can also go up to 2 kg . It may be different for each person , but it depends on the scale. It will continue as is. While making it negative. Yes, it's 95 grams. This method of aiming for about 100 grams is something you have to learn on your own. So, after all, if you get too used to trying to measure something like this , you will never be able to remember how much 100 grams is, so you can roughly measure it by your own will . It is very important to think about how much 100 grams is. By repeating this process, you'll end up with approximately 100 grams , so if you try to measure it with the premise that it's actually a measurement , you'll have a hard time remembering it. However, I somehow put 100 grams in here myself. If it's too big, you can put it back, and if it's too little , you can add it, so if you play a game of measuring things every day, you'll get a sense of how much it should be. I'm currently short on 5 grams, so if you're a little scared, you can use a spoon, but there's no problem if you add a little more or less, so I really want you to feel free to make it. I don't really like playing cards, and I do things over and over again just to match really small numbers, and I get really nervous and irritated, and I don't like it when my shoulders hit me, so I don't really care about that. I hope everyone here will make it and don't worry if it doesn't fit by a few grams, it doesn't matter at all . Today I felt like I tried to properly show 1-1-10 for the first time in a while. Now let's light the fire. It's okay to keep the heat on high until you see a reaction . Right now, I turned off the fire when I was adding the flour , so I'm going to keep it on high heat until it comes out , and I'm going to turn it off a bit, even though it's a tool . As for the tools, I think the whisk is the easiest to make. But I've done it with chopsticks, and I've also done it with a wooden spatula . You can do it either way, but today I'm using a 1L volume, so I think a whisk is the best because it has the strongest mixing power . If not, you can use chopsticks or a wooden spatula to light the fire. The thing you have to be careful about when using a whisk is that if you scrape the bottom of the pot, it's especially Teflon, and even if it's not Teflon, golden hairs may come out. The key is to mix as much as possible to avoid touching the bottom of the pot as the Teflon may peel off . The image is to let it float a little and mix. Bring it to a full boil, and here again, the lumps of flour will loosen up a bit due to the power of boiling , so I'm going to use a whisk to help with that , and I'm going to bring it to a steady boil, but at first glance it looks like it 's going to take a lot of time. It will start to burn, so when there are no big lumps left, add the milk. yes. I'm going to turn off the heat when I'm going to talk about this now , but when making it normally, if you start by melting the butter all at once and proceed like this , it will go much smoother. Now, I've turned off the heat, but from now on, when I add milk, I'll first add about 500cc, or about half of it, all at once. I think that white sauce has the image of adding milk little by little , but what happens when you add it little by little is that if the amount of milk is very small compared to the amount of flour , it will curdle into a bubbly consistency . No matter how much you mix the curdled flour, there will be lumps of flour scattered throughout it , and no matter how much you mix it, the clumps will be too hard to loosen, so add a relatively large amount of milk at the beginning. If you first make it to a consistency that allows you to mix it smoothly with a whisk , it will be easier to break up the lumps at the beginning , so leave it on high heat and it will look like what you just saw at a glance . When you look at it from the top and think that the lumps are crushed, add about half of the milk . Don't measure it out. You can use whatever you like, so add about half of it and turn the heat on high. It should be about the consistency of bread dough. Half. Since it is this hard, if you add less, it will be more difficult to mix , so add at least this much and at this stage , mix thoroughly at the first milk stage to remove all the lumps . I'm going to mash it. That's the image. I'll check carefully at this point to see if there are any lumps as it looks at first glance . It would have been nice to have a little more . Now that I've added half the amount, I have 2 leftover milk . -I'm going to add it in 3 batches.The lumps have disappeared here, so if they connect, I'll keep adding more.The lumps have also disappeared, so I'll leave the heat on high.If it seems like it's going to slow down, I'll keep the heat on high. Do it from beginning to end.The butter tends to burn easily during the process, so if you think it's too strong, you can lower the heat to high, but since the milk is cold, immediately return the heat to high after adding the milk, so as high as possible. It can be done quickly depending on the temperature. As soon as the second milk becomes smooth, add the next third milk. Once it becomes smooth, you can add it again . Finally, make sure to make it fluffy and fluffy. There are two reasons for this.One is that if you don't check the hardness and concentration while the starch is firmly set , you won't be able to tell the concentration of the consistency, and flour may remain . In order for it to cook properly, you need to raise the temperature until it 's fluffy at the end, and one more thing: I'm making 1L today, which is quite a large amount, so I may not use it all depending on what I'm cooking later. This is a possibility, so I feel that it will last longer if you divide it properly to kill the bacteria.I make it in 1L or 2L.It makes quite a white sauce, and if you do it smoothly, it can be done very quickly. But if you have a chance, you can make a large amount, save it, and freeze it.Today , you want to make gratin, or you don't have time, so you want to make gratin, or you want to eat croque monsieur for lunch , or stew. It's quite convenient to make it in such a way that you can finish it off with white sauce instead of using the stew roux , so I try to make as much as possible , but if you want to make it with 500g, it 's the same thing . You can do it in the same way if you like.Choose the size of the pot depending on the size of the milk.I don't add any salt to the white sauce, but there's a reason for that . If salt is added to the sauce, it will feel very heavy, so when you finish it as a dish , it is better to use other ingredients with umami, but it is better to add flavor and leave out the white sauce. By adding that kind of contrast to the fluffy parts, you can enjoy a light and delicious meal without getting tired of it. In this case, the ham and cheese have a punchy, strong umami flavor, while the white sauce has a fluffy texture.For example, in the case of gratin, the ingredients have a strong flavor, and the white sauce has a soft flavor that doesn't add any flavor . Since I sprinkle cheese on it and bake it to give it a milky taste , a little bit of cheese gives it a much more savory taste, giving it a richer flavor.I'm thinking of saving half of it today, but I'm still worried about storing it. If so, you can spray it with alcohol, dry it thoroughly, and as long as it's clean , you don't have to do it without it, but if you're worried, you can spray it with alcohol and fill it half in. Then, if you put the lid on like this, it won't close. If you put it away, the steam will fall directly into the sauce and it will spoil easily, so remove it here and wrap it.Since it contains butter, it won't stick when you peel it off . In this state, remove the heat in a cool room or cool place as much as possible , cover the lid, and store it in the refrigerator.If it is a refrigerator , it will last quite a while depending on the temperature of the refrigerator and whether it is opened and closed often. It depends, but I think it's okay for 4 or 5 days, but the conditions in which it can be saved vary greatly depending on the environment , so I think it's 2 or 3 days, or 4 or 5 days if you store it properly . I can't say for sure, but if you store it in the refrigerator, eat it as soon as possible, and if you freeze it, it will last for about a month, so you can use it in a Tupperware, plastic wrap, bag, or whatever you want, so it's easy to use. I think it's a good idea to save it in a state where you know it.The white sauce is now complete.The amount is listed in the summary section, so please try making it.Goodbye.