Are you confused is and how to use it? Well, not after I'm Dylan Stewart, The today's lesson, I'm all about Apple Pay. What it is , how to set Before we're done, MacWhisperer Power take everything you've up to another level. The first thing we What is Apple Pay? Most people are confused that it has to do with or something directly that's not really true. Apple Pay is just a simple existing credit cards them out of your wallet. It uses a technology Communication, also NFC is not new. and is not In fact, if you have a symbol on it, that's NFC. These credit cards use which is essentially but built into the NFC uses this near which means essentially or one and a half inch and the other device. Usually that's your and the payment terminal. Apple Pay makes using NFC of your credit cards can your Apple Wallet where and pay for all sorts of needing your wallet. Why does that matter and Well it comes down Credit cards are at That's why there's so That's why there's all your credit cards or to That's why they That's the three back or the four digit your credit cards. It's supposed to make secure, but at their In fact, the most can do with a credit card Whether it's the teller at your restaurant, or As soon as that credit you've got no control And you might think, well or I trust Starbucks, store attendant. All of these things credit card is still And while NFC, or tap that, because you're not credit card over, you're contactless payment, or your phone over the still be insecurities Back in 2014, Target way, because their credit all of their branches was And over the course of 2014, 40 million credit because as soon as that into that terminal, the get all the information. Whenever you swipe card in, it transmits information between It can transmit your your name, and even purchased, meaning that Target or the grocery is completely trackable. And if someone malicious credit card transmission, your information stolen million cards at Target. Sure, credit cards more secure and with little bit safer, and codes they're a little still just an unsafe Which is where Because when you sign Pay, every time you pay number is scrambled and is transmitted other than purchased, not your name. Not the actual items credit card number, which So the next thing we how to set up Apple And it's pretty simple. You come right in here on your iPhone and you see Wallet and Apple Pay. Go ahead and And from here, you'll that says, add card. When you click that, different options. You can add previous cards phone in the past, but the going to want to do is it says debit or credit Here you click the then you're greeted is looking for the card. Position your card so that directly above it and it directly in for you. Then you simply click put in that three digit It usually takes a you to agree to the Let's do that right here. And then it contacts company, confirms all But before it can add have to verify that card by using two factor Let's send it to click the Next button. Now I type in the that I received via If everything checks will be verified and where I can easily use You can add as many as you'd like. Down here, you'll have which card you want to That means when you Pay, that's the card But you can have multiple wallet at any given time you want to use when you And the last thing we're to actually use Apple Pay. For clarity, Apple Pay Apple computer, your and your Apple Watch. Using iCloud the same shared with all of your to enter them in again When you're ready to make be right in front of a Some people will ask Apple Pay but you don't What you want to do is this symbol right here. This is the symbol for that works for all So if they accept NFC, these days, they're your Apple Pay. Now using Apple Pay is lot of people start off wallet on their phone That's fine, but where Apple Pay lives. Apple Pay lives inside inside of the wallet. And it can be accessed the right side button And as soon as I up my default card. I can also come down choose a different that are frequent buyer like this, my electric Or, A Starbucks card. If anyone's ever given you can actually add it use it just by double So once again, getting A simple double click like up and allow you to choose While Apple Pay is open You hold it close to that is, just like this, process that transaction. Some people wonder it on the receiver. And generally you want this symbol here, whether device like this or a at the grocery store, In some cases you may the side button to transaction to go through. But when you do it, it's easily and you know that because your credit card So hopefully that answers about Apple Pay and works, how to set it In just a moment, MacWhisperer power tip. But before I do drop any down below in the comment down there Hit that got great value from want to share it with at it, if you haven't yet, go ahead and hit that that notify bell There's on their way and I'd hate So now Let's step into the Now that we understand I'm sure you're amazed it is, and you can't wait you accidentally leave home, and can still pay any major complications. But there's even another Pay, and it has to do I've had an Apple generation, and I'm the killer feature? And there's But the biggest feature Apple Watch is Apple Pay. Because having Apple great, but your phone is So when you need to pay phone, you might as well You might as well It's not really But your watch is. is on your wrist, and reach in a pocket or dig Setting up Apple Pay on From the phone that is Watch, go into the Watch Scroll down until you When you click on it, you that are already on your the watch, or by clicking here, you can add a card And then by scrolling down can choose which default show up on the watch when This makes it so easy because you've got your and it's got the right You don't need to dig your phone or your or your credit cards. It's so simple clicking the right side That's the button directly here , you can immediately And a simple double click credit card, or you can to get to other cards And you can even use to get yourself into or even onto that flight in North Carolina. It's an easy and simple you're not scrambling for that kind of information. right from your wrist. And that's what we've all about Apple Pay. Hope you learned something I'm Dylan Stewart, It's my passion and get more done on your ever thought possible. And I'll see