Mark Cole: and I want to welcome you back to another I've got a question for you before I go on. Why today? I would guarantee if I polled every one of thousands of people that's listening to this it would come around to, I want to improve better parent. I need to be a better business as this one all about improving oneself? This is you so that you will multiply value to others. from John Maxwell on keys that will improve Mark Cole: I'm going to be back with my co host, Chris how it has impacted us, and to be honest with of thousands of people through our you a few practical ways that can help you and make a difference for those around you. you'd like to download the bonus resource, you see you on YouTube. We'll see you right after John Maxwell: If you want to do well, if you want have legs to your legacy. I want you to live most people, they don't live intentionally. They don't lead their life. They accept their life. And John Maxwell: you to intentionally live your life for several quickly. Number one is the fact that if you. an intentional life. And the reason for that from good intentions to good actions. And good words in the English language. No one has ever John Maxwell: Nobody's ever had their lives changed with value to people with just good intentions. go from good intentions to good Actions. You people who do well and people who don't do I intend to do something to I did something. John Maxwell: for so many years would look at his basketball would say to them, now, don't tell me what you're he was saying is you could talk all day about what improve your world. You gotta do something that gaps in life is the gap between sounding good your life because the moment you intentionally action. It moves you from someday to today. It John Maxwell: occasional to continual. And I'll tell you what It's the greatest way to improve your life. And up to have what I call front end thinking. If I have to have some intentional thinking on the that just quote, happens. It's not something that John Maxwell: living is intentional thinking. I wrote a book on talked about the differences between successful one of the things they do is they think up front. it is thinking big picture. It's thinking change our world, we're gonna have to go into John Maxwell: every day count. It doesn't allow me to skip a just sneaks up on people. But the moment that I'm day my masterpiece. And I want to do every day. from procrastinating. And again, what's the great John Maxwell: Doing gets us everywhere. And then intentional step At a time we can't change everything. We're once. But when I become intentional, I look and important thing for me to work on right now in start improving my life? And so what I want to do giving is to share with you how you can begin intentional. I mean, what steps do I take right actions? What steps can I take right now that just get ready because I'm gonna give it to first of all, to be intentional in your growth. in my 20s, I had a mentor walk into my life and John Maxwell: these words that changed my life. He said, growth better. If you're going to really personally grow And then he explained to me, he said, john, automatically become better. Wow, that's a life getting older, I want to be intentional about going to say to you that I would encourage you John Maxwell: have growth experiences every day, read growth and you'll begin to understand that the only is going to be better than today is that you're be intentional in your growth, I encourage you to to know that your attitude that you have right for people who have a bad attitude because they you could unchoose, if that's a word, the bad great, positive attitude, an attitude of significance. All that stuff is just going legacy that you create. I would encourage John Maxwell: so Key to your success. In fact, if you took pretty much where they're going is where you're wanna go? I would encourage you to be intentional falls on leadership. And I just love the fact that encourage you. I would encourage you. I wrote a and that book has 10 things that you want to work kind of like the practical leadership book that okay, I can do this, and you begin to learn and John Maxwell: you to be intentional in your significance. lesson, because I want you to be. I want you to be successful and being significant. A successful all about adding value to yourself. But what you a significant life. You want to make sure that you John Maxwell: fact that selfishness and significance, they're I'm gonna ask people to add value I'm gonna every day ask, who can I dream for, hope for you to keep living lives Maxwell Leadership Certified Team: listening right now would probably love own business or becoming a coach that we have a phenomenal strategy where you are income on your own terms, and have access to the thriving leadership development business. When you you join a global community of entrepreneurs including John C. Maxwell. You'll also get world next to your name, giving you the boost maxwellleadership.com/JoinTheTeam Mark Cole: and I sit here and just get overwhelmed with what impact Has far and wide. And it all started with made the decision to write books. Then he made and go build a business. And then he decided Mark Cole: decisions that we all celebrate starts at some that he has. I mean, you have an example today what we get to do. And I'd love to just start it Chris Robinson: Always glad to be here in Atlanta. You Mark Cole: Chris Robinson: the team. I'm here for the team. You know, we talk he has probably one of the furthest, widest, To have that close proximity to someone, whether the prime minister who slides a book from first meet him. Or it could be a person that Chris Robinson: as I came into the airport in Atlanta, you know, I and I'm going now on the board, I got to go good attitude. And I go into the line and it says John Maxwell. It says Maxwell says, the John Maxwell? I said, the John absolutely changed my life. He said, it'd be my Mark Cole: Chris Robinson: Mark Cole: Chris Robinson: You never know who you're going to to be intentional about your significance years ago. We're reaping the benefits it's being modeled for us to be able to do that. Mark Cole: get back in the lesson, but I love how you started I think that's really important in John's journey I hope there is a reason beyond yourself there's a reason beyond yourself that you're a reason beyond yourself that you are it's about what's going to flow through life out with a significance piece, but it all Mark Cole: successful things came. And so that's a. That's Chris? He wrote books so that he could would never meet. He didn't write Chris Robinson: Mark Cole: a ticket counter rep at a rental car. And it did Chris Robinson: I love it. You know, the Mark Cole: Chris Robinson: and I think that every day is key. I think most. or when they absolutely need to. You know, automatically older, but you're not automatically the old cliche is, you know, I've. I've been but realistically, it's one year repeated you get into that automatic cycle, you stop intentional in your growth. He's given us, you Chris Robinson: to me about developing personal growth plan. You few months ago. But talk to me about the growth Mark Cole: and let me say two things, Chris, kind of around growth. This lesson could be one about intentionality. In fact, I'm going but I'm going to encourage you before the before the end of the year. I'm going to. and listen to this podcast again. Specifically, Mark Cole: intentionality is not about creativity. The first every year. The first time, boy, it was creative. not the creativity of my intentionality. It is the discipline of my intentionality. Mark Cole: intentional to do something. And we consider that when it is consistently lived out day in, day out, these five categories of be intentional, they may wow, this is creative. This is really good. It years. It may be that these are bad five and Mark Cole: be consistent. Be consistent in your growth. Be relationships. Be consistent in your leadership. intentionality is what John's talked about in Mark Cole: because the consistency of it gave me a family It gave me a leadership opportunity that I did not company. All the things that I have been blessed an intentionality that says every year I'm going be possible in my life. Because last year's to see what the next year's growth can be. And start putting a plan around it. I'll say, put Chris Robinson: Mark Cole: of growing. So I am very intentional. My the next two to three weeks of the this of 2024 and what can be possible because in your 2025 year plan that is going to make a Chris Robinson: piece of that. You know, if I had to say that The Secret is consistency. And, you know, when I for me, it was really simple. I think it's not the growth in this area. So what I would do is I this integrated into my day, but I used to carry card. And it would simply have five things Chris Robinson: what do I need to read today? What do I need to do I need to call today? And what do I need to do to line up my growth with where I wanted to go was listening to, reading and watching and I wasn't one of these, you know, schizophrenic look, I see something over here, I want to grow. And having these 25 goals and, you know, believe in teaching that philosophy to grow. And Chris Robinson: find myself only really doing well. And maybe one, I decided, man, I've got to simplify this thing, this growth plan to move in the direction I want Mark Cole: Chris Robinson: with simplicity and consistency. You know, your attitude. We talked about this in death. The Mark Cole: Chris Robinson: me a little bit about attitudes of choice Mark Cole: So if you need a little improvement this week, right now. It's how you're growing, how you're your attitude. Stephanie and I have a great grandchildren. They're with us 100% of the time who's now in college, our baby daughter. I Mark Cole: she's very talented, she's smart. And I spent made good decisions, good choices. What has different skills and abilities than more intentional in celebrating their choices same giftings as Macy. They're not going but they can make great choices. We had and one of our grandchildren was given just an teachers that's teaching him. And they said of bring people together around different things and is an amazing gift that your grandchild has. And Mark Cole: bit in this class. We're going to get them to encourage them to be a unifier of people your grandchild possesses. When I, I got him home I said, let me tell you what your teacher just And by the way, I also showed him where two brothers because he's pretty brutal on them. him. So we used it to coach him to be a little Mark Cole: the area of your attitude, it is a choice. And too their attitude and not an internal resolve and an Chris Robinson: that. Let's keep rocking. Intentional your relationships are key to success. I mean, I matter what business that you're trying to build, it comes down to relationships. And so that's got Chris Robinson: get what you want or knock people off the ladder, you know, is in direct opposition of to me about intentionality in relationships Mark Cole: So I went a relational. Let me go. A leadership our kids, you are who you hang out with. I don't Mark Cole: you're not. Not going to their house. We do that doing that in business. And we only ask ourselves Can they put more money in my pocket? Will who we partner with in business as in who we Mark Cole: it. We fall asleep on the relationship side get a maximum bang for our buck with this? significant partnerships in our business. Just a I was asking all the right questions, I was happen with this kind of a partnership. And one whoa, I can't have that level of partnership would be violating the very thing that I'm Mark Cole: give ourselves a hall pass on the relationships business as very sterile. It's very monetized, true about business, but there's a relational John wrote a book several years ago called a great book. They ask him to come in and write thing as business ethics. And they wanted him Mark Cole: can't write a book on business I can't. This was right after Enron, all because there's no such thing as business there's only ethics. You either have them or you Mark Cole: If you don't have them at home, they're not going in relationships at work. You can be intentional to be intentional in your relationships at work, period. Because it'll work even in business when Chris Robinson: moving. Being intentional about your leadership. which is a book that's dedicated to you. This the front pages of it says, this book's dedicated you know, would really impact people Mark Cole: And of all the leadership accolades or comments gave me that first book, first copy, which is what he gives the first copy. The day he gave that top three leadership moments of my life. And and it gave me a pathway to be a great leader. perception of people around me, to my leadership, have of myself within me. And So I spent 13 growing my influence outside. And I accomplished Mark Cole: I turned organizations around, I increased But boy, I was empty. I was weak and I thing that I would tell anybody reading that of what you are as a leader, more than the if you don't get your priorities set on those. For instance, I read that book Mark Cole: challenge that every day of the week. I travel now with our grandkids being in our home, I travel time. If I had not answered on the inside, what my me a great reward, what I needed to accomplish I would be a complete basket case and loss in competition with the demands of my family. the inside and then live from that space and Mark Cole: you've got to be intentional with your the smartest guy on our team. You're a lot the most likable guy on my team. I got a this organization. Cause I was so intentional in Chris Robinson: my very first time meeting with you. You probably time meeting you. And you said some words to me for over a decade now. But I was part of the very inside the Maxwell certified team. And, and I to with you and John. And I remember sitting Chris Robinson: you know, how do you feel when you're inside multibillion dollar companies? And I remember chris, he goes, I'm inside that room. But here's but I'm fully confident I belong in the room. you know, when I find myself inside the room with a CEO of multi billion dollar companies, way. I'm unqualified, I'm undeserving, but Mark Cole: Chris Robinson: that you did on the inside. Mark Cole: Chris Robinson: Mark Cole: hear that. I would say that same thing right High Road Leadership Book: Chris Robinson: hey, that gets us through this me. Always love being here with you. Mark Cole: you for jumping up here. Thanks for getting. Hey, maybe you'll stay in Atlanta longer because Chris Robinson: Mark Cole: me give you two things to think about here. One is the best digital online courses that we created program called Every Day With Purpose. It's that for $199. We're going to give it to you for Mark Cole: John say often that I just kind of want to leave Joyce. Here's what John says. An unintentional Unintentional life embraces only the things And I think that's what the lesson today was gave us a comment from how to Develop an Abundance Mark Cole: we did. She said mindset is contagious. with scarcity people. Be intentional in your thank you so much for listening to the Go, Go do something powerful, positive, High Road Leadership Book: leadership to new heights? Join the movement Maxwell's latest book. In High Road Leadership, doing the right things for the right reasons, how to inspire positive change and bring people receive exclusive bonuses, including a keynote on sneak peek into three impactful chapters. Take the Visit highroadleadershipbook.com