I really wanted to be Kevin McCallister. I mean, what kid didn't, right? Setting up traps to stop burglars from robbing your home? That was the dream! &quot;You guys give up? Or are ya thirsty for more?&quot; But unfortunately my home was never robbed when I was left behind on vacation as a kid, so I never got the chance to live that beautiful lifestyle. Today though, that all changes. See, I changed. I'm wearing the Kevin sweater. I've got a plan to recreate home alone and trap my friends through insane suggestions from my audience. (screaming) I'm getting into that safe! (screaming) Get out of that wall, Marv! You guys gave me some pretty insane things to work with, so I'm combining those with some classic Home Alone traps to create a very difficult home to break into. You shouldn't do that to adults! But before I do any of that, I'm gonna need to build that &quot;home&quot; part of Home Alone, and as I do that, I'll also tell you my master plan. You see, the first step to all of this is- (super sped up talking) And that's how I plan to use this Home Alone project to take over the entire world. Anyways, enough about my master plan. Let's do a quick walkthrough of this house before we load it with traps. So as you can see, this is the front door, front entryway, this plant dining room, empty room- Don't look at that. Side doors, back room, stairways, floors, sliding glass door, garage, basement space, back stairway here, little walkway over here, don't worry about that. The attic! We've got plenty of places for traps, and that means we should get started on making those, because I am already way behind on recording this. Oh yeah, we've also got the van, and it's got the correct license plate. You can Google it, and you'll find out that that's actually- that's the right number. I did my research! This is where our robbers will start, and then they'll try to raid the house. I am so proud of this build. Like, I did this all myself, and I'm really happy with it. But the build isn't all this video's about! We're here to trap my friends! So let's start with the first comment. &quot;Can you make the stair trap that uses sniffers and leads rather than paint buckets and ropes?&quot; Ah yes, an iconic trap. [crash] [crash] This fence right here is gonna be key to this operation, and uh, oh boy. This is gonna be weird. Okay, I'm gonna just create an opening here, I guess? And if we take a sniffer, and we grab a lead, tie him to here, and then we just try to push him out. Come on! Go down the- go down the hole! Why aren't you functioning the way I want you to? Why aren't you- Oh, there we go! Hey! I think that worked. Alright, let's get you back up here, buddy. Oh boy. We're not gonna be able to easily reset this one, that's for sure. Come on! Ugh! What we're gonna do is we're gonna build up a couple walls, and then I need some sort of, like, release mechanism for this. If I just use, like, a piston there, and then if we just add our sniffer into the- Uh oh! Oh! No, no. Get in- there we go. Okay. That! There we go! Now he's ready to go. And then we just flip this lever. Yeah! Okay, kinda works. I don't know if this is gonna deal any damage, so I wonder if I can figure out, like, a way to do that? If you just touch one of these guys, you die. In theory, though, if I'm going up the stairs, and I'm, like, right here or so, and then that is removed- Oh. Okay, I've refined it. Watch this. Whoa! [laughs] So that's trap number one. Let's move on to trap number two. &quot;A doorway that drops anvils on you when you open it. Simple, yet fun.&quot; Okay, so here's my thought. We've got a ton of space in the roof up here, and this door leads from the garage to the main house, so it's kind of a natural entry point, so that's what we're gonna use. We're gonna use right here. So when they walk in, it should, in theory, just drop a bunch of anvils. Okay, I can do that. I'm thinking we just fill this entire thing with these stone slabs, and then whenever someone walks through that door, it just drops a ton of anvils. [laughs] This entire ceiling's just loaded with anvils. [laughs] Okay, cool. Reset button is ready to go. And then for this door, we're just gonna retrofit this with a good old-fashioned observer. Boom. Beautiful. Okay, so now if I place this door down... [laughs] Okay, so now if I open this door, I just get smashed by anvils. Nice. It doesn't deal a ton of damage, but, you know, it's kind of fun. Bonk. And then I guess they'll just have to figure out how to get through it. Cool. That's a pretty straightforward system right there. You just open the door, and you get crushed by falling anvils. Simple, yet fun. There is a ton of space down here though, so, uhhh. Hmmm... Yeah. That seems to fit the space nicely. Right now. Go do it. Have you done it yet? Have you done it yet? Because the easiest way to see my next video is to subscri-- Alright, cool. Who's next? &quot;For an original idea, I would have a set of false stairs that, when stepped on, releases a horde of angry bees.&quot; Okay, where do-- [screams] Where do we wanna put this? Maybe, like, in here, so it can be, like, a full, false set of stairs? I mean, it'll be a real set of stairs, but it's not, like, it's gonna lead anywhere. And we'll do that nicely. Okay, cool. So then this goes up like this. Bam. And now that's all ready to go, so then let's just build a little room. Okay, cool. And so for this, we'll have a setup down here, where we'll have a, uh, skulk sensor, listening for footsteps. And then that is gonna trigger a series of commands that will, A, trap the person down here, and B, just spawn a ton of bees. In theory, it should just pick me up when I'm there. And then I'll close that. Yeah, nice. And then all of these beehives are gonna look like they're spawning bees. And they're gonna be angry bees. Does he attack me just naturally? Or... I guess not. Okay, okay, it's angry at me now. Sick. I guess we'll just trap them with a bunch of angry bees that could just be angry. Just a ton of bees. Oh, oh shoot, wait. I didn't mean to- Oh no! You know what? Instead of all of those hives along the sides, let's just do two. I think that might actually work better. Oh ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho. So here's what'll happen is they'll essentially run down here, they'll trigger the trap, and then they'll just get stuck in here with a ton of bees. And then naturally they'll freak out, they'll punch one, and then immediately they'll just be completely destroyed. So that works. That room is... Good? Question work? It's a terrifying room, but it works. That is awesome. Who's next? Brick. Oh yeah. Easiest add of my life. It's a little... Goofy. Uhh... You hold it above your head, and then you throw it, and they don't get used up. But it looks really funny when you do this. [laughs] So... That'll be fun. I just had to add a brick. It's so iconic. It's not even in the first movie, but it's so iconic. Hup! I'm gonna catch it. I'm gonna catch it. A good trap idea would be a door, and when you open it, it would shoot out an instant damage potion, a nod to the boxing glove in the closet. That is a great clip. Roll that! And to do that, I'm gonna use this door as well as that door over there. This is gonna be a really easy system. I kind of love that these are so easy. So incredibly easy that it's actually already done. Ow! My gosh! That deals a lot of damage. So I'm just gonna replicate this over here too. Awesome. Now any door that they open immediately splashes them with damage. That was a lot of damage. We're just gonna add more closets. Is it necessary? Not remotely. Will it be funny when they walk into this room and just have damage potions everywhere? Absolutely. Yes. I need to make this room look better. Cool. Okay. This room is looking a little better. I think the fact that this is just kind of a weird looking room makes it feel even better. Just gonna make people very confused. Just like a little bit off put by it, you know? Just a little bit weirded out. Excellent. Excellent suggestion. On to the next one. You can do a piston trapdoor hallway. Those are always fun. Okay. Yeah I like that idea. But what about instead of a hallway? We did an entire room I do want to make sure that this has like an end destination to it So when you're running across there's a place to go to and we'll put this right by Our anvil trap something you may have noticed throughout this video so far is that I installed the create mod Which means we can do some pretty crazy stuff. There's these things called Mechanical bearings mechanical Pistons. There's like a bunch of stuff we can use with this and I have some ideas We're just gonna have this entire floor rotate out Oooh. (laughing) Oooh. Oooh. (laughing) What is going on? Wait I need to get-- I need to just-- Hold on! Okay, I have generally an idea of how this works This is gonna be this is gonna be rough. Here's another test. Oh, whoa. Geez. Oh, yes, dude Ooooh. No. So I want to be able to run over here and just flip a lever and then have the entire room go down if I also Put one under here. I assume it'll just do the same thing. So now I can trigger this from both sides Run away run away run away and then they'll all both be in here and then boop and then we all just fall into the lava. I think the last thing for this room is we're just gonna need to decorate it a little bit I mean, I need to put something in here. Okay, so now in theory since all that's glued together No way that works as well as it does. That's so good dude. Oh shoot my game crashed. Nooo!! Oh no. What is happening? What is going on? Everything is broken. Okay moment of truth if it places Ohhhhh nooo!! What have I done? Okay, what happens if I just break that? Okay, actually that's that's a good thing. What is wait, what is happening here? Okay I guess I'm just gonna not have any furniture in this room Let's see if it functions correctly. Yeah and in theory it shouldn't place anywhere except for about where it started Yes, I guess this is just an empty room. How about like a painting on the wall? I think this is fine for this comment I think we ended up doing what we were supposed to because it just collapses into the lava awesome Love to see it Let's move on to the next one! Assuming this is unmodded Minecraft, do the heated doorknob bit. An iron door that when opened will set the area on fire. Okay. Here's my question. Do dispensers work through concrete? The answer is no does it work through basic planks? Also, no, does it work if I turn on fire tick? Also, no does it work with the wood being higher not no not really well, let's figure this out idea What if the roof was just dispensers that all just fire fireballs onto the ground, right? And then we don't have to worry about that We can hit the button have the button hit out here and then it'll launch fireballs inside But what if we also want them outside? Well, we can make this into another piece of the roof Totally inconspicuous... Right? We can use these guys the copy pack caught the copycat panels to completely hide it And then it just looks like a roof right? Right if I do redstone links in here, and then I just hit just hit this button. Yeah Okay, that is a step in the right direction at hides nicely up in that roof piece And then these are all hidden by these panels and then when you press the button it fires boom So now that's in here and now we have to do these guys and then now this is all good now that works Okay, sick need to make this look inconspicuous. Actually, I'm curious if they do work through this labs It does. Okay, cool. That's just even better. Oh Geez, yeah, nice. That's effective. I like that. Well done He's kind of like the thing from the movie a little bit kind of just a little bit though Not much not much like the movie just still just a little bit You can have the stairway to the attic with a tripwire dropping a cave spider on them Also, the tarantula trap would be funny, but you might have to make spiders a lot smaller than they are Oh, don't worry. We got that covered. This is a tiny cave spider And we're gonna fill the house with them every single cave spider that you place in this world is going to automatically be set to a tiny Size which means that when we have a ton of them. It's gonna get really crazy This is our attic space and if you walk up these stairs you get to a nice little attic area There's obviously some control center stuff in here And then it just keeps going over here this stairway gives me the perfect place to put a tripwire So that's exactly what I'm gonna do boop boop boop boop And so now we've got a tripwire with which we can spawn spiders and lots of them We're gonna just completely completely fill these rooms. And yes, I said rooms. We're gonna fill multiple rooms in this house This is gonna be fun. I'm gonna start by creating a nice little timer setup here This will essentially allow us to spawn spiders for a limited amount of time So we don't just completely crash the game then using this repeating command block and subsequent chain command blocks We're gonna fill the house with spiders. So I just need to find the locations for them first. Hold on So let's spawn them in this spider web. We'll also spawn them in this corner We'll also go into this room and just start filling this room with spiders. Maybe a couple out here And quite a few in the basement Any of these rooms that don't have anything already are just gonna have cave spiders spawning. Excellent Empty rooms full of spei-durs. So now this means I need to stock all these up with the spider spawning commands. Oh boy Okay, you can hear it let's go see the damage oh Boy, oh my gosh, I just keep setting it. Oh, no. Oh wait, this actually could be a problem. Oh, oh This is wow, this is awful. I have no doubt that if I just go to survival mode, there's no surviving this Oh jeez. Okay, this is bad. Actually, this might this might be a problem. Okay, they're all gone Jeez, dude. Okay. Maybe the tripwire hook was a bad it. Maybe this was a bad idea I think I'm gonna change this it has a toggle now So essentially what's gonna happen here is they're gonna run through here up here and realize oh There's a lot of cave spiders. Uh-oh. Oh, no. Oh, no, they're gonna get attacked. They're gonna die They can't get through there. Oh my gosh That's so insane! And then they're like, oh no, I'm dead. Oh, but then they're gonna go walk around there's gonna be more It's just oh my gosh This was probably a mistake. Um So yeah, that's the tarantula trap in the original movie. It might have literally just been one tarantula But uh, what's the fun in that? I have an idea though. I want to try this Oh Spiders. Oh my gosh. Oh look at all the eyes follow me. Nothing bad could happen Nope, nothing. We what happened here? They're still so look at them all and I'm just gonna My word, okay Well, needless to say that works perfectly and that is the final trap that we need to add before the robbers arrive So here's the plan I added a safe to the basement with some very valuable treasure and the robbers have a mission to steal what's inside I'm gonna lead them around the house and spring your traps on them. Hopefully deterring them from making it to the safe I also made a couple extra changes around the house, but I'm sure you'll see more of those as we go But now they're here. Let's see if your traps are able to hold them off Alright, Marv. hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, let's get out of here, let's get out of here, yeah, get on out of here, Marv! You think the kid's in there? Oh, I don't know. I don't know, hope, I don't know. Ah, I don't know, lets scope it out. Hey, Fundy. He's not British. The guy's not British at all. He's got, like, a- American. Yeah. Am I American? Credit card. Credit card! Cool whip! Could I have your credit card number? Did- does this come in dairy free? I would like to pay with debit. Is this gluten free? I'm going to call the police on you. Who's that? Oh no! It's the child! He saw us! Go! Get him! Uh oh. Uh oh, they're coming. Uh, nope. Yeah! You can't get me up here. I'm after your lucky charms. No, you can't get me up here. (screams) Oh! [LAUGHTER] Oh my god. He's got a bison in his roof. It worked! [LAUGHTER] Run! Jesus. I'm not going in there. Harry, I'm not going in there. Oh my god, are you good? I'm not. Dude, you got trampled, man. How do we even get past this? No! Harry! We got to find a way around this. We got to find a way around this, I think. Hey, wait. What do you say, you know? We have a good old dinner-- Hey! Uh oh. Come here, little kid! Get this guy! Uh oh. Get this guy! Oh my god! (screaming) Look at my chat! Kevin is dead! Let's try the exact same thing. No, no, no. Stop. Wait, no. Jesus, man. I'm not going for that one. Where did-- Where did he go? Hey, look. Look. Check me out. I'm in their bed. Is this weird? Good night. I could really go for some Cheerios. Where's the dad's robe? Sorry, this is-- Ow! God! Jesus! What was that? Ow! Oh god! Stop! Ow! Marbles! I'm trying to channel my inner Tom and Jerry noises. (Tom and Jerry Scream) All right, let's check this one. Let's check this one. Surely nothing bad will happen. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, no. Jesus! Oh, hey, you're back. All right, wait a minute. I'm going to pick a different door. I'm going to go for this one. You picked the two doors with the goat, so now surely-- (Tom and Jerry Scream) Wait, wait, maybe it's the other one. Yeah, they all do the same thing. OK. Run! Oh, hey, hey. Come here! Come here! I'm going to actually kill him. Kevin. Oh, I got him. Do you see that, boss? Where did he go? He went upstairs. You see that, boss? Get him! Oh my god! Spiders, little tiny, mini spiders! Oh, Jesus! Wait, I know this show. Bazinga! Wow, that worked really well. Oh, god, there's so many. Oh, god. Oh, god, it's tiny, little weasels. I'm in the bed. Get in the bed. There's monsters nearby. You don't stay. Oh, there sure is. How you doing, Harry? Wish them away. Terrence, Terrence, please! No, what was your name? That sure as hell didn't work. I got spiders down my throat and spiders down my other ends. This was terrible. This was absolutely terrible. I got shot in the knee once. Really? Hey, you! Hey! Catch! They're-- ow! Oh my god! Catch! Oh! Oh! Oh! You shouldn't do that to adults. You shouldn't do that to adults. Don't do that to adults. Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Uh Come back! Come back! (screams) This is my chance. I'm going to investigate this weird house. What in the world is-- oh! I knew the dad of this family had money. You can tell this guy's-- this family's loaded! This family's loaded! They got slidin' doors? What? Oh, no. This family's loaded! NO!! [LAUGHTER] HAHA! HAHA! Get him Marv! I'm Marv! We've got you now you fool! Get him! No! Get back here! No! Uh-oh. No! Uh-oh. No! No! Get back here! No! [LAUGHTER] Die, Kevin! Die! Ooh, a brick. Hey. How's it going? [LAUGHTER] Hey. I got his brink of infinity. Look at this. It's infinite bricks. Throw it at him. Look. Throw it at him. Oh, no. Oh. It's infinite bricks. Oh, you're done now, little child. They have the weapon. Let's both go at the same time. The exact same time. Wait. How will we fit through the door? Surely nothing bad will happen if we chase him at the same time. All right, here we go. Oh, no. Let's chase him in sync. Uh-oh. Where did you go? It's the bees. This is un- Brick! Bee-leavable. Quickly. Oh, wait. We're-- uh, we're trapped. I don't even know how to react to this. I'm going to be honest. That was un-bee-leavable. [SCREAMING] [SCREAMING] Hmm. No. I thought-- Oh, great. Marty. Marty, where are you? Marv, yeah? Marv, where'd you go? I'm killin bees! Marv, get back here. Marv, stop. (muffled) I'm farming XP! I literally can't. I'm trapped! Get out of that wall, Marv. You silly little man. You comedic genius. Get out of that wall. Honey, are you there? Oh, there you go. Hello. I killed all the bees and got 18 levels of experience. The-- the brick wall appeared out of nowhere. Oh he went this way. The little boy, the tiny boy, went this way. The bees are coming back. Right here, right here, right here. Come down the here. Are you sure that's a good idea? Oh, there's a bunch of chests over here. Oh, yeah, Marty. I wait. That's me. Harrison, listen. What if instead of stealing anything else, we just take this loot that's here and survive? Because I'm tired. No, I'm a greedy little American. I like oil. Let's get in there. I bet he has some oil behind that fortified wall. Look at him. He's hideous. I got this. All right, let's go both at the same time. Watch this. I killed him. Let's go. Well, that was rather easy. I guess he wasn't very safe. Hey. Zinger. [SCREAMING] Come here, little guy. Oh, I'm out. No, I'm out. Bye! See ya. Oh, my gah-- Come here. I'm after you. Hey. Merry Christmas, ya filthy animal. I'm free. I escaped. Kevin is free to live another day. I'm getting that safe. I'm getting into that safe. I'm getting into that safe. NOOOO!!! How did they afford the entire pit of lava? I'm getting to that safe. I'm getting there, too. I'm getting the items this time. Oh, he's going again. I'm getting it! Yeah! Yeah! Harry, I got something. I got something important. I got something important, Harry. What do you got, Marv? Marv, come here. Look. Come here. Kill it. Before it kills me. No. Oh, god. Oh. Oh, my god. I'm going to get rid of the spiders. Hold on. Oh, wow. Oh, hey. Oh, hey. Harry. Harry. Hey. Marv. It's cold. Marv. This boy's a damn lunatic. We gotta get out here. Where's the exit? I am out here. Marv, help me. Here. Marv! Screw this guy. I'm out of here, man. Let's go. Let's go to Disneyland!