Fukuoka / Nagahama Area This time, we asked to photograph popular food stalls in Nagahama Yatai Street, which we introduced in the special feature . Introducing &quot;Yatai Nagahama Municipal Stadium&quot; The owner moved to Fukuoka about 6 years ago , a big fan of the Hawks since childhood , but he had a strong desire to revive Nagahama Yatai from when it was popular, so in 2023 he moved to Fukuoka. We applied for a public call for new openings in Nagahama Yatai Street. We opened &quot;Nagahama Municipal Stadium&quot; as one of the seven newly opened stalls. The store name is also unique, and is based on the concept of the owner's favorite Hawks and baseball. During the season has become a hot topic as a famous food stall where regulars wearing Hawks uniforms and people watching Hawks games come to enjoy food and drinks at the food stall . During the several days I spent visiting the Nagahama Yatai Street, I was able to meet and receive support from the other stall owners, and the owner was a caring and reliable shopkeeper. He is a gentleman who cares about Nagahama and has a strong will to liven up Nagahama.In the Nagahama Yatai Street, preparations for each stall begin at 5:00 p.m.A few days before the interview, a broken stall puller was removed. The connecting part is currently in a state of temporary repair, which shows the weight of the food stall, which weighs hundreds of kilograms.Each food stall has a different shape, so since it is custom-made, I think I need a spare... Nagahama food stall The owner of Sayoko, the oldest and most popular food stall that has been in business for over 40 years.The food stall of Sayoko, where you can enjoy oden, stews, yakitori, and other home-cooked food prepared by the proprietress , is being moved in according to the location where the food stall will be installed. The stall of &quot;Hiroshi Nagahama&quot;, which cooperated with us, was fixed with a belt to prevent strong winds. Here we introduce the menu that can be tasted at Nagahama Municipal Stadium . In addition to oden and yakitori (grilled on skewers) , the &quot;starting menu of the day&quot; includes stir-fried dishes, grilled ramen, yakisoba, etc. You can enjoy dishes with words and positions related to baseball, such as ramen. We have installed sheets to protect against the wind and cold. The stall is ready. Oden . Go check out the other stalls. Owner of Dogen-ya, a popular yakiniku restaurant. Tamaya's stall ``Yatai no Tama-chan'' Yakisoba Tonpei Yaki Yakisoba with Tonpei yaki on top ``Nagahama Nitoryaki'' specialty Yakitori Garlic skewers ``Kankyoku'' Yakitori with names related to various baseball games Regular customers come here one after another. At Nagahama Municipal Stadium, they toast with the cry of play ball instead of Kanpai. Assorted yakitori and skewers. Crispy chicken skin with ponzu sauce &quot;Second.&quot; Shrimp and squid with garlic butter. &quot;Left.&quot; Oden Tonpei Grilled Tonpei with Cheese &quot;Short&quot; Fried Tofu Cheese Hormone Miso Stir-Fry &quot;Third&quot; Popular Grilled Ramen &quot;DH&quot; Many foreign tourists stop by Fried Rice (commonly known as Fukuoka Dome) Yakisoba regulars, Our seniors from Nagahama Yatai have also arrived . Our seniors have worked hard to keep Nagahama's food stalls going. Our desire and desire to bring back the bustle of Nagahama Yatai has continued since our seniors ran a food stall in Nagahama. Sayoko is the only food stall, and I am grateful to her for working so hard to keep the food stall running.If Sayoko had quit her food stall, I think the current Nagahama food street would have ceased to exist in the summer of 2023. I'm grateful to the seven new food stalls that have started Nagahama's food stalls, and I'm so happy to say that Sayoko, who has continued to do so since quitting the food stalls 20 years ago, is also amazing, and I'm grateful to all of you for making Nagahama such a great place. He is a senior who ran a food stall in Nagahama, where he wants to liven up the atmosphere, and the owner himself is indebted to him in many ways.He now serves Nagahama Ramen as a store.He regularly visits the street to check on the situation. The name of Osenpai's shop is &quot;Nagahama Number One,&quot; which is reassuring to have seniors who come to support us.On the way back from the interview, I immediately came to Osenpai's shop.It's open 24 hours a day. Nagahama No. 1's Nagahama Yatai stall also introduces the state of its establishment. Nagahama No. 1 ramen. On this day, many customers from all over Japan and tourists from overseas came. A popular baseball stall in Nagahama Yatai Street. is a famous food stall where Hawks fans and many regulars who love baseball and Nagahama gather. Why not enjoy some delicious food, drinks, and a fun time at the food stalls in the newly-revitalized Nagahama food stall district?