Heads up, real quick! This video is gonna spoil Resident Evil 4, It also might be pretty gross, because these FINALLY, Nebula sponsored this video, it's video, you know the drill. The Dead Space remake features one of the used as a part of marketing. Like the original back in 2008, it's a game like the original, the moment to moment gameplay of these monsters. Now, 15 years after the original, Dead Space "peeling system." Not only can you strategically dismember the station, but you can witness the process of than ever before. Shooting a necromorph's arm once with your tear away a layer of that arm's rotten flesh, Another shot will detach the arm completely twisting string of crimson skin, bouncing towards you. More powerful weapons, like the "force gun," blasted from its body like a wet napkin pulled On one hand, this is exactly the kind of "innovation" a bit of technical wizardry that looks great product. Peeling system or not, Dead Space 2008 and shoot the dangerous arm until it pops off But I think this is a reductive stance; rather, a sort of grotesque metaphor for the potential Instead of simply repeating the scares of remake treats its source material like an It presents a familiar exterior only to peel a ruse to hide deeper layers of its nightmare. This is but one strategy to remaking horror. Less than halfway through the year, we've takes on the same basic project: take a video audiences and storefronts. Remakes of Dead Space, Resident Evil 4, and engines, or even entire mediums in the last Each has been met with pretty resounding critical But what's most fascinating about this trend it's the radically different paths each This year's Resident Evil 4, Last of Us, different areas, based on how each has attempted self. With the greatest amount of time since the most obvious choice out of these three for But it's also almost certainly the tallest There are vanishingly few titles that can virtually every third person shooter since of Us, fall in the game's shadow of influence. It's a massive game culturally, and a similarly Few recent linear games can boast Resident Finally, although the original is nearly 20 state of remake or re-release since the GameCube; several different versions of RE4, and how formula. The game "reinvented" itself as recently Therefore, this year's version has to distinguish it does- by effectively creating a new game. This is RE4 burnt to the foundations and rebuilt, different house. Resident Evil fans likely knew this would Like the recent remakes of Resident Evil 2 game, but not perfect replicas. Treasures are familiarly shaped, but placed Characters enter and exit the story at different However, the biggest updates to games 2 and Resident Evil 4. Since RE4 already, you know, controls like more involved means. Maybe it's best to start small and zoom Leon has a parry now! When an enemy chucks an ax at him or charges with a chainsaw, he can parry [rules of nature]. In a vacuum, this is just a single new verb But the beauty of the game's combat, both every system is. So if you just threw a parry into old RE4, This is also true of his increased speed, But instead, the remake works outward from the enemies must be made faster too, more let you reposition. The parry is borderline required when you've like every resource other than Leon's boot, Any knife you're holding will eventually lessened defense because they've also added lying on the ground for a while, and you really and there's actually new crafting you can want to use it at all if you need more bolts contextual weak points and you might even with one and suddenly a few changes to the scenario! You could make the same claim about the game's its reusable ammo, minibosses, open worlds, Adding any single element into the original off kilter. But the remake isn't interested in making Instead, those familiar flavors are still ever been- just sharing space with a whole Put another way, the Resident Evil 4 remake framework of the original game rather than The concept of Resident Evil 4 has the "Garrador," and so both versions of the game include one. But 2023's Garrador is only a "remake" lead-up is different, the room you fight it is different. The same could be said for the new bull-headed of las plagas. Surpassing any new enemy though, the most story itself. It has not, thank goodness, pivoted into seriousness. The entire basis of the narrative is still president's daughter" and Leon has new in the original ["nighty-night, knights."] But along with that cheesiness is a welcome original's broad tropes. Put simply, Ashley feels like more than a even Krauser gets some good stuff to work sense of fun. I laughed out loud in the middle of the excellently attacked by a half-dozen suits of armor and And to me, none of the mechanical holdovers Kicking dudes to buy yourself space, playing this is still in the game because it still iteration. Games like Resident Evil 8 have moved back game design! The only repeated mechanic I could do without it's...pretty boring. There are things I miss from the original, I miss the laser hallway. I miss the IT fight. I miss when the castle was Ramon's spooky guys driving towards you on a giant drill. What I most acutely feel the loss of isn't of audio. Serenity. The save room theme. A sedate yet eerie wail, an ice cold glass Although the remake still has a song technically while interacting with the merchant and even What was remarkable about that original theme a room where it played felt demonstrably different And its effect was to introduce a sort of the actual narrative. I obviously have a lot of feelings tied to more words trying to describe it. But I do think, even without my level of obsession, without Serenity it's like the experience As absurd as it sounds, there's nothing that something in the original. But I'll survive. Because if there is one thing that 2023's supplant its predecessor. Its new mechanics, aesthetics, and level design own, the bits lifted wholesale from 2005's game is still one of the most rock-solid titles I can see myself returning to any number of complete HD Project or the excellent VR port, Leon's roundhouse feels good in any generation. What this remake lacks- its impossible task, 4 means. Because this new release so comprehensively convey the earth-shaking impact of that original As my friend Blake Hester wrote for Game Informer, ever be as important as the game it remakes. It can't come out in the same time, space, Somewhat ironically, it's only as good as Evil 4 world." Thanks to its thorough modernization, you of its shooting perspective. Because its aging edges have been sanded away, of generations of iteration, rather than the Playing this new version won't communicate videos, but to be honest, I'm not sure if Its significance is so widespread that its More than individual scares or setpieces or quality is its influence, and that's the It's an absurd ask, for a remade piece of or fifth time it's released. How could it be? Well, I'll tell you. It could be released on HBO. For those of us who've long been in game 2023 has presented a bizarre sort of society-wide Back in 2013, the release of The Last of Us the same level of force as Resident Evil 4 However, its shockwave wasn't mechanical- but rather in the realm of prestige. The Last of Us was one of those games that lists a year after release. Marketing of the game focused on the realism Coverage of its narrative referenced Cormac In a recent piece for Polygon, Cameron Kunzelman that combined to make The Last of Us "the video games." This superlative has been given to the game of this year's TV show. When The Last of Us came out, I showed it medium's maturity, I saw people compelled I even (sigh) I wrote an article about how that video games couldn't be art, I'm So, with all that history, it's been a little world has gotten on board with The Last of cosplays and spawning almost exactly the same of my online friends, now it's parents and All it needed to do was...not be a video game. Among the praise for The Last of Us TV show the best- or even the "first good"- video I don't really have a horse in that race, is, is The Last of Us TV show the easiest Not that making the show itself was easy, effort or whatever. But rather that The Last of Us' prestige-fueled resembled prestige media we were already familiar Let me put it this way; the legendarily bad amount of effort and money attempting to recreate The results are as dumb looking as they are The Last of Us TV show has several sequences from the game. But unlike DOOM, these sequences don't even because the game was already trafficking in And yes, these scenes are recreating cutscenes I'd argue they're both tackling their we think of DOOM we think of running down The Last of Us, we think of watching a well I'd guess that The Last of Us game connected included, not because it presented a radically already so resembled what they considered All that is to say...The Last of Us TV show Of course it's good! It is, like the game, well-written and well-shot And although I've gotten over my desire I am glad it is now accessible to people who So maybe it's selfish of me to think...since here? What new am I, someone who can and has experienced from this fabulously expensive and well-produced The most readily available answer is the new is the one given to Bill and Frank, all of Not only is it more interesting to see a story from the bounds of the game, can actually The ongoing and unexpected passage of time narrative of the game, the privacy it affords expectations of player control. While not as playful with the form, the show's and hearken back to Mazin's expertise with But for the parts that hew closer to the game's how I'm supposed to feel. There are multiple scenes in the show that of cutscenes in the game, and I've seen this as evidence of how deeply the show cares As my friend and esteemed colleague Leo Vader when the stuff in the show is the same as has played the source material, arguably the these scenes and I'm mostly...bored? These scenes just indicate a larger lack of new given a whole new medium to work with. And I'm not just referring to the shot-for-shot commitment to the game as a whole. Each reference simply reminds me what the Although cameras show Joel and Ellie rooting what they're never able to communicate is minute of the game. Pedro Pascal occasionally misses a shot, but in his chest when he realizes that was the Encounters with TV clickers are scary, but those same clickers rip through your neck What TV Last of Us can't get across is that but compoundingly so, that thinking about you consider how little you have to survive. Although the most memorable parts of the game the weight of those conversations comes from that HBO can show us but not necessarily make This is, I admit, a pretty basic analysis But what's frustrating to me about The Last replacing this missing element with. The TV show represents not the first or the Each edition has, undeniably, looked more I can't deny that this version looks the deny how impressive it is that its 4th release But I can't help feeling that a decade after the same picture on a less compelling canvas. Released between Resident Evil 4 and The Last quite the cultural impact of either. In fact, although it reviewed well, several that it was "basically Resident Evil 4 in It's also perhaps the least obvious remake The Dead Space franchise has been dormant hardly aged at all. I've written about this exact phenomenon aesthetic of these games is pretty timeless. Although Dead Space does play similarly to gap and accompanying technical leap between wayyy more than Dead Space reads as "almost In a dark room with a good set of headphones, in the ambiance of that original 2008 game. So how the hell is it that this game maybe It's not obvious what the remake is doing, The first 30 minutes or so of the game are We enter the Ishimura, things are bad, monsters in an elevator. The graphics are better and Isaac talks a shift the overwhelming familiarity going on Oh, cut off their limbs? Is that what I'm supposed to do? Cutting off their limbs does reveal that disgustingly the beginning, however. And the levels, although familiar in shape, Texture resolution and geometric detail have significant is that the Xbox 360 and PS3 couldn't Dead Space now has sections where the blackness it, and those peeling necromorphs have now in that dark and only scream when they're All this is well and good, but it's how the delightfully cruel. You reach a place where, in the original game, find you have a choice. Not one that will affect the plot or give that allows you to choose your own brand of Lights? OR oxygen? This, like the new knife economy of Resident that goes onto impact the entire experience But because the choice you're being asked than your mechanical abilities within it, No matter if you pick lights OR oxygen, the you to pull a safety net out from under yourself. It's increased agency in the most stressful And all that's before the game starts really Separating each individual level of the original of the station to another, a very distinct event that acted as a little pressure release You could board the train and think "If bay." They also, of course, acted as loading screens But games today don't need to load in the would maintain the trains position while simply This is not what it does. Instead, the remake burns new corridors through catwalks and maintenance panels connecting You don't step on a train and get whisked new geometry. I have rarely encountered an addition that its parts. On paper, these additions don't make up in practice, the effect is dizzying. The different regions and thus the different the overall complexity of the environment at once in one space. As someone who's probably played the original myself lost in cold metal. The obsessive replication of the first 30 promise of familiarity the game gradually The same goes for the game's narrative. Although the largest plot beats are basically into its characters' psyches, creating new way they alter every person on the Ishimura. As in the original, the general aura of "the But whereas we previously only met people of the process is visible. Security officer Aiden Chen is killed in the him throughout the entire game, sometimes hallucinating his "whole" and human body Another member of the crew, Kendra, knows help seeing her long-dead brother running Now that the protagonist, Isaac Clarke, is than ever, which makes it all the more disturbing are. Best slash worst of all is the game's fully Cross, a horticulturist onboard the Ishimura Isaac, each convinced the other is their long-dead Cross, like Isaac, feels distinctly capable worse because of it. I guess it helps that this moment made me [&quot;Jacob...if you're hearing this...you know I have to try.&quot;] More than one room in the Dead Space remake only to reveal a false wall that slides aside addition so seamless it feels like you must The remake "peels" once again, stripping making even the player question how much they The same goes for every addition to the plot, How much of this is truly new? And how much has always been there, lurking The sound in the remake is exquisite, screams corridors. The animations are among the most detailed and kinesis-fueled gameplay is as good as But Dead Space's greatest achievement as as a re-released piece of media. Whereas Resident Evil 4 offers basically a most effective to those with no knowledge its status as a remake. I'm still playing the hell out of Resident my life are so excited about The Last of Us. But in the eminently subjective and personal I've found for the pursuit of old nightmares. A return to a nostalgic fright, only to find twisting for all the years you've been absent. Now. If you're a longtime viewer of this channel, he had to say on Resident Evil 4?," but I had a very specific thing I wanted to talk you want to hear me just ramble, I have some Over on Nebula, I discussed the remake for quoted earlier in this video. From the most minute differences to our weapon mode, this is just straight up 125 minutes unhealthy knowledge of the original. Nebula is a creator owned and operated streaming for people like me to work from, AND lets place on my main channel. Nebula also enabled me and Blake to start If you enjoy what I do here at all, there's supporting me by signing up. Follow my link in the description; it's comes with my bonus videos and podcasts, classes The list goes on. I am not generally someone who makes multi-hour However, if you want to just let my words dudes into next week graces your screen, this Join Nebula, support this channel, and get