Have you ever seen a photo of a planet made Or an insect-human hybrid that can control Or a thousand-foot-long sea serpent that emerges These images might look like they come from But this is actually the work of the brilliant who has spent the last several years bringing that I had to know more... The Archivist: "So, what would you say inspires Valdes-Hevia: "I'm a really big fan of The type of horror that is not presented directly chased by this monster. You've just found the diary of a person And you are living that experience through Brought to life through a combination of old art merges history and the surreal, with images historical documents. The artist creates stand-alone images as well lore. So, for this entry into the archive, we'll dark case files. And you can support the artist on Patreon the description. Now, prepare yourself for the terrors of Valdes-Hevia... Valdes-Hevia's longest project is the Megalamorpha many unfortunate encounters with mysterious, The Archivist: "What inspired the Megalamorpha Valdes-Hevia: "I kind of modeled this story So, it's a bunch of small stories. In each of these stories there's like one -- but only one. You need to read a bunch of them to start One of the earliest fragments of the Megalamorpha An unidentified carcass washes up on shore insect. Shortly after, the town's fishermen who lifeform is cursed -- and burn the remains Another sighting comes in 1913, when the Australasian in the ice. Recovered diary entries indicate that the glacier and brought it back to camp. Unfortunately, the specimen would be lost came to believe the creature was trapped, In the end, he shattered the frozen block Valdes-Hevia: "The Megalamorpha, they can around them as whatever they interpret. And it's based on their previous beliefs. What their background is. They might think it's some sort of deity..." A recovered poster shows that a few years began touring the USA with an unusual exhibit. They claimed it was a species of 'Amazonian One of the two founders of the circus allegedly and began sleeping in the cage with it. Eventually, he escaped with the ant, never A leaked report tells us that nearly a century navy personnel discovered something unsettling Upon investigating a sunken merchant ship, creature. Analysis of the eggs determined they belonged But while the diver's camera was recovered, The rest of the crew deemed the waters unsafe became of the site remains a mystery. Researcher Nigel Buckley tracked down the , making it his life's work to collect the passing away in 1986. Fragments of notes and illustrations indicate to insects. Despite the Megalamorpha's extreme variability a single species that went through radical While Buckley could not prove the existence after his death. But we'll come back to the Megalamorpha... Another brilliant horror series is The Facade a collaboration between Valdes-Hevia and Valdes-Hevia: "I love Luke's art, so should collab on something. We converged on the topic of doppelgangers." The story begins in 1865. A photographer reveals his latest invention portrait. Yet the portrait of one Baron Renard comes The camera is deemed defective. Unbeknownst to the court, the real problem actually Renard. The next sighting of this lifeform -- known the X-ray craze, people buy machines to show In one such event in Hamburg, financier Franz to be the Facade. He keeps the print a secret until vanishing Decades pass without sightings until 1960, to the Lurie Children's Hospital. In a crayon drawing, she claims there is a Her records show another breakdown at age chose a new victim. Valdes-Hevia: "It changes identities. Every time it's found out, it'll go out, The last sighting comes in 1977, when a bystander with a shifting face swallow someone whole. His story wasn't believed, although a single The report was not investigated, and the Facade's Many of Valdes-Hevia's most striking pieces alone works. Like this photograph of a group of people "The whole idea is this huge creature, the But I want to set it into a world where it's used to it." The name Niddhogg comes from Norse mythology, of the world tree. Yet the people in these images don't revere a spectacle to be gawked at -- which feels Taking hoaxes and pieces of folklore and turning that appears frequently throughout Valdes-Hevia's For example, "Jenny Hanivers" are hoaxes and fashioning it into a fanciful creature Yet one piece by Valdes-Hevia imagines a on camera -- revealing an uncanny and human-like It's impressive how the art turns a rather actually fear-provoking. And Valdes-Hevia isn't afraid to embrace One of my favorite pieces shows a trail camera December, 2020. The following Christmas, the owner of the breaking bones coming from their fireplace. Figuring migratory birds had made a nest inside, Valdes-Hevia: "The creepy and the funny I like doing both." One of the best combinations of creepy and project in which volunteer test subjects undergo body plans into something more advanced... with unexpected results. Valdes-Hevia: "A mad scientist tried to would evolve into. And -- oh no -- it evolved into crabs." This series is a play on carcinization -- or crabs, an amusing natural phenomenon I've So, perhaps the ultimate human would also claw. Of course, some of Valdes-Hevia's work Returning to the fragmented Megalamorpha series, comes in Norway in 1953. Here, an isolated church becomes a strange Journalist Erling Jorgensen is allowed to he is not permitted to enter the church during According to Erling's notes, however, on by curiosity. Sneaking into the church, he sees an immense, The congregation is silent as the monstrous Valdes-Hevia: "In my Megalamorpha series, people and kind of brainwashing them. This one that specializes in releasing pheromones group of people." After the sermon ends, a fire destroys the It is only years later -- upon Erling's one who lit the match... But the story of the Megalamorpha doesn't More recent discoveries in fact suggest that centuries. In 1982, a local news channel in Sicily discovers On the wall of a Roman ruin, a mosaic depicts antelope. The piece stands out from the other realistic Roman myths. In a medieval codex from 15th century Spain, While traveling in a boat, a nobleman's which soon begins to alter his mind. When an insect hatches from the cocoon, the be holy, and has numerous statues made in But other pieces indicate that human interactions Neolithic paintings in a cave found near Tirig, a large six-legged insect. In the next image, however, people kneel before They appear to be making offerings to it. The following part seems to depict the next has been purposefully chiseled off -- leaving The final scene shows more people kneeling that show elements of both humans and the that is perhaps the most unsettling of all. Near the paintings is a human skull with unknown Taken as a whole, it seems the Megalamorpha's human hosts. But we'll come back to that story... Across Valdes-Hevia's gallery of terrors, -- a planet seemingly made of living flesh There's something cosmically terrifying veins crisscrossing the planet like rivers, should be. The Archivist: So, what can you tell us about Valdes-Hevia: It does have a little bit of, As accurate as you can get about, you know, It looks red and meaty, and that is because to absorb energy from stars. And to move around, it needs to expel some kind of like, fart around the universe in In the story that accompanies these images, leaves behind fragments torn from its surface Authorities warn people not to approach the life, which doesn't bode well. And after the planet leaves the solar system, what appears to be another member of the Xipe-Totecs Valdes-Hevia: "So the bone version of the that didn't make it. It was very unlucky, and it didn't find until it was just a husk..." One of Valdes-Hevia's longer series is of an alternate history with werewolves made artist David Romero. The mixed media series brilliantly reimagines relationship to society in unexpected ways. The Archivist: "So, what was the vision Valdes-Hevia: "One of the driving concepts where the vampire usually is. So, the vampire usually works as this aristocratic It's the personification of the nobleman And removing the vampire from there and putting thing. It's not usually a creature that's in One of the earliest depictions of werewolves from a Roman mosaic, which depicts a party The curse of the wolf is passed on through And although in this image the werewolves with the curse rise through the ranks of nobility. The next image depiction comes from a Medieval by a secret society of knights called the This group of werewolves, which features heavily to be a chosen, holy people -- destined to Inching closer to the present, an old photograph old customs of worshiping Lycanthropes are In ancient times, these groups practiced initiation like wolf heads -- showing how the influence In time, the ranks of the secretive Order At the dawn of the 20th century, powerful -- lured by the promise of joining the Lycan Today, the higher ranks of the enigmatic Order from across the world. The full extent of their reach, however, is Like many of Valdes-Hevia's projects, the the viewer to fill in the gaps... And to conclude our look into the mind of to the terrors of the Megalamorpha project. Some of the most illuminating fragments of from the secretive De La Cruz family -- which hybrid. According to Adrian De La Cruz -- a disowned of the family estate -- the monster in this Adrian claims the creature has always been having convinced their minds it was part of The Archivist: "So, how did you approach Valdes-Hevia: "It took me a long time to human elements. It's carrying the bones outside -- the According to the account of Adrian De La by drinking a bottle of cyanide and letting It is unclear if he was successful... In any case, the tale of the Megalamorpha In 2004, a company charting the sea floor remotely operated vehicle. The vehicle was lost during the survey of off. And on the vehicle's camera is a photo of to have been the cause of the vehicle's the ship itself. The final glimpse of the Megalamorpha comes recovered from a now defunct online hunting As for what happened to the Megalamorpha from For who can say what lurks in the dark corners This brief glimpse into the striking and surreal many questions still unanswered. But, according to the artist himself, a mystery Valdes-Hevia: "I'm not one for giving think that ruins a little bit of the fun. It's that found horror thing where it makes You are kind of cursing yourself with knowledge, If you'd like to discover more of this mysterious A tremendous thank you to Eduardo Valdes-Hevia Once again, you can support him on Patreon down below. And as always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.