- Hey, there's a lot of videos out there talking about funding your living trust and I have a few myself, but no one talks about you should not put into your living trust. Well, in this video, I'm going All right, let's get started. All right, so as I stated, when it comes to funding the living trust, we have this preconceived notion that we have to put all of so they can bypass probate. However, there are some specific assets you definitely do not want to try to place into your living trust because it can cause or worse yet, it could So what is the first asset that you should not be placing Well, that is vehicles. And I mean things like cars, I dunno, I'm joking there. But the fact of the that's a title asset that is a vehicle, there's no point in putting because when you pass away, it's very simple to transfer those assets to a beneficiary. Meaning that all you need typically is a copy of a death certificate in order to transfer that item to another individual. So maybe you put it in your that you want your vehicle, your truck for instance, to go to your son when you pass away, just write it down there. And then, your successor trustee would then see that and then contact the DMV, get a copy of your death certificate, and then transfer that over to the beneficiary. So that's the main reason why we're not putting or the number one reason why 'cause you can transfer 'em without having to go through probate. Now, the second reason why into the living trust is basically lawsuits, asset protection. You see, when you retitle your vehicle into the name of your living trust, you're just exposing the fact that you have a trust So let's assume that and the vehicle is I can guarantee you the if you're the one that's at fault or the person driving your they are going to name your trust as a defendant in a potential lawsuit. So if you want to keep that are related to vehicle-type accidents or boating accidents, do not put those types of vehicles in the name of your living trust. Keep them in your own name. Now, the other reason, third reason why you into a living trust has You know, it just comes down to this, that insurance companies, they seem to get really confused when it comes to figuring out, how do you insure a vehicle And so I tend to avoid placing vehicles of any sort into a trust because people just can't figure it out. Now, there are certain you have to go around, you have to shop for insurer, and you want to definitely if you're looking for anonymity because you've had problems and you just don't want I get it, that would make sense. But keep in mind that when you're putting a Okay, now, what other types of assets should not go into a living trust? Well, annuities, right? So annuities are like 401k's or IRAs. These types of assets stay In fact, they are trust Most people are not aware of this. And so if you were to and change it over to your living trust and make that the owner of these assets, what you could be doing is creating a taxable event for yourself, basically a liquidation of the asset. And then all of a sudden, you would have immediate tax consequences or you would invalidate the special nature of that particular investment So you want to keep your IRAs, your 401k's, your annuities, do not place them in a living trust. What you'll do with those is you'll list your trust as the beneficiary. So when you pass away, then those assets would to the trustee of your trust or they'll continue on under to be paid over to the Now, when it comes to 401k's and IRAs and holding those in your trust after you've passed away, it's very important that with explicit provisions on how you can stretch out after you've passed through your trust. And this comes into play when you have younger and you don't intend to leave So this is a huge mistake that I find with a lot of individuals that we work with on is that they have their 401k or their IRA. And when they opened up the account, they were asked to And many times what they'll as your initial beneficiary. And then, there'll be another line for you to list, an alternative or contingent beneficiary if your spouse is no longer living. So people will think, all right, well, I want it to go to my kids. And so they'll list their as the contingent beneficiaries, not thinking about the fact your kids are not going to receive your estate assets until or some age maturity. But if you were to pass away and your children were 23 and 24 and you have IRAs and 401k's with $600,000 in total value, the children would receive if your spouse was no longer living. Maybe you and your spouse are both killed in a car Then, these assets would pass outside of your estate plan. So with IRAs and 401k plans and annuities, yes, they operate outside but we make the estate plan, the living trust the beneficiary and we give that control to ensure that those assets gets distributed out per the terms of your trust. Now, another asset that I would keep outside of my living trust So this is another example you can name beneficiary, does not have to go through probate. And so that's one of the when we're thinking of assets that we either place or not It's that if you can bypass probate, then there's no need to put that life insurance into the trust. What you could do, of just like you did with your 401k, as your primary beneficiary And then, have your trust named as the contingent beneficiary. So then, it would receive if your spouse was no longer living. And so I think that's a or if you might want to consider this, if you have life insurance and it's of considerable value and you live in a state that has a very low estate tax, meaning that if the value of your state maybe is over $2 million and you have a $2 million maybe you ought to consider setting up an irrevocable life insurance trust. Actually putting that life to make sure it's not So it would not go into your living trust, but it would go into that is to avoid being included in your estate for estate tax purposes. So those are the main assets when it comes to funding the living trust that you should keep out Put everything else in, of course. It's important you get Otherwise, you will or your for those assets that are not in there. But the ones that I went through easily pass outside of probate. You just want to make sure you have the proper so that your estate plan goals are carried out appropriately. Hey guys, if you like this video, be sure to hit the Like button. And if you're not yet a subscriber, you know what to do.