- Hey friends, Martin and making a delicious sandwich loaf. This is our everyday bread, &quot;Big Book of Bread&quot;, and wheat flour in this loaf. Come along for the recipe. So let's do this mix. I'm gonna get my dry Today I'm using our golden wheat, just like the hard red winter wheat. It's a whole wheat, and functionally it's the same. The difference is really about flavor. It's slightly milder. If I were to make an analogy, I might say that this is like coffee with cream, whereas the hard red winter It has a little bit more bitterness to it. So if someone in your household this is milder in flavor and it's a little bit lighter in color. It has a more like Cafe Ole hue to it. It's also a beautiful flour that's grown with our sustainability goals in mind. It's farmed in such a way irrigation as possible, which means that we're doing a good job of sort of protecting our groundwater supplies. It's also grown in a low till situation, so that means that there's So that is another reason to choose it. Get my yeast in the bowl and salt, give those quick stir to And the milk is the only I've warmed it up a little bit. Don't use it right out of the fridge. Remember that we're trying where the yeasts and It should feel slightly warm I've warmed that milk up so don't hesitate to just and you'll have a much better rise. This is room temperature butter so that when I put it in there, not only will it incorporate into the mix, but it's not going to Now I go in and just stir to combine. You know, I always use I don't know why except for the fact that it cleans up really easily. This is one of many breads as the method for development of strength. And so I'm basically just and then once I'm kind of usually what I'll do and I'll switch to my flexible scraper. You know, you've seen me use this thing a thousand times, right? It's like my right hand. It's flexible, it has some give to it, it can conform to the round Super helpful tool. And I'll just go to and turn method. And if you want to, you can I'm a fan of that. Like once things look like I might just give it a just to make sure that it's homogenous. You know, we've got some butter I wanna make sure that So switch to my hand and we're good. Now I'm gonna cover it and We'll come back and we'll give it a before we let it rise Okay, I'll see you in a minute. Okay, so it's been about 15 minutes and now we're gonna knead and listen, if it's been 30 it's been an hour, it The whole point is that you you get the moisture in and that helps begin the So don't wash the clock too closely. Don't worry about it too much. When I come back to this dough, it's already got an elasticity It's begun to strengthen that factor, which allows it to stretch without tearing is better than it was So the dough's in a beautiful condition and we're gonna knead it a little bit. Now, you could do this in the bowl. Often, that's what I'll maybe I use a little and just sort of manipulate the You can also do it on the counter. Let me show you what I mean. With a very fine amount of I'll just bring the dough out. Those of you who are making a like this dough is still a and that's okay. That's actually good. We want it to be a little bit sticky. That means that there's plenty It means that our final and it will eat well. It won't be too dry and dense. So I'm just pressing and turning, pressing and turning until smooth and bouncy. It's not gonna need five or 10 minutes. In a couple minutes, the dough which feels like it's on a good course for a rise for fermentation. So I might just give it a couple more. And what I'm looking for is to make sure that the dough isn't tearing. I don't want it to tear, The second that it starts to that I've tensioned it as when I press it, it bounces back. That's a happy dough, and so for its bulk fermentation. So cover the bowl, put We'll see you in about an All right, so it's been an And as always, you know, than that, it's okay. It's just in that bowl developing flavor. Our dough had a little and it shows it's well risen, It smells yeasty, it smells wheaty. I can even get a little It's a beautiful loaf, We'll put a light amount and then turn it out. And you can see the healthy I can see all those sort The dough feels light, feels almost marshmallowy a little bit. It's beautiful. Now I'm gonna shape it into a pan loaf. If you have a favorite way that then you do your way, that's cool. If you wanna see another way I like shaping like this because I think it gives in form from end to end. It makes a very tubular because it means that the final loaf has even slices from end to end. It doesn't look like a mountain range or something like that. I'm just gonna elongate it a I'm just giving it a little bit of what I call like an and then I'm gonna take the side, I'm gonna fold to the I'll take the other side fold I'm looking for any big And at this point, it's okay because this is not a loaf where we want a variable crumb structure. When I cut open a sandwich loaf, I want to see a homogenous crumb. I don't want a big hole and jelly is gonna fall through and land on my shoe or something, right? And now all I need to do is pressing to seal as I go. So from the top, roll it, press the seal, press the seal, and that's it. And I've got this beautiful I have a seam, which is very When it goes into the pan, so that it doesn't sort of If you want to seal the that little coil there, Boom, no worries. So at this point, the loaf but we're gonna add one little feature, which I think you're gonna And I'm gonna put a crust on the outside, here I have a dish towel, I've gotten it sopping wet, but not all of the moisture, right? It's still damp, if I put my hand on it, my hand gets wet, right? That's what I want. On this side, I've got You could also use sesame seeds, you could use sunflower seeds, Any variety of things. So I've got a nice And don't worry, we're not gonna waste what isn't adhering to the loaf, right? We're just gonna pour it back into my container and we'll be good to go. Now what I'm gonna do is I'm moist side, right? I'm just gonna roll it across and you can see how it's shiny. I've got good moisture on there. And now what I'm gonna into the wheat germ and I'll just let it For the best coverage possible, I'm gonna go over here and for a second and I'll also prepare them. You've got a bunch of You could use the eight which is what the recipe prescribes. If you have a nine by four, Or if you have a nine by five, Just make sure that it is well prepared. So make sure that you use your pan spray or get in there with some butter. We have our loaf. It's got that beautiful During baking, this wheat germ will toast and it'll get super nutty and it'll bring a little Remember that the germ of It's where the fats are And so putting that on the outside almost gives this like additional buttery creamy quality to it. So I place it in the pan seam side down and we're gonna cover it and comfortable, ambient condition to rise for one and a half to two hours. We'll see you soon. Almost time to bake. Okay, it's been an hour I had the loaf in a nice warm place. I actually had it in my A great tool, especially checking on the loaf during the proof, it rose nice and high. It's super tender and marshmallowy. If I press it with my finger, it bounces back just a little bit. But that impression When we are proofing pan loaves like this, we wanna proof 'em almost as to have maximum volume Anybody who thinks that like something that you'd This is not that loaf. This is a nice light, airy sandwich loaf. It's delicious and it's So let's bake, enough talking. This smells incredible, it's buttery. It's almost like it's got this sort of toasty vanilla note to it. It's beautiful. It rose well in the pan during baking. When it's done baking, You don't want it in the pan because the loaf as it cools, right? And so get it out of the let it cool a little It is buttery, it's And that's not just because there's a little bit of butter in the dough. It's also because we've got Super delicious, our everyday bread made with golden wheat, great loaf of bread. Get out there and do some baking, y'all, thanks for coming along.