(gentle music) Welcome to my world. (upbeat music) Two escargot, pate, frisse. Two green salads. Lamb chops, steak frite. Shouldn't you be Two smoked filet Come on, make the dessert. Chocolate tart, please. As a cook, taste and and now I'm in So I'm leaving New York City and hope to have a few And I'm willing to go to I am looking for and experience. I'll try anything, I have nothing to lose. (gentle piano music) High tea at the Where time stands still. A little slice of Singapore's While this may be sort of colonial moment, Singapore's a very since the days when a would sit around with drinking tea. Things to know about Singapore. It's hot, it's very, very hot. It's an ultra-modern, with an absolute minimum They've figured out No traffic, no litter, no drug I mean, it's kind kooky, neo-totalitarian I'm an old-time lefty, and yet I'm ashamed to say this. I kind of like it here. OK, so Singapore is clean, But the society is There's three distinctive Chinese, Malay, and Indian, that co-exist harmoniously while maintaining religions, and cuisine. It all makes for a so where to start? Chinese sounds good. This is Imperial Herbal As you know, in much of Asia the line between can get pretty slim, And this is a really I'm gonna get myself a a couple of dishes recommended, and eat a really good meal. It's a fairly, as you will see, wacky menu, but good. (traditional Asian music) At Imperial Herbal, you get more than just General Tso's This is Chinese Resident Chinese medicine expert. Dr. Li Lian Xing will not only assess the he'll also help you figure out what appetizer I'm just hoping that doesn't involve the words How are you, Tony? Everything's fine? You look tired. Well, at least I can Your tongue. Your tongue, please. He says the yin and Your yang is more A dark-colored yang. I don't know if I like I have been a little dizzy, just for a little bit, maybe two, three times a day. Two to three times a day? Yeah. This is not going well at all. I'm tired-looking, my At this rate I'll in a zip-front bag. What would you recommend He says try not to eat because your body So you need ginseng and A prescription for good health. I feel my yang Thank you. He's having the ginseng Tony needs to build up My friend in town told me that when I come well, he said that the he had some special fish soup, that he was unbelievably windy, I think as he put it, for three days. A little ginseng, a some lychee nuts, it's great. And really, what's for achieving inner balance? Oh, well. Meanwhile back in the kitchen, they're whipping fresh lily bulb in a fermented rice wine sauce. Okay, a fermented rice that makes the fish Try it. It is delicious. It tastes like sherry. So far they're batting 1,000, but I'm still looking that rises to the occasion. Oh no, here we go, I haven't had this. Is this something I Yeah, you can have Yeah? That's called a deer penis wine. (gong) And it also helps and it also boosts our energy. Oh, then definitely It was not part of Superman wine, an I've had, you know, of the three piece unit. I think it's time, don't you? But what's that floating What happens if it works? I mean, do you wrap a you know, when you walk I feel something, Good to the last drop. You drink so fast. Slowly. Slowly, oh, next time. - Do you want another? Getting another glass. She looked worried when she I said, &quot;Yes.&quot; This is one of the cooked white in fried scallop. Another house specialty, on a nest of shredded potato. It's good for circulation that fresh-scrubbed Noxzema Oh, that's delicious. So an hour from now, clean lungs, and I'll be Life is glamorous on the road. I think maybe one more dish. What would you recommend? You want a deer tendon? Have you tried a deer tendon? A deer tendon is good for your, to improve your leg muscle. Oh good, that sounds terrific. I've been on my feet Ah yes, some deer tendon to strengthen the legs. I guess I won't have to hit not that I ever hit it. This is served with Beautiful. That's good, and the texture It's like a gate cochon. Listen, it's real easy and God knows I love an opportunity But honestly, I do feel my complexion clearing up. I feel, well, like Superman. Last night's meal has almost made a I do feel balanced, and there's only a So what else does this kooky, hyper-modern metropolis Like I said before, in the most western And like any modern city, in the consumer Everybody seems to be It seems like a There's just stack of ultra-modern and Versace and Gucci and I'll tell you this, if you like this place is for you. But fortunately, brand names and chains. Case in point, the home to the island's If you're looking to avoid of the downtown than the Geyland Serai Market. The Malaysian market where Malaysians go to shop. It's bursting with good stuff. Just look. My local guide Sapia like the back of her hand. She runs me like a rented mule through a near item-by-item The curry powder The curry for chicken, and curry for fish. This is actually a shrimp paste. This is what they Oh yes, I've tasted this, yes. Onward we go, hurtling item after item, description - Lemongrass. This is called chu This is actually for breakfast. Yeah, speaking of How long has this I'm just hungry. This is a jackfruit, So hungry. This is a sekui chan. Must have food. Wait a minute, wait a It's ota ota. It's leeks, fishes, and put it into and then barbecued. Eat it. OK, let's try this. Delicious. Right, careful. I think the ravenous was making Sapia But what could I do? The last thing I had of deer tendon, 15 hours ago. Well, that was delightful, but at Geylang Sarai, it's What hot trends are burning this year, you ask? Let's check it out. Right, I think and it looks so airy, when you are relaxing Yeah, this something OK, before I wind Don Ho Kaftan muumuu I think maybe some Shall we go for... Yo, let's eat. For makan? How do you say A lot, banyak. [Anthony] So, let's hit a that Sapia says It's home cooking. [Anthony] Good, I like that. Yeah, it's home cooking, It called Hjh. Maimunah. You know, I'm not sure if the cafeteria-style trays, which have always been a For whatever the reason, aren't suddenly There's a certain prepared in Should have eaten at the market. Feeling unprepared to I fall back and let As I understand it, so some barbecued fish, some and some other stuff. But, you know, I might You bring the stuff outside, She's a assembled a consisting of barbecued fish beef randang, a Malaysian and coconut milk, fried with fried chiles, oxtail soup, and stewed, unripened jackfruit. OK, so sela makan Sela makan. The food is astonishingly I think Sapia is by my Jethro Bodine-like You use the Yeah. Oh, it's gettin' away from me. Right hand only. Tough town for lefties. My favorite so far, I And that fish is You almost can't do it, yeah? I assume you do this in with your food. OK, so Sapia ran me in the third race of did she make the call on a Good meal, worth waiting for. You know, after that with Sapia, I should probably But why exert myself when and efficient subway is at my disposal? This place is like This is so James Bond. Oh, when do you think Oh, exactly two minutes. Clean, fast, efficient, on-time. New York City subway could from Singapore's book. This is mass transit. While Singapore's by its ultra modern technology, it's still the traditional that give this city-state and the Tekka market is It's filled with hawker stands, or food vendors who specialize So anyway, I'm in near the Tekka market, and crony and business Tony B, how are What's going on, Welcome to Little India. You gonna show me around? I'm going to show you around. I know we're going to eat well. We're going to check Some birds? Let's check out some birds. We gonna eat 'em or what? These are special birds. They're going to tell I'm not sure I want [Alango] The bird's it's gonna say your Outstanding. Looks like a very He's picked number 20, and Tony, this is beautiful, man. - What? she's the goddess of wealth. - Wealth? So no matter what happens, The money's yours. Lucky goddesses, obscene wealth? Not too bad, so what other Ooh, you're going to have Scratching already. So I'll be rich, but itchy. Itchy rich. I'll take it. Fortunately, Alango to help us celebrate A buttery, delicious It's our answer It tastes very good from the previous night, and Anything that smells But first, perhaps, a stretched tea to What you're seeing When I was young, my mom or tea, and I used to I can't drink it. So what she would do is and she'd start pouring It cools and aerates You also add a lot of foam. You add flavor. It becomes a good brew. Oh yeah. It tastes great, but there are no animal At the prata stand, they're the supreme prata, with egg, minced lamb and onion. Everything gets wrapped of minutes on the griddle, That's awesome. You're hooking me up, man. You are really looking after me. Least I can do. Cheers. Oh yeah, this But it's nothing compared to what this maniac has Well, I've hit all three parts and had some really but Alango tells me that I until I've consulted chef, TV food show host and to restaurants and hawker Mr. K.F. Sito. We're stepping out with Sito district to check out his pick for the ultimate Sin Huat Eating House. First of all, what's OK, this technically is in Singapore, make Simply because he serves some of the freshest seafood around. And his signature [Anthony] Crab bihun. Crab bihun, which you're into your face later. I think that covers All right, so the whole but the first offering smothered in garlic definitely makes you believe Oh, yeah. Oh, the smell coming Why bother with When the scallops That's what that is. Look at that, come Oh, come to mama. I think the disturbingly But you know what, this isn't That is a beautiful thing. Oh, yes, I remember these guys. Fresh steamed gong gong, whelps. May not seem so special, A honey chili dipping sauce like the proverbial This guy takes half He's got honey, chili, I'm struck dumb. Too much of a good Words of wisdom, It's always fun when you hook who eats for a living. You know, get together, try to one-up each other. Like me, Sito is a driven, who has plenty to How often do you eat, (Laughs) Breakfast, brunch, then dinner, supper, supper Food is really 24 hours. Wake up at any time of the day somebody's selling it. I know you've I know you've eaten donkey butt, And you've had scorpions. Have you had a Denny's I'm afraid not. You know what I love? When you have a cook the head upside down, and roe, you take a piece around in there. I'll be eating that later. We could do this all night, man. One of the downsides of our To you, it's fun, but we can to the health doctors. You're not frogs, I remember, No. Oh man, he's got a It's the French thing, I cook 'em, they taste You got that syrupy stuff Now, I know what &quot;Tony, you're a chef &quot;Isn't it, like, illegal for In a word, no. But Sito hasn't And Chef Danny steamed to perfection with gives me even more reason to [Sito] This frogs, This will turn your life around. [Anthony] There's about this dish, we Ursula Andress on the beach. See the legs? Yeah, ooh, that's gotta hurt. I'm usually I know this is going to be good. Try a small morsel. Live on Anthony It's hot, so watch it. Yeah, that is great. Before I was indifferent. Oh, man. Eat it when it's hot. That is some Peking Hill frog. [Sito] It has been ordained. All right, so I never Those were some Sito has picked a Finish it, Anthony. It's got your name on it. My meal with Sito and Chef Danny Lee has more than including this one, a rare fresh spotted grouper, and green onions and served with the chef's famous If this number you better check your pulse. Ooh, the spotted grouper. So show me, what is Absolutely best part, the The meat here, it cradles I'm in heaven. It's so good, though. I'm leaving you the other cheek. [Sito] He's speaking (Anthony grunts) Unbelievable, look at me. I've been reduced to a by this meal. And who's to blame for state I'm in? This man, head chef A guy who at first glance to rid Bushwood Country But don't be fooled, Danny of kitchen mercenaries Need more proof? Check this out, steamed of minced garlic with fresh sting ray steamed with served with a generous helping and finally, an entree and outrageous, the crab bihoun. A savage blend of Danny's rice vermicelli, and Sri Lankan crab And the result, well, Oh God, look at that! This is where he goes berserk. Look at this roe. This dish was invented close to 50 years ago by Danny. Look at it now. That's massive. That's a big crab, it's Wow. [Anthony] Oh, yeah, I'm home, papa, I'm home. Dunk it a little bit This is that part of the into sort of a This is it. The piece de resistance. This is the single If there's nothing I'd be pretty happy with that. You're speaking We've reached the mountaintop. Touchdown has been achieved. So beneath the shiny lies a really fine food town. You want it, they got it. Just leave your