-Welcome back. Welcome back. Oh, after you. It is so great to see you, bud. Everybody should have that Walk into a room -Exactly, yeah. -How does it feel to be in front I mean, they love you. -Hi, everyone. -Last time we were was almost 11 years ago. Does that -- -It feels like yesterday. We're dads now. -Congratulations to you. Yeah. -How does it feel? -Yeah. How old are they? Are they around -6 and 7. Yours are... -Okay. -My girls are a little bit every joke that I tell. -Oh, okay. -'Cause they used to be I'd do anything, [ Laughs ] Now they just sometimes I get the eye roll or something. You're like, &quot;Did you just I mean, it's cute, Yeah, yeah. -My youngest has a real power Here's an example. We got to work in France, and we saw, you know, We saw &quot;Venus de Milo.&quot; And we're standing and she turns around [ Cheers and applause ] And I said -- -I said, &quot;Why?&quot; -And she went, -Yeah. N.G. -And then the real power move she'll turn around The thumbs-down walk-away. Oh, that's a fantastic move. -It's like -Just walking away with I want to ask you -Okay. -I just want to ask you I saw -- [ Cheers and applause ] -It broke -- It officially broke -Well, you know, the Internet's been trying to -Yeah. And they finally got you. -So they gave me You are Ken And this is fantastic. Were you surprised by the -I was surprised how, you know, clutching their pearls as though they ever for a second before this. -Yeah, you feel like -They never played with Ken. -Underappreciated character, -They never played with Ken. Nobody plays with Ken, man. -You don't really play with Ken. -Um... -No, I didn't play with him. -It was available. -He stayed in the toy box. -He's an accessory and not even -He's an accessory of She's got the camper. -The house. It's unbelievable, Have you ever put together one -I tried. I had -- So mad. This is the craziest thing the Dreamhouse. And that's it. We have the house It took so long. But you know what? There was a thing in They said they think they know because you have -Oh. That's you throughout the years I do like a good jean jacket But that is not the reason -Did you bring me on your show -Yeah. There's no denim shame -No way, man. I love your denim. -No, I want to set up this story You're like, &quot;No, the reason why You got a call from -Right. -From Greta, who's a great And she offered you -Yes. -And you went out in You know, you want to You go in the backyard. I walk out in the backyard. And do you know where Facedown in the mud -And this is the photo -- And this is a sign. [ Cheers and applause ] This is a sign The utter disrespect. -I texted it to Greta and For his story must be told.&quot; -Yeah, his story must be told. I want to hear this guy -- What I know you're doing press for but people were asking and you -- Then they go, And you go, you know, &quot;No home and no job.&quot; And they're like, Is this a sad --&quot; Those are just -It has nothing to do The movie is not about -No. Those are just -- -Yeah, that's just the Ken life. -Yeah, I just wanted to for anyone that's going like, &quot;That's not what the It's going to be -- I cannot wait. It's going to be I want to talk about -Okay. -Dude, talk about action on top -And then more action. -And then some sneaky action. -Yeah, and they snuck -They snuck -Yeah. -Do you know, there's like four to five action -Yeah. -Yeah. -Wow. That's five added -We pack the action. -It's action-packed. And you've got my man, And, yeah, look at that. [ Cheers and applause ] Also, I must say, you're rockin' You got the goatee. -He's got the mustache. Our facial hair His mustache went to and my goatee was Meisner. -Meisner, of course. -And it's electric on set, Off camera, it is trouble. -What is &quot;The Gray Man&quot; about? What do people -- besides action and fun? -It starts with action. -Then you find out this They pull him out of prison but he doesn't want to be -Of course not. -He'd rather be at home watching -Yeah, exactly. Of course. He has to. The only way he gets out... -...more action. -Amazing cast, and then we close it out with -There you go. Here's Ryan Gosling in Take a look at this. -Give me the gun. [ Tires squeal ] -Get down! You're in my shot. -You gave me an empty gun? -The shells were coming, okay? -The shells were coming. -Then you need to say, -No, it's assumed. -I assumed it's loaded, -Who throws a loaded gun? -I asked for a loaded gun. -No one throws Are you coming? -Ugh! -I'm going to bleed out Can we just -Yeah. Let's just unpack this That's what I'm talking about Ryan Gosling, &quot;The Gray Man,&quot; Thank you for being here. Should we talk about it now? -Is it grossing you out? -Wait. Hold on a second. [ Music starts, stops ] It's gross. -What's going on with -My nail was -- -What's happened? -Yeah. There's a screen door. I slammed my pinkie I was holding the screen. It was one of those screen doors [ Hisses ] And I go, &quot;Oh, that's nice.&quot; And then, all of a sudden, And so it got me. -It looks fungusy. It's not fungusy. [ Audience groans ] -You know, I have -- -Having two little girls, Just saying, if you want -- [ Cheers and applause ] Shall we? -It is -- I mean, Jimmy, you're -This is -- -You did a great job. -Look at that. Look at this. [ Cheers and applause ] This is fantastic. Ryan Gosling, everybody. &quot;The Gray Man&quot; begins When we come back, Ryan and I Stick around.