This picture is about the transistor. There are three transistors here in this the original point contact type, the junction type, and the photo And here's a more complex type of the junction tetrode. These tiny transistors are destined to They will make possible smaller more and will need less maintenance and have a But to grasp fully the importance of these new members of the electronic family, let's recall the wonders made possible by The common radio tube. The roots of the reach back into the early years of our In 1907 Dr. Lee de Forest discovered that placed between a filament and a metal plate could control the flow of electrons between the filament and plate and the tube could be made to amplify as well He called this amplifying tube an Audion. Weak signals applied to the import or caused similar and much A few years later two scientists, and Dr. Langmuir of General Electric. working independently, to create a very high vacuum, they obtained Here's one of the first high started us on the way to the wonders of By 1915 telephone research physicists and methods of manufacturing a vacuum tube with sufficiently uniform characteristics as amplifiers thus making possible the first And 3,000 mile transcontinental became a reality. The same year 1915 at Arlington, Virginia telephone to generate enough radio power to send the for the first time in history. Words spoken into a radio telephone transmitter at Arlington were heard by engineers listening at and also at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. 1920 brought the beginning of radio receiver was a real luxury. Then the next 10 years gave us talking trans-oceanic radio telephone servicev television demonstrations, and ship to With our electronic age in full swing the cathode ray tube, the iconoscope and the image orthocon, aided by hundreds of more conventional gave us television, radar for war, radar for peace. And then microwave radio relay to speed hundreds of telephone calls as coast to coast. The heart of all these But the Bell Telephone Laboratories have heart to modern communication systems. The transistor. Operating on a new and arising from basic research on solid and how the electrons inside them behave. How Well, Doctors Shockley, Bardeen and Brattain, and their associates at the Bell a problem in pure research, investigating the surface properties semiconductor of electricity. Their studies suggested a way to amplify without a vacuum or a heating element. And experiments, tests, the transistor was born. The a new device that can do many and many the tube can't do. Let's see how First off, the vacuum tube is power hungry. While a tube like this generally demands a watt or more of electricity a millionth of a watt is enough for the transistor. Even a makeshift battery of moist blotting can power transistor. [Electronic signal tone] The vacuum tube gets pretty hot. Sometimes a little too hot. That's why in the tubes must be spaced far enough apart for Since transistors remain cool they can be crowded together in a small In size, reliability and ruggedness too, the tiny And research goes on to make it still more Many new and improved types of but transistors are no longer just an Here they are being produced at the of Western Electric, the manufacturing and Different types for different purposes. The Bell Telephone people have lots of jobs based on the transistor's ability to [Man demonstrating, voice low] &quot;This is how my voice would sound over a 75 mile that has no amplifying device. [Voice louder] Now with a transistor amplifier in the line, my voice is amplified so that you can hear me This, for example, will mean that in isolated the transistor, right in the telephone, to hear and be heard on his rural telephone. And transistors can replace many of the long distance telephone service. Because they are so tiny transistors have made it possible to miniaturize many types of electronic equipment This equipment requires less space and will Transistors may also be used in which increases the number of calls that along telephone lines. When you dial direct from your town to a distant city, transistors in this may be helping to mark out the pathway Transistors may some day go under the built right into underwater telephone other industries too. Many manufacturers have been licensed to and devise new applications. Through their with a flick of your wrist from the so-called Dick Tracy radio. And with a portable television set you may be able to enjoy video For the military the transistor opens up most of them in too early a stage of to be talked about. Transistors will take that have often been called electronic brains, days, month, even years in solving build a calculating machine as flexible designed to do hundreds of brain-like might need an Empire State Building to if vacuum tubes were used in its Substituting transistors for tubes, such a versatile machine could fit into and power and cooling needs would be relatively With the transistor man has drawn far toward matching some of the capacity imagination, with the inventiveness and teamwork of looking forward to the age just beyond the Age of Electronics.