Today, we are going to be enjoying New York City's most famous sandwich, the pastrami sandwich. Of course, we're starting here, Katz's Deli. Harry: I've had one pastrami I came to New York for a Joe: OK. Harry: And I don't remember loving it. So I'm interested to see where this goes. I changed your mind on hot dogs. Harry You did. I'm going to change your mind on pastrami. So, I figured we'll here and a couple other places, and you'll see what New I'm very open-minded. If anywhere's going to change it's going to be New York. Let's give it a go. Joe: Katz's has been around since 1888, and it's been at this location since 1930. That's a long time. Joe: Yeah. It's a lot of sandwiches. A lot of history. There's a which I've been enjoying. Got Danny DeVito over there behind us. Joe: Barbra Streisand. Harry: I'd trust him with my life, let alone my sandwich recommendations. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What are we looking for? Like, what constitutes a Thick sandwiches, my guy. Like, mm. You're not going to believe. I want piled-high thick To me, the best pastrami, it almost falls apart when you bite it. It melts in your mouth. I'm telling you, this place specifically, you're going to pastrami heaven. You going to want to I'm telling you. This place is awesome. Harry: This was one of the to me by just friends and family. Like, everyone was like, you have to go to Katz's specifically. Joe: Also, this place You like pickles, I'm but I'll allow you to have one. And potato knishes, my man. Harry: I'm really getting in touch with my Jewish heritage If you're going to maybe I can convince you I feel like that might be a harder task. Yeah, we'll see. How do we order at this place? You get one of these when you walk in, they jot down everything on the card, pay on your way out. OK, easy. Joe: Save our seats. I'm Harry: Will do. Joe: What's happening? Can I do a pastrami Joe: Yes, please. Harry: Here we go. This looks so good. Harry: Whoo! That's just, As you can see -- what? Are they applauding because That's too funny. I think I might actually, Did you call it? He's pretty much called that. Joe: Look! I was right. The thickness of the is what I'm telling you. You can see the fat Look how much meat they've I can't stare at this thing I feel like we should dive in. Joe: Mm. Oh, man. Looks are deceiving. You think of, &quot;Oh, man, How am I going to get this This thing is like, it's Look at this thing. That's so soft, yeah. Joe: It's perplexing how this Harry: A lot of the time, I'm often worried about I don't usually want one And when I saw this, I you might just be getting pure Joe: Yep. Harry: Honestly, I think they've kind of nailed the ratio here. Joe: Yeah. It looks like it looks like it's a whatever rye. Take a little bit. Joe: Right? Joe: But it's literally holding this giant fist of meat down. Yeah. Joe: Wild, right? Harry: It's really, which is quite an impressive feat. Joe: And now as a part of the video, you want to do mustard talk? Mustard talk. My guy with the mustard knife, just pa-pow across the whole bread. Right? I mean, I normally wouldn't add more. I'd just eat the sandwich But just for, like, for scientific purposes. Harry: I think I can go more mustard because the meat is so I do think you want something I feel like when you have with so few ingredients, because this is basically every ingredient has to be right. Nowhere to hide. Harry: Really nowhere to hide. Nowhere to hide with If it was even a little dry or if the edges were a little too crispy or if the fat was still you'd be like, forget I know. I know! I'm, like, angry how good this is. Harry: With, like, no effort Joe: Just falls right apart. Harry: Talk to me a little Joe: OK. Harry: This is beef, correct? Joe: Yeah. Harry: What sort of seasonings? The good people at Katz's, they're not giving away So here is what are the Check this out. They got garlic, coriander, black pepper, paprika, cloves, allspice, mustard seed. Harry: Mm-hmm. Have you ever slow cooked meat? You ever done anything like that? I actually haven't, a grill at home, so it's tricky. Have you? Oh, yeah. And it's fun, Harry: Have you ever to this level of tenderness? Are you kidding? No. You can tell, again, how much time and effort Joe: Yeah. Harry: Because to make beef this tender, you can't do that quickly, can you? Well, I do know that they will 30 days! Harry: That's a long time. Joe: It's a very long time. But just that idea, that to serve it next month. I don't have the attention span for that. Joe: I don't have that at all. My brain has been melted by I'd get distracted and start Yeah, tell me about it. Even I'm just imagining that floating knife cutting the things of sand or whatever . Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Harry: Subway service guy. just going, &quot;Uh-huh, Yeah, OK, sounds good. So, you came in as being like, &quot;Eh, pastrami, not that into it.&quot; How you feeling right now? I've, like, immediately been convinced. This is so good. Like, I don't know what happened It was a long time ago, so You went to some who-cares place, got some who-cares sandwich. The last time I had one, the meat didn't taste nearly this beefy. Joe: OK, well, there you go. Because this does still have a really strong beefy Joe: Man, I think you gotta try some of these pickles, though. Also known for their pickles. They got a regular and a half sour. Harry: I love pickles. Joe: Yeah, I'm not into it at all. What is it about pickles Like, taste? Texture? Both? Yeah, the consistency too, I just love them, man. I also feel like they just pair very well with a lot of these deli meats, because these tend to be Joe: Acidic. Joe: You know what I is that they would always put the pickle slice next to the fries when you get a sandwich or a burger, and then those fries are ruined and then everything tasted like a pickle. So it's more like, I didn't ask for this, and now you ruined the thing I wanted, so. So this one's the half sour? And then they just do, Joe: Yeah. Harry: Mm. Joe: The meat is hitting me, dude. Already? You barely dented that! I know. We also have potato knishes here. Harry: I know technically and I'm in your town, but while we're talking about knish is the one, man. So good. So, it's, like, fried dough that's filled with potato and cheese. It's just all the most It's fried on the have it on the go. Joe: Yeah. Do you think we could get on this wall? How do we get on the wall? Joe: Here's what it would take. Us framing a picture of ourselves, sneaking it in here, and hanging it up when no one's looking. Do you think they'd I don't think so. I don't know. Harry: Signed, &quot;The Food Wars guys.&quot; Joe: Oh, my God, I want I can't believe we forgot to -- oh. Harry: Why have we not done that, Joe? Let's walk by Duane Reade. We're going to get a picture of ourselves. We'll find a Walgreens, come back, sneak a photo on the wall. Sign it. Harry: Man, are you not going Joe: No! We gotta -- I'm probably going to I've destroyed this thing. Stop eating. I'm not kidding, man. Ugh. Well, I'm glad you enjoyed the food, but we got more pastrami to eat. We're eating our way through the city. We got more meat to eat Harry: There it is. Joe: Empire State Building. Oh, OK, no, sorry. Joe: Famously destroyed in &quot;Cloverfield.&quot; Harry: Yeah, and &quot;King Kong.&quot; Joe: Yeah, that building's Harry: Man. Joe: This is stop No. 2nd Ave Deli. Famous, of course, for Harry: Of course. That makes sense. I am actually really hungry. I want to get into this Of course, we'll get Want to get a few other Matzo ball soup. Of course. Dude, it's going to knock your socks off. Opened in 1954. Moved locations in 2006, but pretty much everything Harry: I'm loving the vibe in here. Joe: Yeah, it's nice, right? Harry: Feels very authentic. Very old-school. Even, like, the chairs are Oh, yeah, yeah. Harry: Nice creak if I lean backwards. Ooh, yeah. Harry: They've had these since These we're top of the line in '54. But I feel like, yeah, if you've got a recipe, I'm excited to try the food. We will do a pastrami sandwich. Yeah, I think we're going and matzo ball soup. And a coffee for me. Could we get some water as well? Harry: Just hold this outside. Harry: Thank you. Harry: Thank you so much. Harry: Thank you. Joe: Thank you, sir. Harry: Matzo ball soup. Little appetizer. You had this very often? Joe: Yeah, I've had it a few times. I do like it. I don't I don't go to too many places This is, like, maybe as classic a comforting Jewish dish you can get. So good, man. They got dill in the broth here. Harry: Mm-hmm. I feel like it's kind of hard Unless you maybe go which is quite a Jewish area. Joe: Oh, really? Harry: Mm-hmm. But broadly speaking, compared to in New York, we don't have as much of a Jewish culture, which I think is sad, because so much of the food is so good. Joe: Yeah. The challah bread, man? Gorgeous. If people watching this at home haven't had challah bread before -- Joe: It's really great. Harry: Gotta track it down. It's so good. It's like almost a brioche, like, little bit of sweetness to it. The soup, I think, perfect appetizer, but I think we're here for the main event. Joe: Yeah, this looks real good. Once again, look at the thickness on that. I couldn't think Katz's but this might be thicker. Harry: Look at that. Joe: I want to point out once again, the rye bread, unassuming, thin slice. I guarantee it's incredible. I'm curious if they -- Harry: I don't think they mustard our own sandwiches, but they do have it on the table. Going to need that, I think, with this amount of I do feel like we got more Harry: I think we do. Oh, man, look. Joe: The add-your-own mustard Harry: Can we get this? you can see the fat running off of it. Ugh. Joe: Now, this meat is Harry: It is. It's a thinner cut. But, like, so many layers of it. Joe: I know, and you the crust in there, the pepper and the ... yeah, OK, I can't talk anymore. I gotta take a bite. Joe: OK. Harry: Mm. It's really buttery. So I think that the fat on It's incredible, the where it stays together and Harry: Yeah. just kind of pull, it just falls apart. Harry: As soon as you bite into it. It's got a real, like, You really get the beef here, which I think is really, really good. You get some mustard? Yeah but it's like, I think it's the best when it's fattier, when it has more of a savory flavor to it. Harry: Mm. Fat is flavor, man. Joe: Yeah, fat is flavor. Once again, the rye bread holding it down. Not trying to outshine I'm surprised. Joe: You would think it would Yeah. You see this much quite fatty meat, and you assume that it would just soak straight through the falling apart. Harry: Especially when it's this thin. It's a thin slice of bread. It's kind of remarkable Joe: Yeah. Harry: It feels like a sandwich that's greater than the sum of its parts, almost. And look at this. Even almost like American bacon, but that means that your This has more of the pepper flavor than a wider slice. Harry: You can see the crust is, like, all throughout the sandwich, so that every time you take a bite, you're getting every part of the meat. Joe: It's an interesting strategy. Harry: A lot of flavor. The last place, wider slices, Harry: Yep. But this, thinner. The flavor ratio is completely different. At this point, hard to Joe: I agree. I'm going to have to stew on it. And we've got more pastrami to eat, so we can't make a decision just yet, but fantastic sandwich, man. Joe: This is fantastic. Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: Mm. Mm! You would think that sat in salt for possibly up to 30 days would be salty, but it's not. Harry: Not really, no. Joe: It's like the sodium It's more peppery, if anything. Harry: I'd agree. I think particularly in the bits where you kind of get the crust on the outside. It's salty in the sense So it's still the rye Harry: Do you prefer it? Let's do it with the seeds. Harry: No seed allergies All right, bread update, they have a even rye-ier I like my rye with a lot of seeds, so. I welcome it because I just need any kind of I prefer that. I prefer it with the seeds. I's a better rye. Better rye flavor. Doesn't overpower anything. Harry: Mm. It tastes more of like a classic rye. I'm not mad about it. Joe: So, we had a lot of We ended up getting two different types of their pastrami sandwiches and with different types of rye bread, with seeds and without. I'll tell you straight up, the with seeds, right up my alley. Do you have a preference of Pretty close for me. I think maybe the seeded, I do think the classic rye bread, you can't really go of just kind of having it there as the solid, sturdy foundation. It definitely has a taste, But yeah, I think maybe slightly different, a seeded is a good way to go. Joe: Did you notice the cut of meat is, like, thinner strips with more, dare I say, bark or pepper skin? Harry: Yeah, I was kind I feel like the more layers you get, the more interspersion of the seasoning, which I really like, because it makes sure that you get a bit of everything in every bite. So I think that's a The meat here was great. It had a real beefy, steaky flavor to it, which I personally, again, This is a contender. Joe: Absolutely. Harry: We're on the 1 train we're chilling. Joe: We're in the Bronx. Bit of a haul from where but I want to take you one of the last authentic Jewish delis here in the Bronx, in this neighborhood. Used to be hundreds. This is the last one. These guys have been here forever. They actually opened a year Not somewhere that the average tourist would probably think to come Joe: Locals only, baby. Harry: So, obviously we're Anything else on the while we're here? Joe: Yeah, they got this that's been around forever. Like, predates Coca-Cola It's by Doc Brown, not the soda doctor. But it's a celery beverage. I mean, they still have Yeah, I can't say that or that I'm particularly excited by the idea of a celery beverage. I feel like juices and stuff, they put celery in that, right? Because it's really a watery ... plant? Am I using the right word there? Harry: They put them into, like, yeah, the healthy smoothie options, which I tend to not order. Joe: So this is probably good for you. Let's hope so. I mean, a doctor invented Harry: True. And again, any nutrients are welcome at the moment. Let's check it out. Cel-ray. Harry: Cel-ray. I don't know why they just Harry: No. Just call it celery soda. That E, took out an E, added an A. Harry: Yeah. Same amount of letters. Harry: Should we try some celery juice? Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Cheers. Celery soda. Cheers to Joe: Yeah. I wouldn't have thought that was celery. No. Joe: But that's like -- I don't get any celery from that. What does celery taste like? I only eat it when I dip it in stuff. Celery's just, like, It's not particularly good. I get almost more like Do you get that? Like a citrus, but not too citrusy, right? That's very refreshing. I would quite happily I think they swapped I think that's what happened. Harry: It's like, they're And no one's noticed. Harry: No. I'm personally They made that taste exactly like apple. All right, well. Joe: Yeah. Now that our palates Joe: We're here to do the dang thing. Harry It's the main event. Joe: All right. OK. So, has a spiral formation. Harry: Ooh. Harry: It does look really good. Joe: I'm seeing them juices. Harry: Yeah, man, it's glistening. Joe: The bread. Yo. Joe: The bread has got a but it's thicker. This is Yeah. Visually this is a, Joe: I want take a look. OK, again, the thinner Harry: Yeah, thin strips. Marbling, the fat content is there. I feel like this is going Give a little, give me Quite a generous dollop there. Use a spoon to spread it like a maniac. Joe: One of these, yep. Harry: All right, man. I feel is to taste. Joe: OK, let's go. Harry: Mm. Joe: Mm. Oh, my God, that is so tender. Joe: And it's tasting, the Really buttery. This one though, it is, like, because it's packed in there really tight, I feel like it's a tougher Harry: Yeah, it's pretty Yeah, it's really dense. Harry: It does feel like Yeah. This one definitely feels like, oh, man, I got a lot of Harry: Mm-hmm. I gotta wash it down with This probably tastes the closest Harry: Mm, yeah, I think All right, gotta take a break. Oh. Harry: You need a nap already? Yeah. Texture-wise and flavor-wise, fantastic. Joe: Oh, yeah, really fantastic. Joe: I'm not even nitpicking details here. Yeah. I think the spiral effect was from them wrapping it up in a ball, putting it between bread, And that's why it looks like that, versus layering it over slices of meat and then -- [announcements] is there a train station in there? What the f--- was this? All aboard. The 2's being delayed, guys. We should've just gotten I don't know why, I'm just feeling, like, Joe: We've eaten a lot. I've hit a level of, like, pastrami that I never Don't know where I am right now. You've reached a pastrami Harry: I think I might have. total pastrami. Yes, I'm 100% pastrami right now. Joe: Have you tried a pickle yet? I have not, no. That Hey, Peter Piper, get in there, my guy. Harry: Might bring me back down. Pick your favorite one. It's always the star boys. Joe: I think this is great. We're talking, aren't we? Yeah. Did you pick up that audio? It was a good pickle. I feel like I have failed to bring you around on pickles today. I haven't tried one. Harry: Yeah, exactly. Joe: All right. What is it, that was a sour one you had? Harry: Yeah, I think so. The darker ones tend to be slightly more sour. So, what am I doing right What are any of us It's really briny. I don't or I don't feel like, &quot;Ah, that was good.&quot; Like, I don't want to eat that. You know? Harry: I feel so reenergized, man. It's like when you accidentally eat a bug, like, when you're riding your bike. You're just like, &quot;Oh, come on.&quot; You can't compare pickles to bugs. Joe: All right, that's just me. I definitely really like It feels like I live here and Like, come here every Harry: Yeah. The guy's been, like, greeting the customer's on the way in. &quot;I haven't seen you in a while.&quot; That has that energy, right? Harry: Yeah, I like it. Harry: Friendly. Yeah, it's nice. So, we ate a ridiculous First of all, when we yeah, I'm not so into pastrami. But now, after we've what do you think? I mean, I guess the good news is that I think I am a pastrami convert, because all of these have Right? As you went through the day, like, what was it about in general that won you over? I wasn't sure going into this and I guess flavor of the but just the taste of it is fantastic. Varying levels of beefiness, I would say. Sometimes you get more beef, sometimes it's more the But generally just very good. Especially when you get the layers, you get a little bit of chew, but then once you bite into it just melts in your The rye bread has also been great. I love the flavor that the rye adds. The structural integrity, I think, is really important to have there as well with a sandwich this dense. So, yeah, all in all, I think it's just a really For me, going into this as, like, the pastrami has gotta be No. 1. It has to just be perfectly And of course the bark, that had to be throughout the sandwich. But you know, you can't because it's going to figuring out that very simple, of all the elements of the sandwich. And I say all three of these I think one thing that is to see how different that we've tried have been, when on paper it's just three basically You would think, yeah. Harry: You would think. But subtle things can make big differences. Joe: I totally, totally agree. We kept talking about the bread. We kept talking about mustard. Even the cut of the meats, right? It all factors in It's, like, a subtlety to it. Like, all three of these places, they're like, they're a Harry: I think one thing is that all these places have years of tradition behind them, years of practice behind them. They really have honed their art. And I think ultimately, a matter of personal Because these are all I'd happily recommend any but we have to pick a favorite. You go first. So, I think of the three, and again, I will emphasize, These are all fantastic sandwiches. Joe: Razor thin. Harry: Would happily eat any of these. I think my favorite was 2nd Avenue Deli. Whoa. Why? What was it about 2nd Avenue? Harry: I liked the slightly I loved the vibe in there. I thought it was really a family-run, traditional I just think every worked, was balanced. The beef had a really which I loved personally. The rye bread was great, particularly with the seeds as well. Yeah, thank God he brought that in there, because we wouldn't have known. And I think I remember being similar in shape to this one, but way softer, way tenderer, right? I think so, maybe a little pretty close in terms I think the way they kind of layered it just lent to a better mouthfeel, a better texture, when you So yeah, again, fine margins. But I think for me, 2nd Joe: I agree with you. That was also my favorite. Harry: It's unanimous. Harry: Wow, why did you enjoy that one? All the reasons you just said. Harry: Yeah. I'm very eloquent, I cant help it. I think that the and these other two really flavorfulness of the meat. But the bread, the mustard, it really was like, they just, it just had that I really can't place my finger on. Yeah, it was incredible. But like I say, all fantastic. Joe: Yeah, that's right, yeah. a winner, but there are no losers. We're eating pastrami, Harry: Man, I'm feeling -- Especially my cardiologist. I have eaten more pastrami today than I have in the rest I'm feeling on some kind I'm beat, bro. I don't know what the plan but probably going to lay down. Yeah, I'm going home. Harry: Perfect.