[APPLAUSE] MATT PARKER: Thank you. Thank you. Oh. Wow. Can you all hear me? OK. How's that for the correct Is that about right? OK. Excellent. So thank you all very much break to hear me to see and hear in My name, as Allen very And in terms of my to be a high school So my original job was And I'm originally So I taught in And then I realized not enough at me. And so I moved to London, And I taught in London again in a couple of And then I started to drift to kind of education support. I started working for some resources and doing So schools would send their and we'd do like summer And so I did that for a while. Actually, I did and then I started to get So actually, at one I did six months in an And that just cleared Right? And at the end of that So since 2009 was the last time And my career now has spread You can see I'm based at Queen which is a university I'm there one day a week. I'm their Public Engagement is what happens when you're title. So fun fact, fellow is the credential you can have And so I teach the academics to communicate maths And then the rest of my time is I do a lot of I do a lot of I work as a stand-up. So actually for a I was a math teacher and So during the day, I was and in the evening to drunk people in is a surprisingly And after awhile I realized And so I do a lot of And I do a lot of bits and YouTube and the like. Oh, I do a lot of, quite So if I look familiar but in I do the Numberphile Actually that was of funded YouTube channels. That was the only non-US one We started in the UK. So thanks, there you and we still do it. And there was a weird crossover started recognizing me more And the teachers had no idea which it's great that a lot of at school can turn to YouTube to You know? I think that's And it's kind of fixed a get very bored at get switched off the subject. Whereas now they can access this and they can see the And that kind of keeps them And so the book was an attempt well where I wanted to kind of I do with schoolkids. I thought there's no point and making you hear about me &quot;To Make and Do in the Fourth currently enjoying the talk, in the Fourth,&quot; a I must point out. I mean, completely But there are books be around to chat afterwards. And I may refer to a few And so that's pretty much So what I'm going to just show you some of my And I'll do that for of an hour-- 24 minutes. If you didn't know you're working for And then I will be around. We'll do some and then I will loiter around And we are actually going That's not an idle threat. So can everyone who could you take that out now? Really? Is that an actual calculator? No. It's a phone. Fine. What? You're going for a phone? Phones are perfectly acceptable. Some of you have already That's brilliant. So if you could get out your and switch into calculate This is purely optional. We're going to do a few to get us going. So once you've got it out, put fancy, and then calculate the And if I was doing I do a lot of this I'd be very careful to say digits, then hit multiply, then hit equal. If you tell it to your sufficiently specific, by accident. But most of you should a two-digit number. And what you're of boring part of math-- and over. It's the reason why The fun part is what you can Is there anyone who's the answer that they've got? Not the number that but the answer on your screen. Yes, sir. What have you got? AUDIENCE: 357,911. MATT PARKER: So So you put in 71 and cubed that. Thank you. OK. You're keeping your excitement Don't patronize me. Right. So has anyone else got an Tell me, if I get it right, hm, if you could say, yes. The thumbs up is optional If you could say yes that would help my OK. Has anyone got an And if you give it in so many What have you got at AUDIENCE: 804,357. MATT PARKER: 804,000-- Thank you. AUDIENCE: Yes! AUDIENCE: Sweet! AUDIENCE: Awesome. MATT PARKER: Some of you are I would do three go the correct amount of wild. So are there three people-- three people who are prepared If I get all three right then you can humor me OK. So this is one. Hang on a second. Remain calm. One. Anyone else? Two over there. And three over here. OK. We'll make it like Right? So we'll start with and then you, ma'am, and OK. Around. Here we go. So what have you got over there? What's the answer? AUDIENCE: 531,441. MATT PARKER: 81. AUDIENCE: Yes! MATT PARKER: Remain calm. Right. AUDIENCE: 21,962. MATT PARKER: 28. Silent nod yes. And? AUDIENCE: 132,651. MATT PARKER: 51. AUDIENCE: Yes! Woo! [APPLAUSE] MATT PARKER: Fine. Now, by the way, are now working out Some of you probably Right? And so I'm not going But first of all, I've every single two-digit Actually, I've been so I'm dangerously close What I'm actually doing is there And so there are two And one pattern gives and the other pattern of the original So as you're calling out is I'm scanning it for the is the first digit-- yeah. The first digit and gives me the second digit. So I'm just scanning for And it's not an to do in your head If you want to work out how to afterwards I'm Or if you just try cubing some of you are doing right now, You wouldn't believe what was Right? And so if you try some have probably got a Right? It's reasonably easy to So I'm going to do a And a few of you, again, But if you haven't I will so you can all learn this. And this doesn't It involves something Could everyone have a look? I need someone in brought a product in a shop with a retail barcode. Not technically a joke but So, oh, my book. Right? So not my book. Has anyone got a-- What is that? Chewing gum. OK. Can you have a look at Is there are tiny little digit to the right, and all the Don't say what they are, but OK. What I'm going to get you to all the digits to with the one off to underneath, and do not tell I'm going to try and what the one off If I get it correct, Everyone goes bananas. OK. And I already know some of And don't go too fast. I will say, yep, after each People can often AUDIENCE: Zero. MATT PARKER: Hang on. Hang on. Hang on. I'm getting in the All right? OK. I'm ready. OK. First digit. AUDIENCE: Zero. MATT PARKER: Is it the same Is this the one you said? That's the one on OK. I'm sorry. OK. Well, give me a second. OK. Got that. Yep. AUDIENCE: One. MATT PARKER: One. Got it. Yep. AUDIENCE: Two. MATT PARKER: Yep. AUDIENCE: Five. MATT PARKER: Yep. AUDIENCE: Four. MATT PARKER: Yep. AUDIENCE: Six. MATT PARKER: Yep. AUDIENCE: Six. MATT PARKER: Yep. AUDIENCE: Seven. MATT PARKER: Yep. AUDIENCE: Zero. MATT PARKER: Yep. AUDIENCE: Zero. MATT PARKER: Yep. AUDIENCE: Eight. MATT PARKER: Yep. The final digit. Is there one more? It's a six. AUDIENCE: Yes. Yes! AUDIENCE: Woo! Yeah! [APPLAUSE] MATT PARKER: I like a before the climax to a stunt. So now that-- some of you applauded. So that, those of you who know detection and error is a vast majority that there is a pattern And all North American It's a slightly to what they have in Europe. So I had to learn a different If you want to learn how to Right? So as someone is reading out initially, all you have every odd positioned digit. So you add the first thing to the fifth all the way up. And if you add starting in the first You multiply that and then you go back and add on And if you add every second add the other digits, the grand total will And so if you keep and there's one of the it's whatever you need to are mildly impressed-- need to get up to So the total in my And so I knew it must be a I'm a hoot at And so I think it's amazing, no idea that these patterns are around them. And so actually if it's got the barcode at the And the ISBN is a subtly But again, it's got Credit cards have I can do the same stunt But very few people will read out in public. But that's subtly different. You double every And if you get a you add the digits together And then once you add you get a multiple. And most people go about oblivious that all these are in the background. If we didn't have that our modern shopping Right? Because when you scan because the lasers aren't make a lot of But thankfully math Right? Because if it scans the barcode And so it knows it's And so it keeps until it gets one where The vast majority of the scanned it correctly and And people get very emotional and had to pay for something. Well, it depends on the And so people don't is hidden in the And the same thing happens So those of you who and the types of you can do with text a fantastic way to look at what Because when you're and your phone is turning you're entering into puts those numbers It goes through that grid and into every single row, and into every single puts a third pattern into And if that sounds it's because it turns your text And so people have a sense puzzle, even though huge all these numbers all these numbers are if you know the three you can recreate all And so people, for fun, as kind of a leisurely activity, And so you see, I push will be doing. I'm like, oh, you love What? But this is absolute amazing. And if you give it person everyone because you're using So the difference is it's done more as a cube, or polynomials are done in across the cube to But it's exactly the And people are quite happy But yet, they think that if there's an is lost when they send a text recreate all the The same thing with Blu-rays And there's such to Blu-ray discs, you can is about three or four some obscure fraction of an and if you get Blu-ray disc-- Blu-ray disk, you straight through the middle. Well, not straight There's already a whole there. Right? You can just to the side, And if the laser-- in the Blu-ray, because Blu-ray players will lose Right? If it can keep track, it information that's And again, without these simply wouldn't be possible. Oh, and I made this I'm quite proud of this. I wanted it to look an algebraic-- tough crowd. Whoa. The top row are the digits in There you go. So if you want a copy of And so I quite like that. It's kind of useful you can actually Well, actually I've got another maths I'm going to teach I've got to show you something You've going to be And you people work on encoding. You've been working on encoding and you're like, oh, great. This is my lunch break Right? So I'm going to show to save time in your And to do that I brought Actually, I'm going to go off Can you all hear me? Possibly even better Right. So I've got down here a camera. So this is on the floor here. I'm going to teach you to tie your shoes. And this will speed up So can you all see? Can you all see my shoe? You get four of them. That is-- Oh wow. This is like the world's Look at that. Yeah! So if anyone comes in OK? So here' what you do. So normally when they get the laces in like and they get these of moving them around and What you can actually do, if and passed them they will tie themselves. OK. You again, keeping at a nice, manageable level. OK. What do you watch? Actually, is there a Can I? I bet I can tie this and Ready? Here we go. Ready? OK. Read. So I'm just holding Close. [APPLAUSE] I'll bet you never tried do this for school kids, sitting fire to Would you like to try it? If you've got to shoe, choose and I will actually So you do that little So you've all got that. Take the shoelace on so it goes up and forward, So it goes up in a You're holding on the The other side is the same and you hold it on the And then all you the bitch you're holding swap hands, and pull. AUDIENCE: Whoa! MATT PARKER: Oh. One. OK. That's-- We've Don't patronize me a bit. So if you practice that, ones of seconds of your Right? And it's exactly the same So mathematically, And a lot of people that there's a whole area There's knot theory. Best name of a theory ever. And so people are Are you a theorist? I am knot theorist. So knot theorists look at the And as humans we know It's a reasonably new Well, it kicked But today we still haven't got in general. And, in fact, I put a picture I've got a shot of it up here. We still do not know the This is called the want to look it up afterwards. And when you do a leave a gap when These are not just This is where it goes And to undo a knot you do sort of a So you would cut one move it around another one, So you take it from one side to And we know this not can switches, but no one's and likewise, know one's managed to do it in two. This is an open This is, in fact, for which we do not understand. At for the vast majority of And so my theory is, if enough and try it, sooner a way to do it-- for a very or later possibly-- we will come And at that point fame is yours, for a very narrow So, dude if you can try and you look it up online. It's the 1011 knot. If you do find a way Photograph yourself where you're going to make Then make them. If it untangles, we'll Because if it know how it was arranged-- it won't work. We've tried everything You have to make it that way, put it down a different way, see if it untangles itself. And actually, it's know how to do this, bacteria is better than humans, which is Because when bacteria same thing happens and human included-- the DNA And so some bacteria gets very knotted And there are enzymes crossing switches They will snip one bit of DNA, and rejoin it. And they do that to untangle the DNA. And if they can't do that, And so knot theorists are working with biologists what the bacteria is doing, and if we get a better doing and how to undo could be a new wave If we have a way to from unknotting be able to stop it And so I think that a future wave of new can come about because knot initially by physicists theory of matter is but then mathematicians took it And it could be saving I think is absolutely fantastic. So I've got two-- Let's do three wrap up for questions, because going to show you very quickly. And I've put it in my bag here. I wasn't originally but while I'm here, I and I'm very excited about it. What I did was I bought a I bought this. I'm sure I used a Google And so it definitely And then what I've done is I've And that notch is 14 and Or it's 29% of the radius. Or it's 2 minus root 2 on 2% And the reason I've done that So a circle rolls the center of mass stays Very, very handy. But if you get two them like this at made those notches so the are now root 2 apart So if you've got one that's root 2-- the distance So what it means is as this the center of mass stays And I haven't got a I'm going to try it over here. I checked. My cable's not long enough But I'm going to try on this So if I put it there, if I give stays at exactly And if you want to kick that It's optional. Feel free to join in. OK. Look at that. It's all right. So the center of mass It's not even a sin wave It's a quite complicated wave. It's a combination But in terms of its it stays perfectly flat. And you can prove that for two more complicated System of Triangles. So I shall challenge for use some of your 10% why the center of mass for is the shoe in the center and it would drop out, and has to be root 2 a part. That's the easiest And using the Pythagorean's you can show that. I will leave it up there. And if you want to afterwards you can roll on there. Or you can make which you might have in with technology from the past. Or make your own circles. You can get those to It's kind of fun. So the last two things is a ridiculous project that And I'm going to finish by present that my mom gave me two It's not just like, hey, Right? It's a proper maths thing. But before I get that, this I did a couple of I was trying to explain the And to try to explain circuitry decide to use dominoes. Because what I've set up a chain of dominoes. And the great thing about is you can send the because if you put that signal will and come out the other end. And so you could use this. This could be practical. So if your doorbell could have a long So you've got at that says please bump domino. And that goes all the into the living room. And a few of the other You go, oh, there's Right? And they're sending information. Not hugely efficient, And you can get far So instead of just sending you can have a network So now I've got two inputs And this is step so both inputs for the If you bump over it won't make it all the And so if you want about who's at the door-- so and you've got one thing that here, and another this domino if you have a pizza. And only if there's someone the signal get all And I can show you this is this one by itself blocks Whereas if you've it would have stopped this and the signal would And for this, I like to consider and it standing up as a zero. And so you can see I've I'll make it a So for completeness, this for that circuit. Right? We can still think of So zero and zero. No one's at the door and and so nothing will happen. This is there's and they haven't got a pizza. That won't get through. OK. For completeness, somehow a and has managed to read the So should there be this is what will happen. The signal, thank god, All right? Because that is a And then here we had the and the signal gets through. And this is an AND gate. So if you've done is an AND gate made We can do even better. This is the exclusive OR gets through if you bump but not both. So that's the exclusive not both simultaneously. There it is made If you've got 100 you can make these. It's about 100 dominoes And what happens now is they collide in the But if you hit either it will travel through So they stop and annihilate, would've carried on and out. Now at this point, a few Why would you do? You know where I'm Right? And if you know where my only advice is for Because we have a long Right? Because what you can do where it shows both If you have two inputs and two and one's the exclusive got a circuit which counts that have been bumped. So this is a very So if you think of the the exclusive order to the and then it tells were bumped as a binary readout. So this can count in binary. And to make one you need It looks a little bit like this. And so this has two It's basically exclusive on the side. This is a delayed circuit to run, you slow so it doesn't get So there's a few timing but it can be made. And a few of you if you've got this want is-- this is Yes! Right! So try not to skip ahead to All right? So this is the full adder. So you can do any arithmetic because you've got the you've got a carry from you've got the carry out that and you've got the is the output you're doing. And so if you can you're effectively and getting the two digit out. Now unfortunately, at this To build one of these would and it would look like that. [LAUGHING] So this is me at the This is the maths We managed to sneak in there. We have 1,000 dominoes, and out of dominoes. And so again the problem was You've got a lot of But we got to slowing and sending the other ones. Slowly the whole thing And then we were like, And some of you know if if you have adders in row, you So if you had three you could add two and get a four-digit But that would take and it would look like this. So I now own 10,000 dominoes. So this took us a whole day. It took 10 of us, or 12 people. We were rotating in shifts. Oh my god. This is nerve-wracking work. Right? And so we managed with 10,000 add two three-digit and give you a So this is a working This is an actual computer. I mean, the display But it does actually And we ran it and it worked. We were able to add and got a four-digit output. And we had the museum-- this is in Manchester. Brilliantly-- you can't we are directly in front of computer that Alan So it was behind us. I could see the vacuum tubes and computer. And I was allowed once And it's so cool, the input for the memory And literally each one And so you enter That ones to be a one. That one's a one. And so you enter the ones that and hit go. Nominal piece of kit. And I got to meet student who worked with And so he told me where the operating system that Absolutely incredible. Happy to chat about that. Oh, and by the way. &quot;The not that bad. Pretty good. Pretty good. The mass is-- I mean, The first half an hour how you prove the existence So I was very impressed. It's not. He just looks But if you want to talk So anyway, so we in Manchester, which And we did it on the At we had a backup day. And we're like, well, because we could have and get a five-digit readout. Right? And we did that. But it didn't work. Two things went wrong. Because we didn't because we had the same sectioned off. And we didn't have So we had to make it had to make it more efficient. So we have to cut and we had to have the And two things went The first one is here. We had cross torque. We had signal bleed from one So if you watch, this one That domino should stay up. But if you watch as the other it comes-- as the other one comes. Here we go. Look at that! And, in slow motion, No! So that gave us an extra So that ran through and tripped and the answer became a one. And the other one was here. OK. So let me should you If you watch that it is going to carry But this one should get their Right? I've been watching a while I've been over. And so, bam, it So this signal stops. It closes this gate before Unfortunately it didn't work. If I show it to is this one so going So going to get there first. Look at that. Here it is. Here it comes. Coming in. It's going to close Two dominoes off. But at least it went If it had just been that would have but it went wrong as to what happens Because that was a So I was so please with Well, actually did was a collaborative around the world, and We used a live to link between different So I was in talk to people who and Canada and the US. And the fractal, we're the one that is at MoMA, Museum So if you want to it's an amazing fractal And it was great that People could watch could cut between the Absolutely brilliant. Anyway. The last thing I'm and then we'll do brought the Christmas I've got it right here. And so I'll bring It looks like-- OK. Here we go. So you should have seen morning when unwrapped a knitted and zeroes. I had no idea she was And she went and she made this. I was like that's amazing. And when I saw it they were just random And so then I went, Hang on. Every single row Right? And so that means is an upper case because my mom knits the Right? Old habits die hard. Huh? And so I was like, to look work out what it says. This is Christmas morning. I was like this is brilliant. So I got the back of I got my pen out. What a Christmas morning. I get to sit around with the Right? And if you actually go I'm now fluent in binary, Because when people get me do you want that in normal And so I can do people's If you're bored and I'll put your And I suspect most of you check that very quickly. And so anyway I was My mom found a quote for me. She found [INAUDIBLE] So it says, &quot;Maths is fun. Keep doing maths.&quot; Except it doesn't. When I actually decoded it, There's a mistake part way down. And so it was right on the end. It turned a u into a v. A so it Keep doing maths.&quot; I was like, oh, mom. I hate to ruin your fvn, with a zero, and Because she is quite And I was like, because she wanted to She wanted to undo I said no, no, no. The thing is you don't because to make the she knit the same So it repeats, front, And she only made a So what is means is calculate the average value and they gives you back without the mistake. And so today, ladies and can present to you the world's [APPLAUSE] If you would like I will leave it at the front. It does also sign autographs. You have to hold it So you're coming to wearing the scarf, that's fine. I will leave that here. You can come and check the Otherwise, I will be loitering or people have to If you want me to your book so it I'm more than happy to do that If I've mentioned something or you want to copy of all the computer are in the book. And originally they were like, and looked at it and went, OK. You're not having it. They're not going in. Oh, OK. It happened to a few things. I said, tell you what, at the back of the book? And they were like sure. Brilliant. Right? So seriously a massive is answers at the back. And so the circuit diagrams But if you could send me an a copy of or I've and didn't go into enough But on that note, I've finished. I'd like to thank Allen all of this. It has been fantastic coming in. Thank you all very much Cheers. [APPLAUSE] Oh, we have to Q and A. Right. So-- He had that look of I know you got the but now you've got to earn it. So any questions people If you can't get to the for the sake of the recordings encoded. But if anyone would you can ask questions If you're bringing it's going to be I simulated this and frankly. AUDIENCE: While writing the most amazing thing that you know, and that fascinated you MATT PARKER: Oh. That is a very good question. So writing the book I learned that was There's a few bits I found new examples because I've been learning So I had to program and I hadn't done it for years. There was a few bits to find ridiculous numbers. Some of those were kind knew they would be out there. If I ran the code they would What I really found amazing the conceit is it's about There are huge sections And in 3D-- I knew this before, into it-- in 3D you get If you've not come are very, very All the faces are the same, edges are the same. And there's famously So there's the tetrahedron, and dodecahedron, in a And in 4D there's another one. So you get the 4D equivalence solids. There's another one that It's the 4D equivalent of But it is a platonic solid and it's not again in 5D. It breaks again in 5D. It only works in And so visualizing it-- I try And in 3D a rhombic what happens if you get a solid So if you imagine six and flipped them all you get a rhombic dodecahedron. The same thing happens If you get a 4D tessaract-- if anyone's, I don't want to &quot;Interstellar&quot; they I was like, yes. Oh, and by the the fifth dimension is love. And so the same thing happens if you get the hyper-diamond. Absolutely brilliant. And then, in case 5D is any three-point solids. And that's every 70, as long as you go, get the cube, the tetrahedron, all the way up. And then the other ones And so there's this up of shapes in kind of three doesn't happen again. I think that was fascinating. Further answers will be shorter. Yes? AUDIENCE: Can you about the testing Like did someone accidentally Did you try it out? If something goes wrong, can How long did all that take? MATT PARKER: OK. So the question more about testing and could you relive some of So to this day the sound of breaks me out in a cold sweat. So originally I bought a I'd seen a YouTube video And they'd kind of cheated. They'd taped dominoes together. And they were doing Well, surely you So I bought a couple hundred. And it kind of worked. And then I went, all right. And so I bought 2,000. And then we had the concrete And we wanted to know first We were really worried about And can it be built fast enough? Because if we couldn't it wasn't going to work. And the big problem was having And a very good she came up with-- we called was a reliable way of building very, if you did it exactly the It was very robust. And so we built a And we chalked on because we knew they would work. And then you kind of freestyle But we knew as long as we used it would work. In terms of actually building And the rule was, That was our official rule. Well, actually, one if you bumped dominoes because occasionally you would You're like, ah. The rule was you then Because someone someone who's now because you're now with a sense of revenge. Right? And so someone else would then for you. And the rule was trust knew we were going to and they were going to run. But as long as there was And I saw one volunteer, hey, people come and And one got bumped it, And he lunged to And he bumped the And so then they say I was like you idiot. And then he realized what he and bumped the ones we were just wrestling And if you watch the video-- It's about half an hour And I explain the binary You can see people walking had to fill in the gaps and we did like a fractal. We did every like middle bit. And then we went back and did so trying to minimize But to load it we left gaps and you filled in for one And we picked random and then people had to walk and fill in where the ones were. It was the most hair-raising But in the end it worked. We had one spontaneous bit where and suddenly a domino But we hadn't done and so we were able to fix that. Very, very stressful. If anyone's ever want to borrow 10,000 I'm happy to lend them to you. I bring up a place because I I ring them up and say I want And they go, oh, no. We only send them to shops. And I said well, I want 10,000. They were like, we'll And so I got them It was brilliant. So now actually So schools can if they pay transport So they get sent and they try and build the So I will do one more will loiter around if you afterwards. Has anyone got? It could just be-- I think Better be a good question. It could be-- No? Is it the tech guy? Start again, but have AUDIENCE: Could you potentially that you showed a bacteria that would MATT PARKER: Oh, wow. OK. So a very good the guy filming in the back make the knot out use that to find the most And that's very good question. The answer is no idea. So I'm not sure actually, if you want to see the you can try this. Because if anyone's and then cut it find that you end up It's fascinating. If you have more twists, that are tangled together. And that's what's It's and incredibly Because it unzips but all those twists are all tangled And so what the enzymes-- undabellabella monase is-- I'm not a on a huge mass of this stuff. So I suspect they that simple is my gut reaction. I think it's a bit like solving problem. You've got good can't guarantee you've but it's incredibly But I don't know. I will contact some biologists this curing cancer stuff. We've got a knot And I'll report back. So on that note, I but I will be loitering I think I am going to And so on that note, again, Yes. [APPLAUSE]