Many of you who watch this channel actually know quite a bit about physics, which makes sense that whole "physics is everything" thing. And sense to you. A super common question is "how That's a good question, with a lot of complexity (intro music) Before I begin, I guess I should apologize. That's because the reason that people ask is that they learned about momentum the equation for momentum. So I have to build the says that momentum, which is written as p, times its velocity, which is written as And you immediately see the problem. While a which is written as c by the way, its mass is zero. And zero times a number is zero. So I mean, it's a really good question. Yet So let me start with explaining this in terms explanation, although even that really isn't but you should expect that your brain cells First, let me remind you of equations that you class. I already reminded you of the momentum one. velocity and kinetic energy. This is the kinetic times the mass m times the velocity v squared. You probably remember all that. Now let me show Let's start with the momentum Now square both sides. You get p squared Now divide both sides by the bottom m cancels one of the top m's. And you which should remind you of something, You can replace the m times v squared with this p squared over m thing and equals the momentum squared divided by twice Okay, the first conclusion to draw here is that equations were devised back in Newton's time when speed of light - but even back then we can see We have an equation with energy on And this kind of means that anything with Of course, we still have that m kicking so I haven't really answered the question. just wanted to show you that kinetic energy Okay- now to get into something you might material. And I want to tell you something and That's right. You've been lied to! Wake Man, I have always wanted to others have all the fun? Of course, like a lot of what I just said was a little misleading The real truth is that those equations are with mass that is moving at slow speeds. And, say "the man," the man is someone like me, believe me or not. But you should. 'Cause, Now comes the next surprise and that Einstein was all about moving at super fast know that he's going to pop up in any discussion think about Einstein, you almost always think And, guess what? That equation's wrong too! Come on, sheeple! Wake up! How Okay- I promise that's the last rant. But the rant squared is also an approximate equation and that are stationary. It's not a general equation objects that are moving. In fact, I made a of this equation. The link is down there in the So now we're ready to get to the truth. I here. E equals m c squared, p equals m v and KE equations are just fine and correct - but they're that move slowly. Those equations fail in other general equation that works for all situations and This equation is energy squared equals squared plus the mass of the object times E squared equals p c squared Now this equation works for everything - massive speed of light, things moving at the speed of can look at the special cases. For instance, let's Since the photon has zero mass, this second and we have that energy equals So here we see that energy and momentum And, if an object isn't moving, then its which gets you back to Einstein's So, I guess the first lesson is it's super important to understand and, if it's a special case, when The bottom line is that the familiar equation photons and the question of photon arises from using an equation in a I could spend a long time showing you how equates energy, momentum, and mass, but I will And I put a link in the description to heavy lifting for you. By the way, let me squared thing is itself only an approximation for There are more precise approximations. So that's the equation-y way of thinking about and momentum are related and an object that has But maybe you're looking for something deeper - mass is somehow special. Well To first approximation, modern physics has proven Now I made an entire video on this topic you to watch. It's one of my favorite videos but let me sketch it here for you. Just expect is about to be upended. And watch You are made of mass, which is true The mass of objects made of atoms is found in pretty much don't matter. But protons and neutrons mass - nearly none. So where does the mass of are orbiting around each other at crazy fast tiny subatomic tornadoes - vortices of motion and them, there is nearly no mass in the way that we So, assuming that you're willing to accept because it shows this idea in far more detail of course, a photon is moving energy. a moving photon or a moving proton are not moving energy. So, if a moving proton And that's really all there is to it. On the other think very differently about mass and energy and more you learn about the subatomic world, the more Okay- so this concludes our very quick If you learned something from the video, you While the first message is that photons certainly message is to always remember that equations try to use them incorrectly, you're going to get which is that as you study physics at a more to appreciate and, the more you appreciate, (outro music)