As they say, all good things must come to as an end. cross again. Again, thank you, for being a say. you rock. Our task is a huge one, and I'm glad that to get ready for it, because we talked necessity for being open-minded in all comes to religion, because religion so is set in a history of relationships governments, and I think, this evening, been with any other religious tradition, Islam. Now, since 9/11, the topic of Islam Would you agree with me about that? Yes. right? I mean, there is an ongoing... &quot;debate&quot; would be a kind word for it... about the proposed community center / mosque at or near Ground Zero in New York City, right? If you have followed that at all, you of things about Islam. Some of those educate than others, right? You don't have to look far to see controversy in this country not already, would you imagine for a in this country? What it must have been yes, oh yes, absolutely crucial that we this religious tradition in the same attempted to approach every single one you might be. See &quot;faithful tribe&quot; above. first of all, not all Arabs are Muslim, Arab countries are Muslim. In almost there are Christians, often Hindus, members of other religious traditions. But when we talk about the Arab peoples, to whom there's a familiar name, there's a Abraham. Now, who can help us remember know that the Jews trace their lineage and his wife Sarah, Isaac, right? What Ishmael. Now, where Ishmael come into the picture? Mm-hmm. even today, you know, there's adoption. were elderly and could not conceive scriptures put it, because Sarah was This is millennia before Viagra, people. had written that story, that it might think maybe so? Okay. Not being facetious through the lens of gender. Well, they bring--again, common practice--they bring rock and roll fans, okay. for Sarah, and she and Abraham conceive a enough, that the promises that God made way that was accepted in those days, they so, right? Hmm-hmm-hmm-hmm. Right, exactly, if it was a male child, if it was a male child. And then, of course, Abraham and right? squabbling going on, right? Sarah becomes her son Ishmael, and they are cast out, environment, was basically a death right? Ishmael and Hagar managed to survive, and Ishmael goes on to father, if you will, about this for a moment because it seems especially, in Judaism, it is very to Abraham, right? And, in spite of so much religious traditions, right, and we have right, the Christians in the Jews, that is mean, it's like having the same Well, here it is, Islam, which grows Commonality, commonality. Jews, Christians, Muslims--so much in common. Now, you wouldn't know that to hear a lot of the look at the history, however mythological already a basis to build on. There's considered to be the historical founder and let me point this out it might not religion is called, Islam the followers Islams. Don't do that, okay, that would paper from time to time. [laughs] Mohammed. Born sometime in the 6th a first axial age, when all those major BCE? That's not, this is not the same which makes Islam the youngest of these in Arabia, right? And he is born into a-- A polytheistic environment, right? And that understanding he comes to in the world. in the city of Mecca, which, even to this cosmopolitan in its own way. And even merchants, were passing through, right, and you can tell, if you read Muhammad's teachings, that he is very familiar with commonality, commonality, right? In fact, the teachings of Christianity and Christians about the teachings of Islam. that out today, but. You can tell that traditions, which are monotheistic, you know, some would be a little Christianity is truly monotheistic, that but that's a conversation for another Part of what I'm getting at here is that scriptures of Islam did not just drop cloth, as it were. tradition comes from somewhere. You look any of these major religious figures, they right? And you see it here as well, and I Understand, now, there are a few parallels life of Siddhartha Gautama, who seems that in his 30s, I don't know what had something of a religious crisis, and begins to hang out in a cave where he's classic shamanic move where wilderness, where you collect the truth, your tribal people need, and you bring vision, and quite frankly, he wondered a out, his understanding is that an brought him a special revelation, a this revelation, his disciples write it Quran, and if you look at those teachings, outsider, you will see that Muhammad is apocalypse mean? The end of time, right? The end of time, right, believed that the world was coming any other major religious figures who John, but where did John get it, from From his religious background, right? is coming to an end. Let me read a be darkened, when the Stars shall be set moving, when the pregnant camels beasts shall be gathered, when the seas shall be coupled, when the buried infants slain, when the scroll shall be unrolled, Hell shall be set blazing, when paradise know what it has produced. I told you, I'm Thank you, nobody does hell fire and will say that the Christians One difference between, not so much the their approach to teaching, to preaching have preached ecstatically, he would be possessed by the Spirit of God, right? And just Muhammad speaking, it was Allah as we can tell from what we have, was not this tradition, though it has been this mystical tradition, still survives that we get to come back around to I'm going to need to skip over some Islam? teaching of Islam? Thank you, that was almost a direct quote. Quran: &quot;There is no god but Allah, and Muhammad is His prophet. There is no god That is a statement, a central statement unlike, for the Jews, &quot;the Lord our God is &quot;I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker His, only Son our Lord, and the Holy think about that for a moment. There is Prophet. And I want you to think about every week. I would suggest to you these concentric circles, right? Allah is above this case he has stepped into history to God did the same thing through Jesus. For Jesus is considered to be a great that long line of great Jewish prophets, of God, right? Each generation bringing a God, right? considered by Muslims to be the the seal, S-E-A-L, the seal of the prophets. In other words, he has brought the fullest Here's where I have to stop for a moment, week, the last time we were together. Has Do we indeed have the fullest revelation there be more? Perhaps even more to come? Part of it is that competitive spirit &quot;We got the newest, we got the latest,&quot; But very first week, okay, tremendum, and fascinosum,&quot; right? &quot;The so much bigger than we are, and yet certainly can be. And I think that may be each religious tradition want to put scary, right? So that we feel like maybe aren't just so vulnerable, right? So wonder. God is God Muhammad is His Prophet. man can be God, just like the Jews, 'course Christians, well, one exception to the Yeah. And that is how, for Christians, god-man, alright? That's the gateway. For teachings of Moses, that is how you that intimacy with the divine. And teachings of the Quran, and that puts you you will, the wounded relationship among Muslims some who consider to be-- the Quran to be the perfect, inerrant, without error. There are some Christians There are some Jews who would claim the believer I--When I look at these look at these believers, I have to right? in fact, it has a beauty to it, and I remember when I myself believed the same thing. Oh, what a comfort! What certainty, what I get, again, it's that need, we were vulnerable, where truth is so watch a session on c-span of Congress, courtroom, oh where's the truth, right? so squiggly and squirmy. If you step of the others, that teaching about the problematic. It becomes problematic. I the Gospels last week, you can do the is beginning to catch up, it hasn't been study of the religious tradition, quite Judaism, many of the same findings occur. religious tradition, right? Looking out, the outside looking in. But again, see, to to take place, and not everyone agrees, whether you are inside or outside, I understand the other side, and, in fact, I can step into those shoes, right, that you whether it be inside or outside. And I am both, right? One shoe is Christian and thing, that person standing on the the stained-glass window, right? And sometimes, but, oh! The understanding that it has outsiders, not just in the Christian classroom, and in public life, I see time shipwrecked, right, by this inability to critically about one's beliefs, right? religion or a heartfelt belief in conversation that gets shipwrecked. There again, if you look at the major political today, you will always find a strand But not just a strand of religion, but a misunderstanding. And maybe I have too know, I don't believe humans are Call me a hippie, but there it is, and the more I see that it's not that people are they are short-sighted. We can't see past don't recognize the consequences of our prophets are such hugely important because they stood in front their people you're doing, right, look farther down the come back to bite, you this will come up earlier, when I think about 9/11, when that war fever gripped this pray God it's the last, right. Some revenge, Somebody's gotta pay, right, we've been was coming, knowing what was coming, and not a thing I could do to stop it. O,h young people are going to die, to die! And, at least in part, because of farther down the road, that to injure injury when we have been injured only, it again, and agai,n and again, and again. When will we ever learn? When we will we ever learn? Oh. Well, let's talk a little bit right, the basic beliefs. They're known as &quot;pillars&quot; you lay there, you lay your head not that--that's not, no, that's a pillow-- A supporting pole, right, you see them The five pillars, right, the five tradition. The very first one we've Creed. Let me give it a shot in Arabic, work with me and hope I don't embarrass Muhammad Rasul Allah.&quot; There is no god but God and Muhammad is His Prophet.&quot; A straight-up confession of faith that through which you can see this entire right, their construction, if you will, of is prayer. How many times a day do There are some Muslims who are not very that aren't really, you know, that devout. devout Muslims pray five times a day in Muslim countries, oftentimes. Now, it varies from country to country, right, a map, some Christians are going to be the majority, the larger and larger devoutly Muslim countries, I mean things ever heard the call to prayer from the appreciate anything else about Islam, Oh, some of it, it's just, it's so--it is, in Chants of medieval Christianity, right? Or those marvelous songs that our Jewish brothers of remembers the Holocaust. Five times a day. I heard a Muslim say nature calls our name. We pray at those you're going through the day, and aren't nature, like, &quot;Hey!&quot; [knocks] Right? How many photographs of sun-ups have you seen, right? A beautiful dawn like &quot;Wow!&quot; That's one of those times. Same with sunset, oh, that's nature saying &quot;Hey, whatever you're doing, pause a moment,&quot; right, &quot;put down I think that is, that is beautiful. Okay, let me give you an example of a I think you'll agree it reads a little praise belongs to God, the Lord of all all-compassionate, the master of the day serve, to thee alone we pray for comfort, of those whom thou has blessed, not of of those who are astray.&quot; That reads a lot have to tell you, and in part it is world and its relationship with the is righteous, we are not, right? The world straight path or you are wandering or woe unto thee, right? Very black and grey area? Well, not here. Okay. The third poor, right, basically we, you know, we think of it as charity, charity. Originally, I think, Allah, which I like a lot, right? Hey, buddy the case may be. And it varies from situation, oftentimes it's a tax that is this: And when you see the real urge here, it's, it's just something I wish that to this: if you have, you give, and if you don't, you receive. It's that simple. Work it out however you want, I mean, come on, come on, I think we could learn something here. If you have, you share, right? You share. And if you don't, somebody's gonna share with you. that's it's not just religious, as far as right? It's just human. Now, Particularly during the month of Ramadan, Muhammad received the first of his Now, during what month of our calendar Exactly. We're on the lunar calendar, calendar, Muslims are on the lunar fall in a different month month not unlike the season of Lent, not, you know, not to punish yourself, not punishment for punishment sake, but to help you understand better, and perhaps have. You basically go throughout the day you're going to eat just enough to get depends on where you are, and the Muslims that you are with, as to how strictly this is observed, right? And I would religious traditions, the more urban the tradition, the more liberal it will be, into rural areas you go, the more again, not 100% the case, but that's part of the problem in the United States that the Muslims to whom we have been conservative ones, but the fundamentalist to the point where, as we have talked humanity of one's fellow humans. I think right? I think it is. And unfortunately I as a nation to 9/11 was very much the of another, particularly when you baptize you want, because God told you to. God How're you gonna argue with that? He didn't really so it's all good, it's all good,. But, yeah, oh, no, you baptize your it's not just Muslims who have about some of those crazy hate groups, them consider themselves to be Christian, that they are doing God's holy will! Go to Israel today, and here's a minefield, literally and metaphorically, Jews, right? The more conservative, even show you in the scripture that what they that wall between them and the blessed by God, and see, to me, that's start talking in that kind of rhetoric, of the things you lose, right--you gain seems to me you lose is the ability to with other people, particularly people the will of the divine, right? If God gave let anything get in the way of using other people pain. Oh, life's too fifth of the five pillars is pilgrimage. pretty much every religious tradition. I and you know we're big on study abroad, favorite things about Elon, to see the students, because they literally step have a chance to look back in, and they didn't, until they get back here and right? The course is about sacred space, down throughout history have chosen by these--particular places that they about this we when we were talking about place where there's a lot of mana, right? right. And I think we each have these, to, right, when you need to get yourself I don't know, I think it's one I mean, sure, it's recreational, but one of first time you see the ocean, you top feel myself shrink, and my problem proper perspective, I think, right? That's a place like the Cathedral of Notre Dame, to me, because on the one level, it is a time I went in, I don't know what I was well, I know what I wasn't expecting, I people like me! [laughs] The &quot;Tour-ons&quot; as I shuffling through, and it, you know, it Smithsonian, right, huh? And I don't know, it's just, I couldn't different story, you know, if you get corner somewhere, and a particular window to look at, and that, something about that cobalt blue that you find in so many of that's the one that always gets me. But a my students who went with us to France during our our student undergraduate table, as a sacred space for the French. Fast food? Oh, No. Thanksgiving like mine? Like six hours in and hey let's get back to the ball game? American, I didn't realize how American restaurant, and the waiters are not We got more people seat.&quot; No, it's like there's something about that, there is people, and I know I'm chasing a go with it, okay? The very act of vulnerability, there's some vulnerability tends to open things up a little bit, went out with your spouse, or the first right? Something changes, intimacy, there's an intimacy, that we eating a cheeseburger, right? I mean, it guilty of that a time or two. But, no, no no no. And I love what the student is doing because it doesn't--just because it understanding of what is religious, of it's either that this or that, right--doesn't mean it doesn't, it can't carry some deep spiritual significance, right? And, you really have something going, right? Yeah. Muslim is expected, if at all possible, at to the holy city of Mecca, right? The very for some reason, that city is so special, history of Islam, Muhammad did not say, you need to travel to Mecca. He said city for a couple of other religious commonality, right? Oh! That city, that city secret to the future. To a more peaceful it is a city where Jews live, and They do! They do. If they learn how to do somewhere else? And everywhere else? I mean, come on, why not. Oh, Jerusalem! And you know what the name means, right? Yeru Shalom, city of peace. Oh, may it be so, or to say it in the to Mecca. Now, I've never been on the Hajj, I'd love to go, but I'm not Muslim. I know tell me it's a life-changing experience. &quot;The Autobiography of Malcolm X&quot;? Or read Denzel Washington, come on! That's enough, right? Yeah, playing Malcolm X. Malcolm X--and I don't know, speaking of the media, right-- alive. It's the 60s, it's a volatile time, black, and he was angry. He was angry. Judge him all you want, but if you look shoes, if you step into his shoes, right, think about that next time you hear a okay, he's in prison when he meets a the black Muslims, right? first time, that he is equal to any man. whole life, had been referred to by man. Never, in his life, would he be a man the first time, he hears &quot;you are equal why that might appeal to him. He actually ranks, right? And it's in his autobiography, and in that movie, when he goes to Mecca on the Hajj, he comes back point, he is very he is a very angry who had always called him and treated where everyone dresses alike. No right? For the first time, he sees people living together, eating together, in peace. he comes back to the United States, you begins to change, and it's less about reconciliation, right? And then, of course Who knows what we lost? We'll never know, of understanding. Oh, oh, there it is again. Muslims. Sufi Muslims, the mystical U-M-I. Google Rumi. love this guy because he's writing with lost that worldly touch. entitled &quot;The Tavern,' and the first line take me home.&quot;Wwhich i think might be driver, right? [laughs] I love this guy because he sees the divine in and through nature, which is to say he's a Muslim, the divine is understood to be separate in, right? But he actually is shifting understanding things, that you find the and not outside it, right? And for him, And he uses the imagery--and this may does, then read the Song of Solomon, right, into the Bible, I don't know, but I on it, okay)--but he uses this, he uses rather racy language, but what he's doing religious folks in different religious certain metaphors, and again, it's our relationship with the divine. There's father and we're the children, right? use the term servants, but in the ancient word would be slaves, right? Again, do you either way, right? Well, there's this kind of love: it's the love of a couple. just all, you know, sanitized and physical, no, no! It embodies itself in the in particular--as with other religions. You think of the Kama Sutra, right, from Hinduism? And again it's in the Jewish and Christian scriptures, right? That we live in these bodies, God them to be filthy and sinful and carnal just one reading of the situation, and God appears to his ardent lover--that absorbed in him, and not so much as a like that about somebody? &quot;Oh, baby, talking about. True lovers are as shadows, shadows vanish away. He is a true lover thou art mine,&quot; right? Wedding vows, wedding vows. &quot;Love exalts our earthly bodies--&quot; not just our spirits, our earthly bodies, &quot;--to with joy. Oh lover, 'twas love that gave Moses fell down in a swoon.&quot; And then there's this, and I cannot think at least this leg of our journey when I blamed my companion if his however, my heart accepts every form. It for monks, a temple for icons, and a Kaaba Amen.