Translator: Peter van de Ven Thank you for joining me. On February, 8, 2012, The truth is that was the day For all intents and purposes, It started with memory lapses, and as time went on, and it got to the point his own kids who came in to see him. His personality changed, and his ability to take care And... If you could make a list of all the things the very last thing on your list, the thing you want the least because when you lose your memory, You lose everyone If you could look into the brain what you see is, between the brain cells Beta-amyloid protein and it accumulates that are in front of you, They shouldn't be there, and they are a hallmark This disease affects about half You could say to your doctor, &quot;OK, I don't want that. Your doctor will say, There's a gene - it's called If you have this gene if you got it from both parents, your risk is 10 to 15 times What's the answer? Get new parents? No, I don't think so. That's not it. So, I'm sorry: it's old age, there's not a darn thing you can do Or maybe not. In Chicago, researchers the Chicago Health and Ageing Project. What they did was they looked They did very careful dietary records and then they started to see stayed mentally clear, The first thing they keyed in on was something that I knew about as a kid My mom had five kids, we would run My mom would take a fork, and she'd stick it into the frying pan and put them on and when all the bacon was out of the pan, and pour the grease that's good bacon grease, My mother would take that jar, and she would put it not in the refrigerator because my mother knew what happens to it? It solidifies. And the fact that it's solid is a sign that bacon grease We've known for a long time and there's a lot of in bacon grease. And by the way, the next day, she'd spoon it back it's amazing any of her children That's the way we lived. The number one source of saturated fat it's dairy products, and meat is number two. In Chicago, some people ate around 13 grams a day, and others ate about twice that much, and the researchers just looked And can I show you the figures? Here's the low group, In other words, if you are avoiding but if you were tucking your risk was two, Then they looked they looked at the fat you know what that is, that's trans fats They found the very same pattern So, the people who tended to avoid wanted to avoid them for cholesterol but they also seem to affect the brain. Then researchers in Finland said, There is a condition we call You're still yourself - you're driving, but you're having mental lapses, They brought in over 1,000 adults, and they looked at their diets. Then, as time went on, they looked to see who developed mild cognitive impairment. Some of these people some people ate a fair amount, and then they looked They found exactly the same pattern. In other words, it's not just, but, &quot;Will I just have Well, what about that gene, the one that condemns you Well, they then redid the study, and some of these people ate some people ate more, and-- ...Exactly the same. In other words, if you are even if you have the gene, your risk of developing And this is my most important point: genes are not destiny. Let's take another look in those plaques. We know there's beta amyloid protein, Metals in my brain? That's right, there are metals in foods, Now think about this: and we had a backyard barbecue, &quot;Oh... I left my frying pan on the picnic table, What happened to my pan? It rusted, and that rust is oxidation. Or you take a shiny new penny, No, it oxidizes too. Well, iron and copper and as they do that, they cause the production You've heard of free radicals: free radicals are molecules that are swimming around and they get into the brain, that seam through the connections So, how is this happening? Where am I getting all this iron? How can that be? How many people have a cast iron pan? Let me see hands. If that's your once a month pan, But if it's every single day, and it's more iron than your body needs. Or copper pipes. Who has copper pipes? That water sits and in the morning and you're drinking that copper, you get more than you need, and it starts producing If you're a meat eater, there's iron and copper And we used to think, &quot;Isn't that great?&quot; until we realized You need a little bit, it becomes toxic. Vitamins. Vitamin manufacturers and vitamin C, and vitamin D. And then they throw in iron and copper, not recognizing you're already and if they add it to your supplement, OK, so what am I saying? What I'm saying is aside from the fact will increase our risk, and they are causing sparks free radicals to form And if that's the case, And we have one, Vitamin E is in spinach, and it's especially in nuts and seeds. And in Chicago, some people eat a little bit of it, and the beauty of this it knocks out free radicals. So, if what I'm saying is true, then the people in Chicago would be at much higher risk and that's exactly People getting eight milligrams cut their risk of Alzheimer's compared to people getting less than that. Hmm, OK, how do I get that? It's very, very easy: run to the store No, I don't think so, and here's why not. Nature has eight forms of vitamin E. It's built into nuts and into seeds, but if I put it into my supplement pill, I can legally call it vitamin E And if you're eating too much it reduces your absorption So, you want to get it from food; that's the form that nature and that's the form We can go a step further. Oh, by the way, I forgot to tell you. How much should I have? If I put some nuts or seeds by the time it hits your fingers, and that's about five milligrams The trick is: don't eat it; because if you do, If you have those diced salty almonds, you fill your hand again, There's something about salty cashews There's something about them, they're So, don't do that, that's going to be The answer is pour them into your hand, and then crumble them up, or put them on your oatmeal, Use them as a flavoring then you're going to be OK. All right, researchers went one step further. Not just saturated fat, but they said, &quot;What about color?&quot; Look at blueberries and grapes: And the colors of blueberries those are called anthocyanins. They brought in a group of individuals average age: 78, and everyone And what they asked them to do A cup in the morning, a cup at night. Three months later, they tested everyone, and their memory was better, Three months? That sounds too easy. How can that be? Well, think about it: A grape has to sit on the vine, and exposed to the elements, Or does it? That purple color, those anthocyanins happen to be powerful antioxidants, but they're the grape form, and if you consume them, And if that's true, it could be anything that has that color. Like blueberries. So, back into the laboratory: a new group of patients, they came in, And three months on blueberry juice, Their memory was better, Now, the moral of the story and blueberry juice, and grape juice. No, the answer is color. If you look at the colorful foods, You walk into the grocery store, and from a hundred feet away, you can recognize beta-carotene, lycopene, anthocyanins. Your retina can detect them because that's the orange color or the purple color of a grape. And the brain also tells you you can recognize antioxidants, So, back in 2009, my organization, the Physicians Committee went to the Department of Agriculture. We said, &quot;This is important. The pyramid was a nice shape, but it had a meat group, despite the fact that people happened to be healthier And also, who eats off a pyramid anyway? We eat off a plate. So, we devised a plate that said fruits, and grains, and legumes those should be the staples. Well, we gave this to the USDA in 2009, So, in 2011, we sued the Physicians Committee simply to compel response. And did you see what the US government I'm not taking any credit for this, but this is now US government policy, and it does look in some way similar to what we'd sent them Fruits, and grains, and vegetables, and they have this thing The protein group could be meat, but it could be beans, or tofu, or nuts, it doesn't have to be meat. In fact, there is no meat group anymore There's a dairy group there, So, things are improving. So far, what we've talked about is getting away from the saturated fats, getting away from the trans fats you're having the vitamin E and there's one more step. It's not all food, there's something At the University of Illinois, researchers brought in and they said, a brisk walk, After a year, everyone went They measured the hippocampus which is at the center of the brain, it decides what should be and what should not be let through. It turned out that this organ, which is gradually shrinking suddenly, stopped shrinking. The exercisers found that their hippocampus and a little bit bigger, it was as if time was going backwards: and on memory tests, So, I've devised my own exercise plan. I'd like to present it to you, Arrive at the airport as late as possible, carry massively heavy luggage, (Laughter) At the University of Illinois and their idea was a little simpler. Do a ten-minute walk, And then, next week, and the week after that, 20. All they did was add five minutes a week And a 40-minute brisk walk - this is not a trudge, 40 minutes, three times a week is all you need to improve memory Very simple. What I would like to do and I want to sit down with my dad, and I want to say, &quot;Dad, I found out We can change our diet, we don't really need There's plenty of healthy things Let's bring in let's make them part of our everyday fair. Let's lace up our sneakers, It's too late for him. But it's not too late for you. It's not too late for me either, and if we take advantage about how we can protect our brain, then perhaps, families will be able Thank you very much.