Let's just go ahead and face it If you're making cold brew at home, from scratch, you're addicted to coffee. And maybe, well, probably just caffeine as a whole. But that's okay. Let me be of assistance. Why &quot;cold brew&quot; right? Why? Cold brew vs Iced Coffee Cold brew extracts the coffee very slowly over a long period of time which limits the amount of acidity and bitterness that is already involved in coffee making. The heat in coffee tends to extract a little bit of bitterness and much more acidity. Whereas with cold brew, you got a lower acidity, lower bitterness And an overall smoother flavor. And more importantly, a higher -- wow that is a lot of saliva My mouth is obviously getting excited for cold brew. Plus not to mention a much higher caffeine content so -- You're welcome. Now with cold brew comes good beans. Obviously that's kind of a given but you know, use your favorite or ideally use a locally sourced, maybe a freshly roasted coffee. Some sites say that older coffee is better but that is up to you. Now we're going to be doing two different methods. But they both use the same grind consistency and same ratio of coffee:water. Now we're going to start off by grinding 1.5 cups (80g) of coffee beans. Now when you're grinding the coffee, keep in mind that you want the grind consistency to be relatively course, something like course cornmeal. Then simply add that coffee to a half gallon container. In this case, I used a half gallon mason jar. They're really great and they're cheap. Now for Method 1 which is the Immersion Cold Brew method. So to these beans you're going to add 6 cups (1400g) of cold or room temp water. Either/or, you just don't want it to be hot. Ideally filtered. Give that a good stir to make sure you've hydrated all the grounds. Put a lid on it and place it in the fridge for 12-24 hours. 24 hours will make a much stronger brew. And 12 hours will make a pretty light brew. Now for Method 2, the Hot Bloom method. This is essentially the same thing but this time you're only going to add 1/3 of your water which has been heated up until it's steaming hot, not quite boiling but pretty hot. And if you want to be specific, probably 205 degrees F Give that a little stir to hydrate the beans And let it sit for 1 minute, no more no less. Then immediatly after that minute add the remaining 4 cups of water and make sure that water is cold. So you want to cool this mixture right back down. Yet again, give it another stir. Put a lid on it and in the fridge for 12-24 hours. Now once that 12-24 hours is up Remove it from the fridge and now we gotta strain it. Now since I've give you two different methods to brew the cold brew It only seems right to give you two different methods to strain it. Now the first one, would be through a fine mesh strainer with cheesecloth laid over it. Downside and drawback of this method is that if you strain it through this and you're grinder doesn't get a super consistent grind then it's gonna be a little bit gritty. You're gonna get a little bit of grittiness through there. So this may not be a good choice for everybody. Now the other method that I've figured out is pouring through a pour-over type coffee situation. So I'm basically pouring it through the filter of the pour-over AKA my Chemex. And this actually filters out all the grounds. So it's super smooth, no gritty Literally zero grittiness no matter how inconsistent your grinder is. Takes a bit longer but hey, it works. Now you can also get this thing called a CoffeeSock. It basically brews it and strains it for you. I'll put a link in the description if you want to get it. I personally don't use one but a lot of people have been DMing me on Instagram about it So I thought I'd give it a little shout out. So that is it, Cold brew coffee. I don't really know what else to say. It's coffee. It's iced. It's got a lot of caffeine in it. Much more than regular iced coffee. And whichever method you choose, I trust you. [humming in background] Just gonna wait for this refrigerator. ... No, it's fine...please...continue. You done? OK. You get the gist. If you don't already follow me on Instagram, be sure to check the link below. Follow me, DM me your creations. I love seeing what you're makin' And as always, if you enjoyed this video or you learned something, leave a like, subscribe, and I will see you next week. [END]