In 2022, the American to a low not seen since I think a lot of people cooped up during the we're transitioning plus So it definitely has Economists will look at sort of benign light early part of the starting to get spent level, though, that's This real time dip in lot of people. 70% say they are stressed finances, and that earning $100,000 or And the main factors stress for the six inflation, economy wide rates and a lack of The basic necessities of your income. It becomes That said. Americans are sitting than they had in the According to bank deposit whole are still better traditionally been. How much depends on distribution you're on. Regardless, Americans drawing down those quarter of 2022. So why did Americans effect will that have on people that we call the My name is Mykail, but the bougie budgeter easy. I am currently Arizona. The majority of US accounts. Mykail households. I do take about 8% of my income, and that is to My company matches at I also try to save an well as another about put towards my investing So my personal savings I shoot for about a 15% auto deposited right savings account because I will accidentally recovering over spender. And that was my solution Collectively, Americans savings than they did For a broad swath of financial condition is than it was But those cash cushions first time in years. The personal saving rate Americans hold onto regular spending. It's basically just the not consumed. Much of that income, define broadly as tends to go toward basic food, health care, In February 2023, the hovering around 4.5%. That's compared to a under 9%. You would see spikes those stimulus checks were not getting spent. Of course, the other in the pandemic is money on the things that spending on. As inflation has set in, has taken a tumble. This rate only describes saving. Take a look at by customers and banks is way more value in any time before the A lot of people would that occurred early in like 2 to 2 and one half savings above what we expected were saved by Over the past 9 to 12 savings has eroded. It's probably somewhere half trillion range. You had folks across the bit of a war chest of has helped to buoy the a place like the US a big part of GDP. The top half of earners excess savings. That's much as the bottom half, economists. But they still collectively holds excess savings. By their count, it per household. A note that you have $5,000 in It may have gone to pay student debt or a wards your retirement. 37% of Americans have not savings and 45% of touched it or have taken But the majority is Only 17% of Americans exhausted their pandemic That cushion may be Inflation, a nd the across categories, whether it be fuel, you're seeing cost clearly people's current extent they have into those savings are just more expensive. a pre-pandemic world family had about five there's not a whole lot system to be able to without income. Economists believe that far kept people spending recession. At the same population is living according to recent Take a look at our poll country. What you'll pessimistic about the economy and they're future. That's an all I think the consumer is The concern I have is talking about this going to have, which we last year. Then we were first quarter of this to have it the second Sometimes when you scare thinking there's going will stop consuming and self-fulfilling Federal economists note rates of recent years Americans. When this cost to loan out cash And you can see the this other chart. Personal interest longer term trend savings, the economy expect those stockpiles These dynamics are world. Nearly all declining household States, trouble in the may affect the future rates. The Fed is trying to slow That reduction in might very well do that means that we may be rate hikes. The Fed's interest rate you make from saving. When the rate goes up, becomes more valuable. But if it goes down, your account offers in you are in. A rising interest rate Savings rates do tend to So right now the Fed has I doubt that very many savings rate on a checking account. It's a lot happening People are losing jobs. There's just so much if you're not having a just as long as you're There are many different but different methods you as a saver in the There's no easier way to money taken out of your it and have it go into a either getting a tax deferral, or it may just it's a Roth. But either out first. Cash stored under your delivers a negative US has inflation. As prices rise, your old it comes to your account. Big banks like Bank of America returns. By contrast, accounts can deliver The national average is I'm high yield all the dollars that I'm trying I suggest always any long term savings. I'm savings account, but six months to 24 months savings account. The national savings than 1% in 2023, but were netting 4%. That's much better than lower than inflation. And you may be shocked 0.1 or 0.3% and you can north of 4% without your cash. That's a game But not every bank offers not everyone seeks them Americans were unbanked This means they don't accounts. The most of funds, or they simply You've got to reset the banking is not individuals, who have lower income, extent that they are in checking and savings I think it's probably the families are leaving A high yield account is better rate than you savings account. You might often have to that account to qualify I had one of those moms just like me, and she account back in like savings rate was like Banks are offering higher Number one, they're business. And number hikes out of the Fed to lend to you at a Smaller banks often use their deposits. Even companies like this tactic, and getting into the game as like certificates of money work for you. I actually got my first mom. I was like, You I'm probably not going graduate and I'll let And I know that that is a lot different from where that rate is not CD usually carries a it also has a fixed So your money is going product until the term So there is a give and But I think for a lot of the cash to invest over the CD is a really good But no matter how you get a good start. Compound interest is So to the extent that away, even if it's below had set out maybe a year the environment looked That's okay. Don't be hard on today is still more than So if you can only start let that habit grow, amazing.