How are you doing? I know my sermon last week was called Did But I'm asking. How are you? Let me know how you're doing right there in Use your favorite emoji to tell me how you're I have to specify. We have all kinds of people who tune in. You never know what they'll... I don't want the Holy Spirit to leave the Give God praise if you're doing better than In other words, like, &quot;Hey, Preacher, that's I could have been, should have been, would hand emojis.&quot; Come on, throw a worship hand emoji in the South Carolina. If you have a reason to praise him, praise Anyway, I thank God for this opportunity to You may notice that it feels a little different. We're going to do it a little different today. We're having to do almost everything different What happened to me was that after I got done That's a weird sensation to be done preaching I wasn't seeking God for a sermon or anything. Holly and I went for a walk, and she started to her, and what God was speaking to her was I said, &quot;I'm going to take that and preach She said, &quot;You can't. I'm preaching soon. I'm going to preach it.&quot; I said, &quot;Oh, I'm taking that and preaching She said, &quot;You can't have it.&quot; I said, &quot;You're like our kids when we go and Did you ever buy your kids a whole meal, and a hot fry; it was one cold fry in the bag? It was one of those &quot;bottom of the bag&quot; fries, She told me about this one verse in the Bible I said, &quot;I want to preach that.&quot; She said, &quot;You can't have it.&quot; I said, &quot;Give me that fry, girl!&quot; So, this sermon today was stolen from the How appropriate. I told her, &quot;I'm taking your sermon, but you make it up to you, I'll preach it just to I have some of the most amazing musicians who snuck in who were here working. I told them, &quot;You can sit in the back.&quot; But in addition to those who are here helping can you get over here and help me record this her?&quot; They said, &quot;We can do it in an hour.&quot; So here we are to bring God's Word to you I believe God is going to give you a personal... Do you know what you might want to say in Say, &quot;This one is for me.&quot; I want to share with you a Scripture today of Did I Ask? We were saying last week that when we stop and what he put inside of us and start assuming, we kind of confine ourselves. I believe there's so much more God wants to to share this passage with you today. The It's actually appropriate that there are just to you today about Just the 2 of Us. As we share this time together today, I want The Bible says in verse 8, &quot;One day Elisha And a well-to-do woman was there, who urged So whenever he came by, he stopped there to She said to her husband, 'I know that this of God. Let's make a small room on the roof and put &quot;Let's put in a lamp too. Go over there to IKEA, and let's hook up this &quot;'Then he can stay there whenever he comes One day when Elisha came, he went up to his He said to his servant Gehazi, 'Call the Shunammite.' So he called her, and she stood before him. Elisha said to him, 'Tell her, &quot;You have gone Now what can be done for you? Can we speak on your behalf to the king or She replied, 'I have a home among my own people.' 'What can be done for her?' Elisha asked.&quot; &quot;I wonder what I could do for her.&quot; What if God is not conspiring about how to What if God is brainstorming how to bless What if God isn't up in heaven trying to figure or a hernia or a flat tire to get you back What if God and the angels today are brainstorming &quot;Gehazi said, 'She has no son, and her husband Then Elisha said, 'Call her.' So he called her, and she stood in the doorway. 'About this time next year...'&quot; How many of y'all are ready for next year? &quot;'About this time next year,' Elisha said, 'No, my lord!' she objected.&quot; Gave up on that. Not that. &quot;'Please, man of God, don't mislead your servant!' But the woman became pregnant, and the next a son, just as Elisha had told her. The child grew, and one day he went out to He said to his father, 'My head! My head!' His father told a servant, 'Carry him to his After the servant had lifted him up and carried until noon, and then he died. She went up and laid him on the bed of the She called her husband and said, 'Please send go to the man of God quickly and return.' 'Why go to him today?' he asked. 'It's not the New Moon or the Sabbath.' 'That's all right,' she said. She saddled the donkey and said to her servant, tell you.' So she set out and came to the man of God When he saw her in the distance, the man of There's the Shunammite! Run to meet her and ask her, &quot;Are you all Is your husband all right? Is your child all right?&quot;' 'Everything is all right,' she said. When she reached the man of God at the mountain, Gehazi came over to push her away, but the She is in bitter distress, but the Lord has Just the 2 of Us. Lord, would you fill every heart with your Would you make it so that there is a direct they could hear from you the words they need We thank you that anything is possible in We thank you that nothing is impossible for Is there anything too hard for you? There's nothing too hard for you. Is there anything too small for you? Nothing is too small for you. You can do anything. We believe it, and we receive it. In Jesus' name, amen. You may be seated, Holly, and others. Just the two of us. This is kind of cool, girl. You get a personalized sermon. Never before. Well, it has been close. People were asking me, &quot;What's it like preaching That's one of the questions. I was preaching about questions last week. People will say, &quot;What's it like preaching I said, &quot;It kind of takes me back.&quot; I said, &quot;I kind of like it.&quot; Then I could see they were offended. They were like, &quot;You don't like having us You don't want us there? You don't want us in the room?&quot; I was like, &quot;It's not that, but sometimes There were times when we first started... Our ministry didn't start when people saw How many would say that about your life? &quot;You should have seen the beta version of Oh, you think I'm messed up now. God has really been working on me.&quot; The crazy thing about this season of quarantine can't have mass gatherings of church and all I knew that if it came down to it, Holly would In fact, the first thing I did when they started I called many of these same people who are building. I called them in and said, &quot;Get over to my I want a camera in the basement. I want a laminated instruction thing printed it comes to it, I know I can put Holly behind and if it can go out, we can find a way to It might not be pretty, professional, well to get his word out.&quot; We didn't have to do it, but we could have. As a matter of fact, what a lot of people musicians like LJ were here to play, Holly I just want to take y'all back for a minute. When you're first starting out in ministry, When we would travel around... I told you last week how Holly was on my summer I was the leader, and we would go into these A lot of times, we'd be with little kids at then we would be with some senior adults in I would go out there with the kids in the Sometimes we would go just the two of us. This is what I always remember. If the whole worship team quit, I could grab by ear, because I've had experience. Sometimes it's good to go back. I said, &quot;Holly, I want to go over and preach we used to walk into those churches.&quot; I would strum a D bar chord and sing... Cast your burdens unto Jesus, Cast your burdens unto Jesus, You know, you'd be going into these places it would be like you'd have to start it from It was worse than this. At least the camera operators want to be here. In those rooms, you'd have somebody who got you'd make them do hand motions. Holly, show them what we used to do. I did not ask her if she would do this. I just figured if I turned on the cameras Higher, higher Show them how to lift Jesus higher, Holly. Higher, higher Lift Jesus higher! Y'all aren't ready. Lower, lower Stomp Satan lower! Lower, lower Stomp Satan lower! Oh, it's good to go back. I figured if they didn't let anybody come the church, we could go in the basement, and and the Holy Ghost, we could preach this word We can lift Jesus and stomp Satan, just the That's how we started. Then we couldn't do that at night, because were over 80. It would be a Baptist church revival. Everybody in there was doing their best to They weren't trying to lift him or stomp him So you'd slow it down. You'd do something like... When I think about the Lord How he filled me with the Holy Ghost Then Holly would hit the harmony for me. When I think about the Lord How he placed my feet on solid ground Hallelujah! Thank you, Jesus! Lord, you're worthy of all the glory, It's good to think back. &quot;When I think about the Lord.&quot; Do you remember that? It was just you and me, singing stuff like... What a friend we have in Jesus What a privilege to carry Hit them with a little D run, Chris Brown. Then after you get done with that, hit them You just call out my name... A little Carole King. And you know wherever I am (No, you're not alone, even if it's just the Winter, spring, summer, or fall And I'll be there (yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah)... You know, make it Christian. Thank you, Jesus, Then I like those hymns nobody knows, too, Come, ye disconsolate Come to the mercy seat Here bring your wounded hearts Earth has no sorrow My Jesus, I love thee, I know thou art mine My gracious Redeemer, my Savior art thou It's good to go back. Come on, give him praise. It's good to go back. I like the worship team we have now, and I I'm not trying to take anybody off the payroll, I know you're thinking, &quot;I thought we were Well, sometimes you have to look back to go forward, I'll freak out. Just look back real quick. Lion? Bear? Cool. God is strong. I believe God's resume gives me reason to rejoice. I just need to know. How many of you, even though you felt lonely God is going to do, you have some kind of did the things for you, did the stuff back you need him to do? Even if it's just me and Jesus... Some of us are watching this by ourselves. We'd rather be with other people, but we're Even through this screen, the Spirit of God God has got a word for me today. Oh, I just felt something. Paul and Silas were in Philippi all by themselves. Holly, I'll be Paul; you be Silas. We're not where we wanted to be. The situation looks bleak. We have a chain on our wrist, been in quarantine, but you be Paul; I'll be Silas. The church isn't full, but if we start praising happen, miracles come! Just the two of us! We can get this done! It doesn't take many if you have much. Just the two of us. Something about that just comforted me. Just walking around the block with Holly, I was like, &quot;Wow!&quot; thinking about how God In the passage we read, we talked about Elisha Elisha's ministry is interesting because it The ministry of a prophet was a lonely life. Not only were you standing up to kings in Oh, prophets would have gotten canceled so Every prophet would have been out of business. You had some of them walking around naked. Some of them were lighting up animal excrement (Tim, do not get any ideas for rhythm night. I can see your wheels turning right now. You're like, &quot;Okay. Dung, nudity...&quot; No. I'm telling you right now, you're not going The prophets really had to rely on God. The thing about saying, &quot;All I need is Jesus. Just me and Jesus. What a friend I have in Jesus...&quot; He can't hug you. &quot;Yes, he does. He embraces me in my...&quot; Shut up. I'm talking about like a human hug. He can't hug you like that. So, as simple as this sounds, I want you to Sometimes when we ask God to use us, we have Have you ever asked a question you wished I asked somebody one time, &quot;How was my sermon?&quot; incorrect that I said in the sermon, and I thing. I said, &quot;Man, I'll never ask you again.&quot; I've learned not to ask your kids unless you Other people have this layer of professional but if you ask your kids, they'll tell you. Graham told me in Singapore, preaching over He said, &quot;Dad, watching you try to say that cringiest moment of my childhood. You can never use that joke again. Dad, it was so bad.&quot; I said, &quot;I've got it, Graham. I've got it. But did I say anything good?&quot; He said, &quot;I couldn't hear anything you said bush was lit.' Please, Dad, don't try to be cool. Don't try to be relevant.&quot; So don't ask your kids. If I ask Larry Brey, I feel pretty cool. Don't ask your kids. Sometimes it's best not to ask. What I love about the passage is that God Get this if this is for you. I promise you God has a word for you today, what it is. God met the prophet's needs through someone Remember last week? The crowds got fed, and they didn't even ask Remember those times in your life where God You didn't even ask him to remove them, but the rest of your life, so he took them right them back. God took them out even though you were begging God is so good like that. He is good enough to give you what you ask So, while we're quoting Ephesians 3:20, &quot;He's Have you ever noticed how while we're saying, saying, &quot;God, I thank you; you can do more what we planned? How is he going to do more than you ask if None of us asked for the situation we're in What drew me to this passage was that Elisha Y'all don't know anything about host homes. We didn't stay at hotels when we would minister No, sir. You got the host home. If you were lucky, you had the bedroom to 8-year-old. You never knew until you got to the host home. If you were lucky, they could cook. If you were lucky, they didn't keep you up But they don't know anything about a host You didn't have a contract or a rider. So, the prophet is staying at Carmel, and a woman... The Bible calls her a well-to-do woman, but She was a great woman. She was great materially. She was also great in the ways you can't see. She was so great as a woman that she had the to do it. That makes you great. What got my attention was that Elisha didn't Does God have to ask you to do everything? Do you remember when Graham asked, &quot;Mom, am Mom, am I supposed to change my underwear These are things kids ask, and it's like, Do you really need to ask God certain stuff? There's some stuff that God shouldn't have There's some stuff you shouldn't have to ask &quot;You mean you want me to praise you today?&quot; God shouldn't have to ask you for praise. If he gave you breath, you ought to want to It belongs to him. I love when I'm dealing with somebody and little thing. Maybe it's just me as a pastor, but I love thing. I shouldn't have to ask everything. That's what I love about our staff at the I don't have to ask every single thing. All I said was, &quot;Get me a guitar in case I Us in the empty room.&quot; I didn't have to ask him to tune it; he just I texted Chris this morning. I said, &quot;I'm going over to preach. I'm doing it on Just the 2 of Us. I'm going to put just Holly out there and you to come over too.&quot; He said, &quot;I'm already on my way.&quot; I didn't even have to ask. He wanted the Word. He's like, &quot;Oh, you think I need to be on I want this word. You don't have to ask me. I want to do it. I want to serve God. I want to preach. I don't have to; I get to.&quot; I used to walk around thanking our volunteers. We would have these nights, back when I used back before it was against the law and human hand. I would shake their hands. We would have these nights where I would thank and I would shake their hands. I'd say, &quot;Thank you for serving. Thank you for giving.&quot; Almost every time, they'd say, &quot;No. Thank you.&quot; And I'd say, &quot;No. Thank you.&quot; They'd say, &quot;No. Thank you.&quot; I'd be like, &quot;Quit canceling out my 'thank I'm giving you gratitude. Receive it.&quot; Like, we're both standing there trying to &quot;I get to do this.&quot; My son Elijah said to me the other day, &quot;Thank I said, &quot;I wanted to. It's fun to work out with you. I love working out with you. I can do more weight than you, so it's good I didn't have to beg her to come preach this She said, &quot;What time?&quot; I said, &quot;I don't know yet.&quot; She said, &quot;I'll clear the schedule.&quot; Do you know what it's like to know that in somebody you can count on? That I don't have to ask you, &quot;Are you still We used to say, like Jonathan's armorbearer I'm with you.&quot; Do you have that kind of spirit? &quot;God, I'm with you. If the wheels fall off, I'm with you. If they shut it down, I'm with you. If it's good, I'm with you. If we're in the limo, I'm with you. If we have to hitchhike, I'm with you. If we have to get on a scooter, if we have I love it. God will send you somebody in every season. It might not be who you expected, it might way to get it to you, and he will use someone. It was someone he didn't even ask. She just had an idea. She didn't go into a trance. &quot;Lord, I want to be used by you. God, will you speak to me? Speak!&quot; You know how we do. &quot;Lord, show me your will. What is your will, Lord? For thine is the kingdom.&quot; Bust out the King James English, asking God God will show you something really deep. She did something simple. Notice the connection. The deepest desire of her life was met when It's even more powerful when you consider with a great big house and an old husband... The Bible says he was so old that when the He had to send him to his mom. That's who she was living with. She said to the prophet, &quot;Come over and eat Do you know what the Bible says? The Bible says she urged him. See? I didn't even have to ask them to put the They just did it. Do you see how this works? I didn't even have to ask. They just did it. That's called a prompter. This is crazy. The people who are running this today are the moment I said, &quot;Urged him,&quot; they put the How sensitive are you to the prompting of Or does God have to push you? Does God have to prod you or can he just prompt How hard is it for God to get you to say, How hard is it for God to get you to do something How hard is it for God to get you to do something of God? It's not hard. It was harder for her to convince him to come him. She had to urge him. &quot;Please come eat.&quot; She had to ask him more than once. I don't know where you're watching from. It's just the two of us right now. I want to show you something. I wanted to share this message with just the I wanted to show you how God will send people Elisha the prophet had a servant who was a He had a servant, Gehazi, who had no character. See, Elisha knew what it was like to stand Do you remember? Can I go back to when Elijah the prophet was a three-year drought? He stood up on the top of Mount Carmel, but there's often a difference between what you You can have great power publicly and great When he was up on the mountain, he said, &quot;I'm and he called down fire. Do you remember this? He said, &quot;I'm the only one left.&quot; Then when Jezebel threatened him, he ran for For 40 days he had to run. He left his servant, and he went into a cave. God sent him the fire and the wind, but he the whisper. God doesn't have to shout, because he's not God doesn't have to shout. That's what the Devil does to scare you away. He whispered, and he said, &quot;What are you doing He asked him a question, and Elijah said, Have you ever felt like that? &quot;I'm the only one who cares. I'm the only one in this marriage who cares. I'm the only one carrying this responsibility.&quot; I know you've felt this way as a leader before, &quot;I'm the only one who sees what needs to be God told him, &quot;Go back the way you came, because His name is Elisha. It sounds a lot like yours, because y'all When you get to him, I want you to take your I know you feel alone, but I have somebody I don't mean to turn this into a dating seminar, seasons of loneliness we isolate, but God Even if you are not married right now, even right now... I know what that feels like. I've been lonely, and I am married. I've been lonely, and I have kids. I've been lonely in this room filled with On the outside I was smiling, but on the inside Nobody knew what I was carrying. Nobody knew what had just happened 30 minutes Nobody knew the hate I was dealing with from In these moments of isolation, you might feel you. Even if it's just this moment... What if God sent this message today? You've been on the brink of suicide. You've been on the brink of giving up, and and put Holly and all them here, and they're now. God is trying to bring you back to a place he answered. He hears before I call. Elisha followed Elijah for many years. The two of them had a special connection. You don't read many of the details, but they time for the Lord to take Elijah from Elisha, of fire... By the way, bonus point: Elijah was scared one of the few characters in Scripture who The thing you're worrying about may never The thing you're running from... You don't have to run from it. I love Elisha, because when Elijah said, &quot;Stay what Elisha said in 2 Kings 2:2. Elijah said, &quot;Stay here; the Lord has sent But Elisha said, &quot;As surely as the Lord lives That sounds like Jesus. &quot;I will never leave you nor forsake you.&quot; So, if somebody else did, and it's just the not alone.&quot; God will give you someone you need in every I've been praying a new prayer lately. Every morning I've been praying this, just It doesn't take me long. I just say, &quot;Lord, put somebody on my mind bless. Put somebody on my mind today.&quot; And then (I have to be honest; I'm selfish), Because God uses people. Yeah, it's just me and Jesus, but God uses The way he meets needs is through people. So, the prophet Elisha is used to a lonely He has been with a mentor who hid in caves. He has been with a mentor who was unpopular When the woman invites him... This Shunammite woman, who is a great woman She looks at her husband one day and says, I get tired of just cooking for the two of Let's have the prophet over.&quot; She didn't even pray about it. You don't have to pray about everything. Just do something for God. She didn't go on a 40-day fast to see if she &quot;Lord, I just don't know. If you want me to give to the church, give What other sign does he need to give you than Really? &quot;Give me a sign.&quot; She didn't have a sign; she had an idea. When she said to the husband... You know how it's hard to calculate when you're Holly was cooking for the boys and me a couple Abbey doesn't eat much, but the boys now... We have a 15-year-old and a 12-year-old. Their needs changed. The other day, we realized we're always running quantities of the food. It's still just as good, but there's not enough, needs change. Who God uses in one season of your life might He'll give you what you need for the season She turns to her husband and says, &quot;Let's She urged him. She begged the prophet. &quot;Please let me cook for you.&quot; &quot;Please, God, let me do it. Just let me do it.&quot; One of my friends said the other day, &quot;I'll to church right now. I will beat them black and blue with a tire I said, &quot;Calm down. This is disturbing.&quot; They said, &quot;I'll beat them unconscious to I want to be there so badly.&quot; Some people in the room probably just feel When did you start having to do what God gave It's a privilege to serve God. It's a privilege to preach to you. It's a privilege to do ministry. She said, &quot;Will you please come eat?&quot; She urged him. He probably pushed her away the first time. You know how you get used to pushing people good to you, when you're used to being unpopular. Elisha finally accepted. He got there, and he found out, &quot;She can cook,&quot; It said he would come there often. He stopped by, and he would eat. One day, she said to her husband, &quot;I think this house, the room we had in case God ever This woman had probably prayed for years, She probably asked God many times, &quot;God, give She would ask again, and she would ask harder, So eventually, at some point, she stopped I don't know when, if it was the first year Remember, her husband is old, so they've been too late. She stopped eventually. She stopped asking. Instead of asking God to give her something, There comes a point where instead of being to offer God what you have. She said, &quot;We have this extra room here, and I keep feeding him, but I feel bad every time he stays on his way back to Carmel when he So, since it's just the two of us, since we Since I didn't get the opportunity I wanted, why don't you meet me over at the church early, opportunity we do have? See, I was complaining. The first few months of quarantine, I was &quot;I can't preach with no crowd in the room.&quot; God said, &quot;I thought you didn't preach for So then I stopped asking, &quot;God, why can't &quot;God, what are the opportunities we have?&quot; Here's a great question: &quot;God, what are the my life because of my disappointments?&quot; She offered God the place of her disappointment. She said, &quot;We have that room on the roof that We never got to buy a bed for our son because We never got to put a desk in his room for We didn't get to give him a lamp or a nightlight. We never got to buy him any pajamas, but there's I refuse to stay stuck in the bitterness of You be Paul, I'll be Silas, and we will turn I'm telling you, if two of you will touch he will do it. You might be saying, &quot;I'm all alone right No, you're not. There's no stipulation on geography in Matthew He said if two of you will touch and agree... So, even if you're watching this by yourself, last week or even if your kid just told you just told you, &quot;No, we do not have the position the addiction that makes you feel like a fraud on the inside, God came to tell you, &quot;You I'll be Paul, you be Silas, and let's make I feel praise rising up in this place right I'm glad I came over today. It's just the two of us. &quot;We have more house than we have family. I have more time than I ever had before. God, I didn't plan on having all this extra God said, &quot;I gave you the extra to see if it, what you would do with the extra.&quot; In this place. What place? The place of her disappointment. This is what Holly told me on the walk before I started preaching it back to her. I said, &quot;This is too good to keep just between I've got to go preach it. I've got to preach it for the weekend. I've got to preach it for the eFam. I've got to preach it to all of the different But it started with just the two of us. She turned to her husband and said, &quot;Since of this prophet. You know that room we were going to...? Yeah. When we built this house, we built it with us, but why don't we just...?&quot; &quot;I thought by now in my life I was going to I didn't ask for this situation, but let me &quot;I didn't ask for this disappointment. I didn't ask for this thorn.&quot; What would it be like to offer God your disappointment...the Elisha is lying down one night. He's getting comfortable now. At first, she had to urge him for a meal. Now she can't get rid of him. I'm telling you, if you make God a place... He doesn't want to visit; he wants to stay. He doesn't just want to speak to you. You're like, &quot;Oh man. I wish I could listen to you preach all day.&quot; You don't have to listen to me preach all God will speak to you long after I shut up. Just make him a place. So, Elisha is lying down, and he asks Gehazi, That's what drew me to preaching it, because far will they go?&quot; I talked about how Jesus asked 308 questions how God is a God of questions even though Put a question mark in the chat. That's God's favorite punctuation. I think his second favorite is a comma, because it's not over. He's the God of the comma, but he's the God will you do with this disappointment? She turned it into a place God could use. Are you doing that right now or are you bitter? Are you in resentment, regret, shame, all Do you know what's crazy, Holly? Since it's just the two of us, I can show The question that led me to this text wasn't it. When he asked her that the first time, she She said in verse 13, &quot;I have a home among But Elisha asked again, &quot;What can be done This is amazing. He's up there asking God for something she You know how you can learn to live with certain I'll give you a version of this. &quot;I'll never be free from that. I'll just learn to finesse it.&quot; That could be anything in your life. Somebody thought of drugs. Somebody thought of sex. Somebody thought of negative thought patterns. It doesn't matter. You say, &quot;I'll never be free from it. I'm just going to stop asking.&quot; Especially if you raised your hand in church This is the time. This is the breakthrough. This is the one. This is it.&quot; Now it's kind of a way where you click on God's Word in so far. You get God's Word to cope with stuff, but This is the woman. She's a great woman, and God is using her, God for. What is that for you? After you've done everything you can do... This is a proactive woman. Didn't you see her pushing the prophet around? If you're going to boss Elisha around, you She's proactive. Do you see how she's talking to her husband? &quot;Get a table. Get a lamp. Go down there. I know you're old. I know your knees hurt, but we've got to take Let's get this room set up.&quot; She's not some passive woman, but in this And everybody has one. &quot;I guess I'll never be happy. I'll be happy when I get to heaven. Down here on earth, I'm going to just make Oh, this is the valley of the shadow of death.&quot; God said, &quot;I didn't want you to make the valley address.&quot; &quot;I guess I'll just stay in the cave. I guess I'll just be anxious. I guess I'll just live in this state. I guess this is just what it is.&quot; This is not all it is. &quot;What can be done for her?&quot; Elisha wanted to know. &quot;I know she said, 'Nothing.' I know she said she's all right. I know she said she's good. I know she's stable. I know she's great. I know I'm staying in her house, but everybody if nobody else knows it.&quot; Gehazi, the scoundrel, said, &quot;She doesn't Elisha said, &quot;Get her back.&quot; I heard God saying, &quot;Come back. Come back.&quot; Do you remember how he told Elijah, &quot;Go back &quot;You don't belong in a cave. You don't belong in this low state. You don't belong in this pattern. You don't belong in this place. This is not you. You're a child of God. Bring her back. I've got to do it. I want to bless her. I've been brainstorming ways to bless you. Nothing can cancel it. Nothing can stop it. I came all this way. I'm not going to stop now. I brought you this far. Come back.&quot; Then he made her the promise she had stopped &quot;About this time next year...&quot; It's one thing to tell her she's going to hold it in your arms.&quot; That's emotional. He's giving her a picture of something that praying. I went through a depression. The thing about Holly and me, when we were I didn't know if I could share this with you, she would see me hurting, and she could only She would see me hurting, but she would see It would come, and it would go, and it would During that time, I think I started to convince would cover it up by saying, &quot;I'm just going It doesn't matter how I feel.&quot; But to bury your disappointment is not a sustainable Elisha said, &quot;About this time next year, the Don't you love the passage? He didn't ask for a bed, and she didn't ask they didn't ask for. Is God giving you right now what you didn't anticipated? Come on. It's just the two of us right now. You don't have to put it in the chat, but buried, something God promised? He said, &quot;I'm going to be out of a guest room going to be blue all over these walls. About this time next year...&quot; Oh man. I can just see us right now on December 31, &quot;Oh, next year is going to be better.&quot; But she did not respond with praise. Her instinct was to push him away. When God really speaks something significant You go, &quot;I can't hear that. No, no, no.&quot; Even when something good happens, you get got my hopes up... This is what the woman said. &quot;Don't mislead me. I've been down this path before. I've hoped before, and it hurts to hope. I'd rather just show everybody publicly how I'd rather just pretend like everything is But just like the prophet said, just like Verse 17: &quot;But the woman became pregnant, gave birth to a son, just as Elisha had told Before we stop and shout over that, the Bible life. The whole chapter has been about her frustration, Verse 18: &quot;The child grew, and one day he He said to his father, 'My head! My head!' His father told a servant, 'Carry him to his After the servant had lifted him up and carried until noon, and then he died.&quot; The only thing the boy ever said in the text Those are the only words he got to say, and This is what brought me to the sermon. After the servant had lifted him up and carried This is so amazing. Holly, I have to show you this. God showed me this. It was so good. When we were walking around talking about &quot;She went up and laid him on the bed of the That's important. She shut the door and went out. &quot;She called her husband and said, 'Please I can go to the man of God quickly and return.'&quot; Notice what she didn't ask her husband to She said, &quot;You can give me a donkey, but you Stop expecting out of people what only God This is why we get depressed. We keep waiting on people to complete us. Renee Zellweger was lying to you. If you wait on somebody to complete you, you They can help you. God can use people to bless you, but there and God. Just the two of us. I hear God saying, &quot;Quit putting demands on Let me fill those spaces. Let me have that room. Let me have that question.&quot; She said, &quot;Give me a donkey. You can give me a donkey, but that's all you who gave me the promise.&quot; I want to ask you a question they used to &quot;Who started it?&quot; That's what my dad wanted to know. I'd come home. I didn't get in many fights, but he wanted &quot;Who won?&quot; If the answer was &quot;Him and me,&quot; he was happy. &quot;He started it and I won.&quot; He was like, &quot;All right. Let's go to Ryan's. Let's go to Quincy's. Let's eat a yeast roll.&quot; She says, &quot;I have to go to the one who started Watch this. It's good to go back. That's why I wanted them to show on the camera. It was like this. You've always been on my front row. A lot has changed, but it was us then and Somebody is saying, &quot;I don't have Holly. I don't have the 'Holly Spirit.'&quot; You have the holy one. You have the Holy Spirit. You have the Spirit of God on the inside of So, she said, &quot;Give me a donkey and saddle She's calling the shots too. Remember, this woman is not waiting on God. &quot;O God, show me what to do.&quot; No. The boy is dead. She carries him upstairs. She put him in the bed that never would have If she would have been bitter about the child to put the child in. When he died, she laid him on the bed that Spirit. She didn't know what it would lead to, but She said, &quot;Saddle up the donkey.&quot; The King James says it differently. &quot;Put a saddle on the donkey. I know where to go to. I know who the bread is. I know who spoke it. I know where this started. I know who called me.&quot; Do you know who started it? He who began a good work in you... Who started it? She said, &quot;Lead on. Don't slow down for me unless I tell you to.&quot; I love this woman. She's like, &quot;Lead me, and do what I say.&quot; I love her. What I love about it is she's so proactive She's so full of faith and boldness to say, she is. This is what makes her great. This is what's going to make you great. This is what's going to make this year not This is it right here. &quot;She came to the man of God at Mount Carmel.&quot; I know what comes next, so I'm happy. You're like, &quot;Her son is dead. What's wrong with you?&quot; I know what's about to happen in the story. You can praise God in places that make no story. Not the details of it, but I know who started in me... I didn't learn much Greek, but alpha is the both. He's both of those. He finishes what he starts. So, when she came to the prophet at Mount First of all, she's coming up, and I want He saw her in the distance. That blesses me. Even if I'm far off from where I'm supposed Does that remind you of the Prodigal Son or He saw her coming. He told Gehazi, &quot;Run to meet her and ask her...&quot; This is a loaded question. &quot;Are you all right?&quot; What if I asked you that, just the two of &quot;Are you all right?&quot; It's one of those questions we ask that we &quot;How are you doing? Are you all right?&quot; &quot;Yeah, man. I'm all right. I've got this thing on my back. I don't know what it is. It's changing colors. I'm all right.&quot; It's a complicated question. &quot;Are you all right?&quot; That depends, because this woman would say, son.&quot; &quot;Are you all right?&quot; &quot;Well, that depends. I'm kind of disappointed about what's going God has been doing a miracle in my family.&quot; What a question. &quot;Are you all right?&quot; &quot;Ask her, 'Are you all right?'&quot; Do you know the difference between God and He really wants to know. The other people who ask you that do not expect I love the woman, because Gehazi comes to the one who prophesied the baby to begin with. Watch what she does in verse 26. I know we said she's a great woman. But he said, &quot;Are you all right? Is your husband all right? Is your child all right?&quot; None of these are all right. She's not all right, the husband is so old going to give the boy a name), and the son And she does something. Even though she's a great woman, she lies. &quot;Everything is all right.&quot; She's lying, like you. &quot;Everything is all right. It's all right. Nothing to see here. I'm good.&quot; She's lying like your Instagram feed. She is lying like that picture you posted Why did she lie? Maybe she wasn't lying. Maybe she just knew something. Maybe she knew, &quot;I don't need to talk about power to solve them.&quot; This is a word for somebody. I don't need to process this in a place that I want to stop asking everybody else about I want to stop trying to fix things publicly I want to quit seeking affirmation in public She said, &quot;I'm all right, but I'm not really.&quot; Look at what she did next. She pushed right past the person who had no Quit talking to everybody about everything. Quit complaining to everybody about everything. Quit letting everybody know all your business. Quit trying to cover up stuff for people, with. Verse 27: &quot;When she got to the man of God She's great enough to saddle up the donkey, You have to be both. She came down, and Gehazi came to push her I bet you have something right now as I preach &quot;Don't listen to him. This isn't for you. This is for someone else. You're not good enough for that. You don't have any right to expect that.&quot; But the man of God said, &quot;Leave her alone. This is between the two of us. See, I spoke this to her. She's in bitter distress, but the Lord has Holly, the next verse is what brought me over. After I preached last week's sermon, I saw &quot;Did I ask...?&quot; I stopped. I said, &quot;Yeah, of course. Of course you wanted me to preach this, Lord, they didn't ask for.&quot; &quot;I was just trying to take care of you. I wasn't trying to invite this in my life. I didn't even want all this. God, you shouldn't have called me to do this I couldn't do it. Did I ask?&quot; She's at his feet now. She's off her donkey now. &quot;Did I ask? I asked you to come eat. I asked you to come stay. I didn't ask you to ruin my life. I didn't ask for this! You did this. You started this. I told you it would end like this. I didn't want to get my hopes up. It hurts to hope. The more I hope, the more open I am to disappointment. I told you this was going to happen. Every time I try, I fail. Every time I start, I stumble. I told you it would be like this. I knew it would end like this.&quot; &quot;I knew I shouldn't feel good. I knew I shouldn't try. I knew they would betray me. I knew they would let... Did I ask?&quot; She had the good sense to know how to get I know you didn't ask for a special needs I know you didn't ask for the economy to do I know you didn't ask for it, but just because handle it. You just have to know what to do with it. Put it back on the bed. Put it back in the place. She stood in the doorway where the prophet She put the boy God gave her on the bed. She went to the prophet. She fell at his feet. And look at what she said. In verse 30, after Gehazi went back to do &quot;As surely as the Lord lives and as you live, Where have we heard that before? That's the same thing Elisha said to Elijah. That's the same persistence that started his &quot;I will not leave you. I will not forsake you.&quot; God is saying, &quot;If I did then, I will now. If I spoke it, I will perform it...in an empty Abounding or abased, I will not leave you.&quot; She said, &quot;You spoke this. You started this. Now you have to do something about it.&quot; Do you know how you know you're growing in When you can tell him the real stuff at his Everybody else sees what you do. &quot;Oh, she has a big house. She keeps the preacher over there.&quot; They didn't know the depth of disappointment Only God knew that. Some things only God knows. First Corinthians 2 says the spirit of a man Only God and you know it. There are some things I can't say through It's just between you and God. Maybe God put you in this moment so he could Just the two of us. God said, &quot;I need your attention right now. I need you at my feet right now. I'm trying to bring some things to life, but I'm going to use people, but...&quot; When Elisha followed the woman back to the Look at it. The boy was there on his couch. The mom, the woman, the great woman, the proactive in our lives. After you've done all you can do... The Bible says in verse 33, &quot;Elisha went in, Now the woman who birthed this boy has to to do what only he can do. Are you standing on the other side of a closed get your kid out of this one? I imagine that this woman who was proactive donkey and buy a lamp&quot; rushed into the room. Maybe she thought she was going to stand there She's that kind of woman. But the prophet knew something about when your life. He turned to the woman and said, &quot;I know you great, and I appreciate you, but right now, He sent her out of the room where she couldn't Verse 34 says, &quot;Then he got on the bed and hands to hands.&quot; It's personal. He didn't just lay a staff on him. Gehazi tried that, and it didn't work. What God does in your life is going to be This is a personal word. God says, &quot;I'm going to actually connect with Your eyes... You see, so you can touch and feel. It's personal. He lay down on the boy and stretched himself but he still wasn't alive, so Elisha turned It's a process. I want you to say that about everything in He's pacing around the room, and the woman of that door. You have no idea what God is doing behind The prophet is pacing. I think he sent her out of the room not just it was a process but because it was private. I hear the Spirit of God saying right now, I don't need you standing over me so much, this door. I'm going to spend some time with that thing to just go right now. You can walk around downstairs, and I'll walk The Bible says she had to stand on the other Do you know how much faith it takes to stand God is saying to some of you, &quot;Give me my I'm the one who gave it. I can't have you standing over me telling supposed to do it. Leave this thing with me for a little while.&quot; You've been stressing so much, and every time is doing. So shut the door, like the woman with the She shut the door and the oil flowed. He shut the door, and he got with the boy, How many believe the Bible? How many believe in miracles? On the other side of that door, the word of do for herself. I feel the word of the Lord coming forth into When he got back on the boy, the boy sneezed That's the number of completion. God said, &quot;Let me finish this. I started it. Let me finish this. I've got your promise. I've got your dream. I've got your destiny. I've got your hope. I've got your petitions. I've got your prayers.&quot; God says, &quot;Give it back to me. Just the two of us.&quot; God is working while you're waiting. We thank God for open doors, we thank him in this moment is greater than you know. What he's doing in that room in your life You thought you built it for one thing. You really built it for another. Give him that space. This is a Holy Spirit moment. What do you do when the thing you didn't ask were holding in your arms one moment dies I hear God saying, &quot;Take it back, put it in Verse 36: &quot;Elisha summoned Gehazi and said, And he did. When she came, he said, 'Take your son.'&quot; She had no idea he had been pacing the floor How many of you don't know what God is doing is doing...? Lift your hands right where you are. God said, &quot;Do you really need to be in a crowd just the two of us?&quot; Verse 37: &quot;She came in, fell at his feet and Then she took her son and went out.&quot; Lord, I thank you that today your people are spirit. We trust you today, Lord. As much as we thank you for open doors, we I thank you that just like your prophet Elisha built by faith, you are working a miracle you today. You know who's on the other side of this message. You know what's happening in their house. You know what's happening in their heart. Lord, if they feel alone right now, I touch are the God who sees beyond the surface. You are the God of the question and the comma. I thank you that you're doing a great thing If this message was for you today and you I want you to tell me in the chat. Say, &quot;That was for me,&quot; and then we'll know God spoke this word to me so I could share We're praying for you. We're believing God for great things in your God wants you to know today that anytime something it's over, go back to where you started. Stand with the one who will never leave you She said to the prophet, &quot;As the Lord lives God is saying that to somebody today. &quot;I didn't leave you. Just give me some time.&quot; Close the door. Worship on the other side. Don't wait until you hold it again. Lift your hands right now. The God who will never leave you nor forsake No matter what people do and no matter how know that his presence is your promise, now What a friend we have in Jesus What a privilege to carry Go back to the one it started with. He has always been for you. Oh, what peace we often forfeit This is a different season, but it's the same All because we do not carry Have we trials and temptations? Is there trouble anywhere? We should never be discouraged Just me and you now, God. Just me and you. You know what's going on in my life. You know what I wonder about. You know what I deal with. Do thy friends despise, forsake thee? Take it to the Lord in prayer... Here's what I want you to know. In his arms he'll take and shield thee Just the two of us.