As we reach the end of November, many of us get out the decorations and fa la la la la and whatnot. I'm certainly no exception, Why exactly do we litter our homes with light Don't know, but it's probably marketing. By golly it worked on me, though, and as a lighting enthusiast generally the on railings and windows and shrubs and trees and stuff is just impossible to pass up. But as you may very well know, I have a problem with the Christmas lighting industry. And that problem is LEDs. Don't get me wrong, I love LEDs! The light emitting diode is one of the most important inventions of the last however many years. And some LED Christmas lights are great! But multi-colored LED Christmas lights usually aren't. Rather than look festive and cheery and bright, modern LED Christmas light sets usually make it look like If that aesthetic tickles your fancy, I will judge you but I won't get in your way. Have fun. But for the past several years I have been on a foolish quest look like old-fashioned incandescent Christmas lights. Luckily, some much-more-commited-than-me folks and now manufacture incredibly excellent They are virtually indistinguishable from their and if that's something you're looking for, They're not paying me to say that, but they are exactly what I've been hoping somebody would do and if you live in North America (and are the same kind of weirdo I am) However, Tru-Tone has not yet made inroads on So here we go again. To explain what my problem is, in ye-olden days we made light happen Hot things produce light through incandescence, and when it's hot enough a whole bunch of wavelengths of light When we wanted to make that look a color other-than-white, we'd add a coating to the glass of the light bulb which acted to filter out The result was a sort of blend of wavelengths LEDs, on the other hand, which depends on the materials used to create it. That monochromatic light has an incredibly intense color it's like the color wheel picker on your image editing app. A perfectly pure hue. Some of you may like this. Even I like it at times. But for Christmas lights? It's just wrong. Especially greens and blues - it's a tacky storefront with those chasing LED strips around the windows I'm sorry, that's just the truth! If the blue and the green could be toned down a bit, I'd probably be a little less grumpy about this. A large part of why LED multicolored sets is that the filament in an incandescent light doesn't produce a whole lot (that would require getting tungsten into melty temperatures So, through pure physics reasons the blue and green will appear quite a lot darker A multi-colored LED set that just mimicked those relative There are reasons that's difficult, though. Something something voltage drop, gallium nitride, et cetera. But there's another way: through lots of innovation involving we've made extremely good and reasonably broad-band So, why don't we just make a whole bunch of white diodes Then we could have the best of both worlds! Just to make sure that hasn't happened yet and, side note, somebody please just do it so I can end this! I went to a couple of big box stores to see what their big boxes had in store. The first thing of note: Europe is invading! Traditionally, light sets over here just have raw mains voltage going through them. A set of 100 mini-lights will actually have two runs of 50 bulbs wired in series. The bulbs are rated for somewhere near 2.5 volts (the bulbs actually fail as a short circuit which keeps the rest of the strand lit... usually... so they build some margin in for that). C9 and C7 sets supply straight line voltage to each bulb socket which, fun fact, is why those sets have polarized plugs and mini-light sets don't. This is a note to editor me, make sure you put that little asterisk in there about how some older C7 and C9 sets were also in series. Did you do it? Good! Now, though, LED light strands that come with little power adapters And new form factors, too! Most LED sets have been mimicking the shape of incandescent lights and these have some built-in chasing functions And then there's these "ribbon lights" which seem to be a play on Both of these are intriguing, though I must say that ribbon light doesn't look too durable, but sadly the multi-colored sets still look like Also interesting, some of the "traditional" LED sets for sale To be honest, this annoyed me at first. But I've come around to this probably being better. Until this year, every one of these sets I've seen has technically had replaceable bulbs but they were made just like the incandescent sets of the past. In fact, it was often the legs of the LED bent around the bulb holder Corrosion was a major problem there, so sealing the whole thing up is likely going Alas, when it came to the colors, everything was either "decent warm white" or "shield your eyes multi-colored" so it's time yet again to try my luck at figuring out how to make these less awful. Here's a summary of things I've tried in the past. Sharpies: worked great but quickly faded in the sun and/or rain. Spray paint: didn't work at all. Acrylic craft paint: didn't work at all. Transparent acrylic craft paint: worked surprisingly well! Durability testing didn't happen, though, because I forgot. Nail polish: another surprise hit! Probably the easiest of all and durability was probably decent But that's all I've tried so far. At least I think. Wait - I forgot about the Rit dye: That also didn't work. The heat from the dying process made the lights get all bendy, too. Surely there's something better out there. And for your viewing pleasure and my sense of ennui, it's time to once again test some light bulb painting techniques. On the docket today are epoxy resin and dyes for said epoxy resin, then we have a twist on acrylic craft paint involving some water and glue, and finally we have a mystery third thing. Stay tuned for that one. It worked pretty good! I started this year's shenanigans with epoxy resin. I ordered some and some dyes for it and thought "this might work OK." But a thought is not the same as an experiment, and I don't have room for thought experiments. Anyway so I mixed some up, added some dye to it, and hoped for the best. I started with blue because this is the trickiest color - But go too far and it might be black. Turns out that wasn't a problem here. Despite adding quite a lot of dye to the resin, And this is something that I need to touch on - in all my attempts here, people are (quite helpfully) suggesting things I should try but a lot of the suggestions I've received turn out to have Things like stained glass paint or colored heat shrink tubing just aren't dark enough - the glass of an unlit incandescent set looks nearly black So if this was gonna work, I'd need way more dye. After adding way more dye, I was starting to get worried that there would be too much dye But there was only one way to find out. After making the concoction so dark as to appear black, Test-dunks revealed just how tricky the balance is here the light goes from hardly visible to Add to this the general difficulty of getting the coating thickness I wanted (this resin was extremely runny and even after waiting over and epoxy was ruled out completely. My next trick was to try the milk glass coating I got these table lamps from the Swedish meatball place last year having bare light bulbs in your peripheral vision kind of sucks so I wanted to frost the glass. But not frost it like the translucent kind of frosting, and there weren't any good guides on how to do this so I just tried equal parts and by golly it worked perfectly! The lamps still look great, no cracking or yellowing, and if you're interested in learning more about this I thought I would try this technique for Christmas lights So I mixed some up, dunked the bulbs, But then the coating cracked. Yeah, not sure if it's because it was on plastic or what I also tried just half glue and half paint (the water made the mixture a little runnier than I think I wanted) but this also didn't dry well. Again, I started with blue and since both of those two techniques didn't work I promptly gave up. Even if this had worked well, but wasn't exactly what I was going for. So, back to the drawing board. The absolute best end-result I have gotten so far came from transparent craft paint. But, it was fiddly and annoying to apply. I mean, let's be real, this whole endeavor is objectively ridiculous. I am a ridiculous person who is committed to the bit, But then I noticed that one of my bottles of paint - the yellow one that's been sitting on the shelves behind me for what, two years now? - says "Airbrush colors" on it. Now, I've never had a need for an airbrush (usually I use a comb) but if that's what it's designed for maybe an airbrush would help. So I got one! Did I just search on Amazon for "airbrush kit" and buy the most obvious one? Yep! Do I really know how to use an airbrush? Nope! Did that stop me? Nope! But having the airbrush is only one part of the problem. The other was how to hold the lights to make airbrushing possible. Now, as I've discussed previously, I really don't care for many of the color combinations on offer today. My preference is a simple four-color palette of I will accept amber or orange in place of yellow, but teals and purples and pinks are completely unacceptable Those colors do not belong in Christmas light sets! Capiche? As luck would have it, the very four colors I wanted I bought new paint just in case the old paint was going bad, And if for whatever reason I were to change my mind about color preferences, different colors could be made by mixing these primary colors together. Just ask your kindergarten teacher! So, knowing that I'd be spraying a strand of one hundred mini lights in my objectively correct preference of red, yellow, green, and blue, I took a spare piece of cardboard from one of those Amazon boxes and used a single hole punch to make 26 holes along its edge. Then I taped over one of them because I only needed 25. And I meticulously poked every fourth light through those holes and then taped some printer paper to the edges of the piece of cardboard Then I picked this gravity-fed airbrush from my airbrush kit shook up the blue paint bottle, put some paint in the cup, and went at it. And by golly, it worked! It worked greatly! The blue paint was actually a perfect color, the airbrush made applying it nearly effortless, and after a couple of coats it was exactly what I was looking for. Of course the only thing left to do was let it dry, clean out the airbrush, then pull out all the now blue bulbs and shove another quarter of them Then repeat. This was still a pretty fiddly process, but it's definitely the least fiddly of any I've tried. In fact the primary fiddle factor was dealing with the light-holding rig while untangling and wrangling and retangling the rest of the strand. If I were to do this again, I would try to find a better way to hold them. Maybe a large piece of cardboard with holes made by a drill press or something could tackle five strands at a time - though how to keep them organized would be quite the question. And the end results, while pretty great, For one, I had forgotten that the last time I used these paints and it benefitted from adding a bit of red to warm it up. I should have done that again. This red is also not quite transparent - interestingly I so my guess is it's an inherent issue with red pigmenting. Another thing to consider is that apparently this paint benefits from heat treatment. Whether that can be safely done without melting the plastic caps I don't know. I didn't try and I'm not going to. This year, I am going to actually put this strand outside where it will be exposed just lovely weather we get around here. I'll report back on its durability on the second channel - I'll try to do one of those community posts too. Now, you might ask, "why are you doing this to yourself?" "that's an excellent question." Broadly, I just want to show that this can be done! Yes, maybe I'm just a curmudgeon who's out of touch, but I really would like to use LED multicolored lighting 'round the holidays Last year my power bill doubled for the month of December and I wanna say six runs of twinkling lights running for 8 hours That's ridiculous, especially considering I have an electric car! But all the multicolored strands on the market today still look like gamer vomit and that's just not something I want all over my home And there's good news out of the UK! A viewer got in touch and sent me pictures of a light strand It's a set very much like this one but where the diodes are all a nice warm white and its coloring comes from the plastic caps In this case, I think the coloring might not be quite as strong as I'd like - I worry this is more of a pastel color theme than the rich colors I'm looking for. But it shows somebody could make this if they just tried. So, one of you in charge of ordering all those lights maybe try and steer things in this direction. And to the folks at Tru-Tone - you could be those people! I will be incredibly happy if I can just... buy these and not go through this nonsense just to get And if somebody finally manages to make this a thing you all had better buy them! Ok? I don't want to find out that the gross blue-green laser beam lights I will be so disappointed and you'll never hear the end of it, I promise. Happy holidays! Unexpectedly Christmas Jazz But, multicolored [ ] LED I should have them ready to demonstrate. Modern LED christmas light sets usually make it... what happened there? What did you get caught on, you terrible thing? ...mimicked the relative brightness ratios would be... crap. I changed the tense of something for no reason [clears throat] Different colors could be made by mixing these primary colors together. Justk ask your [ppfttah!] Different colors could be made by mixing these primary colors together. Just ask your tche... why am I struggling with that? [a jazz rendition of We Wish You A Merry Christmas fades back in] Now look at all those pretty twinkling lights. Devastatingly, I think Menards has discontinued them. Now I don't feel so bad about hoarding them these last few years.