This video is sponsored by Surfshark two ships collided in the mouth of Halifax Harbour fire on board one of the vessels a repurposed bound for the European theatre of war. this cargo detonated, bringing about one of the Halifax Harbour is a large, natural It consists of a huge enclosed bay, known as the as The Narrows, which leads out towards open On one side of Halifax Harbour, in 1917, stood Dartmouth. Between them the two towns had a population had recently grown. The ongoing First importance. It was a key departure point for incredibly important port and was thus busier A few days before the disaster the Norwegian and docked in the Bedford Basin, where it Some of these, namely the ship's required load of the 5th of December, the Imo didn't complete Submarine nets, designed to protect the attack by German U-boats, had been raised for the Although anxious to get underway, the crew of the Meanwhile the French cargo ship the SS Mont Blanc It had arrived too late in the day to be allowed wait outside the harbour until the submarine The crew of the Mont Blanc would no doubt the ship moored safely inside the harbour, On board was a staggering including TNT, guncotton, picric acid, Whatever fears the crew of the Mont Blanc At 7:30am on the morning of the 6th of December started moving once more, the Imo heading out inwards. Normally, ships passing through The and to adhere to a speed about the pace of a swift jog. On this particular get moving that he ignored the speed limit and At this point the Imo encountered two other SS Clara, an American tramp steamer coming into The two boats signaled to one another and the Narrows to avoid a collision. Moments later which was travelling down the center of this time going from a position near the middle That was how the Imo came to be on a collision sighted one another when they were still more a mile) apart, and began a series of frantic but the crew of the Imo - for whatever When it became clear that the end result of this both ships cut their engines. The Mont Blanc tried made it, had the Imo not reversed its engines at to cause the nose of the Imo to swing into the at a relatively low speed, and although quite However several barrels of the Mont Blanc's resulting in a huge spill of Even at this point, though, a Without a spark even the most explosive materials drifted... then the Imo's engines kicked in once As they did so metals scraped upon metal, sparks Recognising the danger, the captain of the Mont abandon ship. They needed no further encouragement the shore, shouting desperate warnings to noise and confusion out on the water that very few actually heard or understood these warnings. the Halifax side of The Narrows, eventually A huge plume of smoke rose into the air water were drawn to their windows or to the At 9:04am and 35 seconds the cargo The explosion was a huge one. The blast destroyed of the grounded ship. Beyond that severe and hot fragments of metal A gun from the deck of the Mont Blanc was 5.6 kilometers (or 3.5 miles) away. The shock and was felt across the whole of Nova Scotia. cars tumbled, and ships lifted completely from of a moment around 1,600 people were instantly Victims were buried beneath rubble, hit by serious eye injuries as the windows they had been As well as the destructive force of the blast six-storey wall of water that surged into the those who had survived the initial blast. The Imo As it was thrown from the harbour almost as the water receded fires The explosion had destroyed boilers collapsed the rubble caught fire, turning the Time was not on the side of the rescuers. Since the First World War the natural assumption of Rather than immediately focusing on rescue, further attack. It was only after some hours had widely understood. Rescue work was grim province were joined by police and military, as They dug through the wreckage, pulling These were sent to the city's remaining of seriously injured casualties arrived at Several military vessels that had been diverted to offer assistance and were promptly Although injured and shocked by what had happened, There are even reports of children This rescue effort was, however, soon The day after the explosion, when hundreds and trapped beneath rubble, a blizzard descended and 1.2 meters (or four feet) of snow. present a challenge for rescuers, but they Trains carrying medical supplies and food were even though their supplies were desperately needed then, was a disaster of many dimensions. As such but stands at around 2,000 in total, with a As soon as the situation on the ground was under had been to blame for the incident. It might to blame for the disaster. After all the Imo before the collision. It had been on the wrong even when signaled by the Mont Blanc. However Drysdale - had little hesitation in blaming had failed to follow the rules concerning the reasons behind this rather one-sided judgment, not Given that the crew of the Imo had this anger was focused largely on the had, after all, abandoned ship in order to Three men were charged with manslaughter. the Mont Blanc), Francis Mackey (the harbour examining officer of Halifax Harbour). However, as there simply wasn't enough evidence to do Blanc alone had been at fault was overturned and it was established that both ships had Despite the devastation of Halifax some positive concerning harbor navigation and the storage repeat of the explosion unlikely. Beyond this, the charitable organizations within Canada. The glass for example led directly to the founding a few years later, while the extensive rescue and helped them to grow into the In the aftermath of the disaster and this led to the construction of one of the the Hydrostone. Some of the dwellings constructed providing a home to Halifax's modern citizens. disaster is one of civic friendship. Boston was and this aid arrived at a crucial time: The help provided by Boston was vital in saving As a thank you for this vital support at Nova Scotia donated a christmas Many years later this became a tradition, and to Though devastated by the explosion that 1917, Halifax has risen from the ruins. Today than 400,000 people. The Halifax Explosion and reminders of the suffering, the are everywhere. Though the city has recovered, There is one final, and at least somewhat Explosion - that of Patrick Vincent Coleman. I'm episode thanks to the sponsor of today's video, allows me to spend more time researching and more time putting together a video that tells Surfshark itself also enables my research. I'm resources based in other countries are off-limits however, it takes only a few seconds and You might use surfshark for research or to available in your country, or simply to keep It really is quite simple to use, and unlike number of devices. If that interests you, go code FASCINATING to get 83% off a two-year plan. so you can always change your mind if Again that's surfshark.deals/fascinating Now here's the story of Patrick Vince Coleman - saved an untold number of lives. Vince Coleman was a train dispatcher for Canadian he was working at Richmond Station, not far from He would have had a clear view of the plumes and would no doubt have been deeply alarmed when to inform them that they must evacuate, as Coleman and his colleagues, quite understandably, however, Coleman turned around and sprinted back From there he started sending &quot;Hold up the train. Ammunition ship afire in Guess this will be my last Coleman's message was most likely intended for from New Brunswick. This service, carrying within just a few minutes, and would have passed Thanks to Coleman's actions, however, it was and 300 innocent people lived to see another many other stations, instantly halting and also alerting telegraph operators across When the Mont Blanc exploded, the wheels were supplies, equipment, and aid Coleman, as he had predicted in his final him with such force that it blew the hands from His legacy, however, lives on - not just as an enduring figure in history, a symbol during the years of the First World War Today Coleman's telegraph key and damaged pocket Atlantic in Nova Scotia. Though he has been dead the final few seconds of his life Vince Coleman