- Before we go any further go ahead and hit that like button, lets us know that we're doing a good job. And apparently it helps And I love cracking algos. It's the muscle car your cool uncle drove when he wasn't in jail. The fire breathing, tire from &quot;Smokey and the Bandit&quot;. It from its humble pony car origins to the airbrushed Phoenix of This is &quot;Everything You Need on the Pontiac Firebird. (James screaming) (bright upbeat music) - [Narrator] Thank you today's video. Hair loss has been eradicated where two out of three of male pattern baldness we're on a mission to For we are? - [Announcer] AstroKeeps. - [Man] We've arrived on - Doc McTompson, report. - Oceans are clean. Atmosphere is breathable. Parking is front and only, paradise. - [AI] Access granted. - The ambassador is ready - Thank you officer Hawk. Jr. Officer Tips, send us down. Oh gosh, nevermind, I'll handle it. - The volcano at the heart of Is catastrophic to our species. - Dang, we should really do something. - Hey Doc Mo, why don't you let 'em know about our secret weapon? - You got it, Captain. Keeps off as clinically proven, to stop loss. Homegrown hair plus expert the stars for a doctor's - I mean, that sounds - Great work, Captain. The alien's long flowing locks for Danette to keep the volcano magma at bay. - That's textbook baby. Just like they taught us at the academy. - How can we thank you Starship follicle? - The warmth of your hold on, wait one second. Does your planet have gold? - No, I don't think so. - Well then the warmth of your gratitude is thank you enough. Start your hair loss prevention today by going to keeps.com/uptospeed50 or by clicking the link in the description to receive 50% off your first order and check back for another adventure of- - [Announcer] AstroKeeps. - It's the late 60s and everybody Muscle cars, muscle rockets and muscles in a white wine butter sauce. The young Pontiac executive yes, that John DeLorean in the midsize LeMans, and changes the course of He was like, kids are gonna love this. And he was dead right. DeLorean not only turned completely around overnight, he proved that young Imagine that. Ring, ring, ring, ring. Duh department? Pontiac was arguably the car market with the GTO if you don't count the Oldsmobile Rocket got crowded pretty quick. Ford came out with the Mustang, that that might not be a A Plymouth made the with the Polara, Dart and the Coronet but it was really the They watched year after year they sold a butt ton of these. In 1966, Ford sold a record in a market that DeLorean and And now they're at the risk They needed a new car. Taking down the Mustang was a tall order but John DeLorean was a tall guy and he doesn't take defeat GM wanted Chevy of chase fame from Fior but DeLorean He tried to convince the would be the one to make a Mustang killer. The GM was adamant that And in the end, the guys were able to convince GM to let based on the F body Nova the Camaro with the this new market with cheap fast cars. With the okay, the Pontiac a sister car for the Camaro. For design influence, they from a few years earlier called the GM X. X stands for experimental. If you have an E in there, you're not even experimenting, all right? This prototype debuted at and people freaking loved it. It blew their minds. Guess who else loved it? GM employees, that's who loved it too. Pontiac was like, hey, that we all loved from a few years ago? And they got to work on a new prototype with elements from the GM X and taillights inspired by the GTO, as well as the classic Coke Skinny waist, long hood, I'm talking thick inches. To differentiate it from the Camaro, they added an integrated just made it look more sleek. Now the people at Pontiac that this thing would actually They had been burned before by uncle GM, I'm talking about the Pontiac Does it look familiar? It's like a 3rd gen Corvette, right? That's because this prototype and execs at GM found out horsepower to the Corvette and quicker to 60 miles per no, no, no, we can't have that. And they told John DeLorean to immediately stop working on what he was Now the Corvette is GM's nothing else they offered All right, sales 101, look at Porsche. So understandably, DeLorean were straight up, I'll say Here they had designed and that if it had actually gone to market would effect absolutely smoked the Mustang but they made it too good and ended up having to hand their design They watched as their as the third gen Corvette which is a class above the Mustang. But now Pontiac had a that were in final stages of development. GM was concerned that the new project was gonna be indistinguishable So John DeLorean spent a few shall we say Pontiacy. One way the team Firebird from the Camaro was the trim options. - And there are five distinctive versions. - While the Camaro offered its interior options were bare bones. It was considered a people's It was always gonna be even though Pontiac offered and options, more of those in a second. With every bit and bob in order, the car was ready to hit the Pontiac chose to honor the GM Firebirds, a series of jet inspired that inspired the development of XP-833. Pontiac finally had a but how would it compare Or even to its sister the Camaro? Would it be the favorite daughter or would it be the one that nobody likes? You know, every family has one and then one who has to In 1967, the first year it went on sale, the Firebird came in five, count 'em, five different level trim packages. Something the marketing team There's the base six cylinder, The Sprint with the hotted up six, but the top option that year which included functional stiffer suspension, better transmission, a Chrome air cleaner that sweet, sweet honking boy of a V8, the 400 cubic inch monster Base price, the Firebird which is about 22 grand today. A great value but for an extra $274, you could add the Firebird 400 package which is about $2,200 today, not bad. Even though this was the you could buy that first year, short of its sister, the junior One weird thing about this a rule that horsepower per 10 pounds of car weight. Meaning if you had a 3000 pound car, you couldn't make more So the Firebird with the 400 which meant that they had to That is math by using a allowed it to open to 90% of its potential which seems like a thing you Customers who bought this just a few minutes of tinkering. The pins in the linkage to open more allowing for more power baby. The general public loved the Firebird, even though to most of with a hat and a mustache, than the Camaro but the features. Guys, the features made it all worthwhile. Optional, I'm talking optional Burwood push button radio, all right? A center console, okay? Rally wheels, a premium which is basically sunglasses for a car and beautiful little badass all over the place. Even though the Firebird sold compared to 220,000 Camaros it was a success and people took to it. But why James? Why is that a success? That's only 17% of what the Mustang did? I say good job, you did Your tutor is working, I'm proud of you. Well, the truth is GM to compete with the Mustang. That was the Camaro's job. The upmarket Firebird with the Mercury Cougar a fancier Mustang and GM's was to flood the market and and the Cougar. So as far as they were but despite the positive John DeLorean wanted to make and even more different than the Camaro. But how will was he gonna do it? 1969 was the last year and this is when it really This was the year that John DeLorean was constantly with every car he worked on. And whether his bosses at it didn't matter because loved the cars that he made. It was like he could see into the future and as the tumultuous 60s pop culture was changing as well and DeLorean was ready to The 1969 Firebird got an The whole front end was redesigned as well as the instrument A new high end trim The Trans Am Package 7,600 bones in today's the most powerful V8, the 400 High Output plus a shaker hood, freaking rear spoiler and upgraded suspension and brakes. The Trans Am Package also and functional ducts This thing looked mean, all right? They made 697 Trans Ams in in cameo white with tyrol It was the most expensive and it cemented the badge as The next generation of and in the process create of all time. Every great musical artist that you can point to and be a like this, this is what that person sounds like. For the Firebird, that's Debuting halfway through 1970 this next gen Firebird moved styling into something with And Pontiac really down than the Camaro. New for this gen, was the The difference is were and different spring rates so into all the details when what I really wanna talk about, the most significant model The Trans Am now came with VI in Roman numerals like a rocket ship tuned to make 345 horsepower. This engine could only be ordered Only a year later, Pontiac a 455 cubit of kitch, legendary V8, this is peak muscle car A 7.5 liter V8 that put out 335 horsepower which is not a lot for that displacement but it was back then. And it added to the mystique And thanks to the Pontiac's seemingly every year, the of the muscle car community. Another thing that really was a little thing called Burt Reynolds. You ever heard of it? He's the mustache guy with the hats on. Now, even if you don't you are probably familiar if you like car movies. it's up there on the list of - I want a jump, Papi. - A jump mate. - And one reason is the hero out of any movie ever. This 1977 Trans Am drove of Americans with pin striping, giant hood scoop and fender flares. Burt Reynolds in his dark with their skinny tires, dumb that many didn't realize The Firebird was successful before but after &quot;Smokey and the Bandit&quot; debuted, sales of Firebird skyrocketed to 211 in 1979. That's almost double, no the massive success the movie (tires squealing) This generation lasted but because of the gas restrictive environmental regulations which I actually agree getting worse, just like all And Pontiac was forced to finally ditch their big block engines. Third gen Firebird debuted American cars across the I'll say it, they were dukey. Cover your years kids, Instead of performance, the 'cause gas cost so much fricking money. This was the first gen a four cylinder option. And there was a rumor making it front wheel drive. The redesign brought the but this gen is considered one in power, performance, I guess, if you had to from this generation Trans Am notchback reminiscent The most power this generation saw came from a 3.8 liter which produced 250 horsepower. That sounds pretty rad, It would be a few more made the type the power that The fourth generation at a time when V8s were - [Announcer] The muscle car lives. - The SVT Cobra and Lightning, around this time and Pontiac Alongside the 4th gen the new design was Featuring a sleek, an aerodynamic profile that breathed fresh breath of staleness which is the One of the most over the of this generation was the Firehawk. This was an option that you could get, the Formula or Trans Am trim a big old way, 17 inch random body and ducts and flair. There was a lot going on you get it in a tee top. You wanted to put your Now the cool thing about this trim as well as other Trans Am with the LS1 V8 from the to make 330 horsepower. Now this was the first time in two decades that horsepower figures were for a muscle car. Now my friend Josh's mom in It was really fun. 2002 was the last year and to celebrate the 35 four generations, they made Trans Am available in either It only came even yellow, It looks like Hulk Hogan. It's truly the worst way of what was once such a cool car. It really is not great looking. It looks like a skido. Unfortunately, Pontiac was shut down during the financial crisis So it doesn't look like we're ever again but if you GM has licensed the name Firebird to a company that takes new Camaros puts a bunch of Firebird the golden Firebird logo on your hood. It's also got some pretty I don't know, it's cool. But maybe it's best if - Check out Donut's new badass We Buy Junk Cars shirt. Get it in this nice black and yellow or this luxurious white and warm red. Plus, if you order right these limited edition We so you can help spread the word, junk. And unlike these junk that lasts at the low price of than buying one of these used junk cars. Yeah, that's a great piece of junk. So go to donutmedia.com to pick up your junk car shirt today. This thing is sick. - Thank you so much and everything else on Donut. Hit that subscribe button Hit that like button, in the old algorithm. I'm really excited we're just dropping new Go to donutmedia.com to check that out. Follow me on Instagram, and TikTok The Kentucky Cobra. I love you.