Hey guys! All good? Do you have high cholesterol, high triglycerides? If your cholesterol levels are altered, you have to know which foods are prohibited for you. And of course, if you don't have any heart problems, you can avoid problems in the future by avoiding these 7 foods that I'm going to talk about today in the video. Those who avoid these foods may be able to control their cholesterol and triglycerides naturally. And if you control your cholesterol, you end up reducing your risk of having other heart diseases. So come with me to find out everything about the 7 prohibited foods for those with high cholesterol. Without further ado, run the vignette! Doctor Roberto Yano, Cardiologist. Hello, dear friends! All good? I am Doctor Roberto Yano, Cardiologist, Pacemaker Specialist. Before we start the video, are you already subscribed to the channel? If you're not subscribed, subscribe to the channel! Click the bell to receive all notifications! Topics related to our health, there is no more important topic here on the internet! But when we talk about cholesterol, most people think it's a bad thing. What you have to understand is that cholesterol is fat and fat is essential for the proper functioning of my body, your body and all human beings. Cholesterol is a crucial component of the membranes in our cells, it is used to produce our hormones, such as testosterone, it is also a precursor to vitamin D. Did you know that? Look how important cholesterol is! So, you have to have cholesterol in your body. The problem happens when cholesterol becomes high, whether due to genetic factors or external factors that have to do with our diet and lifestyle habits. When HDL, which is good cholesterol, is low or when LDL, which is bad cholesterol, is high, the chance of developing heart disease increases. We also include triglycerides here. When they are high, the chance of you having heart disease also increases. Excess LDL can accumulate in the arteries and form atherosclerotic plaques, which over time can obstruct the flow of blood through these arteries, causing them to become clogged. If the atherosclerotic plaque ruptures in an artery in the brain, you can have a stroke, with irreversible consequences. If plaques accumulate in the arteries, for example, in the legs, you may have poor circulation and start to have pain in the leg there when you move. When there is a narrowing of the arteries that carry blood to your heart, you may start to have chest pain, which is what we call angina, or in more serious cases, have a heart attack, which is when complete occlusion occurs. of a coronary artery, an artery that supplies the heart. High cholesterol can even contribute to higher blood pressure, because fatty plaques make arteries narrower and more rigid. Look how everything is interconnected! Furthermore, cholesterol also has everything to do with diabetes, as high levels increase the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. That's why I thought it was important to tell you in today's video what are the 7 prohibited foods for those who have it. high cholesterol. In addition to exercising and maintaining a balanced diet, you have to avoid these foods from now on. So, I'm assuming that you are already changing your lifestyle habits, this is the first thing you should do to reduce your bad cholesterol. But let's go! The first food: processed meats. Do you know the hot dog sausage you like so much? Unfortunately, it won't be part of your diet if you have high cholesterol. And even if you have normal cholesterol, the ideal is to avoid this type of food to prevent your cholesterol from rising. So avoid eating sausages, bacon, these other types of processed meats. They are rich in saturated fats and sodium, which will contribute to worsening your cholesterol and increasing your blood pressure. Processed meats have chemical additives such as nitrites, nitrates, which are used as preservatives. We know that high consumption of additives, like these, may be related to worsening inflammation and increased risk of other diseases, including cancer. Other than that, processing in itself can be harmful to your health, because potentially inflammatory compounds are formed during production. You start to have knee pain, back pain and your cholesterol is high and you don't know why. Probably because your diet needs adjustments and is not healthy at all. So take this out of your diet and tell me later! Processed meats do not have anti-inflammatory nutrients. So if we compare it to healthy protein sources, such as fish and legumes, this type of food lacks good nutrients, antioxidant nutrients. For those who don't know, guys, our clinic is in Indaiatuba, okay? So, you from Indaiatuba, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Sorocaba, this entire region can consult with us. We are here in Indaiatuba, close to Sao Paulo. But let's go! Second prohibited food: full-fat dairy products. So, if you have high cholesterol, you cannot take, for example, whole milk. Eat butter, fatty cheeses, because these foods are sources of saturated fats. Those with high cholesterol should use this type of fat moderately. So, prefer to drink skimmed milk, skimmed yogurt. You can eat cottage cheese, fresh cheese, ricotta cheese. They are healthier and contain less fat. So you can eat well, folks, you just want to. But that's it, are you enjoying the video? If you like the video, don't forget to share it with your friends. Those who share help spread quality information and can save a life. Let's go! Third food: fried foods. So, these foods have high amounts of saturated fats, which can raise your cholesterol levels. So, you know that person who eats fried food every day? You can be sure that if she doesn't have high cholesterol, one day she will. There's no way to eat fried food every day and it's there with normal exams. There's no way to feel healthy. I know that eating a coxinha, for example, is delicious, but if you have high cholesterol, you have to avoid this type of food. So instead of frying a fish, grill it and bake it in the oven. You can put a lot of anti-inflammatory herb. Think that food can bring many benefits to your health, it can alleviate your pain, improve your sleep, improve your mood and even help reduce your cardiovascular risk. Even if you make an oven-roasted fish, lots of herbs, tag me on Instagram and leave the recipe for us to make at home. Instagram is @dr.yano Guys, it's full of fake profiles. People using my photo to make a lot of profiles and asking me to follow them there. Don't fall for it! My only profile is @dr.yano, the one with the verification badge. You report the rest, okay guys? Come on, getting back. Fourth food: industrialized cakes, cookies and sweets. What else does this type of food contain? Added sugar and fat. So, excess refined sugar is related to an increase in cholesterol and triglycerides. Those who eat a lot of these foods tend to gain weight, become overweight or obese. Excess weight is associated with lower levels of good cholesterol, which is HDL, and an increase in triglyceride levels. So, if you feel like eating cake, make something healthier at home, you can swap the white flour for wholemeal flour, almond flour, oat flour. Instead of adding sugar, you can add sweeter crushed fruit to your cake. And so you make intelligent substitutions. It is very important to have the support of a nutritionist, because she can eliminate your desire to eat sweets, combining healthy foods, balancing your menu. So, there are several strategies that only a professional will know. So look for help to eat well. Fifth food: which is fatty red meat. There are no cuts of red meat, which are fattier than others. The rib, the most marbled cuts there, like termites, has much more saturated fat and cholesterol. So, you can swap it for chicken, fish, or if you like red meat, opt for a leaner cut, duckling, filet mignon, for example, and eat in moderation. But let's go! Sixth food: fast food, guys. Those who frequently consume fast food can also have negative effects on their health. These types of foods increase cholesterol levels and promote excess inflammation in your body, right? It has excess sodium, added sugars, preservatives. You may feel more bloated, have malaise, fatigue, joint pain, headache. And you often don't realize that it's because you're eating foods with empty calories, that is, a lot of calories for little nutrients. Furthermore, this type of food is also associated with weight gain. Look at the United States, for example, people there consume too much of this type of food and the overweight and obese population is only increasing. And this could be the future of Brazil, which already has more than 56% of the population overweight. Look at how many people, guys! And seventh and final food: it's coconut oil, guys. I made a point of adding coconut oil to get your attention. Many people speak highly of coconut oil, yes it is a vegetable oil, which comes from the coconut fruit, right? But be careful if you have high cholesterol. These oils are rich in saturated fats and should also be consumed in moderation. So, what is the best oil for people with high cholesterol? Oils rich in fatty acids, whether monounsaturated or polysaturated, are recommended. They help reduce LDL cholesterol levels when consumed instead of saturated fats. The best option is certainly extra virgin olive oil, which contains monounsaturated fatty acids. You can also use avocado oil, a rich source of monounsaturated fatty acids, like olive oil. And even linseed oil, which contains a type of polyunsaturated fatty acid, right, and is rich in omega 3. In this case, if you don't heat it, you can even use canola oil. I think it's important for you to know that the key to diet success is to consume everything in moderation. Whether or not you have high cholesterol, you need to maintain a balanced diet. So include fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, fish rich in omega 3, legumes. If possible, then look for a good nutritionist to give you personalized guidance. Here at the office we provide multidisciplinary treatment. It is always important to take care of your body and mind in all aspects, this way the results come faster and you start to live better and healthier. Okay, guys? So, I'll stay here! Today's message is this! A big hug and until next time!