What if I told you these ridiculous ads... Did you say I'll feel better smoking Philip Morris? [Narrator] ...are not all that different from these ads? Now, every box of Kellogg's Rice Krispies that help support your child's immune system. For decades, massive food conglomerates like through the manipulation of and ultimately us. And their goal is much like big tobacco's: to do and say whatever they can to get people until their product is no longer a want, but a need. until their product is no longer a want, but a need. To whose advantage is it to keep the Well, obviously it's the food industry's advantage. Ultra-processed foods and do so with little scrutiny from And the food industry is terrified. Even if Americans skip one sales would plummet by 7%. Every five years, the Dietary Guidelines Advisory and give the American public advice a process food conglomerates I mean in every possible way in which they can use their money and political power to encourage people to think their products are good they're going to do that. The evidence is grim. Ultra-processed foods are being linked in study after study Researchers are beginning to understand that So who will win in this battle We set out to investigate, and in the about how Big Tobacco's lies So what exactly are ultra-processed foods? We asked molecular biologist and These are foods that are They require machinery and they require So industrially produced, that's their purpose. Corn on the cob is unprocessed. Canned corn, frozen corn are processed. Doritos are ultra-processed. It's not just junk food, to be clear. Many breakfast cereals, granola and protein bars, sauces, and yogurt fit the ultra-processed A few years ago, I was writing about salt, and I said, look, you know, salt has become like this to heart disease and--why aren't you, And Kellogg's, you know, said to me, That's Michael Moss, journalist and author of &lt;i&gt;Hooked&lt;/i&gt;, a book about how food giants And we put some saltless corn flakes in the bowl. I didn't even know corn flakes had salt, but they do. But these saltless corn flakes went in a bowl, and before I could say anything, the chief and she gets this look of horror on her face, and she swallows and she blurts out, And I was kind of thinking the same thing, had come out and was sloshing around. And the Chief Technical Officer was sitting there too, he laughs and he goes, &quot;You know, not all people taste it, but one of the beautiful things about salt for us is that it will mask,&quot; cover up, &quot;some of the off-notes,&quot; bad taste, "that are inherent to kind of the manufacturing process." And so the reason you see so much salt, sugar, fat in these products is that the companies are using for the manufacturing, for the shelf life, things you don't need to worry about as a home cook. While our food environment is saturated with the something else is happening. We are constantly bombarded with nutritional what foods can ward off cancer or diabetes, And these two realities are actually deeply related. Let's go back to 2015, which cannot legally be called Kraft American Singles have double the calcium of many other American slices, In 2015, Kraft teamed up with the it's a professional group of nutritionists and [Jon Stewart] but doesn't want the hassle of Well, there's a solution for them too. We do want to move now to a new "Kids Eat Right" label One of the things that food companies do is the American Heart Association, the American Diabetes Association, And the idea is, if you can donate to those then the organizations and they will say, you know, "a partner of," or whatever, and this makes it look like it's As researchers begin to understand the real food companies continue to exhaust every option to make sure the science of their foods Sound familiar? Tobacco companies had a big problem. You know, 50--more than 50--70 years ago, there was research coming out that So the first thing they did was Not enough people in the trial, could have been due to other problems. When it comes to ultra-processed food, panels and writing op-eds doing just that: Ultra-processed foods are too broad a category, they say. People might accidentally forgo And listen, there's good scientific questions fringe cases and exceptions But food companies aren't trying They're trying to torpedo it. So, number one, cast doubt on the research. Number two, cast doubt on the researchers. Then you buy your own researchers. You recruit researchers to do their own studies, And here lies the tactic behind but all of the confusing nutritional advice Is the problem with childhood nutrition Kraft sure thinks so. Is exercise more important than diet for weight loss? I sure don't know, but Coca-Cola just in case you thought about cutting back on soda. Food companies and their trade associations Ever heard that people who eat breakfast Those were studies sponsored by Kellogg's It's the food industry's advantage We can actually quantify how corrupt One review looked at industry-funded studies and found that [almost] 60% showed results favorable to the sponsor. That doesn't seem so bad, except that only The Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee should, the American public good scientific information But nine of the 20 members of the with food, pharmaceutical or weight loss companies. The food industry doesn't want any suggestion It's really simple. Remember those oddly similar ads It turns out that some of the biggest food companies Philip Morris owned Kraft and General Foods, R.J. Reynolds owned Nabisco until So it's no wonder why the same What I really wanted to know was, Did the execs at Philip Morris coach Kraft on how Did they go even further and actively My name is Tera Fazzino. I'm an assistant professor of psychology For a number of years now, I've studied For a number of years now, I've studied and they have combinations of nutrients and they have combinations of nutrients and so they tend to be really rewarding So we may find ourselves, like, like, we're getting physiological signals telling So peanut butter, which is almost But if you add the right amount of salt or sugar, it is. Like if this jar had a bunch of added sodium or we had a Reese's Peanut Butter Cup. We conducted some analyses and found that the foods We conducted some analyses and found that the foods that were produced by tobacco-owned food as being hyper-palatable foods relative during the same period of time by Michael Moss described to me when his perspective It took place during a meeting Steve Parrish, the general counsel, And he said to me, "You know, Michael, I'm one of those lucky people who could smoke one cigarette a day, put the pack away and not have until the next business meeting, But I couldn't go near a bag of our Oreo cookies for fear of losing control And it was, like, so revealing to me I mean, the heads of these companies While the tobacco industry got out of the food other companies took a lesson from their They accounted for roughly and by 2018, they were, you know, So we had like a 14 percentage point increase, The non-tobacco-owned food companies observed in the market and reformulated to keep up. As someone who studies addiction, I think a if you open a sleeve of Oreos and It's your lack of self-control. I mean, what is your sort of take on that? I think that narrative serves the These foods are designed this way and they maximize, These are the current stakes What will the federal government about the health effects of ultra-processed foods? The Food and Beverage Issue Alliance, a mega trade group of other trade groups and the American Beverage Association, Another trade organization has urged the committee until there is consensus on an evidence-based definition. I'm not going to tell you what to eat or even how to eat, but I think it's a reasonable expectation for anyone to have dietary guidelines that reflect Ultimately, this is a first step in a long process. One of the first studies It wasn't until 1998 that the tobacco companies conceded and struck a deal to pay states for the medical damage they'd done and stop their aggressive If we don't start now, we won't get another chance