It was an early and deafening spring morning thunderous and violent sounds of roaring canons capital as the Ottomans began their relentless Theodosian Walls overlooking the battle below was Eastern Roman Empire. The emperor knew that end of his over 2,000-year-old state. Only time hold out against the tidal wave of humanity our season finale on the early history of the famous Siege of Constantinople and the Islamic Background Concerning Constantinople: states to capture the Roman imperial seat of the Islamic faith itself. Presumably, back in the letter to Emperor Heraclius after a military Muhammad invited the emperor to convert to or else he would face his master's judgment. In mysterious letter seriously and even made some Prophet. Although the religiously devoted faith of his ancestors, he did acknowledge his letter. A similar letter by the Prophet Khosrow II, but this time around, the letter unlikely fate of divine justice, the responses mirror the fate of their respective realms. accounts really transpired or not, by the 630s, appear on the frontiers of the Roman and Persian Mesopotamia. Their goal was to spread the word middle of the century, these newly assembled Caliphate had vanquished the numerous armies various battles around the Middle East. While by the armies of Islam, the declining Roman state albeit at the cost of the its Egyptian, Nonetheless, within a century after their initial of the Prophet Muhammed found themselves unable they were halted at the stone gates of the Taurus by two-thirds, the East Romans had proved to be a neighbors, having survived two significant in addition to surviving numerous Arab raids well into the ninth century. These military on the East Roman capital, remained a significant caliphates of the Middle Ages for many centuries. two sieges, including the Prophet's own the age of jihad and potential world conquest By the tenth century, the opportunity to seize later Abbasid Caliphate politically fractured saw the Byzantines resurging in military and saw its imperial members go on the offensive in the magnificent dream of one day capturing the various Muslim communities throughout the Mehmed II's Upbring &amp; Ascension On the night of March 30th, 1432, Huma gave birth to a baby boy in the royal Ottoman Ottoman capital celebrate in euphoria, no one, would ever become a ruler in his own right, for to become his father's heir. Regardless of his name the baby boy after his late father, Mehmed. given an extensive education by the leading his father's initiative in promoting the arts discovered that Mehmed had a significant thirst to learn multiple foreign languages such Hebrew, and most likely Serbian. The young boy and Herodotus's antique classics in addition to figures such as Alexander the Great and Julius Mehmed during his student years was his Islamic where one line from the Hadith fascinated and Constantinople. What a wonderful leader will he By the time Mehmed was six years old, he was given his education and got first-hand experience of his life was to change forever. The 1440s as crusader armies of Western Europe invaded young prince. In only a few years, his two his mother had been sent away into exile stepped down from the royal throne into political Mehmed ascended to the throne in 1444, causing Forgoing his young age and relative inexperience wanted to besiege the Roman capital after the risky by the senior members of the Ottoman Balkans, many thought such an expensive and for the state, but the headstrong Mehmed ignored reported as saying to his critics, "Either I shall conquer me." But such a conquest was court with his unrelenting demeanor, Mehmed father by a coup d'etat in 1446 orchestrated He was then exiled to the town of Manisa, being the first Ottoman sultan to give up his event would forever alter the relationship between followers began a tense rivalry within the Even with this internal division at the loyally alongside his father on bloody military of Kosovo. It was in these years that he saw the as the sultan's personal aid. However, his time II died of a sudden stroke in 1451 at the age of sultan back in 1444, the succession to the Ottoman state tradition, the role of monarch was eligible regardless of their seniority. The former sultan infant Sehzade Ahmed, and unlike Mehmed, he was dangerous half-brother, Mehmed's already proven eyed the Ottoman throne from Constantinople as a previously tried to seize the throne by inciting defeated on his march to Edirne. The race to hold Like with the death of Sultan Mehmed I back a secret by the imperial palace until Wanting to keep the best interest of the state to an infant or a Byzantine pawn, Candarli Manisa informing Mehmed about his father's death capital at once. In only three days, the Ottoman from Manisa to Edirne, crossing the Dardanelles anything of Murad II's death, Mehmed was crowned front of all to see. After six years of losing the former sultan was now back in power. a tense presentation of ministers took place at seated on the imperial throne, receiving statesmen and his followers ensured the swift ascension of the tensions of the last few years between the over into the next administration. During the the back of the meeting hall in trepidation while Before long, Mehmed noticed the uncalm atmosphere "Why do my father's viziers hang back? Call them The young sultan then proceeded to insist that shocking many in the hall. The act by the his inner court in the capital, as it seemed However, before he could attend to such to his household. One of Mehmed's first actions already common practice of fratricide within the Murad I back during the 1360s, the members of the order to secure the throne, most famously seen Interregnum. According to the Ottoman state, all and it was only up to divine will and the prince's that would help win them the race to ultimate it was expected that he would eliminate all the stability of the state from future civil in more desperate times, his sons. Although it wider public, the practice of fratricide ensured the imperial family for almost an entire century codifying the practice of fratricide into law, infant half-brother, Sehzade Ahmed . It was from for the next 150 years, would have to endure a or face an eventual early death. and unifying his imperial court, Mehmed now ambitions of seizing the 'queen of cities,' Brief History of Constantinople By the turn of the fifteenth century, of the Eastern Roman Empire for over a millennium. Great in 324 on top of the former ancient Greek lavish capital city for his new Christian empire closely monitor the volatile Persian and Danubian new capital also possessed quite advantageous was situated on a peninsula that could be supplied a northern inlet dubbed the Golden Horn. On top the virtually impregnable three-layered Theodosian layer of acclaimed invincibility. It was to be numerous adversaries over the years, such as Kyivan Rus, and even fellow Roman usurpers. centuries, Constantinople's population had topped populated by numerous public buildings, grand arches, and lavish statues from antiquity topped the crowning jewel of the capital was the Hagia of Emperor Justinian the Great in the sixth Church of God's Holy Wisdom had been the world's of Byzantine prestige during the Medieval against its many foes in the West and East. had long become a shadow of its former self. Back the first time by the Latin knights of the Fourth Roman capital. Although the Romans would recapture the richness of Constantinople's infrastructure efforts to reconstruct and repopulate their former fruitless. The fourteenth century saw the restored costly and bloody civil wars while the Black Death itself. Meanwhile, in the background, the sons of saw a further reduction of Byzantine lands in deterioration of Roman power in the fourteenth dropping well below 50,000. With constant food emperors of East Rome had now become reliant on for military, political, and economic support. of Ankara had given the Eastern Roman Empire to revert the fortunes of Constantinople. situation for Byzantium had become so great that in favor of a church union with the Papacy. It was economic and military assistance from the aid of Constantinople and prevent the Two years before the ascension of Sultan Mehmed the age of fifty-five after hearing the disastrous Kosovo. The late emperor was succeeded by his who took up the purple in a simple ceremony at royal had been a much-celebrated war hero after and Thessaly and was seen as an ideal choice in it was now he who was reduced to begging for Catalan ship. By the time the now-proclaimed the Byzantine world had been shrunk down a few islands in the Aegean, and Even though it seemed like the world was rapidly unlike his quarrelsome brothers in the Morea, had According to Byzantine and Western sources, who inspired loyalty to the people around him. who was highly active in the daily tasks of incredibly loyal and patriotic to his country. in his private life, having been childless since repeated attempts to forge new dynastic marriages #18.2 STARTS HERE Siege of Constantinople (1451-1453): in 1451 was widely celebrated across Western Muslim leader who had dealt multiple significant his reign in power. However, with the ascension Vatican thought it was now the ideal time another round of crusades. Unfortunately for in the size and scope of the Varna campaign immediate neighbors were exhausted from the many European powers were now eager to secure a Venice had renewed peace with the young sultan, three-year truce in hostilities. In the following and Trebizond were similarly able to secure that the new sultan was now under the thumb to further secure peace in the Balkans, the young Brankovic, back to her homeland of Serbia after Ottoman haram. She was now tasked with maintaining keeping an eye on Buda's influence in the country. Ibrahim II Bey of the Karamanid Beylik misread conducting raids into Ottoman territories in faced with his first real test since coming led his armies against the forces of Konya in Ottoman specialization in gunpowder weapons of unorganized Ghazi warriors and light cavalry. was, for now, to be delayed as fears of to save their allies in Konya loomed over. As Beysehir were transferred back to Ottoman negotiations. Mehmed's first military campaign had to conquering his first lands, the young sultan loyal men in positions of power within the A determined Mehmed still remembered the Jannisary and he also knew that he needed the elite corp against the Byzantines. So as a result, over 7,000 along with dozens of loyal military officers and As the swift Karamanid campaign came to a close, begun to sour. According to traditional Ottoman belligerent letters to the young sultan, demanding without such payment, he would be forced to Roman emperor's implication was understood clearly tribute, a fellow claimant to the throne would be imperial court at Edirne exploded into mad fury, with a poker face as he gained a pretext for "the Red Apple," that was the Roman By the spring of 1452, the construction of a new of Anadoluhisari began in earnest. The young point on the Bosporus of maritime traffic from crossing hub for his armies in the Balkans and merchant republics. In only four-and-a-half or 'Rumelian Castle,' was completed, thus further world. Overnight, vital grain supplies from the causing a major panic within the city. To the fortress first saw action when three by local Turkish authorities, resulting in flagship and the demise of its entire crew. the imperial court in Constantinople into a territory without the consultation of the of the fortress were sent to Edirne, but only the by the imperial court in return. With a major Constantine began his correspondence with assistance at once. The emperor had been a staunch back during the Council of Ferrara-Florence as and economic survival with Western assistance. 1440s and a loss in general appetite to make left with limited options in order to stave Venice received Byzantium's pleas with deaf ears Edirne the previous year and did not want to possessions in the Aegean. In spite of this, recruit troops from its colony island of Crete as also turned a blind eye to Constantine's pleas but Chios and Galata to take independent actions with Messages were also sent to Hungary and Aragon, territories of Lemnos, Messembria, and Selymbria but neither Kingdom offered Constantinople a of all the pleas, the emperor contacted Thomas and Demetrios, for immediate military were dashed as Mehmed got wind of the appeal to invade the Morea during the fall of 1452. In making it impossible for either Palaiologi With Turkish navies now blockading the Dardanelles coming from the West, East Rome entered the winter ongoing blockades severely depleted the capital's downpours of the winter season demoralized the pro-unionist Constantine was now openly jeered at of the Roman state. However, being true to his by preparing for the upcoming Ottoman siege even winter, the neglected sections of the land and sea main ditch in front of the sea walls was cleared to the city's garrison. In an indicator such a large-scale operation was funded by the of abandoned buildings, gathering of stones from As Constantinople prepared for war, good news finally arrived. Hearing of the true desperation broken through the Ottoman blockade and arrived at equipment, 400 heavily armoured troops from Genoa, the charismatic Giovanni Giustiniani Longo, a island of Chios. Being a self-proclaimed expert in as the leader of the city's land defences and emperor also promised him the island of Lemnos the coming weeks, the defenders were reinforced men from Aragon, Castile and Naples. However, overshadowed by the surprise departure of 700 who had previously sworn to help defend the city in the siege to come. Although the event was Giustiniani's efforts to prepare the defences During the background of all these Roman winter preparing for the upcoming siege. He had troops and provincial armies all across his realm all roads and bridges surrounding his capital. transportation of the new bombard constructed by a The renegade mercenary had first offered his but after seeing that the Roman emperor lacked he then offered his services to an already that his largest cannon, dubbed "Basilica," While Orban and other Turkish engineers worked the winter season, the first salvo in the war Karaca Bey crossed into Byzantine Thrace in the last remaining Roman settlements in the dismantled. With the road to Constantinople Edirne in great pomp in late March at the it was now time to fulfill not only his dream of Islamic state since the original siege of the city Easter was celebrated within Constantinople, five miles from the walls of the city itself. #18.3 STARTS HERE Mehmed was now in command of the largest consisting of 60,000 to 100,000 troops. He divided sultan and his Kapikulu soldiers were encamped gates of St. Romanus and Charisius, enabling Walls from a high elevation. Ishak Pasha's stretching down to the Sea of Marmara, while stretching up to the Golden Horn. In front constructed trenches, earth ramparts, and siege walls. The last portion of the land army was stationed on the heights behind the neutral Horn. Lastly, blockading Constantinople from galleys and other light ships under the As the numerous Ottoman army took up the outnumbered defenders of Constantinople difficult task of defending over 20 kilometres of the defenders, the defences in question were the stopped and destroyed many armies in past sieges troops, Constantine took up positions at the and his foreign troops were stationed at the 5.5-kilometre land walls and its fortified towers Venetian, and Genoese troops, numbering Meanwhile, the southern sea walls on the Marmara walls, garrisoned by just over 1,000 troops and Papal soldiers. Similarly, the northern sea and Genoese sailors, totalling only a few hundred the allied fleet and the northern harbours of the Golden Horn into the Genoese colony of Galata. reserve, led by the emperor's 'megas doux' and in the Petra quarter of the capital. Finally, ancient ruins of the Church of the Holy Apostles. of surrender to the besieged party in exchange to the emperor under a flag of truce. However, and firm Constantine rejected the sultan's terms last soldier. As the war of letters and petitions began with a grand Ottoman bombardment on the next five days saw Turkish artillery crews testing while Serbian sappers underground started digging Turkish engineers commenced their efforts to yet frequent sorties by Lord Giustiniani's progress. Meanwhile, at sea, Baltaoglu's surrounding Constantinople and capturing On April 12th, Orban's heavy cannons, including battlefield after an arduous march from Edirne. 1500 pounds, these new war machines began blasting full force, specifically the Mesoteichion spoke of the monstrous sounds and clouds of with one account claiming that the quakes shores of the Bosphorus. However, despite their operating such cannons proved to be difficult the guns became an apparent problem to Turkish Orban allegedly met his doom when one of his fired. All of this meant that cannons like times a day, giving the defenders ample time to In any case, after six days of repeated cannon to the Mesoteichion was now sufficient for a April 18th, infantry contingents were sent to St. Romanus Gate while the navy attempted to break what was thought to be an optimistic operation as a bitter melee began raging within the The heavily armoured Genoese under Giustiniani enabling the defenders to successfully hold a Ottoman assault. With the Turkish infantry unable facing Roman arrows and javelins from the wall, savage bloodbath. After four gruesome hours and the assault on the Mesoteichion. The Theodosian army at their gates. Meanwhile, the naval assault Turkish galleys couldn't scale the taller carracks April 18th resulted in significant humiliation Weeks prior to the siege, three Genoese merchant been dispatched by the pope to aid Constantinople. in Chios, where they were joined by a Byzantine entered the Dardanelles Strait. Fortunately for about the fleet's whereabouts a week before they for Baltaoglu Suleyman to prepare his ships to of famine, it was crucial for the Ottoman war By April 20th, the Christian fleet appeared on the defenders on the walls. However, the journey challenged as Baltaoglu and his fleet awaited in sides clashed east of the walls of the Acropolis, sultan himself from the Galata shore. Despite fleet struggled to penetrate the enemy vessels difference between their galleys and the Christian then ordered his ships to board and capture the taller carracks proved too daunting for the southern winds from the Marmara had picked for their final dash to the Golden Horn. Pushing the fleet successfully crossed the chain before With the morale of the defenders of Constantinople supplies, Mehmed went into a full rage, dismissing Hamza Bey to his position. To make things rumours of potential invasion from Hungary by giving credence to the warnings of the Grand now sending out terms of peace from an elevated the advice of his imperial council, but after that the siege was to be continued as too much failure to capture the Roman capital now could another crusade from the West in the future. As a Motivated to take action, Mehmed now came Golden Horn in order to divert the resources land walls to the northern sea wall. However, the sultan decided to transport his across the forested terrain behind the colony by Zaganos Pasha, a secret road made of wooden the main army and above the Genoese colony masked Additionally, cannons began firing from the the Allied fleet from venturing beyond the the previous week. Throughout the late night of soldiers, and hundreds of oxen dragged under cover of darkness. By the next morning, shock and horror, witnessing Turkish ships freely cannon fire from the opposing shoreline. Mehmed's strategic and psychological masterstroke, leading to the reserves of Lucas Notaras now In the following days, plans to eliminate discussed by the emperor's war council. After captain Giacomo Coco gained support, which was same substance that had devastated the Arab fleet on the night of April 28th, five vessels loaded cover of night towards the Turkish fleet in total to plan until a last-second full-speed dash by leading to cannon fire raining upon the ambushing five ships were either sunk or captured, resulting including the death of the Venetian captain. In the siege, the surviving crew of the ambushed the next morning, followed by the execution of The days after the failed ambush saw a renewed Romanus and Charisius, in addition to the northern and Proshopian harbours. It was during this advising him to escape discreetly to the Morea the Byzantine emperor doubled down on his war to mint new coinage for his mercenaries and the land walls. The action couldn't have come soon second frontal assault near a collapsed section of leadership of Giustiniani saved the day, and another frontal attack was ordered, this time troops climb and breach the city walls for the the emperor himself repelled the attackers. Mehmed now turned to his Serbian sappers to Back in April, the sappers had tried but due to the uneven terrain of the area, they of targeting the Kaligaria Gate on the Blachernae the walls, but due to the anti-mining tactics The resourceful Scottish mercenary used helping him identify the movements of the sappers was funnelled into an opening in the ground. exhausted after more than fifty days since the only half of the original strength of the city's of promised reinforcements from the West. In way to reinforce the capital, but constant delays of May. To make matters worse, the citizens of and illuminating flaming lights coming off which was interpreted as the Virgin Mary, Meanwhile, the mood on the attackers' side had assaults of the last few weeks had severely to believe the Roman capital was unconquerable. amounts of food and water for over fifty days had even though the entire sultanate's resources were heightened, another offer of surrender leading Mehmed to call for a war council. again pushed for lifting the siege as fears of a arrived at the sultan's tent the previous week lifted. However, following a series of motivating the sultan decided to launch one final grand conquer Constantinople, or he would see On May 27th, the Theodosian Walls were again were carried out by Mehmed himself, culminating troops. Likewise, the defenders also prepared defences on the land walls, holding a mass icons throughout the streets of the capital. than fifty gruelling days of besiegement and but now everything came down to the final battle. 28th devoted to atonement and prayer before Sometime near midnight, the sounds of cannon fire from the Turkish mehter band. Watching from the witnessed a sea of bright flames spanning from the first wave, made up of light infantry in the concentrating on the Blachernae walls, the south. At the same time, the fleet under Hamza Bey sea walls but faced great difficulties caused by the fleet in the Golden Horn, along of Galata, also began scaling operations on the After two hours of bloody combat, the first wave the second wave made up of the better-trained this wave had also been repelled, giving way sultan's elite Kapikulu troops, mostly consisting Italian forces of Constantine and Giustiniani Mesoteichion, disastrous news elsewhere began Karaca Pasha's army of Rumelia from the Blachernae Gate had sallied out against the attackers but incursion. In only a matter of time, a group of Before long, they overwhelmed the local defenders Meanwhile, another disaster awaited the defenders Giustiniani, had been severely wounded, hit by an chest while defending the St. Romanus Gate. While a giant janissary named "Hasan of Ulubat" and hoist the first Ottoman standards atop fire. With their foes invigorated and their panic erupted among the defenders. To make had begun to flank around and unlock the gates the Plateia Gate was breached by the Galata army clearing the southern sea walls of local Turkish, attackers poured through the walls, the defenders and began frantically retreating to the safety of troops now indulged themselves in looting, onboard the allied fleet, which broke through Back at the walls, Constantine XI tried According to myths, the emperor accepted his &quot;God forbid that I should live as an Emperor fall with it. Whosoever wishes to escape, let to face death, let him follow me.&quot; Flinging off the Roman emperor charged headfirst into a group 7:00 a.m., all resistance had collapsed, the Augustaion and the Hagia Sophia, pillaging, Mese road. After fifty-three gruelling days, the Aftermath of the Siege (1453): three full days of sacking, he decided to rescind already done to the city, which he aimed to turn Gate with his entourage, the sultan inspected and immediate plans to convert the Hagia Sophia into capital. Having achieved his childhood dream and the centuries, Mehmed then declared himself to him, for all intents and purposes, his newly of the Roman Empire, a legacy dating back to the Great. Seizing an opportunity to eliminate Mehmed began his rule in Constantinople allegations of bribery. The most senior surviving was also executed, and his wealth was seized. Osman had established a small independent state the foremost powers of their era. With the Middle a new 'golden age' awaited Mehmed II and his the newly established Ottoman Empire. In our will explore said 'golden age,' so make sure you Please consider liking, subscribing, commenting, have started releasing weekly patron and YouTube ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals