Dear, dear, dear... You see, no one wants such hard cases. No one wants such a hard case. I give him something like A little bit. It's good for him. You have to eat everything, Come on, come on, come on. Come on, come on, come on. That's it. That's it. Half of it. Come on, come on, just a little bit. We were written off, We don't get any extra Nothing. It's like we fell out Yes, we are not military any more. But he is not a military man. That's it. Don't bother anyone, he fought so much, he got this in He is not a military man any more to them. The system is so complicated There is no humanity here. Yes, he gave up his health, his life, And he got nothing out of it. You see, there are different There are those that will come back, It doesn't matter. The main That he is not lying in the What will happen... That's how it is with us. That's how it is with us. That's how nervous he gets, Because of too many people? - No, He still understands. He might have stood up and But he can't... And he's just And he starts to squeak. He was like that, he was friends with He was a very kind child. And he left in 2014. I told him: &quot;Ihor, the boys are not going, one is going, only you.&quot; And he said to me: &quot;Mom, I took an oath.&quot; Then he always came back. Then my neighbor goes: &quot;Ihor, maybe you He left in the 80th, But that was before the volunteers were going - they had nothing. So we didn't take them into account before. And we had a friend at the military He said: &quot;Listen, we will So he mobilized him to the 80th. &quot;Ihor, don't go anymore. You have already served And he always read to us, he knew Sosiura's &quot;Love And he always read it to us. I said: &quot;Go away with your poems!&quot; He would recite &quot;Love Ukraine!&quot; and go on. Mom will speak a half-tone Mom is yelling, you're already... He's already... I think he is already allergic to his after day, telling him... Oh, I'm telling the truth. He says: &quot;Mom, when will you shut up!&quot; Yes, my son. When will you shut up, mom! It's okay. Mom has to take your temperature, How do you know that Ihor understands us? He's listening, he's like... He would close his eyes, I talk on the phone, I start talking on the Yeah, I say, you've already perked up the And he... A fellow soldier called us in the evening, his fellow I want to see Ihor&quot;. I said: &quot;Well, then go on Skype Because that's how he called. And he switched, and we called. So you know, he started talking to him: he was looking at him, he recognized him and started crying. The one on side, the one on this over there, the Kharkiv He started crying, and we realized that What he sees... Because as soon as he didn't see me... I So, the rehabilitation therapist and I, if you know, he just hears my voice, and he's already So I stopped going there. I said: &quot;I won't go there, So I don't go upstairs anymore, he He doesn't hear me up there, and And he is looking for me again. And then, when he got and he said: &quot;Mom, I'll call you back, I'll call you back.&quot; He did not call me back. I started calling him. He was out of service. The I said: &quot;It can't be, because he just came back from point zero. And then it started... The commander goes: &quot;He's wounded&quot;. I said: &quot;Where is it? What is it? Well, yes, we started and There was Pokrovsk, Dnipro, whatever else called morgues everywhere, until we found him in Dnipro. The first shock, I... You know, it was very hard. Someone told me that he Nobody gave me any hope They took him to Kyiv. I went to Kyiv. That doctor told me: &quot;I can't tell that Ihor has some chances&quot;. He said: &quot;It won't be soon. It will take a long time.&quot; We have been traveling for two years now. Four months of them in a coma? Yes, yes, in a coma. Ihor only has a disability group for two years. Can you imagine that? - Why is that? Well, yes, the MSEC gave him a in May, I have to take him I think, I think to myself: well, They gave him a two-year He was given a disability for two years. They did it in Chernivtsi. I didn't get paid the two At least I had money for diapers. Can't you go home? Well, I can't, I can't leave him. How do you manage financially? I manage like this. Well, what do you do? You keep working. You have to. His pension, my pension - and People help, girls help. Some people are not given a This is how we live. It's Do you know why? That there is no help from the Nobody needs you, even if the military once and asked: &quot;How are you? What are you doing? Do you have any money?&quot; Nothing, nobody. God, no one, nothing. Nobody needs you. And then we were running around, Contracts. And now no one wants him. Do you think that if you left him alone, here to take care of him? No. 100%. I've seen those who do. I've seen them. So I will No matter how good she is, this is alien to her, it's alien to her. If I wanted to, I fed it, if I wanted to, gave it, if I wanted to, I didn't. She can lie in a wet diaper. Nobody needs her, you know? No matter how good she is. There are few everything for someone else. And if she has not one, Someone from the family has Yes, yes, if If you don't do it yourself, then it's So I've already said, I'm not And even if we are at home, we will go we are at home, that he will come to us to You know, we'll take God willing, we'll have good weather to go Sometimes it's a bit You have to go to yourself, you Everything happens. And when the girls call: &quot;How are you? When are you coming home?&quot; You don't know what to answer. You don't know what can happen, what will - you don't know anything. That's how you live... We had two cases like that. that he ended up in the I thought he would not come But, thank God, everything went well. It means that God gave So let's move forward. Let's turn on some music here, He listens so well. Sometimes