Good morning/afternoon everybody. Good to have you. This is weird 'cause I'm just gonna talk to It's a strange experience. Welcome to the millennial age. You'll have the picture and you'll show it look like in person? You go, I don't know, I was also looking at him. First of all, thank you very much, Bill and When I was first asked to be here they said event, Goalkeepers, and talk about what's all of the people speaking and I said but I do not have a fridge that can change lives, Africa and in southern Africa and the rest ride a motorbike so I don't know what I can Bill just said come and share your thoughts, how I process information. That's how I process my world, so, I'll tell means so much to me. So, in case you don't know me, my name is a time known as apartheid and for those who which made it illegal for black people and amongst other things. Black people lived in separate areas to white segregated and this was particularly tough well, with me being the mixed one in the family. My mother's a black woman, a Xhosa woman from Xhosa is one of the languages with the clicks Xhosa but not like in American movies. I've seen those movies where they have the That's not a language, alright? No, even we watch those movies and we're like It's not a language but my mother's a Xhosa Switzerland and was a white man and still got together during this time which was against growing up in this family and that's really family that couldn't be together, we were a crime that existed, me being the born from born a crime and one of the biggest things and learning about the organization was the could see at a time when no one should almost one of those people. My mother's a beautiful, powerful woman who We lived through apartheid in South Africa, who was extremely abusive, an alcoholic and I always admired in my mom was that she had world she was in but also optimistically pursue that's for me what Goalkeepers is all about, People always ask, they go is the world going Is the world getting better or is it getting Now, depending on who you ask there will always I've come to find one of the reasons I believe have access to information on how bad the thing to say but that's honestly what I believe. As a young person and as someone who makes tools I've realized is information. We come from an age where there was misinformation, but now more than ever young people communicate people in England and in America and South You see people speaking out about what they and sharing with victims of hurricanes across I look at that I go it's one of the most powerful to a completely new way that we communicate And young people are driven. That's one of the most beautiful things I've Millennials oftentimes are marked as they're they cry about small things which is true make a change, they also believe that they I believe that information and these tools that. More than ever we see that in America. As the host of The Daily Show I'm obviously and one thing I've noticed with my audience the world of politics but they're engaged, before, engaged in a way where they understand history as opposed to just being a part of It's a beautiful experience to see that's In my home country South Africa we see the we don't accept the status quo, we can change can be a part of this world and essentially you feel it. People always come up to me and they go, Trevor, about Donald Trump? I say well, I don't know how to feel about He's a paradox for me emotionally. One part of me is terrified at the notion nation of the world, the other side of me laugh. I cannot deny this. The best way I can put it is it's almost like Earth but it's shaped like penis. I think I'm gonna die but I know I'm gonna And this is a tough place to be in because that you are in and that is a dangerous one when you laugh, you're not controlled by fear with in my life, in my family. My mother always said to me, she said when When we are laughing we are experiencing our It doesn't mean what I happening to us is the very real world that is happening to us People go, is the world getting better? I go I believe it's always getting better You cannot see the change when you look at you can see how things are getting better. you can also see how some things are getting that's where young people are stepping up the intensity of these once-in-a-lifetime something. Young people are speaking up. Donald Trump is doing that. People are speaking up, they're engaging like For the first time in history we're living about the presidency at the same time as the before. You wake up, you read the newspaper and you at that exact same moment the president is same thing and that for me is exciting. Is it scary? Yes, but most exciting things are scary but and I mean it's still unfolding now. You have Hurricane Maria which is wreaking seeing the devastation but we've also seen I was touched by how many people even on our for everyone to become a goalkeeper which world of technology we have the opportunity People often mock millennials and they say hashtag activists until they're given the street and so I urge every single one of you have the ability, if you have the information what they're offering. They're energized, they're optimistic, they're to say that I am one of them, I am a millennial Thank you very much for having me and congratulations