Did you know you can use plants to there are loads of plants you can put into the rest of your plants in the garden stay Today, I have got a super packed episode for you the herbs you need to plant in your garden in pests. Let's get into it. Welcome to the Grow Gardenary is the place to come to learn how to Today we're talking about keeping your plants because more is more, you know this post on Instagram and it immediately blew up. and more detail here on the grow yourself podcast. herbs that I use in all my kitchen gardens and So number one herb that I absolutely that I plant are chives. Now chives. the Amarylladaceae, if you're being &quot;Kitchen Garden Revival&quot; in chapter five when I the easiest plants to grow in the garden. best part is they are good at repelling smell that pests generally are repelled by. attract beneficial insects and pollinators guys that we want to good girls actually that for us so I put chives all around the edges of any kind of lettuce is that you're growing so lettuce or kale or arugula, mustards, cabbages, Brassica plant family, the Astor plant family, all the leafy greens, they are going to do so going to put off this smell that repels So that's a great place to plant chives. fruiting plants. So near your cucumbers, chives are going to bring pollinators to those turn off things like tomato hornworms and aphids, fruiting plants. Now, I've heard it said plants is near peas and beans. In fact, put those kind of plants together. So that would but I'm gonna be honest, I put 'em near I haven't seen a problem in my garden because out there. If you want to-- to follow those rules, But otherwise, chives can pretty get much near berries like strawberries. They're to put off the strongest smell near those All right. So first up is chives. The next one oh my goodness, the smell is It got me through grad school when I was rosemary and smell it on my way to the cafeteria It repels mosquitoes. It also repels just a great plant to have in the garden. I corners of my raised beds. There's a whole rosemary at the gate, at the garden gate. to have at the garden's entry point. it. I love putting it on the front two corners of an arch trellis in between, something like that. kitchen garden because it doesn't instead just literally drapes over the bed and Every place that you have it, it's going also great to plant near your greens Great to plant near carrots. peas and beans. So we don't have that same, oh So you can absolutely put it near peas and It's kind of antiseptic in its smell. And It's a way to keep. keep the pests off rosemary in your garden, okay? All right, not T -I -M -E, but you need to make some almost all these herbs have this mix where they they attract the insects and the little wildlife. pollinators and then it's also going to repel, near plants that tend to pull aphids toward them. also can be some of your fruiting plants, things squash, zucchini, all those fruiting plants will smaller herb and so it's a great one instead of put it along the edges of the garden. same growing habit where it'll grow have time on the edges rather than on the But in general, time is going to come back year you want to put it in a place where you could really cold climate, it might not come back for at least seven to eight, it's going to come back we got chives, we got Rosemary, we got time. Next perennial like rosemary and chives in thyme, it's the garden about two years before it goes to seed. other herbs, it's not gonna drape over the side kind of more like a bush and eventually So I prefer, instead of having it parsley on the middle. So I might have some large plants like and then parsley right to the outside of it. So it's also worthwhile to buy the plant because it's It's going to pull in butterflies and but it's also a host to ladybugs and all kinds of It also can repel some things but mostly guys. So it's a wonderful plant to have Alright next up on the list is oregano. So like your rosemary. rosemary. I like to have it It's also going to be a perennial. So it's sure you put it in a place that you want to attract beneficial insects. it's going to bring in those bees and aphids and cats. cabbage worms. Oregano push away those pests that we don't Alright, so you want to plant this near kale, and carrots. Essentially you can put oregano near but I also love having it near my fruiting another great way to protect your garden from similarly to the way that you use your chives. middle of the garden rather than along the edges. They're going to come back each and every year, I I love taking little tiny onion you know, you can buy from the grocery and So if I've planted cabbages or any kind of greens that I know are going to be all the things that love to munch on those onions right alongside them. All right, we've just like rosemary, oregano, and thyme. Sage is to fall and drape over as much like the rosemary alongside the long edges of your raised beds. cabbage moss, flea beetles, and carrot rust beets, radishes, arugula, kale, all your leafy squash and zucchini, cucumbers, and watermelons. can find in chapter five in my book, &quot;Kitchen plants in protecting that from pests and hopefully All right, so this is a short list. There are your garden from pests, but let's review what we've got rosemary, we've got thyme, we've we've got green onions, and we've got sage. flowers that will help your garden do this too, the next episode, tell me in the comments right to do is to use more plants in the garden. or fungicides or pesticides. All we need is to create a system that protects and that all can grow right alongside one you that instead of worrying about pests, you in my book to stay on the offense. Staying on and worrying less about the bad that might happen. things you can do in your garden than plant three, four, five, six, seven herbs. Put these you to see if your pest problem doesn't get any and listening to the Grow Your Self podcast. Gardenary Calendar that you can download plant all the things, including herbs. and then we give you all the rest of the dates gardenary.com/calendar to grab yours attend our next workshop at gardenary.com. place to grow yourself, to start a or to upgrade your garden to the next level. I'll see you next time. Bye for now. Thanks podcast. You can keep listening anywhere you love on Spotify, iHeart Radio, you name it, we are and get our free resources to help you grow