Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, rich people. I got to be honest. I feel like I'm, at a casting call for a Daddy Warbucks, and I'm not going to get the job. Welcome. Your eminence. President Trump, first lady. Random millionaires who are not yet billionaires. Welcome to the 79th annual Al Smith Memorial Dinner. As you can. Please give it up. Yeah. As you can see how we're dressed. The theme again is let them eat cake. Now, I understand some of you may recognize me as the guy who plays Tim Walz on SNL, but. I want you to know that I'm going to be fair and balanced tonight, and I'm going to make jokes about both Donald Trump and JD Vance. Now, I'd be remiss if I didn't address the elephant in the room. You know, you're all thinking about it. Let me just cut to the point and point out who's not here. And of course, I'm talking about the middle class. That filthy group of people. Right, Chuck? Do you know what I'm talking about? Can we have a round of applause for Chuck Schumer? Right. See, he does like being near microphones. Now. But seriously, this is a special night, people. This is the one night when Republicans and Democrats and Democrats who used to be Republican and Republicans who used to be Democrats and independents and whatever Michael Bloomberg is now. We can. There he is. He's up there. I am. I love how the front row doesn't even look at me. Yeah. I mean, like, do those seats cost more? How much does it cost and not have to look at gas? Forget. That's my Bloomberg impression. I don't know about you. I think this is exciting. This is very exciting. Right? We. We are 19 days until the election and likely a civil war. And, you know, I'm nervous. You know, I mean, it's like this is my first Civil War guys. I mean, I don't I mean, I don't own a musket. Have we decided who is wearing blue and who is wearing gray? Because I look better and blue because my eyes, you know. But of course, let's acknowledge our host for the evening, the Archbishop of New York, Timothy Michael Cardinal Dolan. Timothy Michael Cardinal Dolan, you know, I tell you, as the father of five, saying that name feels like I'm trying to get my kids to come to dinner. Timothy Michael Cardinal dinner. My wife and I, we do have three boys, and I hope our son, Cardinal doesn't feel too much pressure to become a priest. Full disclosure, Cardinal Dolan is also a friend of mine, and I would never put him on the spot. But, Cardinal Dolan, I'm. I'm curious. The Pope did say that this election is a, choice between the lesser of two evils. And so a two part question. One, do you agree? And two, who is more evil? All right, I'll go. I'll come back to you. This, of course, is a Catholic event honoring Governor Al Smith, who in 1928 was the first Catholic to run on a major party. To put that in perspective. In 1928, Chuck Schumer was a first term senator. He thanks for sitting here, Chuck. Of course, Joe Biden was our second Catholic president right after JFK. President Biden couldn't be here tonight. The DNC made sure of that. Oh, that's. I guess I'm the only one that reads history. I, but this is a Catholic event. I'm Catholic. Any Catholics here? Yeah. They're yelling because it's hard to clap when you're holding a cocktail. Right? You know, if I could, I'd like to talk about my faith for a moment. Personally, I am Catholic because I truly believe that's what my wife wants. In a way, she is my higher power and definitely a punishing God. Yeah. It's true. I was raised Catholic, but I am Catholic today because of my wife and she didn't pressure me. She just said, this is what you believe now. And you know, it wasn't like the Spanish Inquisition. There was an implied convert or die. My beautiful wife Jeannie is here with us tonight. She's. She, She's not sitting on the dais. She is sitting out there with all those losers that are only millionaires. You know, it's like, pull yourself up by your bootstraps, right, Chuck? Yeah. Today is a special day. Today, my wife Jeannie and I are celebrating our 21st wedding anniversary. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. We're not. That's a lie. But being on a dais filled with politicians, journalists and business people, I felt obligated to tell a lie. You know, I didn't want them to feel out of place. Besides, I don't know when our anniversary is. You know, this event has been referred to as the Catholic Met Gala. 22% of Americans identify as Catholic. Catholics will be a key demographic in every battleground state. I'm sorry. Why is Vice President Harris not here? I mean, consider this. This is a room full of Catholics and Jews in New York City. This is a layup for the Democratic nominee. I mean, in her defense, I mean, she did find time to appear on The View. Howard Stern, Colbert and the long time staple of campaigning, the Call Her Daddy podcast. You know what I think it is? I think she doesn't like me. Chuck, too. I bad breath. You know, but I love New York City. I believe that this city is the greatest city on Earth. I do believe that. I have lived here for 35 years. I'm raising my children here, which is not for everyone. Sometimes a friend from home will ask, like, why are you raising your children in New York City? And I always say the same thing because I don't want them to end up like you. We've raised all five of our children in downtown Manhattan, and I can honestly tell you it was a mistake. I don't know if you remember, but there was a time when you could walk a city block and not smell pot, you know? And don't get me wrong, I love driving an hour and a half to Randall's Island to watch my son play soccer for 20 minutes. Of course, New York City is where Donald Trump was, was raised right? And he turned out great. Yet New York is a state that Donald Trump statistically has little chance to win. You know who says you can't go home again? Apparently, 20 million people. You know, we should not. But, you know, let's not let this dais of dignitaries dress like, you know, background actors on Downton Abbey distract from the significant achievement we've made tonight. I mean this in all sincerity. The money that we've raised tonight is significant and will have a positive impact. You know. And after we pressure Mike Bloomberg to give more money. We will break $10 million. $10 million. Okay, everyone, look at Michael Bloomberg and tell him he should give more money. $10 million is is pretty impressive. You know, I mean, I mean, granted, it could get you a studio apartment in Manhattan, which seems, you know, expensive. Especially considering you can get a mayor for two business class flights. Oh, is is. Oh, did I break? I didn't think we had borders anymore. All right, let's let's go. Positive here. Can we have a round of applause for First Lady Melania Trump? Who presently has the number one book in America? Yeah. And you know, by the way, Jesus taught us to forgive seven times, not seven times, but 70 times seven. And Melania, you may be the first person to actually reach that. What's that? Oh, wow. She surpassed it. Congratulations. You know, looking at this impressive base of attendees up here, I never know how to address you people. So you prefer, you know, global elite or coastal elite? You know, I mean, I know we live in a sensitive times, and I don't want to mislabel anyone. I, I'm, I'm personally excited to be up here, and not just because you make me look young and principled. You know, this seating arrangement is weird, right? I mean, it looks like the plutocrats are about to play Family Feud, and the survey says whatever you want. This dais. Actually, let's be honest, this entire room is filled with some of the most powerful people in New York City. And Brian Kilmeade. Remember, Brian, I told you, Brian and I started doing standup together, so we're friends. Hopefully, you know, because this room is I'm glad you guys have a sense of humor about this, because this room is is undeniably impressive. It really is the prestige, the wealth, the allegations. I mean, wow. And don't feel bad if you don't have any allegations yet. Okay, which reminds me, Letitia James is here. She had a great year. She is back there watching all of you. She is watching. by the way, can I point out that this is this is a very nimble thing that I'm trying to do, Brian, because if I am too critical of president of of Vice President Harris, I will, you know, I will lose friendships and, you know, and mess up my career. And if I am too critical of President Trump, I will lose friendships and improve my career. So, yeah, I mean. We have an amazing. By the way, RFK junior is here. Welcome, sir. Okay, junior. He of course, is going to make America. He's part of the MAGA make America Healthy again, right? I don't know if he's seeing what Donald Trump aides, but, Donald Trump, it's like, well, man, the Cardinal okay. And, anyway. Now that now the prompter guy, I was I went off book a little bit here. So, anyway, I'd like to also welcome Mayor Adams, brought to you by Turkish Airlines. I was told to say that it's a sponsorship deal. People. you know, we have a lot of formers on the dais tonight. All right? Former mayors, former governors, former respected journalists. Is there any other kind? Really? Now, I understand some people may have an issue with a journalist appearing on a dais, hobnobbing with the rich and powerful. It would appear like a clear conflict of interest. And that's because it absolutely is. But look, the days of Walter Cronkite are gone. Most journalists have their own TikTok. Yeah. The president, President Trump, regularly appears on a show called Fox and Friends. That's not a mistake. He's their best friend. Former mayor. Bloomberg is here. Mayor. Mayor Bloomberg, I want, you're going to close that deal on, bringing, us to 10 million. Thank you. Just not in agreement, sir. Okay, now, by the way, there are rumors that Mayor Bloomberg is planning to buy. I mean, run. Run for mayor. I don't know if that's true. Quick question, Mayor Bloomberg. When you buy an election, do you put it on a credit card so you can get the points? Because that's what I would do. I already did the RFK joke. So, but, anyway, you know, well, the one thing that I was going to say is that I feel like Donald Trump, you know, make America healthy again. I feel like Donald Trump would probably be less loyal to RFK than he would be to KFC. You do? I mean, it's like, I think the rank of Colonel Sanders. some of these I wrote during lunch, Woody Johnson is here tonight, owner of the New York Jets and heir to the Johnson and Johnson pharmaceutical fortune. You know, in divisive times, sir, you are a shining example. Okay, if the head of Johnson and Johnson can sign an unvaccinated quarterback. Maybe there is hope for this country. All right. Not only is Woody Johnson here, Robert Kraft, owner of the New England Patriots, is here. Welcome. By the way, as we know, they are bitter rivals on the football field. But here tonight they're here for the same reason. Billionaires supporting Trump. It's really beautiful. We are 19 days 19 days from the election. This presidential election it's been different right? I mean, it is it's crazy because there's no Russian interference, no Facebook. It's crazy. It's being left up to American voters. And for billionaires. The Cardinal wrote that Joe, there is one, one group that baffles me, and I think it baffles most everyone in this country. And I'm talking about the undecided voter. Are you kidding me? I mean, are you kidding me? You don't know who you're voting for. You don't see a difference. Between Kamala Harris and Donald Trump. No, no. Like nobody has ever thought, wait, is that a Trump quote or a Harris quote? The media has begun discussing the phenomena of secret Trump voters. I don't know if you've heard about this. People who publicly say they would never vote for Trump, but then when they go in the voting booth, they do. It's a small group. They're called the Biden family. They're. You know, I, I think we'd all agree that, you know, we live in divided times and whoever is elected in November, I hope they establish an initiative to to heal the dividing that exists in this country. And I have I have a great name for this. It could be called project 2025. It has a nice track. Do you like it? Okay. Our first presentation tonight will be by Vice President Kamala Harris. Okay, you have to admit, the Democrats have done an amazing job rebranding Vice President Harris. Right. The term joyful warrior was used so many times at the Democratic convention, I felt like I was at a yoga retreat. Let's start off in that joyful warrior pose and then go straight into downward facing Doug Emhoff. Good. Now laugh uncontrollably. Remember to breathe. Vice President Harris. His trajectory has been astounding. In just the course of a couple of months, she went from mediocre vice president to everyone's mama Marla. This is, of course, a historic race for many reasons, right? If Vice President Harris wins this election, not only would she be the first female president, a black woman would occupy the white House. A former Trump resident, obviously you wouldn't be renting to her, but I mean, that would never happen anyway. Maybe if Doug did the signing. All right, that one didn't work. Yeah. This has been an interesting presidential campaign. The Democrats have been telling us Trump Trump's reelection is a threat to democracy. In fact, they were so concerned of this threat, they staged a coup, ousted their democratically elected incumbent and installed Kamala Harris. In other words, all her dreams have come true. Really? It really makes you consider the power of prayer, right? Cardinal? Sometimes prayers take three and a half years and a George Clooney op ed. I don't know who's angry, but I don't care.