Transcriber: Phuong Cao I'm trying to compose and I'm thinking that I went to prison and hugged while a DJ busy, threw on some records, and Richard Branson told me (Laughter) (Applause) True story! (Laughter) Lesson number one: never believe a prediction When I was born, that I would be dead 35 years later, all those doctors are dead (Laughter) and I am the only doctor that remains. (Laughter) (Applause) Never believe a prediction How many predictions have been If you believe predictions you will wither away and die, either physically die as you just walk around that is just following the masses. You'll be given you'll be told so many different things. You must only listen I have a belief and that is that everyone even those that do not know it. And I'm not here today to tell you and therefore, I know I don't have a clue what any of you I did not grow up in your neighborhoods I did not have your set of parents, I've not had the events I can tell you I am only and that's how to be me, and I do it well. (Applause) But it's not come easily, I've gone through things that I don't wish I've had metal rods pulled out I've had jaw infections and I can no longer chew my own food. I have to get up everyday, and be showered and cared for fortunately, she's a gorgeous (Applause) I get stared at everywhere I go, and the moment people meet me, if they don't know a thing they automatically, just by &quot;Oh, it must be so difficult If somebody pities me, because I have chosen a life of strength, I am here to help you but I'm going to tell you, You know what the worst drug Pity. The moment you feel sorry or the moment you feel sorry You're totally, completely We can not pity ourselves, Yes, I get to go home today, yes, I get but I'm going to talk to you about freedom about what I really choose because like I said, you can not believe predictions The second lesson today is You're not. I'm not disabled! Sure, I'll take the handicapped (Laughter) but that does not define me as a man. Not able? I've been looked at and treated I have had to rise above and show people that the only disability You have to adapt to whatever even if it's prison. And what does adaption look like? Because when you meet people you want to be around them, you want to do business with them, Look! If you do not want to be seen when you get out of this, there is an attitude, it is a belief in yourself that you bring no matter what your current condition, Because if I believe that I am disabled, I would be insecure, I would be afraid, And the rest of humanity but I choose something else, I choose to be strong, I choose to have words I'll tell you why I was born. And I hope it inspires you to I was born to rid Because when a human being When we feel like we're not enough, we chase external validation, to try to tell us we're enough. (Applause) Thank you. You are enough. I'll tell you I've made to love all human beings, Because deep down inside, I found that every human being even if they're tough, even if they're vicious. You get them in the right position, they'll tell you the truth. They just want to be loved. Do you know whom they want Not their moms, not their dads, None of these people. They want to be able to look in And if you can figure that out, (Applause) But you can not feel sorry for yourself. When you feel sorry But there's a contradiction it's the opposite extreme, beating yourself up, being that all those predictions, that they're true, they're right, You're not going to amount to anything. Bullying yourself is the most You can not afford to pity yourself, you have to love yourself, because the last lesson that I'm going that is I'm going to teach you it's not surrounded by bar, the real prisons do not have guards, the real prison's up here. And we all got it, we all have a mind that chatters, Do you know where your salvation is? I've met so many people that are that are in prison, because they're stuck in their minds, bullying themselves, pitying themselves. True freedom is dropping down And what my wife has taught me in the mastering this beating thing that is more than just sending What is it doing? It's sending emotional possibilities, in our behavior, in our life, When you love yourself, whether you're sleeping whether you have food in your belly, or you don't know when you love yourself, when you learn to master your emotions, then and only then are you free. I love you, each and everyone of you, God bless. (Applause)