(lively accordion music) (gentle acoustic guitar music) - [Peter] Here we are, Southern Louisiana, the heart of Cajun country. About to meet up with who grew up out here, has for 75 years. Said he can bring us in, show us around. This is a very unique part of the country. I can already feel it. - [Gerald] You know much about live oaks? - No. - [Peter] Other than they're live. - Let me tell you what the is to me, it's the prettiest in my opinion. Look on the ground. See what you see? - See how we're in the shade? The leaves are dropping now, but they come back as fast as they drop. - Just right away. - See those trees? See those over there is pecan trees. - [Peter] Oh yeah. - There's not a leave on - [Peter] At the edge of the lawn there. - Yeah, you see 'em? So Gerald, you're 100% Cajun, correct? - Oh yeah. You know, the Cajuns for a long time. - [Peter] By the rest of - Well, everyone, yes. - So the history, for and I just learned recently, your people came from what part of Canada? - Nova Scotia. - Nova Scotia. They came down. - They were exiled. - They were thrown out of Nova Scotia. - How many thousands? Do you know the number? Like how many came here? I'd say four or 5,000, - And it was because your people refused to swear allegiance to the British Crown. They were of French descent. - Mm-hmm. They left and and ended up in Louisiana because this was kind of a desolate place. - [Peter] Right. - You know, nobody else They ate armadillos, cranes, crawfish. My dad would not eat crawfish 'cause when he was a Like this here, I love old things. Anyway, I'm not through I'm trying to, but see, my old bellows, those are really old now. - [Peter] Oh yeah. - I got a Cajun buddy in Auburn He makes knives. When he comes, he says mean, &quot;Eh, la bas.&quot; Eh, la bas means, &quot;Hey, over there.&quot; Just a Cajun, just a term. He's good, he's from St. Martinville. He's got some Cajans over there, man. - [Peter] Cajans? - Cajans, yeah, he call 'em, yeah. - [Peter] That's what - Yeah, Cajans, yeah. (phone ringing) I think he will, he usually does. (phone ringing) - [Tim] Eh, la bas! (Peter and Gerald laughing) - Eh, la bas! Eh, la bas, come and say! - Oh. (speaking in Cajun French language) - [Tim] I made some spikes like they nailed Jesus to the cross. - Oh. Hey, what you doing now? - [Tim] Wei. - Uh-huh, that's what I - Wei. - [Tim] Yep. - I got a man wants to meet you. He's over here at my house. He's perdu. - [Tim] Oh, no (speaking - Wei, come on. (speaking - [Tim] Oh my goodness, oh my goodness. (Gerald, Peter laughing) (Gerald speaking indistinctly) - [Tim] Jim-eh, Jim-eh. - Okay, we gonna go. - Okay, bye. (Gerald, Tim speaking in Cajun French language) - What's perdu? - I said he's lost. - I said he's lost like (Gerald, Peter laughing) - [Peter] So you're farming full time now. - [Gerald] Yeah, that's what I do. I just fool with my hay mainly. And I, you know, manage the farm, but I got a little garden over there, some mustard greens and turnips. - [Peter] Are you selling those greens or that's all for you? - No, I just give 'em. Ah, darn, I planted some broccoli, look. One of 'em, that's one of 'em right there. I didn't see it. (laughing) - [Peter] How much land - I have a little over - [Peter] Oh, wow. - And then I have 27 - [Peter] 300, is that where - Mm-hmm, and we do some We have rice, crawfish, and hay. - [Peter] Okay. - Get in there, Peter, - [Peter] All right. (engine rumbling) This is all the crawfish, right? - Yep. Oh wait, he just picked him up. Boy, we lucky, man, we caught him just. Hey, amigo. Como estas. - How'd y'all do today? - Yesterday he's catching like 1 1/2. I think today, he catching two. They go up. - [Gerald] Can we look at 'em real quick? - Yep. - [Gerald] We're gonna - [Peter] Oh, great, so these - Yep. Grande, no? - That looks pretty good. - These here are good? - Yeah. - [Peter] Oh wow. It just started, right? - [Gerald] Yeah. Boy, these are full too. - [Peter] So they're - Yeah, these are nice. For this time, that's about The price is real high, but the acres are reduced. (engine rumbling) - [Peter] So walk us through this process. The water's only what, - [Gerald] Yeah, about two feet, yes. - [Peter] Do you bring the crawfish out and then they multiply and then... - [Gerald] You seed 'em. - [Peter] You seed them. - We usually quit crawfish in about July. We'll take crawfish from this field, and where we harvest See, the rice stubble? See the stubble? - [Gerald] This will be rice next year. - [Peter] The workforce is - Yes. - [Peter] And you were - They're all legal. They get over here on a visa - [Peter] It's a work visa every year, right? Something like that? It's very expensive labor, by the way. - [Peter] These guys. - Very expensive labor. - [Peter] What are you - About $14 an hour. - To pick up some crawfish traps. I mean, that's not a- - Right, in Louisiana, but I heard yesterday, minimum wage is like $7.50 or something. - Mm-hmm, we've gotta according to US, that's government rules. - Yeah, $7.50 is pretty crazy these days. No one can live off that, that's for sure. - No, but wait a minute, we gotta provide, wait, that don't end right there. We gotta provide approved housing. - [Peter] You're paying 14 - And the visa. - You gotta give an to get the visa. - You gotta pay for You gotta pay for their bus ride back. - [Peter] Okay. - When they get on the bus, you pay for everything they eat and drink till they get here. - [Peter] Okay, good workers? - They're very good, their The thing is, when they first when they first get here, but these fellows been Once they learn the - [Peter] Okay, and there's just a problem finding local workers? Is that the story? - Yep, the local workers are That's where they are. All these young people, a bunch of 'em is at the cemetery too. - [Peter] Big issue out here? - Everywhere. You wouldn't... To me, to me, it's unbelievable. - [Peter] What's going on - Yes, it's unbelievable. - [Peter] It's so crazy. It's like how is this happening, right now in the country? - The way I grew up is, I mean, there was no such thing as that, you know? - When did that start when did you start seeing the drugs really come into the countryside? - Probably in the '90s - Okay. - That was the opioids, right? Now it's the fentanyl? - Man, I don't know - Yeah. - I lost a son-in-law. Look, this was a sharp kid now. How had about, he had two He was making about 50,000 a year. He had an IQ I think of around 150, 160. He was reading books when but when he got about 30, he started, he was a Cajan too, a Corier. His dad grew up right Three miles down the road, But anyway, when he got about 30, he started fooling with drugs. When he was 37, he was deceased. Vodka and Xanax was his deal. - Yeah, killed him. Unbelievable. They said it just stopped But anyway, yeah, I don't know. - Yeah, it's all over the, you think you'd get far and you'd get away from to the far corners of Alaska. - Yes, yes, that's right. - [Gerald] Every week, I mean, you could pick up the paper any damn week. You'll see some 27 year olds, you know, and you know that's what it is. They're not dying from I mean, it's unbelievable. And you can't get 'em to work. I don't know, it's unbelievable. If somebody told me things would be the way they are today, I I would've thought things would do better. That's always, that's the American deal to make everything better. That's what we do in this country, anyway. Watch, he's gonna cross, he's (engine rumbling) (engine rumbling continues) You can cross here. (engine rumbling continues) (Gerald laughing) - [Peter] Como te llamas? - Boy, these are nice, huh? - Jesse. These are nice ones? I mean, you got like this here, these are nice crawfish, man. Wait, these are, that's nuevo, huh? Oh yeah, look at, they're soft. They're not big and hard, huh? To me it's new. They full, too. Full, huh? - [Peter] So this, the - No, no, that's just across this levee. - Okay, gotcha. the boat's floating. - [Peter] What's the blade doing here? - That's when the wind blows real hard, you put that out and it keeps you, the wind will take this thing You see the wind right now? Yeah, that's the bait. Right now we we fishing - Okay. we'll fish with fish. When it gets warmer, we'll some little cubes. - [Peter] And then this you along, right? - Yes, that's what's pushing the boat. Glad we got to, I'm glad - [Peter] Oh yeah, that's great. That's so interesting. (engine rumbling) Who's building this here? - I am. Well, my granddaughter's I've been working on it. That's a, yeah, another project. - [Peter] You're not just sort Gerald, are you? - [Peter] Take on another project? - You swear I was 17 years old, man. This is my syrup-making apparatus. - Syrup? - Oh, okay. - Look, this deal was made. I don't know if you can see it. 1904/1905, you see it? - [Peter] Mm-hmm. So what'd you do your whole life? Just farming, right? - Well, no, I worked for USDA for 35 years and then I've been doing this ever since. Things are really tough. I mean, wait, when I was I cannot find anyone to pick up hay. - [Peter] The Mexicans won't do it either? - Nope. - [Peter] They only wanna fish? - Yes, they don't wanna pick up hay. They don't. picking up hay, you're talking about - No, you would, the square bales. - [Peter] Oh, picking up the bales. - Yes. - I move it with a grapple. See, when I grew up, we Picked it up by hand, stacked and then stacked it on when This is my hay right here. - [Peter] What's a pallet - These right here, I sell - [Peter] Okay. - That's right at $7 a bale. When I was a kid, my grandpa &quot;Man, you gotta spend at least $40 to get a good car,&quot; he said. And today, the other day, and I looked in it and I saw - Right. There wasn't one junker in the lot and there was 300 of 'em. And when I looked at it, it hit me. I said, &quot;Man, Cajuns call I have a saying I tell &quot;You know what y'all's problem is?&quot; And they're really good kids, but I said, &quot;Y'all don't know what could be.&quot; You ain't gotta have a new You ain't gotta have all that. It's only because somebody's That's where that comes from. That's where it comes - [Peter] Yep. - I told 'em, I said, &quot;You see these telephone poles See all these telephone poles bringing electricity to everyone's house? They put 'em in one at a time.&quot; I remember when they That was like, I don't Have a light bulb, one light - [Peter] What were you - And you went to bed at dark - [Peter] What year did - We got electricity, My dad was, he would which is a orphan. (chuckling) - Orphelin? because he was, his and my grandmother never drove, she never had a driver's So you can imagine where she went. Nowhere. You know, she stayed at home and it was scratching too. - It was really poor here. And there were no social programs either. You know what I mean? Like for my grandmother, she - [Peter] Your people before it was America. - [Gerald] I think it was 1755, I believe. - Okay, are the Cajuns a resilient bunch? Have you been pushed - Oh yeah. Are there any times where - Well, they've always because like my dad, he when he went to school. If they caught him speaking you know, 'cause they were converting. - Control the language, control- - Yeah. - Yep. (phone tune jingling) Oh, that's my other buddy I was gonna, I don't know what happened to him. Hey, (speaking in Cajun French language). (Bart speaking in Cajun French language) Where the Lauderdale road is? - [Bart] Yeah, can meet y'all at the Lauderdale Road, you say? - [Gerald] Yeah, meet - [Peter] You grew up and you're saying it's Acadian - The kitchen, there was another building that looks similar to that, but smaller, smaller scale building on the side. That was the kitchen because to have a wood stove in the house, but it was located right - [Peter] Oh, you moved it? Okay, and that's where you had the well and you got electricity in the '50s. - Yes, that's correct. - [Peter] What was it like before AC? - Oh, Lord. - You know when we got air conditioning? - When? - So pre-'68, no AC. - [Peter] So that's the place, right? - That's it, that's the house. I remember trying to get to sleep. - [Peter] What would you do, - You sweated and you went to sleep whenever you went to sleep. That's when you, June, July, August, you There's no cooling down. - I tell you what, it was I have an appreciation for It's unbelievable. - For power lines and this technology. - Oh Lord, man, it's unbelievable. And wait, go turn the thermostat. See, that's what these kids are used to. This road, see, they've but when it would rain, All of it. We used to catch catfish right here, this ditch. (chuckling) - Was there any part of &quot;Hey, I just wanna get out and go north or something?&quot; - No, we couldn't go. There's no way to go. Take off walking. I mean, there was so- - So New Orleans was - Oh, no, I never went to New Oh yeah, we never went anywhere, man. You see, the thing is, when I grew up, I'm just like my grandkids. I didn't know what could be either. For myself, that was always the thing. It was always getting better, so man, we were always 'cause things were constantly better, but today, things are getting worse, and the thing is, the we don't know how much worse it could get. They can't imagine how worse it could get. No air conditioning, no running water. We didn't have running water. Man, that was unbelievable, you know, to me today to think that. You grew up in the United - There was no faucet, we We got the water out of a well. It was a hand-dug well in the ground 20 feet deep. It's still there. The hole is still there, 20 feet deep. - [Peter] So the kids all just playing around in these fields. - Squirrel hunting, I Man, I used to walk, like there was no kind of We had horses we'd ride, but I mean, y'all wouldn't hunt on a horse, you know, but I'd take off- - Oh, no. Well, one car in - [Peter] So you're totally self-made. - Yes, I didn't inherit that farm. - You didn't inherit? - [Peter] I thought everything would've just gotten passed - No, not for me, it didn't. For a lot of people it does. I mean, I bought that farm on a whim, I guess you would say, but I did. - [Peter] So you could have - And I'll finance it. - Yeah. That's Bart, I believe. (horn honking) - That's your buddy? Wait, Bart, can you sit right there? - Gonna get in the back. - How about the other side? You can sit wherever you want, Bart. Well, no, I'm- - I'm a passenger, so you tell I'll get in the back if I have We used to ride everywhere that way. (Gerald laughing) - That was our entertainment. Where my home was right there, there was an old man and his wife. They lived back there in the - Okay. He planted cotton, he raised He loved to make a fire outside. When we would go, you I don't know where he would but he'd have him a pack He loved fire, petard he called it. - Petards. you know, we'd be around the fire and doing all kind of stuff and we were too poor to buy firecrackers, but he would have a pack somewhere and he would walk by the fire and he'd throw one in it, He loved to see us. Anyway, that was the extent that was it. There was a lot of good in those days, but there was a lot of bad as well. The living conditions were bad, there was a lot more in those days than there (gentle upbeat acoustic guitar music) Eh, la bas. - [Tim] You got me drinking - Oh, no. - [Tim] (speaking in Cajun French language) (Tim and Gerald speaking (Tim laughing) (Tim speaking in Cajun French language) - [Gerald] Yeah, this He's a what? - What's a pecon? You get a sticker in (Bart speaking in Cajun French language) He's a good fella, man. - I love him, yeah. (laughing) (Tim and Gerald speaking - I met you before. - [Bart] It's been a (Tim speaking in Cajun French language) - Peter. - Yeah, nice to meet ya. Hey, y'all want a beer? - [Peter] I'm good, I'm good, thank you. - You good? (Bart speaking in Cajun French language) - You wanna drink? (Tim speaking in Cajun French language) - You know when beer tastes the best? - [Peter] When? - When you're not supposed to be drinking. (Peter chuckling) That's when beer tastes the best. - What are you doing, some fabrica? - Oh, yeah. The clou. - The one that they crucified Jesus with. I did that through Lent, you know? - Yeah. to get it to the point where people remember his Crucifixion, you know? Now, they made theirs with bigger stock, but I didn't have any bigger stock, so I used what I had, I had 1/2&quot;. - Oh, yeah. - That's it, man. - Normally they made it bigger stock. - Okay. - Yeah. - [Gerald] That's a square nail. That's what blacksmith used to make. I don't know if you know that. - [Peter] Yeah. What are - Just a play. - To remind people what - Remind people of the Crucifixion. - [Peter] Okay, oh, for Easter. - They drove through His hands and feet. - We're in Lent right now. I don't know, are are you a Catholic? - I'm not. - I grew up Protestant. - [Peter] All right. - I'm Protestant and Catholic. - [Peter] Really? Half and half? - Half and half. - He paid the price. You and I can never do anything. He paid the price. - I'm gonna quit paying my insurance then. What the hell do I have insurance for? - I don't have any insurance. (both laughing) - I canceled mine too, you know. - Wait, I didn't cancel - My wife says, &quot;What of our house burns?&quot; I said, &quot;Me, I don't care.&quot; But I said- - [Peter] They canceled - They canceled my, I You know why they canceled it? - It's not Farm Bureau, - (chuckling) Listen, you see this? They found out I had a - [Peter] Oh. - They said, &quot;It might - Yeah. - I said, &quot;I'm closer to Better cancel his too.&quot; &quot;Ooh, we can't do that.&quot; - [Gerald] No, look, just they cancel- - No, man. deep, hardcore Cajun, right? - Man wei. (Tim speaking in Cajun French language) (Tim speaking in Cajun French language) - Okay, I- - [Peter] You're 110, so, how is the Cajun culture these days? Is it holding strong? - Yes, the thing is my mama was very involved with Culderfil. - What is he using? - It was USL, it's no longer USL. - Okay. that she was a French and So the people that wanted to they started Culderfil and they started exchanging students- - Okay. and Louisiana would go to France, The French people would come here. And they ended up putting the French names on all the streets and stuff like that. I would say it's still strong, but I'm not that active in it. I'm trying to maintain my French heritage. They invited me to teach in 1909, 1909? - 2009. I was gonna say 1909, that was a long- - [Peter] You're not that old, come on. - Amount of drink here or (indistinct)? - I had too many beers. - When you get to this- - I'll pet a dog. Which one did they ask you to teach? - When you get to a part and ya- - We teach a lot of things. - Listen, when you get that you can't remember and you get- - They got it though. - Call me, I'll tell ya - Guess what? - Biden's there now. (Bart speaking in Cajun French language) - Look at that squirrel. You see him? We're not gonna start. - They're gonna excommunicate me. - [Peter] Okay, you just let - No, I just put this in there. I was waiting for y'all. You can blame that on me. We stopped at- - Gerald's place. - [Gerald] You don't have a press? - Right there. - No, but... - Did you need a staple? - Yeah, a 50 pound like you I'll show you how to use both of 'em. I'll do one and you'll do one, okay? I had 'em, I might have brought it inside. Let me get another pair. - [Gerald] They probably - [Tim] Your drinking my beer. (Bart speaking in Cajun French language) (Tim speaking indistinctly) - It came down the Mississippi - [Peter] Well, I thought, didn't the Acadians come around the coast? - Both ways. - Some of 'em came down the Mississippi. Now, they loved the lobsters. Well, when they saw them leaving, the lobsters started swimming, following them down to Mississippi. When they got to Louisiana, (Bart laughing) - Are you guys- - I throw 50. - [Gerald] I told you how they - [Peter] Yeah. - [Gerald] You got a good I said when I was growing up, that was a big form of entertainment. It's true. Tell some lies, man. - The word Cajun comes from- where it comes from? - A lot of people tell ya a lot of bull. - Okay- If you notice, when he speaks French, everything's rolled, the R's, everything. In plural, the Acadians, they would always refer to each other. They wouldn't always say neg, they'd say Cajan. - And do you hear how And then they started shortening it up. They would say (speaking You know Nedrick, that Cajun over there? They'd say Cajan and it It was a good man, you know? But it's really Acadian - And then- - [Peter] Then Americans - Well, they didn't So they spelled it but it's not a word and for my students on there 'cause I'd give 'em a little class on. I said, &quot;How many of y'all Cajun in here?&quot; And they'd all raise their hand. I said, &quot;Okay, where did If you such a Cajun, tell me.&quot; And they couldn't tell me, so I would write it on the board. The Cajun language you speaking, is the same exact language They still speak it. There's 20 some hundred people - In Nova Scotia. - Oh, that's cool. of the town, but my friend went there and him, his dad goes there all the time. He builds accordions and all that and he's friends with They got family there. They still speak that same language. They never broke off. I mean, it's the same Acadian language. - Oh, that's cool. - After hundreds of years. when he exiled 'em and he pushed 'em out, it was because they were defending That's what it was all about and that's why the Catholicism They didn't wanna swear They swear to the cross. That's where their allegiance is, to God. But it's about their heritage too 'cause they know that they the British, because of their faith. They wanted to, that's why they came here because they wanted to keep their faith. That's what this country was so, you know, everybody The Natives, they worship the Creator. They're very spiritual people. You know when a Native, they considered it a and get something to eat that day. They didn't eat three or four times a day. They ate when the Creator with bounty, you know, 'cause Look, I saw that squirrel a while ago, but you're not guaranteed You can't push a button &quot;Ma'am, I will have one It's not gonna happen. - So Tim has serious devotion making these spikes. 'cause he's recognizing Lent right now. Lent is the season, you It's the time of regrowing yourself and becoming something better. When you're beating iron, a chunk of iron and you're and you're forming it. That's what the faith is about. You forge, we're supposed You wanna forge yourself 'cause we're heading towards the cross. Hopefully we don't get - We're heading towards the - That's what life's about. It's about following Jesus to the cross. - You know what? I just thought of this. You and the Amish have a lot in common. They left Switzerland because - A lot of the people. - Yep, and they're German. A lot of 'em are German - Yeah, they speak Pennsylvania Dutch. Yeah, that's interesting, I They have their- - Catholicism is very, very widespread. - Oh yeah, but they kept their, some have kept their language. They're very religious and Well, you guys came here from Nova Scotia. - Right, yeah, down through Canada and then some of 'em come and up in New Orleans, the The Native Americans helped because man, they come out and they didn't know the land and stuff, so you gotta get help from somebody. - What was that relation- - What was that relation like? Or hard to know? from the old people, a lot they played ball with 'em and stuff like, you know, probably like in Gerald's day, and he'll tell ya, they Their agility is through the They have extreme, they're like, they're almost like race horses. They have a lot of endurance. I have family, I have a cousin. My wife's cousin is, she married a Navajo so her kids are Navajo you can't out, I mean, like their agility is through the roof. They got a lot of diabetes out there. - Yeah, well, none of her so she keeps 'em active. She's half Mexican, half 'cause she sees the tribe, so she sees how, you see, the to rise above and go out. They want 'em to stay on the If you go out, you know, the They don't trust nobody. They've been swindled by every white man they ever came in contact with. - Right. What about you guys? Trust with the federal government, depends who you talk to, or - Well, I think people now, I tell people, &quot;The federal I mean, we're the federal government. Who pays the bills? The working man. - So we're the government. So what does that mean? When I get ready to dig a ditch, the people from Washington &quot;Hey, Bart,&quot; with some shovels and they're gonna help you dig that ditch. They're not gonna do it, and to help you from the government, you gotta wait seven years with paperwork. Well, the ditch is already dug and covered up and everything's done. So that's what it goes back to. People are starting to realize, I think, quit relying on everybody else. Just do things yourself. Work, live a good life, follow Christ, and you're gonna be fine. - Y'all come watch. Okay, I'm gonna show See, this is a 50 pound little giant. We wanna put it- - Too soft. - Make the head, okay, watch. (metal pounding) Not too hard. Then you turn it like this. (metal pounding) See what I did? An indentation (metal pounding) comes out. You see it? - Okay, time for you to do yours. Grab that. Like that. Right there, perfect. Just comes out. Put it in the middle. (Tim speaking in Cajun French language) (metal pounding) (Tim speaking in Cajun French language) Drop. (metal pounding) (Tim speaking in Cajun French language) Perfect! Perfect! In fact, better than mine. he lucked out, he got it better than you. - [Bart] Gerald's talented. (Tim speaking in Cajun French language) (Tim and Bart speaking in Cajun French language) - Mid size don't fit. (metal pounding) - [Gerald] Do what you do, right? Okay. (metal pounding) - A lot of people come here and they say, &quot;What's all that junk?&quot; They see nothing but junk because they don't know what to do. They never worked with But if you a blacksmith or a fabricator, man, look, that piece of casing that's worth a lot of money there. - [Peter] Right, he's gonna - Can't go to Walmart and buy that. See them coil springs right there? - [Peter] Yeah. - You can make a lot of things out of that 'cause it's spring steel. Makes some really good knives. That's probably why he's got 'em, he's making knives with 'em. - [Peter] Is that a Cajun thing Or just you guys? - Blacksmithing was everywhere, I mean, you live out here and you plowing and stuff, you didn't have Tractor so everybody had a little barn. They might not have a but they had a hammer and a anvil. If they couldn't afford a anvil, they'd find a, you'll see 'em. See, like this is where out of the forge pieces. They can't afford a forge, they That's a break drum off a 18-wheeler. (metal pounding) - [Tim] There you go. (metal pounding) There you go. - [Peter] Final product. - [Tim] Here, Gerald. (Tim speaking in Cajun French language) - Thank you, Tim. (Gerald and Tim speaking - So you guys, you start with You drop some words back and forth, and then you leave with French, right? - Frengish. - (laughing) Gerald's He's just black right now. - Yeah, he had it, I was heartbroken. I saw him the other day. I almost got in my truck and left. (Gerald laughing) I mean, I never saw him - I'm making this knife for - What is that? - That's Damascus. - Yeah, it's pretty boy. It's gonna be pretty whenever you- - What you making it, man, you know, you want me to get you some - I'm gonna put a stag - That's beautiful. - That's just a test knife. It's not done yet. - Y'all have a good time in Rayne, okay? - Okay, Tim. I want some raw oysters too. - Woo! - They got raw oysters. - So Gerald, we're going to - Mm-hmm. - What do they call it over there? - Mr. T's, I think, yeah. - Mr. T's, okay. (gentle upbeat acoustic guitar music) - [Peter] It's beautiful countryside. - [Gerald] Oh, man. To me, this place is beautiful. - [Peter] It doesn't have but it's its own beauty in a way. There's just something - Oh, man. I can't explain it, but it's a feeling. - [Gerald] Like you said, but in a little different perspective. - [Peter] Bart, God bless, all the best. - Keep up the good work, man. - Oh, thanks, Bart. - Okay, Bart. (Bart speaking in Cajun French language) - Who, you and your boys? - Yeah, man, we're going You wanna go run some - Rabbit dog? - With rabbit dogs, chasing rabbit. - Oh, okay. - [Peter] I would love (Gerald laughing) (Bart speaking indistinctly) - We'll cook for you next time. - [Peter] That would be great. - I'll cook you a rabbit sauce. - [Peter] Oh, thank you, thank you. - Alligator. - Thank y'all. - Bye, Bart. - Wait, I didn't tell you The Germans made 'em. They made it to Louisiana some kind of way and when the Cajun Well, they were just getting into it and World War II came along. Germany stopped making musical instruments and made war material. This fellow Dewey Bafhar, &quot;N'arrete pas la Musique,&quot; So they said, &quot;Hey, we're so we're gonna make our own.&quot; - [Peter] Okay, and - Yes. - Yes, by several different, I guess you would call 'em artisans. That's what I would call 'em because it's a pretty On these, these are The push and the pull - [Peter] Okay. - Yes. This here's the accordion made - [Peter] And he's got a crawfish there. - Yeah. He's got a patent on it. - [Peter] Oh, that's so cool. - Yeah. - Junior Martin. That's a Martin accordion, yep. This is one made by one. Well, this was a fella in Lafayette. - Hour from here. - John Hebert was his name. He's deceased now. (accordion music) You see it. (lively accordion music) (lively accordion music continues) (Peter chuckling) - [Peter] You grew up playing? - No, just a kind of a calling almost. You know what I mean? When I got about 40, I said, God. Then I started appreciating It's funny, nobody or you know, just on my own. I drove my daughters crazy and my wife playing &quot;Mary had a That was my first song. (ducks quacking) (&quot;The Star-Spangled Banner&quot;) (accordion music continues) (accordion music continues) (upbeat country music) - [Peter] So this is a well-known joint. - Oh yeah, the food's good too. This is the real deal here. (people chattering) - [Peter] No one's doing better - Oh, Uncle T's is probably The oysters are really good. When it's crawfish seasons, is why. - I wanted to get my camera on. I wanted her to take a picture of us. - [Peter] I'll take a picture - You'll send it to me? - I thought of it on the way over here. - [Peter] Don't worry - All right. - The oysters are really good. - We're gonna get some. They have a whole bunch of - You don't like raw oyster? - [Peter] You weren't kicked out of town for not liking raw oysters? - No, a lot of people (Gerald laughing) But also the boiled shrimp. We currently don't have crawfish but we do have soft-shelled The crawfish are just a little too tiny. They like the big ones. - [Peter] Yeah, I don't, the really smalls aren't so popular, you know what I mean? - They're hard to peel. - They break. - You asked me earlier on, he said, &quot;Do Cajuns, they have a temper like?&quot; I said, &quot;Yes, they do. They're known for that.&quot; - It definitely depends, you have to be careful You could say something wrong and they'll be like, &quot;What you mean by&quot; You know what I mean? - We had holes in our blue jeans, but not because we wanted 'em. - Yeah, I bought these like this. - I know you did. That was a no-no, man. - Fashion has changed. - He actually told me he like the wear and he said back in the day they used to buy bluejeans, you'd have to wash 'em like Then you'd wear 'em down. - But no holes. Holes in jeans were out. - [Peter] Well, they're in now, Gerald. - I know. - [Peter] We got some work - Grab the scissors. - [Peter] We'll get some - Yes. - I'm gonna let your server - All right. All right, thank you. Oh, yeah. - Yeah, just set that- - Thank you so much. - Y'all enjoy, guys. Ooh. Man, I love oysters now. - [Peter] So these are fresh local? - Yes. When I was a kid, we used We'd eat them on the boat. You like Tabasco? - Man, I love it. In fact, look, what I like to do, this is my little concoction. I hope you like it, but. - You just put the hot - Yes, good luck with that. - Mix it up. oh, man. (people chattering in background) You eat 'em on a cracker or not? - On the shell? - No, on a cracker. - I just eat 'em on the shell. Do you want the- - That's how you gotta do it? - Oh Lord, to me now, this is heavenly. - I've never done it on the cracker. - Take you one. - Oh wow. (people chattering in background) Wow. (people chattering in background) - Man. - Wow, delicious. - Son of a gun. You can just taste how fresh they are. - Oh yeah, they are. These are unbelievable, man. - It's like day of, right? - I haven't had any this season either. - Oh yeah, these are delish. Look at that. Could you ever imagine - Nope. - You've been in that area - Whole life. - You ever travel anywhere else in the US? - A little bit. - Where do you like or where'd you go? (server speaking indistinctly) - So good. - Oh, yeah. - They're worth all the money. You know, I've been to wait, all of that's beautiful country. - Yeah. let me tell you what, I really like the people here, man. - Here. - And you know the- - The culture, I guess would be the word. - Yeah, you guys have something special. I can feel it in my limited time here. Like you got your old You got your food, you got your music. Listening to that station, they're playing the harmonica. - Have you heard it? I mean, it's America, obviously, but it feels like a little bit of a different US down here, I would say. - Yes, it is. In a good way too. - Yes, it is. Listen, it's very, very that I'm a couple of months from 75. - [Peter] Life just went - A day and a half, how about that? - [Peter] How fast did How fast? - Almost like to exhale, almost. Listen, when I'm on my I'm thinking, and I'm saying, You can think clear when you can think clear. Can you remember a day when you were 50? No. How about 51, 52, you (Gerald blows in hand) - Like that. - Unbelievable. The bottom line is we because the clock has not stopped. (train horn blaring) When I was 40, I didn't see it. And my dad was still you know what I mean? - When the people close, like you, you already lost your dad, huh? - [Peter] Yeah. - That's kind of a awakening, you know? Not long before he died, I Me and him were a lot alike, we were full speed, he says, When he told me that, you For him, you know. So I thought a minute. - I said, &quot;Well...&quot; I said, &quot;Daddy, there's It tells me that you are busy living.&quot; - [Peter] Yeah. - I said, &quot;That's a good thing.&quot; But she's from Church Point. That's a little town, a little farming community, it's all farming community, Little bit darker there. - [Peter] You guys claiming best sausage. - On the planet, yes. Oh, I'm telling you, you - Oh, yeah. - How you cook it? - Like fried on the pan, you know? - Well, no, but let me (Peter laughing) You put you a little bit of water. - Oh, like a little boil, - A little bit of water. - I see where he is going with this. - And you put a lid on it and The lid does, yeah. And then you'll hear it (Peter laughing) When it starts frying, got fat in it. That's part of the deal. Put a potholer on it and you lean it and the grease comes down on the north end and you let That roba sausage. It is good. That's like a- - Yeah. - It don't need anything. - Hmm. Wow. - Wow. Smoky, little spice, not much. Robust, that's the right word. This thing almost hits you. - Unbelievable. Put some eggs or in a gumbo. - In a gumbo. - I've never had sausage like this. So what is it, they're just - It's the whole, it's the package. - You have to be Cajun to make it? - Yep. - Well you must because That's the deal. (laughing) - Do you think there's anything people misunderstand about Cajuns? Or what do you think they don't know? - I think you're a humble people, humble. - You're humble, yeah. - Because they had humble beginnings. - Came from nothing. I mean, your story, right? Very humble beginnings, right? - Yes. I can't believe where I am 'cause growing up we had nothing. - So it's just scarcity mindset. You're always worried about what's next. - Yep. - Or what's not gonna be there. - That's why I worked so hard all my life. - There's the fear if you stop, you could go broke and- - Yep. - I think you gotta be a little paranoid. You never know what happens, right? - No, that's right. I think, I mean, it's the good thing. - I am. - I'm a bit paranoid. - That's what fuels me. - I think it's the good thing. - [Peter] Not many carbs in that dish. This is all protein. Is that why you've stayed You eat pretty well or? - Always been kind of health conscious. Then my wife's a home ec teacher. She knows how to cook and But my grandmother, Every time I'd go, first &quot;Are you hungry?&quot; I was always hungry. You know what pain perdu is? - [Peter] No. - Well, French toast, but Pain is bread. - Perdu is lost. It was bread that was about to be stale, but they would make the - Oh. My grandmother would It would hurt you, man. Would absolutely hurt you. (Gerald chuckling) - Well, that was fun today, Gerald. - Oh, man. - No, that was a great time. - This was fun. I don't know how fun it was for you, but it was fun for me. You're one of the coolest (Gerald laughing) I'm serious. I've met a lot of people. Gerald, I'm gonna stop the video 'cause we gotta take a photo, thank you. - Oh, thank you. - For me too. - Hope we see each other again. - 100%. - That's the main thing. I hope we, I hope I'm really around. - Yeah. All right guys, thanks for coming along. Until the next one. (gentle acoustic music)