In August 1989, a young Canadian professional to start a new job coaching a hockey team Numerous police agencies across Canada and him. From running off with a rich Italian girl to recruited as a spy for the CIA, countless theories However, the truth about Duncan's fate Duncan MacPherson was born on February 3, 1966, Canada. Throughout his adolescence, and built up an impressive record playing for the At the time, the Massachusetts-based Springfield looking to join the New York Islanders, among that's where Duncan played. Duncan was routinely sidelined by various keep up with the higher-caliber players world. After lagging behind his teammates the New York Islanders let him go in 1989. be a huge setback to Duncan, it was not the decision. You see, Duncan loved hockey more the mentality he faced from American teams players or treat them right. He still wanted for numerous coaching jobs overseas in Europe. applications, he began traveling the US to wanted to do, like spending several months hiking the happiest times of his life. But things Somewhere along the trail, Duncan had been bitten potentially deadly bloodborne pathogen knocked for almost two months while he recovered. a hockey coaching job once more, and that businessman named Ron Dixon. Ron had a Scottish team, and he presented Duncan with According to Duncan, Ron wanted him to be with a promised high salary, Duncan could with the sport without all the team politics of be true, he did not have any other offers and Once Duncan had officially said yes, he was schedule now free for a few weeks, Duncan decided former pro players in North America who now He figured it'd be fun to not only see them but before starting the next chapter of his life. to Nuremberg, Germany, to stay at the home several days with George, Duncan asked if to take a road trip from Germany through Austria by August 11 since he had a flight to catch to After leaving George's house on August 7, he friend's house. This friend, Roger Kortko, his home on the morning of August 8. call on August 14 after he got settled into she still hadn't heard from him and thought that maybe he was just busy and did not of relief when her phone rang later that day. But Instead, it was his new boss, Ron Dixon. He had and he was calling to see if they knew where he up for the new job. His parents, knowing that this away, were extremely worried and knew and they filed a missing persons report with Although officers promised them that Duncan's who would then distribute it to every police his parents were not going to sit idly they hopped on the next available flight and Once Duncan's parents landed, they first When they questioned him, he told them he had return his car on time. George knew this was knew and he had already spoken to police about However, when he tried to do so, the officers him that Duncan was a strong young man who girl. Of course, both George and his parents relationship and his girlfriend was supposed to be Although George couldn't tell Duncan's parents to Fussen to visit with Roger Kurtko, and According to Roger, Duncan did not really have Duncan had stated that he wanted to visit Austria or go windsurfing at Lake Garda in northern 9. Unsure of exactly where he went from there, Europe and figured that if he were going to pass through the Austrian city of Innsbruck Innsbruck and its environs are a huge tourist is filled with mountains and glaciers perfect it was August, a few ski slopes were still which formed the epicenter of the tourist hot Once Duncan's parents arrived in Innsbruck, they beautiful sites they had ever seen. Spread all and tons of snow. Lynda knew that her son Based on this mother's intuition, the pair began to the narrow roads and mountain passes, the off the road. For days, they drove up and down down below to see if they saw anything. searched the local lakes. Duncan had talked had gotten into an accident and had drowned they went to had any traces of Duncan. police to inquire about their investigation to speak to the police, they were shocked to Once his parents had informed police officials Taking them at their word, they then began checkpoints. At the Italian border, his parents been shared there either. At the Swiss border, his case. Infuriated, they demanded the Royal to Interpol again. And while they promised would turn out to be many empty promises from Feeling that no one else was taking Duncan's to continue looking for him on their own. Because Italian or Swiss borders, Lynda knew that her They implored the local police to see if they were told that it was simply too big of a task and This response was a common theme the pair After almost two weeks of going door to door and they finally got their first big break. One of a record of Duncan staying there. He checked in the next morning. He did not stay any other Finally, with the first hard proof that Duncan local police to circulate his missing persons laws that because he was an adult, he could be had happened and his car was abandoned, someone Infuriated, the couple then found a sympathetic report that they paid for with their own in the meantime, they decided to try the Canadian the Austrian police who were stonewalling them. no one there wanted to speak with them, the Canadian ambassador, he kept saying his second-in-command finally met with them. information. He continued to give them the same Duncan was a big, strong boy and they knew this was not the case. In a strange they have dinner with him that night at his but he would not take no for an answer. the officer received a call that would change Within hours of the TV advertisement the attendant at a hotel near Innsbruck, Duncan's parents immediately left fast as they could to Innsbruck. Upon they found that something was off. already gotten inside the car and The couple was given a bag containing his if they had fingerprinted the car, they said his parents inquired as to why his belongings the officers did not respond. Once officers handed over his items, it only off. They claimed that all that was inside the his passport, and a bag of now rotten fruit. officers refused to say. However, when they decided to follow it to see where it was going. they soon found it. Parked facing the Stubai 42 days without anyone reporting it before the the car had sat for so long in an area that After getting inside the car, the couple found their eye. It was an audio cassette in the center store. His parents went there, and the saleswoman cassette. She told them something else too. That Now armed with concrete evidence, and the witness identification, that he had search on alpine hotels in the area, starting After entering the hotel, they began asking the a surprise visitor approached them. His hotel's resident snowboarding instructor, According to Walter, Duncan had rented a snowboard August 9. Duncan, with his excellent physique and especially considering that it was his first the lesson, his clothes became wet from snow and office to dry out. Walter then stated that Duncan the slope for a few more hours and that the next However, the next morning came and went with no and assumed he must have just went on to had passed and Duncan had not picked up his With Walter's testimony, an important gap had question that would determine the trajectory of rental shop? If not, then it meant that Duncan and could still be out there somewhere. shop and spoke with the employee present. August for their missing son. The woman, visibly who quickly stepped in. The manager claimed that their rental records, and the ones from he assured them that with his iron-clad Frustrated at the lack of assistance, the before the winter snow began to fall, which the truth of what happened potentially forever. across the Atlantic. A sympathetic Canadian offered to send a world-renowned search and parents. With their state-of-the-art computer the team was one of the best in the business. was the opportunity they were waiting were again actively working against them. that often relatives are involved in a loved information straight from the police, despite to find Duncan. But the couple bit their tongue the Austrian police knowingly sent According to diplomatic cables that Lyndsay the police had a working theory as to what Duncan had simply fallen into a crevasse and died. months since they are often covered in a thin send a person plummeting ten, thirty, or even a But the Austrian authorities had not disclosed rescue team. So, instead of searching the Stubai searching the mountains around it. After faced with no other options, called it quits and parents soon returned home too, though they Over the next 14 years, the couple would make son. Often, as Bob recalls, some locals and police him. It seemed as if the locals were tired of just go away if they were rude enough to them. Over time, as each search in the hiking itself proved nothing new, the couple began In November 1993, German television ran an expose months later, a German woman from Nuremberg What she said next was perhaps the most solid According to her, she had a close several hours away from Innsbruck, who was caring spoke only North American English, and had two dental implants. He had been found wandering in with no wallet or identification, as well remember his name but took on the name of Mark about his past life was living in New York state. mystery man had similar physical characteristics. of his Canadian accent after living in the the man said he had lived in New York, which is Massachusetts. But how had Duncan gotten amnesia? of Lyme disease, the patient can eventually just a few months before, his parents Lynda immediately called the Canadian In one of the few helpful times in this case, down the location of this man and verify he was, had been discharged from a psychiatric facility on his feet. Canadian and Austrian authorities Unfortunately, the man bore no resemblance to from Germany drove to Austria to see the not look alike. These suspicions were confirmed the mystery man was not their son. Duncan Though this lead had been the most promising in the late 90s when Lynda sued the Canadian them and the Austrian government. the Canadian government finally released nearly investigation. And while these documents proved to them, they also presented another angle. pages of completely redacted correspondence Czechoslovakia. But what sort of secrets could Before leaving for Europe, Duncan had claimed to in America and wanted to recruit him. it would entail creating a new identity and did not want to do. But how credible was this? recruit foreign athletes, especially ones like around the world. Hockey players like him could cover stories. Once inside, they could spy for he had been caught spying in Czechoslovakia and would jive with some reports the couple had Several witnesses claimed to have seen Duncan Europe. Maybe Duncan had taken the CIA up on in Czechoslovakia? Lynda had to know for sure. the redacted documents, and after another long she was dismayed to see that the cables were asking if Duncan had been in Czechoslovakia, No CIA coverup after all. Valley was sweltering under the hottest summer turning up inside crevasses that had been hidden a piece of yellow fabric was seen sticking the fabric was a jacket covering a body. and the Canadian embassy called to inform them. learned that the body had been taken to Innsbruck. Medicine there, they were greeted by a Dr. Walter perform an identification of the corpse. Utilizing dental records, Dr. Rabl positively ID'd the Duncan's body had been found, but what had like everyone was trying to cover up the truth? room to see their son, a large white sheet exposed. His skin, like thick black leather after still looked remarkably like their son. Lynda kissed her son goodbye and then Lynda had been convinced for years that Duncan groomer had buried him alive. She wanted an according to Dr. Rabl, an autopsy in this case the case of death. His parents insisted on do one if ordered by the local prosecutor. he told them an autopsy was unnecessary since it and died. Still wanting answers, they asked Dr. X-rays and a CT scan of the body. They also his clothing, a snowboard, and snow boots. medical evidence, they noticed something odd. been shredded in a machine. These observations at the time. In the meantime, they went to police During the conversation, the police reluctantly photos included three pictures from 4:56, ski slope employees working to get Duncan shows that he was out of the crevasse. detectives, or medical personnel present. had been entirely carried out by hotel staff. When the couple returned to Dr. Rabl's state of the snowboard. After all, it looked he called the hotel. Speaking with the staff, they used a snow groomer's tiller to help free Duncan. wait on their son's body. While their family its cost and their desire to have him home Once home, the couple began digging something was not right at all. the couple began looking over the photos that shocking. The injuries to Duncan were massive. His and left foot had all been severed. When looking Rabl how this could have happened. He explained intense forces as they move down the mountain and would explain all the damage sustained. After consulting with numerous forensic expert in ski slope accident reconstruction, injuries had not been caused by natural forces. For one, there was the location Duncan was found. in the natural tomb where he lay. In cases where their way all the way down the mountain, and Not only was Duncan found right near where was inconsistent. If Mother Nature had selectively done so only to his left side. All of his severed body parts looked as if they and broken by ice. Photos from the Institute of left foot, left knee, and left hand were found which was separate from his trunk. did not have a good answer on how he died, the the marks on his body, along with his shredded prove that the marks had the same measurements what did the Austrians have to say about that? Dr. Rabl, they had used a snow groomer to help Lynda had taken photos of the slope the same week zero snow on the ground, and the employees were but the tillers were in the upright position. giant hole does nothing. Even people who had you that by looking at the snow groomer. the most plausible theory about what really After lunch with his snowboard instructor, Duncan of the heavy fog and light rain that day, most so that afternoon, Duncan was probably the only to make the most of his trip, he probably the next day's lesson even better. as Duncan was snowboarding, he went over a time of year. Due to the damage to his ankles a severe injury that left him incapacitated. to get an early start on finishing the day's work was conscious is unclear, but the evidence shows on the ground with just his boot liners on. It is of shock from blood loss and hypothermia. However, As the snow groomer approached, Duncan may there and needed to be rescued. Or he could the driver never saw or heard him due to the As the driver got near Duncan, the snow which extends further out than the rest which he had been holding with his left hand, and In a matter of moments, Duncan would spit the snowboard out and hit the snow the vehicle and stumbled upon the grisly scene. Whether the employee acted alone because he was drunk driving, or both is unclear. Perhaps and other resort staff to bury the dead the shroud of secrecy surrounding his case. The Stubai glacier was and remains today the influential people in the area have always out of the limelight. The MacPhersons, with to business. If the truth had gotten out that a line would definitely have taken a hit. This was officer salaries high, could not tolerate. nothing to them in the grand scheme of things. than just a dollar sign. He was their son. check out "The Most Disturbing Stories of People