Everyone out, please. -In a few minutes, the year's biggest emerald auction 90% of gemstones sold Emerald is today It's at every fashion show Behind this glamour, In pursuit of the green diamond, we met the damned of the mine, -Yes, it's okay. -Retailers. No invoices, no traces, -150000. I said 150000. -Take, buddy! -Besides official traders, -I prefer you leave me, -Ok. -I must not be questioned, -Between Colombia and Europe, only gold and diamonds. And often net of tax. -Bogota, the capital of Colombia. 7 million inhabitants. My investigation starts here. Avenida Jimenez, one of In the morning, They are called Esmeralderos, They're all over the avenue. Their gemstones are carefully packed Negotiations take place on the sidewalk. First country to produce emeralds, Colombia provides 90% of world production. These gemstones are I have an appointment Maybe he'll help me get a forbidden and dangerous place. -Randolph! -How are you? Good morning. -How is business? -I'm negotiating I offered him a price. -Do you want to see them? -Do you have emeralds? We can negotiate. -How much is this emerald? -3 million pesos, or $1,000. -Do you have stones too? -Can you show me? -Randolph has purchased -It's very beautiful. -Yes, it's worth 15 million pesos, -Maybe Randolph can help me access Muzo, the world's emerald capital, -I would like to film a mine in Muzo. -It will be difficult I should go with you. Let me talk to my friend who owns -If I go without permission, -You might be shot and killed. You may be taken for a thief. -It's about money. Everyone needs security there. -Randolph, I'll call you to be updated. -It'll be very difficult. If I give permission, that's great. Otherwise, it's needless going; -OK. -I'll call you. -OK, thanks. See you soon -As promised, Randolph called me that evening. He asked me to go to His friend who owns -Hello. I am a journalist. -You have to go to the Security Office. You cannot film inside the building. You need permission. Outside you can, but not here. -Going to the second floor, thanks. I am entering saint of saints. This is the biggest marketplace -It's a very secure place. It's very difficult -We have an appointment who could enable me film in Muzo. -Hello, I'm looking for Camilo's office. Is that the man? -Camilo is busy negotiating. -Hello. Don't bother yourself. I'm Thierry Gaetan. Delighted. Do you mind if I use my camera? -No, go ahead. -Camilo is negotiating a five-stone deal. -How many carats is it? -Carat is the unit of measurement here. A fifth of a gram. -I'm giving you $11000. -No Camilo, 11000 is too little. -$14000. -We're not far, we're closer. -OK, let's stop at 11000. -How often is such a purchase? -Yes, it is. We do that every day. -No bank transfer, no check. Emerald business is cash payment. -Where do these stones come from? -From Muzo. -It's for an order? -Yes, for special customers. -Local or foreign customers? -Customers from Hong Kong. -China is the largest emerald market. -Are you planning -Yes, about 5000 carats. -5000 carats, 1 million euros. Camillo hides his emeralds in a trunk, while waiting to export them to Asia. -There, it's safe. -He introduces us to a man in the office. -He's my French friend. -Is he Frenchman? -Are you a buyer? I come here to buy stones. -What's this one worth? -Laurent is Franco-Columbian. He comes to Bogota to buy his stones, to resell them in Europe. This young trader has no company. He works on his own. -Do you know anything about emeralds? -A little bit. I live in Paris, France. I buy emeralds for special orders. For customers, individuals or jewelers. Especially in Monaco, in Paris. I also have a few external customers. -These ladies came to sell stones, gooten from the country's mines. -What's this stone in your hands worth? -15 million pesos per carat. It's the price asked. -What's worth the pair in your hands? -It's an eight-carat stone. So a stone is worth about EUR40000. -How much? -40000. It's negotiable. -How much would you like to pay for it? -About half. -Less than 6 million? -No, not under ten. -Not under ten? -Laurent then discovers -It's a special training Only in Colombia and nowhere else. Not in India, not in Afghanistan. In other producing countries, It's typical of Colombia. It's what makes the value. They are emeralds called trapiches, as it looks like a mill. -Laurent is interested, -Are you going to buy something? -Not now. No business. Here, have to buy with patience and calm. When you can't find it, When I come here, It's the least to do good business. Never rush into the goods. -Camilo, the boss of the mine, returns. He has agreed to take me to Muzo, We are leaving the next morning. It's Randolph, the trader I met who'll go with me. He's off to buy emeralds. In his suitcase, To go to the north of the country, -How much is the ticket? -OK, let's go. -Randolph places like an ordinary bag. Public transport is the safest way, to avoid attracting attention. If all goes well, -I'll see if I can buy something good. -Are you presently armed? -No, not now -After a three-hour drive, we are arriving in the Boyaca region. This is where the bus stops. From now on, -How are you Samir? Are you okay? How are you? So, how are you Freddy? How is business? It's always so hot here. I'll remove my jacket. Is everyone okay here? Have there been any stones lately? -Yes, Sir, there were quite a few. Beautiful ones. -What about the big one last time? -It was sold. -After the tar, The 4WD gets on the track. Two more hours drive to our destination. Muzo, 10,000 inhabitants, The city is surrounded by a dozen mines. 75% of emeralds sold They are known to be the purest, and the most beautiful on Earth. -Finally arrived. Hi buddy, how are you? -Oh I'm fine. -Come on, let's go. -Is it moving here? -After a night rest, Randolph and Ezekiel start serious issues. The emerald market is It holds every weekend, Buyers and sellers trade gemstones, like carpet merchants. -Come on, 150,000 and they're yours. -Go on, it's good. Sell it to him. Come on, sell to him. -I'm going. Are you letting me go? -Come on, sell to him. -Come on, sell to him! -150000. I said 150000. -Take, lad. It pairs with this one. -Give me 140000. -Well, my last offer -Come on, my last word is 130. -No, 120. Come on -A year ago, But with increasing demand, As usual, payment is done in cash. -All the stones, traded here, come from the mines surrounding the city. Mines nestled which I will finally be able It's 5 am, I'm going up with the miners. The mines are Most of them are privately owned. The day starts with a hearty breakfast, offered by the boss. In a few minutes, and will work for eight hours So, they start by gathering strength. Camilo, the boss of the mine, isn't here. But his director will receive me. -Hello Mr. Soto, please. -Over there, in the office. -Over there. -Are you, Mr Soto? Good morning. -Have a seat, please. -Pleasure. -What can I do for you? -I'm from Bogota, on behalf of Mr. Camilo who authorised me to visit his mine, to film the work of miners. -No problem. You can film the mine exploitation. -Is it dangerous inside? -There may be earthfalls It would really not be lucky if, all of a sudden, a beam breaks. No, it won't happen. -Thanks a lot. Tell me what precautions to take. I think I have to wear boots? -Boots, a helmet and a lantern. -Perfect. Thanks a lot -The siren rings. It's time to hire. But before entering the gallery, a daily ritual, prayer. It is the director who acts as priest. -Hello, gentlemen. Let's thank God for this new day. Please, take off your helmets. In the name of the Father, Son, Almighty God, we thank you for this day. We ask you to enlighten us, to protect us. Bless our families, We ask you to make this day special. That we can bring the fruits God bless us. -Three years ago, in Muzo, A landslide caused four deaths, buried under cubic meters of soil. It's 7 am. Extraction begins. The gallery goes straight for about a kilometer. The hose is barely over one meter wide. The heat is unbearable. Oxygen is scarce. -It's okay. It's coming out. -Is that where air goes? -Actually, it's for the jackhammer. -And what's the use of this hose? -It's so we don't choke. -Come on, come on guys. -At the bottom of the hose, Miners know that For now, the rock is black. We have to keep digging. But the jackhammer no longer works. Time has come to use big means. -Who're you calling? -The artificator to bring dynamite. -This is where I keep the powder. -Dynamite? I take four, which I put here. I take four more. -Thanks to dynamite, they hope to dig 60 centimeters of rock, in a few seconds. -Don't panic. Calm down. -Don't run, don't panic. -Go there, on the other side. -Where are we going? -Over there. -Come on guys, let's go. -Are you going to find the stone? -Hopefully, we will find a vein. -What is a vein? -A vein is where you find stones. It's betta, It's what we' seek. -These miners earn The rest is up to commission, They haven't found a single stone They hope that this time -This area is completely sterile. We're moving forward. -When do you know that there are emeralds? -They appear stuck in the stone. But it shines. The color is brilliant. I use a hammer. To be able to look carefully. Without that, -Still nothing? -No, it's a poor stone. No, no, not there. You have to keep moving until you find it. -You have to remove Tons of rubble. -How many carts do you take out per day? -We take out 20 to 25 carts daily. -Each cart weighs nearly 500 kilos. -With dust, it slips. -Why did you choose to work in the mine? -What can I say? There's nothing better here. That's what most people do here. -Are you from the region? -Diego just turned 18. He is the youngest miner. It's her first week at work. -Did you leave school? -I just got my baccalaureate, -Why didn't you continue? -It's not that I didn't want to. It was not possible. My parents are too poor. They need my help. -This rubble will be removed by trucks. For the boss of the mine, But they are not lost for everyone. On the other side of the hill, a man is watching. His name is Ovidio. -At this hour, we're on the lookout. Once we see the truck passing by, we go. We sit there because from here, As soon as it arrives, we go. I have to go, the first truck is leaving. It's down there. -Where? -Down there. It's the truck that brings in the rubble. -Ovidio isn't Hundreds of people are storming. They are called guaqueros, They dig through the rubble with that will change their lives. The rules are simple. Men on one side. Women on the other. Five trucks are unloaded on each side. Nobody moves until the last truck leaves. -It's the bag for my gemstones. -Do you hope to find emeralds? -Of course, we all hope so. -I'm here for 25 years now. -25 years and you live on it? -Yes sir. -So what does that give? -Nothing, haven't made a fortune. Sometimes I earn a little bit. -I'm ready. -It all depends on God and luck. By His grace, we get it. Otherwise, we have to keep fighting here. -Since when have you been -About 30 years. -The last truck hasn't finished let the rush begin. -Are you okay, Ovidio? -Yes, I'm okay. -No time for more discussion. For these damned of the stone, In a few minutes, For women, it's the same thing. -Is it heavy? -Yes, it's really too heavy. -Once the bags are full, We have to wash and filter, hoping to spot even Ovidio has just found a tiny stone. Like all guaqueros, -Why do you put it in your mouth? -To avoid it being misplaced. In the pocket, it gets lost. That's why it has to be kept in the mouth. -Ovidio is not the only lucky one. -Thanks to God, we're hustling. It's not worth much, It can buy me a drink. -Even if one gets a million, we always say it's for a drink here. -Have you found anything? -No, haven't found anything. -Look at this little stone. It's not much, but I didn't waste my time. -Do you find them every day? -No, not all the time. -At the end of the harvest, -That's it, it's sold. He'll give me EUR7, We're two. We're going to share. -Interest for buyers? Here, due to the misery, -How much? -We are five. We are five, so give us EUR15. -Finally, how much do you buy it? -EUR10. -Did you buy other stones? -No. It's the first. -Are you doing good business here? But today, there is not much. -Ovidio has finished digging His two little emeralds will be bought EUR15 approximately. They will be worth hundreds of euros set on a ring or pendant. -Are you happy? -Yes, of course, even if it's not much. -Ovidio and the guaqueros to try to find that will help them to survive. Less than a kilometer away, The mood is more tense. The army patrols the roads. The whole region is under control. On this road, These are not tiny but the most beautiful on Earth. We need to find Camilo, He owns a house on the heights of Muzo. -Good morning. How are you? -Camilo is armed too, and for good reason. In his satchel, In a few minutes, All the Emerald Barons are going to meet, for the biggest sale of the year. But first, he has -It's the Virgin of Carmel The village next door. She is the patroness of all Colombians. She is a miraculous Virgin. We honor her because we are all Catholics. -Camilo invited Laurent, to accompany him. -Bye my little mom. Goodbye, my son. May God and the Virgine protect you. -Come on, let's go. -Camilo is escorted by a second 4WD, with his bodyguards. -It's the road to Muzo. Here, millions Millions of euros of Colombian emeralds. -It's in these offices, the sale will hold. You cannot enter without being invited. -Hi Jose. I'm sorry, -Don't worry, he'll be out later. -Captain, are you okay? -A high-tension meeting. Added to the army, the mine owners brought and even a helicopter. All barons are here. These men look like nothing, but produce three-quarters Each weighs Although it is forbidden to carry arms, they all took their precautions. -They hide their guns, They all have guns in their bags. -William will preside over the auction. -Are you in charge of this sale? -Yes, sir. -How will it happen? -We're going to start We have an internal sales system. -All mine owners have brought Only one of them will buy The auction will start soon. -Alright, come on. -Nobody has ever succeeded to film them. Exceptionally, I am allowed to go up. -The only person you're filming is me. You don't film the others. Let's start unpacking. -Here are the 7500 carats. They're just from the trunk. -This bag has one and The auction will start at EUR850000. -While I'm unpacking, I don't want to see -Buyers can examine the merchandise. These emeralds will end up Or wealthy businessmen, in Hong Kong, Moscow, New York or Monaco. -I'm asking you. I know you want to see. I'm going to expose there, -How many are there? -I don't want you to start touching them Don't worry, you'll be able to see them. We'll organize ourselves. -All is checked. Carats are recounted. The sale must be flawless. At the slightest dispute, -Now only buyers can stay. The others outside. -It's impossible to stay longer. Auction is starting. I join Laurent, The auction will last all night. Finally, a lot will leave at EUR2620000. Once cut, After buying for several days Randolph, the trader, But first, he does his accounts. -How was your stay in Muzo? -I'm very happy because This one has a nice color. This one is slightly poorer, but... I'm packing because -There are many stones. How much did you buy all? -Between EUR18000 and 20000EUR. Once cut, This small lot, -With these goods, Randolph returns escorted by his bodyguards. -Hi Pacio! Is everything alright? -A last sign of the cross If the trip goes hitch-free, Tomorrow, he'll get his stones cut, before selling them to jewelers. In Bogota, in an apartment we meet Laurent, the French buyer. Today, he is returning to Paris. -The flight will be ready in three hours. So we're starting soon. I'm packing my things. To put things in the suitcase. Ready to leave. -Is this what you bought in Muzo? Partly in Musso and Bogota. Here, we have a gangue. A beautiful emerald gangue. This one has a market value of about EUR800. EUR800900. I bought it for about EUR400. Approximately -He keeps low value stone in his suitcase those that can't be cut. Souvenirs for tourists. -These stones have a little value. I'm going to invoice roughly in Colombia. Normally, it should not For the customs declaration, There is no problem. It is for cut stones that -Exactly, cut stones are coming. -Hello! -Are you okay? Sir. Sorry. -How are you? -Fine, thanks. So you brought me stones? -Is he bringing you stones? -Yes, those are the cut stones I bought. They'll supply me here. I don't need to travel, it avoids... It avoids risks in Bogota. -Is it for security? -Yes, for security reasons. I prefer them back to me. This is the oval stone I was waiting for. It's 10 karat. A nice crystal. It is a stone that is worth It is a very, very pure stone. We have 10 carats, This one is sold. I'm taking it to Monaco. I'll be back to Paris I'll buy a flight ticket to Nice -The most exceptional piece, is this emerald in the shape of a heart. -It's a 26-carat stone. It's a pretty gem. You see, on a woman's chest, This stone, the fact that it's very big, it can easily be worth EUR2,000. -EUR2000 per carat? -What's the cost of the one in your hands? -About EUR50,000. -In total, Laurent will bring back They will be worth twice Gemstones are taxed at 20%. If he declares them, To economise this amount, he's going to smuggle them into France. -It's not risky when crossing the border? -Risk-free. It's not drugs. There are eleven stones, that sell well in Europe, Or small customers for their girlfriend. The most important are I keep them close to me. To avoid losing them. We just have to pack. -If caught, he risks a fine of EUR50000, half the total value. Bogota airport. The EUR1500 worth -Is the suitcase gone? -That's it, it's gone. On the way to France. Do you still have -Yes, of course. -Can I see? -Do you want to see the small packages? I have to remember -A bit of stress, no? -Two envelopes No, no stress. On the contrary, To cross the border, you have to be quiet. Relax with a smile. No worries -See you in Paris? -Yes, it works; I prefer you leave me now -I don't have to be questioned, -Goodbye. -Thanks, see you soon. See you in France? -Yes, in Monaco. -Principality of Monaco, few days later. The richest city in the world. The greatest fortunes Laurent entered France He arrives on Le Rocher with an associate. -Did your stay end well? -Yes, it was wonderful. The hassle-free return to customs. It went as planned. We'll supply the stones, -The appointment is in a bar. The customer wants to remain anonymous. -How are you? Well? Great! -How did the trip go? -Impeccable. Very well. -The road, how did you do it? - In the car, with Alain. Meet Alain, my partner. -How did it go? Everything went as planned. I brought back the stones, no worries. The import went as planned. Great, I have everything you need. Let me show you. I didn't bring a rag, it's not too bad. Let's get it out. -Oh yes, that's it. -That's the seven-carat one. That's 17 38, it's clearer. The lower the light, -Yes, I see. It's the green we were seeking. -We have this oval one. This stone is really beautiful, There's nothing in it. I have certificates for each stone. -Do you like these stones? In terms of weight and purity, It's really what I was looking for. They are really beautiful. -This buyer works for wealthy businessmen. They are people who want So, for that one, in general. Afterwards, Jewelers are looking for these goods. They have customers who need stones, including emeralds from Colombia, For me, they are investors. -The investment stone market is booming. Many people want to make reliable and secure investments. Many people invested In real estate. Today, we are Gemstones have become Including emeralds. It increases in value following the opening Colombian women are rare. much more than, for example, The price increases It's an attractive investment to simply invest. These goods, in a trunk, It's value increases. It's an interesting investment. -Here is a 7.20 carat stone. A 10-carat stone. A 17.35 carat stone. -How much is the total amount? -I find it a bit difficult to say. It's a bit tricky. There are approximately between -It's a deal. The intermediary will pay in cash, Net of taxes. These stones should be worth He takes the opportunity -I wanted to offer it to you, -Of course, there are customers How many carats? -It's something I can suggest. -How much do you want to sell it? -I'm asking for EUR1500 per carat. -In total, how much is it worth? -There are 26 carats, That's about EUR50000. Roughly. Just under EUR50,000. -The price is still very fair. For a European market, -Would Place Vendome -No, definitely not. Afterwards, it's up to the jewelers But no, this price is negotiable. It is not a price once assembled for a piece of jewelry. That's for fine jewelry anyway. Because 26 carats on a Colombian woman... [inaudible] Especially when it looks like a heart, There are customers for that, obviously. 1500 euros per carat is not expensive. -Ultimately, the buyer won't buy None of the other lots. He's satisfied with Negotiation is over. Laurent is satisfied. -Okay, listen, delighted. - Anyway, glad to have seen you again. -Come on, goodbye. Thanks and good luck! -Let's keep in touch for the heart. -No problem. -See you soon, Bye! -Is it a nice deal? -It went well, just as I expected. Yes, it's a great deal. Everything went as planned. Now we're going back to Nice. To meet a customer for stones. Then, back to Paris. It's a nice day. -A few weeks later, Laurent will sell his heart for EUR32000, less than the 50000 expected. It's still a 25% profit The emerald market is booming. In 2016, Colombia exported 27% 60% went to the United States. But in pursuit of the green diamond, there are no figures