This is my new favorite combo in Mario Kart 8 and Cloud Glider, and here are the stats. Oh, we Oh, King Boo Inkstriker. Okay, that's almost the have to explain myself here. I used to use Peach just using Peach to not use Yoshi because everyone favorite characters. And, uh, actually, before the like, not top tier but, like, close to top tier, Mr. Scooty, and that's actually the last main I play whatever combo I feel like. Oh, geez. But such a cute character. And the reason I'm going has a two-point increase in speed but is missing around to speed as an important stat. I used to go But, okay, let's do some bagging here. Chain all at bagging. Fast characters, fast vehicles are on your speed stat. So, uh, I'm not just gonna, not always gonna be waiting in the back for good Sunset Wilds, as I'm gonna try to show you right Bagging is just broken on some tracks because you make it to a decent spot on lap three. And, like, ran this whole thing, I probably would have gotten and I would not have a mushroom right now to existence, there's a blue shell. That deleted all 8,000 players. I'm just gonna find another room. still the meta, although the character choice is obviously, but, uh, Tanooki Mario has almost character variety. Oh, I can't believe I made it I really need this double item box, though. I Banana, okay, I'm gonna trail this person's really They could have hit me with their red shell, uh, first. Oh no, what? I landed on the track? Uh, I all right, all right, fine, fine, I'll do it. need the acceleration stat. Uh, I'm gonna try and Stadium, I'm gonna start bagging for some items. chain. Actually, it doesn't even matter. Um, some coins here. It's very hard to get coins on right here. I'm just gonna wait for an item, okay those coins aren't supposed to be there. Okay, so um, if you're good at motion glider here like cheating. [laughs] Okay, I kind of messed it up but, uh, it is Mario Kart Stadium, and I hopefully get a better item here. Bullet, here. This is why you don't need acceleration. matter I just stopped racing, okay? You don't Wow, I almost won! I was frames away from winning. tracks, and I can't just lower my speed stat and Um, you know what? I'm not gonna bag today. I'm what happens when you try to run Cheese Land. All Okay, I couldn't do it. Wow, lost a lot Okay [laughs] I'm not gonna try and run Cheese gonna start bagging now. Oh, I should have done You know, uh, until 30 seconds, nothing matters. I what items I get. Oh, Crazy 8 and Bullet. Okay, about the Bullet. I guess I can blooper everybody your items until you get the Bullet and another I'm so happy I bagged. I am so happy about ever run Ch-- [laughs] I just dodged the shock with have a shock in first place. Congratulations, place. Ah, this is exactly what you're supposed where do you--where do I even use this shock? boo steals it. You know what? I'm just gonna people were in the glider, but hopefully, I just someone else is going to do the Bullet extension, else does the bullet extension. Okay, okay, so but my lead is huge right now. And, like, this a few people using a bullet, but I don't think Oh, red shells. Oh, mushrooms. Two red you're never safe until the end of Cheese Land Wow, I just got first place. That was the best place. You know what? I've never smuggled a shock second place, and that was also with King Boo. of bagging, [laughs] Yoshi Circuit, this is also not intending for this video to just become a like, the speed stat is good for bagging. But if I will start bagging because it's such a viable the time. I think it's kind of--it feels cheesy. shell doesn't hit me. Uh, but, you know, you just I don't like red shelling somebody, The same idea with--with bagging. It's to try and get the win, you know? Okay, uh, oh, and that probably deleted a lot of people's bullet for them to take the bullet extension. Let's see It's too late to slow down, I think my lead is too Wow, this race is really working out for me. This Circuit because on lap three, if the people in some people take the bullet extension, and it's Yoshi Circuit, that's the nice thing. Take both track, you kind of really need the bullet bill just watching the minimap. Oh, really? No could totally frontrun this time. This is why you I'm just gonna hold this banana-- I'm just there. If I threw my item, I may not have had outrun the blue shell. Yes! [laughs] Speaking There you go, proof that Yoshi Circuit, you get insanely lucky multiple times. So this combo so its anti-gravity stat is good, which is what really, really good glider speed and water speed. which means you can make comebacks on if you're front running, front running is not that you. But if you're trying to make a comeback, get hit so much in this game, then the speed stat even though the mini turbo stat's usually better, people right now are like, 'Wow, I didn't know so you don't have to do anything special, you just it and I'm not sure why, but usually it works. mean, I'd rather have not a coin, but the super Okay, I just need to focus now, enough that there's no reason to risk that Wait, wait, what did I use that horn? I used that shell was really close to me. Oh, oh no, no, no, shield. You know what? The right path is such more trick, I think that's the only reason it's you can easily get bumped off. So, honest. I almost always try to take the left I almost immediately regret it. Also, You have another banana. I should have looked we're good. [laughs] I hate when first place that ever happen to me? Wow, the 300 SL Roadster? So I know what some of you guys are thinking, great to have the acceleration stats, right? Why like they're so great? Isn't acceleration one the short answer is no, speed and mini turbo are acceleration is not even close. And the reason why like, they're pretty usable, it has nothing to do high mini turbo stat, right? The acceleration almost useless, okay, and let me explain why. So, because when you get hit, a lot of the time, you you get hit the most, and often in those spots, I have more mushrooms and look, there's threats uh, they just got hit by a car, so I'm I'm gonna save this mushroom because it's Oh what? oh, okay, I didn't realize. What-- does mushroom later on that shortcut. But yeah, you seen what I've done on Yoshi circuit before, are like, they're, it's pretty okay to just be take some shortcuts, and you'll be right back by I'll be honest, that respawn kind of killed the speed stat helps you make comebacks because and so, speed kind of kind of does what nooo! that was so unlucky, but yeah, speed when you get hit, you actually want to go to the that one terrible respawn just ruined my entire pre-DLC meta, no, no, no, no, no, no, I need this is better, let's take this shortcut. oh Okay, this part's gonna be a bit having a lower mini turbo stat, I'm just not used with this combo, but there's some tracks, this game, that if you're like, oh, I like this good luck, there's like 90 tracks. Okay, let's if the car didn't suddenly go forward, that was hopefully, they play defensive and hold on [Music] I feel like the better room you're in, everyone knows that playing defensive Oh, did I get a Kusaan trick there? That would [Music] Yoshi take the top path? Yep, they're Oh, okay, I got them with a green shell, I want some distance, I don't want them to be I'm trying to take down the Yoshi's Hey, there we go, that mini turbo is actually like on the fastest combo and the worst and then I realize like hey, among all like it's not a big deal. Okay, and we have a blue Come on, come on, come on, come on. Oh, the shock, you whoever used the shock. Oh, that's perfect minimap, so you don't have to shock when the blue a bit earlier, but can I just say King Boo is so can't touch the pedals, it makes no sense. Another for me. So I don't know how many of you guys have MapleStory called a Soul Teddy and I mean come on, is this a Japanese, yes, it's a Japanese player. no way you can fly across the screen like that. what are you doing? why did you do that? Cloud, Oh, thank you, thank you right as I'm about to now. [laughs] Oh when you're not skilled but out. Yeah, I'm not skilled, I am not skilled. It's like there's just so many Yoshi players. There stop playing Yoshi everyone, there's no way Actually I take that back, Yoshi's a great pick Yoshi as their favorite, so I'm just speaking but if everyone's favorite is actually Yoshi, Where is first place? Oh, the thing just glitched out. Yeah, Super bounce, nice. Okay, I rarely do and if you want the double item box, then it's Oh, bomb in the shortcut, yes! I Okay, I love having a big lead because when in first place is bad because there's the blue obviously. But the thing is, only those things anything can hit you. No, there's a blue shell. say this is good, that only the blue shell can hit I need my coins up. Everyone can take this don't put me back here. [sighs] Okay, I'll you should have drifted off a glider, if that's like the first time this ever second time that's ever happened to me. This is until you get hit and then bag or just bag at the track to do a little bit of bagging at the start, I have such a bad track record with the bats. shortcut, and then you're right back in the race, get an item, okay, so, we're not doing that I'm in fifth place. I probably have to save my here with at least three mushrooms, so we're there goes all my mushrooms. Let's steer back little bit later. Okay, let's use this. I lagged and I hit them so many times. Four Everyone's right there. Hey, here, don't go I'm gonna save one mushroom just in It's perfect. See what I mean? Who Just start bagging. [laughs] Just but this track has no mushroom shortcuts, no reason to bag on this track unless you're it's sort of like a &quot;I might as well&quot; situation. &quot;I'm gonna bag on Ice Ice Outpost.&quot; [Music] That person is so gonna hit me. Oh, they hit me. Okay, so if you get hit, you [laughs] See, see like, this is what I mean. You be like, &quot;Oh, I'll just accelerate.&quot; No, you'll greens. I'm not gonna mushroom past them, so I Oh, there's more triple greens. Oh, that's It's slower than the green path, but it is and in general, that's just how it works. So where you really just want to save your coins, Okay, I took a bad line. I'm gonna have to of the shortcut. I'm in second, what? [laughs] Please don't have an item near me. Oh, that Oh, this is so scary. Okay, I'm just gonna use I should have saved the mushrooms. What is going I'm focused on so many things right now. I can't so I can't complain. Hit the ceiling, that's didn't mess it up like I did on lap one and lap a little faster. Oh, I have a big lead, this is so I have to focus really hard. I shouldn't target shocked. Oh, that was a great race. This that's why it's my new favorite combo. Yes, Mushroom Gorge in a while. Okay, I'm bagging. This is nothing new. It's not because of my combo. this is one instance where I think it's actually I bag for like five seconds and then I get to have let's do this. Oh, what is going on? I need a super bounce but can't get a mini turbo. All right, let's not mess this up this time. no, we got that. We got that. All right, and I saw the blue shell and I was jump.&quot; But no! Red sh-- yes! shock, what? I'm back at 10 coins. Okay, I think first there we go. Oh no, yes. No! [laughs] okay. I shell would hit them instead of me, and it worked, this has been such a good race. [laughs] Okay, ah, just staying out of the way in case they backed someone took the gap jump. What a crazy race. I playing Mario Kart like this one. All right, let's speed set than everyone else. Look at everyone, get some items now. So main thing here is I'm just on the coin path, just make it slightly harder just trying to get to ten. Um, I don't have to be Let's not get hit by people. Okay, Oh, okay, let's go golden mushroom, can't do grab these coins, make sure I'm at ten. Well, I I could have dodged the shock. It actually doesn't spawn at the beginning of lap three because I actually do not care that I didn't but it would not have helped me in this race I don't think I have enough Okay, I'm not gonna be near the items I want to I'm just scared somebody else has one as well, not gonna dodge, and if not, if enough people Nobody dodged on Dry Dry Desert! Nobody dodged! Okay, okay, I'm slopping it up No, can I at least make it to the shortcut? Okay, well, someone had a mushroom, that's I mean? Nothing mattered until lap three. So I've just because, well, it rarely shows up online. I kind of just make up the lines every time. it got two of us. Wow, that was like right in my a great snipe. Okay, so, um, I got hit, so I'm I don't know how good of a bagging track get away from everyone, and get me some coins. I'm messing up everything. Oh, piranha plant. that shock's actually great. [laughs] I got rid coins there. And, uh, if you're in the back of the good for there to be a shock because the shock at the front, they stay small for longer. Okay, and I have a boo. I have my son in my arms, and I'm gonna try and predict it. Oh, no, red shell. you just have to dodge the items. I mean, it's lap first place got hit. Oh, and the bomb didn't I don't even know how that happened, Okay, I'm probably not gonna win, though. Uh, very slippery road. I'm just gonna try not to and all right, second. Wow, that blue Yoshi is way this. I actually have a bit of a speed advantage points of speed, and mini turbo definitely does this we're just driving straight and taking boost place. Wow, you can really see the speed stat like Mute City on that section is such a good acceleration doesn't matter too much on this track What even hit me-- Oh, no! okay, no, no, this no, everything's not okay! So I just need an item Ah, should I take the shroomless cut? No, okay, I also need to get items. So let's get an item you can still do this. You can do this with a as I keep saying, but like, if I don't get defense, defense, nice, nice, nice. Star Yes, nice items. Oh, I have to use the star early can chain this into the-- oh yeah, I can't, okay, I did it, shroomless. Oh, that's actually pretty Yoshi's too good. It's not even the same blue red shell [laughs] goodbye, Yoshi. Okay, so that how much they've been winning. Um, I've been players in this room. So, I just want to get Let's do this, yeah. Okay, that's so but it is the time trial strat. It's the fastest is you charge this part's weird, do that, and doing a right hop right after the mini turbo. It's and so you're supposed to do-- oh, that's not um, I was playing this track a couple times with Lemmy, and uh, someone left a comment that kind of um, well, it's not true. I, I don't need to learn Stadium, okay? So it's just like I was making jinxed myself again. I thought that was a red with Lemmy because I was so tilted that And this is quite a precise track, but the-- oh, a wrong way to do things on this track, and it's items everywhere. I'm gonna slow down. Okay, I'm not Lemmy, it doesn't hit me. So there's a here, I'm just gonna do, like, a little drift Um, if you want to see a good version of that, bad alignment. All right, look at lap one if you the obvious way to play this track and the good much time doing all the best stuff, but it is such advanced techniques. Oh, blue shell. I'll be good. the last second. Oh, I didn't even connect it on really good as well? Wow, I got first place and