In a small village in Yakutia, where else on Earth, winter is once again approaching. Eduard, a father of five, As winter draws near, the Gerasimov family begins their preparations months in advance. Together, they work to preserve everything they can from the brief summer--berries, fish, meat, and hay to feed their livestock during The Gerasimov family lives in a remote village, hundreds of miles from the nearest town. they rely on coal, which is more Don't come in without sweets!!! Sister, nom nom, come eat! Sister, nom nom is ready, come! Lira and Eduard are a young couple in their early thirties, raising five children. Lira is a housewife, dedicated to caring for their children, while Eduard works as the village vet. Like other villagers, Lira and Eduard raise livestock. Farming in this frozen land comes with many challenges and requires hard work. The cows in Yakutia are a special breed, capable of withstanding temperatures spending most of the winter indoors Having a farm is essential for the Gerasimov family, as it provides food for them throughout the year. During the short summer, the entire family dedicates themselves to harvesting hundreds of tons of hay, enough to feed the livestock throughout the long winter months. After a big breakfast, Michiye and and her younger brother, 9-year-old Erchimen, who attends primary school, starts his day at 8 a.m. Michiye looks after her brother as they walk to school together. In their small village, where everyone knows each other, it's School life in Yakutia, can be quite different from what you might expect. In winter, when temperatures drop to unbearable when it's -50 degrees Celsius, as the In small villages like the one where Michiye and Erchimen live, schools are often the heart of the community Class sizes tend to be smaller compared to urban areas, allowing for a more personal connection between teachers and students. While the children are at school, Eduard is at work. His neighbor's livestock being a vet means mostly caring for livestock, and it's an important job for the community. Meanwhile, Lira is straining the milk. In Yakutia, milk is not only consumed fresh but also processed into a variety of traditional dairy products. Nyurgun, the youngest boy in the family, has been helping his mother with household tasks from a young age. Washing, cleaning, and cooking are part of his daily chores, We try not to spoil our children But we make sure to give them enough love If the child doesn't listen, we tell them off and give feedback If the child achieves something, we praise them I think if you can't handle feedback or criticism and always get offended by it it's only harmful to you But If you truly listen to feedback, In most cases, people don't criticize for no reason There's usually some truth in it, As the days grow shorter and the nights drastically. There are days when the combined with the intense cold, makes life here more challenging than anywhere else on Earth. Before the sun sets, Eduard hurries to the nearby lake to gather enough water for the week. For Eduard, his days are filled with caring for livestock, fetching water, and looking after the children. But despite the exhaustion and the harsh conditions, he finds strength in knowing that each task helps his family survive in one of the toughest environments on Earth I grew up watching my father He was always busy, and I never saw him resting on the sofa or watching TV He was constantly on the go So I think I learned a lot from him From a young age, he taught us the importance of hard work And with my own children, I'm trying to do the same, instill the same values of hard work and dedication I hope they can learn by watching me and remember how their father always worked hard I hope they'll grow up to be hardworking people Lira and Eduard are raising their eldest son, 13-year-old Uolan, who is autistic. Lira devotes all her time to teaching him how to read and speak With no specialized clinics or schools taken on the role of Uolan's teacher, ensuring he receives the attention and support he needs. In the afternoon, after finishing his work, Eduard has a bit of time to Eduard built his own studio, where he handcrafts Yakutian knives. In Yakutia, crafting Yakutian knives is an essential part of society, with artisans highly respected for their craft In Yakutian culture, blacksmiths hold as their craft is believed to possess spiritual significance Erchimen! Did you come to help me? Yes! Heredity plays a crucial role--only those born into blacksmith families can become On Eduard's father's side, every man was a blacksmith, and it is this family legacy The making of Yakutian knives shares similarities with Japanese knife crafting. Both traditions emphasize forging strong, durable blades that can handle harsh conditions. Yakutian knives are often made from high-quality steel, and the crafting process involves heating, hammering, and sharpening the blade to achieve a perfect edge. While Eduard was busy with his tasks, Lira had already prepared a hearty lunch. In Yakutia's freezing climate, soup is more than just a starter-- it's the main dish, providing much-needed For dessert, Lira is preparing a beloved This simple yet delicious dessert is a family favorite, especially for little Nyurgun, who always eagerly waits for it. As the savory aroma of the soup fills the house, the family gathers around the table for lunch. Eduard, back from his afternoon tasks, sits down with Lira and the children. and in the cold, harsh climate of After lunch, the family spends time on their hobbies. Lira and Michiye sit together, working on an embroidery piece made from beads. Michiye, who loves art, dreams of becoming an artist one day. She's already quite skilled, and the younger kids often join in, learning from her and Lira. They paint creativity. The whole family has a love for Eduard, when he has time, indulges in his the beauty of Yakutia's frozen landscape and daily life. His talent has been recognized, and he's won several photography contests, with one of his pictures being awarded the best. Life in the coldest place on Earth From freezing cars to long, dark nights, the Gerasimovs face the harsh Arctic conditions daily This land may be harsh, but it's their