Who is the Jack in a pack of cards? Who's the Cluedo or Clue? Let's check into Checkers and of Words Unraveled. Welcome to another episode of Words Unravelled. and I'm Jess Zafarris, author of the etymology we are gamifying Words Unravelled, so draw won't be bored in this delightful episode. episode of Words Unravelled with we two losers. nerds? Oh, yeah, we've researched some of the battle it out a little bit on a few of these. It's always good to start with the theme, isn't So, this is a super versatile word. and it dates back to Old English. It has cognates joy or glee or fun or amusement. When obviously--but, um, when Shakespeare writes in in pleasant game,&quot; he did not mean &quot;game&quot; as in But at the same time, it was also a like chess and gambling and sports, and the joy of chase. Um, but particularly out of this was not a game. This was not a game. It was Oh, okay, so it's--it's only Uh, if you have the--if you're out and having a also be having a great time subsistence hunting, that case. And this could be, like, you know, It was also, interestingly, the word &quot;game&quot; was A &quot;lady of the game&quot; was a euphemism for a sex The World and the Child includes the line, Right, that's why you sometimes still although increasingly less often And then we also have the phrase, like, &quot;to have quite old. It's like to have the mettle or or game or have fun. And this was apparently a right? So, to describe someone's &quot;game&quot; Fascinating. Well, let's have a bit of fun with looking into card games. I'm not a huge player my grandma, so I think I--I know the names of Certainly, I brought--I brought some, Okay, well, where should we start? Let's see. is related to the word &quot;game.&quot; And, of course, card games can be used for gambling, and many But it's not the same as the word hop around like a deer or something. Are Okay, that's worth--that's worth a look, isn't it? No, apparently gamboling is from, like, a skipping or leaping, so I wonder if there's some, Ah, yeah. Well, who knows, who knows? that -le or -el ending, as was the case in Old then it's probably, like, a repetitive an activity--you are at the activity of gaming. accustomed to or aware of is probably the big daddy of the card games these days. And, Well, no, it doesn't. It comes from the French knock.&quot; It's come from a German word &quot;pocken,&quot; but it has this older meaning, which is &quot;to old version of poker, quite popular And, obviously, the bragging, I suppose, is, yeah, of poker. The giving the impression you've Ooh, I kind of like that. Isn't that interesting? implication connection there is. So, Yeah, well, I think it's more that the but it had this older meaning of &quot;brag,&quot; and than what it tends to mean now. you have to have this, like, you know--you have to expression while you convince everyone you've come from German, but via French to us. Let's talk one. You can play it by yourself. Right, exactly. Yeah, and--and, you know, essentially. But one of the interesting things of an affiliation with widows. Solitaire who was said to live in solitude or be a recluse. that widows or women who are not married just, Yeah, but is there maybe some Oh, I'm sure. A woman in that position actually more than that, particularly when there were when women weren't allowed to be I always figured they'd have a lot more fun than, One hopes so. They certainly do now, anyway. &quot;solitaire&quot; was just a French word for solitary. from French? Although, I'm interested to know if much more popular name--well, actually two other No, I don't know Pontoon. from my experience of playing it, very similar to get as close to 21 by combining your cards' game that I used to play with my grandma was right? It's like a sort of brid--a boat. Yeah, that's right, yeah. It floats on the has nothing to do with what a pontoon is. It's French for 21. Which is vingt-et-un, or vingt-et-une, you can a theme with some of these card game names--they Yeah, I've got a couple of these. the name Blackjack is apparently casinos in the 19th century introduced a special and a black jack--either the Jack of Spades or Right. which is just the English version of the French just come together? Another one with a sort of No, it's a new one to me. somebody--like, somebody said it to me the other so I wonder if maybe it is just more popular &quot;binocle&quot; for--for, um, eyeglasses or binoculars, paired or matched in the game. It was also called like &quot;Peak Knuckle&quot; and things like that. I mean, I've never heard of it. You do so it's luck- and skill-based. I say so somebody in the comments is gonna be Let's stick with this theme of the ones where it's thought to be another one. That's thought to gets called Russian Rummy. What &quot;biritch&quot; actually a Russian word meaning &quot;herald,&quot; &quot;to herald,&quot; that would be linked with a card game. which is that it comes from Ottoman Turkish. And three is uc--so it means &quot;one-three,&quot; and apparently I don't know; I don't play it. Yeah, well, that's the main thing--that Another one that's--I guess it's not that but the word &quot;Rummy&quot; is supposedly--well, okay, there like the term &quot;whiskey poker,&quot; which is just when first player who discards their hand face--I'm not knows how to play whiskey poker will know what I'm it's from German terms used in card games meaning, with other card-related games, like trump cards of where &quot;Rummy&quot; came from either, but there is is called &quot;coon can.&quot; And that, once again, is a because it's the Spanish &quot;con quien,&quot; which means these boardy folks sitting around a gaming table, Well, I mean, it's kind of neat, because games in particular can be played across I imagine as trade was becoming a global--trade were sharing ways to pass time. Yeah. Whist is another one. I don't know if you've said that &quot;bir&quot; was describ--Bridge was described it was known as Russian Whist. And Whist I found in a 1680 quote this description: that is to be observed in the play.&quot; So, means to be quiet or to be silent. Like wistfulness? our modern concept of wistfulness appears to be &quot;wishfulness,&quot; which is what makes it just a bit Huh. Yeah, I think so. Wistful. And you So interesting. Let's see, Well, you talked about games that are to talk about chess. Okay, I have a lot on chess, as a matter an etymological gold mine. with where the name comes from then, I guess. off with the fact that every single variation of What? Need to check--to check something--checking check, checking a box--all of it is from the game Yeah, okay, definitely do. was looking into, oddly, the word &quot;matador,&quot; which from the Latin &quot;mactare,&quot; meaning &quot;to kill,&quot; it could &quot;he died,&quot; which also appears in the phrase word &quot;checkmate.&quot; Some folk etymology adaptations The journey here is &quot;shah mat&quot; came into &quot;mat&quot; meant &quot;to be astonished,&quot; and &quot;mata&quot; meant &quot;mata,&quot; meaning &quot;he died.&quot; So, in Persian, &quot;mat&quot; or &quot;stumped.&quot; As you can see, like in the the original version of the game--being killed. from moving. Literally, like, &quot;the king can't even.&quot; everywhere and our atrocious folk-etymological the Romance languages have got a bizarre upon how it sounds. I think, like, the closest &quot;mat&quot; there is the &quot;mat&quot; you're talking which is &quot;to defeat&quot; or &quot;to kill.&quot; then into English as &quot;checkmate,&quot; that &quot;mat&quot; was And I'm really glad you brought up the French, that are related to &quot;check.&quot; The English name of meaning &quot;a chessman&quot; or &quot;chessmen&quot;--plural of which came by way of Latin and then, you know, the game was like &quot;shatarunga&quot; or something like that was the Old French for &quot;check&quot; in chess, which was word for a chessboard but also used in accounting. Exchequer--that's the name of Yep. And &quot;exchequer&quot; and the word &quot;check&quot;--or around with--eventually came to be associated with people did their accounting on a cloth It's amazing that all of this is so connected. In a second, but let's just stick because there's plenty more interesting I didn't know what a pawn was, I have to but I didn't know where the word &quot;pawn&quot; came from. Do you know? um, like pawns, figuratively speaking--are like Huh, yeah. I'm guessing it comes from a French word So, so they are kind of Yeah, well, yeah, exactly. There you go. it--that's where that comes from. thing that I was getting all excited about. So, you have to pay a little bit extra for the bottle when you've finished your drink, take that bottle It's a deposit scheme, and that deposit scheme root as the word &quot;pawn.&quot; Yeah. And it's called a &quot;pant,&quot; I noticed, which comes from the same place, too. I can only assume it's because they are providing that seems to make sense to me. If anyone are a lot of people who do know an awful lot about aren't there? I mean, Rook is a really weird name. Have you ever pondered why it's called a rook? a crow's nest, um, sort of on a ship, where it's That is an excellent thought, but it's absolutely totally mind-blowing where it actually comes from. which was &quot;ratha,&quot; which means a chariot. form of the game of chess used chariots up using their word. Isn't that amazing? sense for the way that the piece moves. You Yeah, I would say one of the key points Yeah, it's steadfastness. Meanwhile, a chariot but tends to move straight ahead. The movement entertaining names in other languages, like which--you can work out--it's a but not like the jumper I'm wearing. other interesting foreign names for the pieces: in is the, the Dame, the Lady. And the Knight is called &quot;el caballo,&quot; &quot;el caballero,&quot; you might think would be the, the a horse there as far as I can see. very like a horse, depending on your set. more and less elaborate sets, of course. I don't think so, not, not from my end. So, call it Checkers. I call it drafts. UK? I had no idea. different name. We don't call it Checkers. about the exchequer board, Checkers makes a lot Well, to, to draft is, is from the verb we just named that the fact that you shift have named it after the board. Fair enough. the UK and the US, by the way, because there's a since the 1940s--called Cluedo. You do. So, I think--and as--is like a clever sort which means &quot;I play,&quot; I think, in Latin. But invented it was a Brit, and he invented it--well, who used to play on cruise ships and in hotels, supposedly been a little bit inspired by that. He Amazing. and also, I mean, all of those games were Christie novels and similar, uh, fiction as well. She started publishing in the 1920s, and this starting to become very popular in general. stuff to occupy themselves with. Um, did you know that, um, the Well, are they the same in the US So, the US edition has Mrs. White, Mr. Green, and Colonel Mustard. And the British one has Dr. Black, Miss Scarlet, Mrs. Peacock, and Professor Plum. Um, so let's see. There was also originally Mr. The characters of Nurse White and Colonel Colonel Mustard is a really good name. the film, of course, right? Oh my God, you must. It's one of my favorite Really? Is it actually good? movies of all time. Yeah. Or, or Clue. Called Clue, yeah. You've got I should have called it Cluedo. I wonder why not to keep the original name. Um, it could just be because, um, Yeah, of course, of course. Because we--I but Ludo is a game in itself, right? There game that didn't involve murder mysteries, like I don't know that one. What's that one? Indian cross-and-circle board game Pachisi, which which was the highest throw of the dice in the in common with modern Clue, but you--if you look at The game now known as Ludo was originally Pachisi. Okay. The game I actually played as and that was basically Ludo, except they Ad, ad--I--no, it's, it's die. That is the singular. would pop this little sort of plastic transparent That's not a very good impression of it. And you would be on your way around, and then someone the start. But I really like that. Would, would Frustration? It's called Trouble, um, here. little jingle in the 90s to go with it. I--I'm Well, that's very [laughter] [music] Yeah, let's hit Monopoly. This one oddly, like, a little bit ironic. this. I don't know about the backstory. &quot;monop--mono--monop--would you--you know the Probably Monopoly. Mon--Monopoly just comes idea of one person taking ownership of as much as a word that exists in a couple of contexts. Like, that was exclusively owned by a vineyard, vineyard that couldn't be created elsewhere or but more specific. And then, um, in physics, it's like a--a single pole. But that's not related. Yeah. Anyway, um, the unfortunate thing about the from its anti-monopolist creator, um, Elizabeth J. Magie Phillips--or Lizzie Mageie. Um, I could be mispronouncing her last name. It's M-A-G-I-E, a game designer and a writer and a feminist and like, uh, Henry George's reformist tax, um, she created The Landlord's Game, and if you look it looks exactly like Monopoly does Um, and the idea was to illustrate--it was an single-tax theory and the negatives of you could play it two ways. Uh, you in which everyone is rewarded when wealth is then, you could play the monopolist way, crush opponents, and that was called Monopoly. some guy--not just some guy, he's well known--but copied it, started selling it as Monopoly, and he did not, because we have accounts of him, game, and then asking for the instructions. Uh-huh. Parker Brothers--they bought the copyright from so they bought her patent for $500, and she Unbelievable. It's--it's the same old story, isn't it? These woman--if I can do another little sort Yeah. British, but was born in Africa. And so, she named which is &quot;kujenga.&quot; I don't know if I'm saying from--the idea of building. Because she could--she yeah, took inspiration to name Jenga. That's really neat. Uh, another board but I had never considered the origin of the word Mesopotamia, it was called tabula. It's, like, called, like, Backgammon or Backgame, um, because Oh, okay. Right. Should we, for our next one, Scrabble Oh, yeah. Let's absolutely do that. right? It's the idea of sort of scrabbling around in the little bag for, like, the, like, satisfying Feels like I'm scrabbling. I'm incessant--sort of fiddling with this bag while It's really--is really, really bad. for--for a video that I recently did, I was looking them. And it's very, very relevant, obviously, with what points to award for each tile and how was very interesting that--so, I--what I found the inventor of Morse Code basically just pulled how often each letter appeared. And it's a very, a fellow called Alfred Mosher Butts. He invented it in 1938, and he is said to have letter on the front page of The New York Times of the letters off of that. Which I think is kind No. That's better. That sounds That. H--are you--are you good at Scrabble, like, Uh, I am better than my friends, yeah. always like, I bet you're excellent at Scrabble, I will think of longer words, but, um, and--and but I'm bad at math, and I'm not, like--I'm not oh, I'm excited about this word because I like you know? You also--you have to be kind of you have to look for way--it's not necessarily for you. It's how it links up with other ones. complaint among Scrabble players--or I suppose words xi and za--so xi and za--wide awareness that Yeah, yeah. so--so there's--there's two ways to approach this: has ever supposedly played at Scrabble was, the highest scoring hypothetical situation. You absolutely will, because Great. So, firstly, let's look at the, uh, under the North American rules, governed by OSPD--the high-scoring single play was the Oh, excellent. little Don Quixote on the board. Beautiful. Cresta, an American, 365 points. But a--a bigger scoring word, but not necessarily understand this, because it's in the--it's in the caziques, sorry, with an S at the end. It's bird. It's the plural of a type of bird. Uh, Scrabble Words International rules, and that Wow. Not excellent. the highest scoring hypothetical situation would three triple word scores, crossing over also with ameliorative, and ejaculations. And that, That sounds like far too much planning. kindly drawn up the board. It's a Yeah, because there's too much entropy with work. You have to have the word pacifying, have to have requalified, and then you put a P which is a word, and put the B in front of it. of complexity with this. But anyway, Oh, yeah, a word that I just store in my Mhm. I'm--I'm much better at--at than I am at, uh, coming up with Scrabble words. I'm a huge fan of the cryptic crosswords, Yeah, I kind of struggle sometimes with the--the because they're not the same. I've been--I've been I--I, uh, play The New York Times crosswords like post my, uh, the link to my leaderboard on leaderboard and start playing the mini with me. Okay. shouldn't we? Give Wordle a mention. Can't talk What's your starter word for Wordle? I got bored of it. I like Connections better. I liked the entertainment of--of picking a and then occasionally that would be the actual What's yours? What's your starter word? is just out my--out the end of my fingers is right? I think R, T, and S are going to be which are the most commonly used vowels. But I was the sake of this podcast, and according to the word is tails. Although WordleBot, which is that--that is part of the--of the game, you can see and it reckons that the best word you can start tales. So, I guess you could also use stale, Wordle doesn't frequently use plurals, which means That is a very good point. why you should go with slate or steal if you running a one-seed strategy, as it's known, which is where you basically give up your first according to the Science Foundation of Ireland, and between those, you should get a good I do like that. Um, like we talked about earlier, frequently wording. Yes, yes, like that. That's intentional. of modern formulation for a name, isn't it? P. I one of those with that entertaining suffix. And of suddenly and sharply. So, to chuckle is to I love that. of course, there's the--the portmanteau, uh, which is a combination of chuckle and snort. A very good episode that's well worth a listen Let's do some, like, physical, like, party Um, for example, uh, the limbo. I'm terrible at the limbo. I'm not very flexible. do it. I couldn't do it. Bending So, where does the word come from? Oh, you're correct. It was invented in it. One is that it could be--and the one that's that it's, you know, the border of hell, as bend so low that you're at risk of toppling unlikely because in several languages--or like, word limber is--is limba or limbo. So, um, it Oh, okay. So it's just like a Let's see. Uh, another one. Have you ever I--I beg your pardon. I have absolutely Like the sort of game that I want to play at a That didn't help. That's not doing it. You--oh dear. called it maybe quoits? Coitus? [laughter] will help. Oh my god. I've got--I've got Tell me about it anyway. watching would have games of yours. You bag full of corn kernels at a board with a and you try to get it in the hole. that. Go on, tell me where it gets its name from. which is--is, apparently, like the States. Back boards with holes in them since, like, the ancient like, uh, throwing a--a horseshoe at a--at a yeah, I mean, cornhole is--is basically Okay, is that--is that it? You're Well, I was going to go into, Tell us about some--some more physical games. done this in, uh, one of our episodes on, um, is often said to be a--uh--an acronym. It is game predates any attempts to make it stand for variations that are like tig and tap and tech and like, tapping someone, essentially. Tag. Oh, well, there you go. Middle English, because the game, like tick or uh, a corruption of tick and it, right? So Interesting. and nick. We had tick glue pot, whereas if someone which was just a circle on the floor. I guess because you're-- I see. yeah. And--and then someone had to come and free Do you know who, by the way, the Simon in Yeah, we call it Simon Says. Oh, interesting. that sounds worse than what I was thinking. shouldn't do what anyone called Simple But who is Simon? for having, uh, for the most part, done what--what Oh, I see. he's gone from being compliant to issuing orders. like the Simon could have existed prior, and the church-sanctioned fun included Simon Peter Says. didn't pick up when we were talking about cards, about it in our--way back at our Halloween episode, and Jack just being a kind of generic name. called the Nave. But, you know, the K was already a Jack is just like an Everyman, you know, sort of a servant of the--the King or Queen, but Well, the--no, it is the man Simon Says in different I'll--hold on, hold on. Let me try and--okay, I'm Oh, I know the French one. It's Jacques a dit. Jean says. song called Jacques a dit, I know, and that's what it's Kolonel bevel, um, the Colonel commands. like, Salman says. Uh, in Basque, it's the leader This does all rather detract from the Well, apparent--like, the--the degree to which different languages, you know. How people deci--how each language decided speakers invented this game. So, it seems captain in Japanese giving orders, teachers, sometimes it says, like, in Spanish, it's--it's Oh, okay, very good. which makes far more sense, doesn't it? Though the Well, Rob says we've perhaps reached the end of I think we can do that. I think, uh, I perhaps in a--a future episode, to dig in We absolutely should go into puzzles, That's a nice connection, but a so we'll have to touch on Ah, okay. I thought that was maybe going to but let's--let's save it up. discussing the etymology of games is there are winners in the game of word origins. So, join