(thunder rumbling) (bells ringing) - Kids nowadays probably to imitate somebody else, but really that person that they're trying to imitate was imitating somebody was probably trying to imitate Tony Alva. (punk rock music) - Skateboarding has an attitude. Alva is the attitude. Raw talent. I'm gonna win everything. And kind of roll out in front of everybody and went, this is skateboarding, this is what a skateboarder is. - Tony Alva. It's Tony Alva. Like do you get it? - Boom, TA. - Do the front center with his fedora, you know, and it's like wow that's. We put him on a pedestal. - Look at that. - He's 60 years old, still What more can you say about a human being? - He's Tony Alva, you know? (punk rock music) - He wanted to be number one - There's certain people in this world, they're meant to do what they do. - Becoming an icon was about talent. But it's also about - There was this guy, Tony Alva. And here we are 50 some odd years later and we all know his name. - Tony. - Tony. - Tony. - Tony Alva. - Hello, my name's Jeff Grosso, and I'm a professional skateboarder. Am I punk? - Do I look right? Mom, check out my new style. The life of a professional skateboarder. I've been skateboarding since about 1975. I turned pro in 1986. And for about the past 10 years, I've been doing this called &quot;Love Letters to Skateboarding&quot;. Look at me, me, me, me, me, me, me. Jason Jessee. Letters. It's kind of a history slash mythology, slash skateboard pornography type deal. Just to get you stoked to go ride, when you're on your downtime. We just wanted to kind of preserve the tales of skateboarding - [Man] Story after story, all - He's just the fuck you - [Man] He's what kind of cemented it into the counterculture that it was, and ultimately into the pop culture phenomenon that it came to be. - He invented the Frontside Air, what the fuck have you done? He's kind of our king, you know? It's an awesome, awesome I hope you enjoy. That was a little long-winded and weird. (skateboard wheels grinding) - I've known Tony Alva I think since I was about 12 years old. Tony was the fuckin' man, even back then. Ya know, I mean, he was the guy. You just see him, and you I mean it's cliche, but he - 1967. I was just a straight-up sidewalk surfer. (fast rock music) Basically we were just surfing. We were just trying to draw a line. Nothing but sidewalks. The wheels, the boards, everything was so Freddy Flintstone. - Of course we were all competing where you just had to know the limit. - I didn't, at first, too dangerous because What made me wanna do it, eventually, was we started surfing. When the waves aren't good, it's the same thing but - Guys that I really liked were the guys that had the super surf style. And the guys I took to was You know, Torger could skate everything. He just had the best style, just the way he was able to like, combine technical skateboarding moves with surfing moves. - I thought I knew everything and now here's this kid who's - 1973, '74. Jay Adams introduced me to Tony, and probably at the Zephyr shop. Jay thought he had potential. Jay was wrong about a lot of things. (fast rock music) - [Tony] Jay and I took it started going low and and pivoting and doing 540 It took us to the schoolyards. The concrete waves and onto the banks, which was not easy. - We weren't skateboarding. We were surf skating. - As I started to see Tony all the time, we became friends and the and I go, hey man, this (crowd cheering) (upbeat music) - When you look at the whole Zephyr team, it was all about being an The freestyle, and slalom, You had to excel in everything Where Tony was the first aggressive, incredible competitor and stylist, Jay was really the guy that nobody would even think of. (electric guitar wails) Jay loved to piss people off. Jay just had an incredibly creative mind. Completely spontaneous, all the time. - [Tony] Those guys were They didn't have the mentality, and they didn't have the flexibility that we had. So that's when we broke it open. (crowd cheering) - Stacy Peralta deserved 'cause he was a very, Stacy had more of a vision and Tony had more of a vision - Tony Alva cut me off on a wave when I was 15 years old, It still bothers me. Can you believe that? Something that stupid would I'm a goofy-foot surfer. I took off, he looked at me, and took off. And he rode the wave entirely in front of me, never kicked out. Never gave me a piece of it. I've never forgotten that about him. - [Interviewer] And you think for his-- - It could be a metaphor for who he is. - Okay, you know, back in the day, Tony was a young guy, just kids that were from the neighborhood. Tony had personality. He was kind of outgoing at that time. Yeah. - [Interviewer] What kind of personality? Describe his personality. (laughing) (fast rock music) - [Announcer] And Tony Alva's He's way out ahead of Henry Hester. - Yeah, Tony Alva came on to our radar in a couple of different ways. Really, the first Freestyle, the barrel And he was beating those - You took a spill on the - Yeah. - What happened at the bottom? - At the bottom? I just dove for the finish and just rolled over the finish line. Doesn't matter as long as before the other guy does. - If you're one of the who like to take a ride on a skateboard, better be careful or you could such as on your backside (hard rock music) - [Announcer] California between eight and 21 have skateboards, and if that ratio holds the potential market is 20 The skateboarding business seems at last to have really taken off. - [Man] Then the urethane the advantage to where we actually had really carving ability and And then actually going up vertical walls. - I don't really think He was that good, I thought. - You wanted to skate like Tony because it just looked the best. - One of the things to the individuals who from where we live was style. - It could've been being Bunker was coaching Tony to Bunker had style and substance. Bunker's step-father, Clark Gable, was the biggest movie star in the world. He was the most recognizable Bunker understood, because to have an image, you I think a lot of that washed across Tony. And I think Tony learned from it. - [Man] So he basically taught (rock music) - Was he a good ambassador - I think he was because skateboarding could have easily went It could have been really beautiful uniforms and very flashy. (retro music) He made sure that it didn't do that. - [Man] I remember I used all the time when I was a little kid and you had the light just totally timed and just I don't know (car horn beeps) - And then, pools came in. And nobody could skate because of the fact that we were surfers, and we read those empty pools just like they were a shore break or (rock and roll music) - Now that history has and the photos of Tony the Dogtown guys that are in pools. - All the Stecyk stories, the Dogtown tales, we related to this a lot. - I mean I wanted to take pictures 'cause of people like Tony, it's I wanted to take a picture of it, I don't even know what made me do that I wasn't in photography and I of him 'cause I think that I hadn't seen anywhere else before. - And then it turned into a business. This is, from the very first I saw this guy, and I had seen him skate but I saw him in this with everybody else, he just stood out. These guys got something way beyond just his skating ability and you could tell oh there's Tony Alva you kind of thing and I thought that would be cool to do something with Tony. We kind of looked at this as where the product can stand on it's own but this stuff is really - Pete asked me to do a logo for Tony. (dogs barking) He showed me the Dogtown logo, which I just thought was perfect. 'Cause I kind of wanted to go the opposite way so I went to New York using the interview magazine logo - The Alva stickers just come out with like the script writing where it almost looks like the It didn't really say Alva it says Awa. What's Awa? - What's Awa? - Initially yeah exactly, whatever if you don't know It obviously has stood the test of time. - Everyone was hanging late summer early fall, it Everyone was there, Peralta, Shogo, Jim Muir, Jay Adams, everyone. - People were just ripping One day, Tony's hitting he decides to just pick up the board in the air and pull it back down. I watched Tony do this, and I probably saw him before I took a picture of it 'cause I didn't even know what You really, you didn't because it was just so bizarre that he would actually like not doing a front side he's coming out of the pool. No one else was doing that yet. Fucking Tony Alva did it with style. That's Tony Alva, Tony did it. No one else did that shit, I was there I fucking saw the next day I didn't even know how to describe it to my friends. (70's jam music) - Just that the physical action that their performing was - Tony had the best It was a combination all wrapped into one it was - He had the raddest skate photos, especially when his summer of '78, all the Wynn Miller photos. I remember that was a big deal. And after that everybody - I always thought that he was sort of a heroic guy and heroic pictures of him where I think we went all the a skate park there they said hey Tony this is the guy we were he's a really good photographer and Tony looked at me and said, (laughter) This is the kind of stuff I like to do, just little sequences. Around 1977 my was working on a movie And he asked me if I when he went down to and I said sure and I and started to take some So that was one of the 'cause I showed him my gang pictures and he was kind of impressed about that. I thought at these days that Tony was kind of inventing in the beginning of the and it was a good moment 'cause he was the cutting edge of what he did and I guess I was too. (rock music) - Skateboarding really was presented by a handful of dudes who really know how to make it look good - I just remember him always And always able to back - That's what I want to do, That's the kind of life I want to live. - It was difficult, you know being the guy that had to chase these guys around and keep Tony out of jail and. (laughter) - We did Sweden, we did One day we're just in Paris and starts skating and these kids are just like oh my god Tony Alva, Tony. Next thing you know they flooded We went to Canada with Jay, that they were skating and Inside the room they decide They're was skateboards thrown into walls, they locked them out of the room but snuck out the back, and and just drove away it was like oh my god. - This may seem an odd place to be, the middle of an empty swimming pool. But this isn't just your - I called Tony and I go listen dude this guys wants to do this thing It's the first action sports I go, &quot;do you want to do it?&quot; Tony without a beat he goes, &quot;I want to get picked up by a limo, &quot;I want that limo to be stocked &quot;with killer weed and blow and champagne. &quot;If that guys good with that I'll do it.&quot; I guess he was maybe thinking that the guy wasn't gonna do it. So I called him and I told him what Tony wanted, the guy goes done. (rock and roll music) - Front sides, back sides, if you're a skateboard freak you know exactly what I'm talking about. - Sure enough the guy he's smoking a doobie, you know - [Interviewer] Tony, Dave, - How you doing? You guys are probably the hottest How long have you been riding skateboards and when did you first - Well I started riding about just rolling down the sidewalk. - I was about five I got my - Well the main thing I the feelings I get off on I think are the exhilaration of the speed and the power and the control. It's something that you experience just yourself because it's nobody else. - [Interviewer] Also Tony has helped to establish him, as the originator of vertical skating. - Some of those interviews he's very real and he really talks - And what do you think of skaters peak ages in terms of years? - Nobody really knows the oldest age for a professional skateboarder because there hasn't been very many old professional skateboarders. (upbeat music) - [Tony] The only reason is because of surfing anyways. I wanted to ride my own that the only one that could really design the kind of board that I like is me. It's like I have to have a board that kind of fits that surfboards that skate and skateboards that surf. So if my boards feel like I'm surfing when I'm skating em, I'm stoked. The only thing that really works is wood. And especially laminated if you're pressing it yourself. Then you have 100% control When you make a board by hand, it's like you've just put the soul in it. - His were the top product That was the name that was the brand. He was untouchable it was like but I'll never get that, Andrecht board, from a swap meet, which is literally what I got. - And Alva products were rad, with the Alva logo on em and they came in all the different colors. He rode em, in the was just one picture of - That's when it was like wow, this guy doesn't have to put a picture of himself skating 'cause everyone knows that he's already a iconic skateboarder. - Tony never got out of We would just play. I mean a lot of times I'd just show up and we'd be laughing, look at - People knew that Tony could skate, so I was adamant about not 'Cause every ad, you just go through the magazine and they all look the same. These pictures they're lit a certain way so that there's a very strong connection to light and dark and color. - As a kid you were like you with those ad and they because I was really into to art magazines and I who was teaching me about things that were happening in the late 70's. Those Vega ads were really edgy. - This was an Eric idea, we got the board and it wasn't finished and - It's more of an attitude that's right. - Look at that. - Your parents taught you, don't put a plastic bag on your head. - If you weren't skateboarding you should put a plastic bag over your (laughter) Was that not the message? - I mean look at this shit, man. Who has the gall? - Well, you know you call was just pissed like what are - He went for it and that's what he did. - My cousin thought Tony Alva was hot. And I said if she thinks he's hot I gotta skateboard that's the ticket. (jam music) - Him and I decided to take a trip, we were just gonna all eat mushrooms and trip out in the And we were out in the middle of nowhere. Tripped out all night, all, night. And we start a big bonfire, around this fire, we're smoking and all of the sudden, Alva, Alva, Alva, what does it mean TH?. And I go dude, it's just your name. - They had the company going, Tony came up with the boards and the graphics. - Honestly during that time the skateboard market was kind of waning. - The final demise of they tried to do the clothing thing. - 'Cause we were already selling T-shirts and then started making wheels and were selling wheels and all that but, we had clothing you know, like stuff. I was introduced to a designer and he put together this kind of crazy line of stuff that you wouldn't have sold in a skate shop if your And they named it Alva Action. They wanted us to make a bunch So we made Alva cowboy boots and then we bolted roller skates on em and gave em to these models. (disco music) They do this show and we didn't and the next thing you know, we're on the cover of Footwear News, we don't even make shoes. We got all these orders from stores like Saks Fifth Avenue, Bergdore Studio 54 wanted the Alva roller girls to come over and do this whole thing. Bloomingdales in New York City wanted us to design the whole window on 57th. So, (laughter) is just trying to keep up and burning money like it was going out of style and. - [Man] While it got a lot of publicity, a lot of attention and generated the core skate industry - Skateboarding just died, - bur-the 1980, skateboarding is dead and everybody's in a fucking parking lot with no shade and you're riding curbs. And Alva's still there. - Ted Nugent, like was playing at the park all the time and then it switched over - It was the beginning 'Cause you could be radical, - This is the perfect and Hendrix was amazing, and But then came punk rock. - Darby Crash introduced me But that isn't when I is Darby gave me that that night. He was so excited to be introducing - Skateboarding and punk it was like the perfect - 1980 Ian's first band The Teen Idles, they were in San Francisco, we're a target video, and so I say you know Tony Alva's I mean we flipped out. - It didn't occur to us we just didn't make the connection. - [Man] And we walked over and - Just blew our minds, we had no idea that Tony was like down. - Ian and I our voices rise and we're like are you Tony Alva? And he went yeah I'm Tony We were, it was like - To you remember the LiteBeam ad with the boards on the pods and it said hey fuck all that other bullshit that you guys are seeing I'm still into it because it's fun blah blah blah. That ad said it in one paragraph, It was at a time in was sucking commercially, It was Action Now days might have been in Action Now. - I think that it was. (laughter) - Something you should not be proud of. - Skating had changed you know? - He went from being selling hundreds of thousands of skateboards to having nothing. - Let me tell you something when Tony was going to dental school to become a dental hygienist, you know? People don't understand That was life man, people People were trying to make a living. The skateboarders didn't - Skateboarding was just dead. I saw him in Japan, he was the only guy out there skateboarding, would like worship him Over here in America people wouldn't give him the credibility. He was even ripping back then he would be there the first - So when we heard Tony was coming back and we started seeing him milling around the contests and stuff and talking to Stacy and Stecyk with his j-ax vest and he was like fuck yeah this is so fucking badass. - And one day Tony's like I gotta get my company going again. We went down to the skate shop in Huntington Beach on Main Street. Tony talked the guy into and they were like 20 bone-eyed blanks and we took those things back to my garage and that's when Mondo came And then we took those 20 and the guy gave us 40 more and I think we did it another and then Tony's like, &quot;Fuck I'm just gonna &quot;have somebody start - And then Alva kind of made that second comeback I guess in like '81, '82. It seemed like a whole nother company. - Classic question, plans for the future? - Well my plans naturally for the future are to travel a lot and I to the number one skateboarding as well as maybe use my Alva logo to promote other products - The very first was the Alva logo with The claw scratches, black Red, black, and white, might I might have used those colors in my art. - We totally snagged it from the Bruce Lee movie &quot;Enter the Dragon&quot;. (knife slicing) we were like ah we're and we're gonna put the Alva And we're just gonna do black boards. - You know where he had white face on and he sort of looked like or I'm not sure what, Christian - [Man] This new you know like who's Chokey Boy? We had Raul Vega here before and now there's this new - Yes, cool. I shot a fair amount of - He was supposed to be like gothic. The gothic people always tripped me out. - Did you ever see the Euro-ve-an-pen photo of Salvidor Dali? Where he's throwing with the cat? I wanted to kind of pay - It was just a different - Lots of beer, lots of Mondo would just paint em spontaneous and every one of em had to be different. Just high on like fumes and anything he could get and just going for it. He was just crazy like a total art project of just the most insanity That's how Mondo ran it. It's just garage after garage making boards down in the garage. Having crazy debauch sessions of sex drugs and rock and roll in order to pay the rent we'd have these big house parties. And then we started getting more into adding the cocaine into the So there was like no sleep, we were just like, fucking, (punk rock music) So we'd work as late and then just crash and burn after having another big drinking bout or whatever. And then wake up and three to five days it was (punk rock music) (knife slashing) - It was like my head I was and then I met Tony Alva and I was like I'm gonna be the Bruce (announcer speaking) (upbeat music) Love Christian, Christian Hosoi's probably my favorite team rider of all time. - Tony Alva walks right up to I'm staring my company up, we want to talk to you about skating for us. You're the only guy we even considered. Christian just had his Sims board with the rising sun, number one selling board. I was like how could switch the to skate for Alva and he's So I was like wow. - I really wanted the with the kind of asian looking (drums banging) - His attitude was I'm the It didn't matter if he He was still the best. (laughter) - I went form the corporate Alva had The Skoundrelz band. We were watching Black raging, like on acid and, we were nuts. And then I was sitting there Ed man you know, you need a quit pal, you need to skate for I'll be the pro we'll travel around the world, get chicks it'll be awesome. We're driving to Santa Monica to a little residential area And we go and I go where we at? He's like we're at the Alva factory. And right then I almost started crying because it was like a garage. And Christian was like this is awesome I'm like no it's not awesome. - When I got on Alva, the very he goes, &quot;Eddie, we're gonna &quot;and stuff like that, and I &quot;if you don't feel like &quot;We don't care what place you get, &quot;dead last it doesn't matter, I'm pro now, and I don't even From that moment it was all fun and games. (punk rock music) - Then it grew into a posse hair and they started to be like the bad boys in skateboarding. - When Gonz was a little kid I And they got dog poop and - That was when I quit and they became kind of like a gang now. - Like Hell's Angels but on skateboards. - The whole bad-boy trip. (laughter) - We saw what the other teams were like. Especially the Powell team, want to look like those And I love those guys don't I didn't really love em back then, as a matter of fact I was kind of like those guys are boy scouts, we're badasses. (rock and roll music) Skated ditches and pipes, pools, streets, you name it anything that (rock and roll music) - I go to this backyard pool I'm like hey Tony, I'm Erv how you doing? He's like, &quot;Man you should &quot;I was ripping man I was And so I went along you were rippin man high fives right on and I was stoked I was Then after a couple of minutes is realized that he wasn't kidding, yeah I'm rad and you should know that and I was just thinking I guess, I guess this is Tony Alva man. - At one time we went skated this ramp on mushrooms 'cause the wood grain was as you get up to the and I was like wow wood of my thing of let's do - Let's do our own thing no apologies man just be yourself. - But they would get the weirdos right? It was basically built around - They just had the coolest image, I remember the Alva posse black and white shot, and you've got like Tony Hawk and then the Alva guys it's like who do you wanna hang out with? - [Tony] Everybody came and we pretty much had the whole domestic United States including Hawaii covered. - [Man] We got Craig Johnson and Gibson were the first guys and then we got Murph and then we got we got Hosoi from Hawaii, and therefor a big part of Alva team. Poopsy was the best man, he was hard core. He ripped it up, take the biggest (laughter) - So here's the deal this isn't a team this is a family, this It's the Bad New Bears of skateboarding. What do you think man? - Well what I think is like if you can't accept it then go fuck yourself. - He doesn't mean that in a bad way, - No. (punk rock music) - Beat it you Val jerk. I mean just listen to that (laughter) He whored himself out for (laughter) Val jerk, like he would never say that in life, Val jerk. - I did it because it was just basically I was gonna get paid to and just do it over and over do the line, beat it you Val jerk, snarling with the teeth missing and the, you know I think I'd just at a bar somewhere or something got my teeth smashed out again. - Daggers! (people yelling) - I was a production and of course I met Tony on &quot;Thrashin'&quot;, and of course he was just out of my head, who is - But I'm proud not to be a Daggar. I think the only reason I got &quot;Thrashin'&quot; is 'cause I had a billboard Because I think I was still Like I'm positive I was bad at that point. I could skateboard, but I remember meeting and I don't know that I've ever, I've met a lot of people I don't think I've ever been It was like I looked I didn't know, I didn't know what to do. 'Cause it was Tony Alva. - I know for sure in one day, we had 11 ambulance rides to the hospital. (laughter) Because of skating accidents. 11 in one day yes. - My name's John Gibson. - Hey what's up name's Jim Murphy. - We weren't the best, but we were just people's people, the coolest guys out there skating. - You'll be in trouble. - You gotta do what you gotta do. - None of us really cared we just running far away from it. - I felt like I was on the that you ain't gonna get on, because they ain't gonna ask you to get on. - And this is when it was all It was how long can you stall an invert? And how high can you do a back side air? You had the leather jacket the jean vest and the dirty scoundrel-y - Guess what, I saved so much money on fucking shampoo, fuck yourselves. - Skateboarding is my life. - We'd go into the bars and all the chicks would be like oh my god - We were so dirty and so nasty and so gnarly, chicks loved it. - I dig em all man they had rad styles. They're doing what you're supposed to do which is just connect with people on some level in some to have an approach and a vibe. - It's marketing genius, you because all that other stuff, that competitive, it was elitist. Locals couldn't even relate. - Later on he just moved to the beach, got married and surfed all day. So it's kind of in the sidelines. And we just kind of the posse was tight so we just - [Interviewer] Then it wasn't Alva. - Alva wasn't there. - Skating back in the early 90's. It was like whatever, small and whatever and everyone, I don't know, we still skated and Tony, I'm - I could barely even to put on my board back then. We were taking like freaking ecstasy and drinking Patron and smoking weed like it was going out of style and just mixing all our chemicals just to keep that high going you know? We were trying to keep, stoked as far as skateboarding and I did wear the baggy pants man 'cause that's all there was. And they worked pretty good for indi-airs and mute-airs and stuff like that. If you could grab though and just lock it in the style back then. But (rock music) - Hola como estas? - Tony's okay, he always - Part of the family. He always help us. - 'Cause we know basically and that we're privileged to be here. - [Tony] We went to San barely survived that and Got the shop, we're living Then turn the shop into an art gallery so there's the party thing again. We're having these big We expand and we get a little warehouse, so we got the warehouse, - And then all the sudden there's and article about Dogtown. And then you see Peralta and realize oh, I could make a documentary about this. There's so much footage and the film does what it does. (rock music) - Dogtown won Sundance, and we win Toronto Film - Not only did it breathe new life for us, but it breathed new life into - There's money and there's the fame, there's all of these so called things that I should be stoked because I was just partying - &quot;If kids are trying to copy me, &quot;they better be ready to That's Alva. - A lot of us did suffer I'm a perfect example of that. When you grow up and your and the entire culture of skateboarding was centered around youth and rebellion, it was really attractive And it all starts out Like I'm gonna be just And because skateboarding it's like okay well they took it to here, and then we took it to here, and so it's this leapfrog thing and He fucked up time and time again, I fucked up time and time again. - It stops working, you know? And then you're trying to recreate it. And then you're just walking around as kind of the worst part of that. - He was like a ghost for a while, I feel like my years were probably some of his - There are no cameras nobody wants to stick a 'Cause they're afraid you're gonna take their fucking video camera. - Super angry all the time at everything. Like fucking weighing freaking rings under my Pillsbury Doughboy version of TA. I was loosing everything. - And once you start fucking it's a bitch to try to climb out of. We literally watched him just Someone you just did - So the bottom really is that everybody's growing up and you're not, you know? And at that point it becomes lonelier and lonelier and lonelier. - And unless you have the fucking balls to go through with it, you're left with, you only got a couple You're gonna go to you're gonna go crazy, or - Then I just hit a bottom man, and then 2006 I just got including myself, and Just got clean and sober. Lot of guys helped me, guy and sober, they helped me get on the path and stay on the path. - He's been through a lot of changes. He's been through a lot The fact he's skating at 60 But when you lift the grid And he's still fucking skating. And you go all right that dudes for real. It wasn't in the shirts, it wasn't the decks it wasn't the shoes. the passage was the motion, the And that shit was for real, And I think that's the thing And I think with him, seems - Everybody always thought egotistical maniac on the planet. I competed with the sun for No mas, you know? I'm not living that way anymore. And I refuse to go back to that style of selfishness and self I don't want to be that guy anymore. I want to be the guy that's - You have TA and the Zephyr thing, you have TA Logan Earth and then you have Alva for the He's always kept skating. - Can you imagine when that we think that we'd ride - No, I wasn't, no I had (laughter) - He embodies everything about it. - Think about this for a minute, you can't get any pro basketball player, or any pro athlete of any kind to play with any of the quality they They can't do shit, let and do a fucking edger on it. - That's why you have a 60 year old professional skateboarder. Named Tony Alva. (laughter) - He's still setting the that he still surfs he still skates and he's playing music and he's acting. - He's never broken a - Definitely I was probably to just fly off the ramp getting air, throwing this crazy I'm number one salute. - At 60 years of age, he will still risk sneaking into someones back Amazing. - You can't be a cultural - Unbelievable, 'cause I would still be here talking about this. - And for him to be doing he's the motherfuckin' man. - Standing in front of Stacy and Jay and the cross and the sun setting, dude this reminds me why, and where I'm going in this journey. It's my story, but it's about Dogtown, it's about Santa Monica it's about skateboarding it's about Jay Adams, the list goes on dude I can still feel it. Like right now I feel to something, something that's real. I'm not a slave to drugs I'm not a slave to money, I'm I'm not a slave to my fucking I got this, and I got this. (punk rock music) (yelling in slow motion) - [Man] Oh man. - How can someone, you - It's like watching your fucking grandpa fall down some stairs But he just gets back - I don't fall that much but when I do fall, it fucking hurts. - You know what more can be said, it says it all, this image says it all. - [Man On Phone] You're - Coping is abusive I don't even know how people ride that shit. - Wear the fedoras that there were old men that with their hats on and - In the 70's, he told me that he lived in that room right there. - Tony Alva, at 60, a strange - The thing that I'd is just for influencing my young mind and helping me find my and giving me the, I was fucking - We all were dude. - And then I got this attitude. - We all were Jeff. - like bad brains I got his attitude and without that I - Thanks Jeff, that's - And it makes me so I owe my whole life, everything that I am, I owe to skateboarding and I owe to you. So thanks a lot and thanks for watching, this has been the letters, go skateboard, turn this shit off.