- [Narrator] This footage shows of Steve Jobs. Four months before his death, he speaks to the Cupertino City Council to reveal one final project. - Apple's grown like a weed and as you know, we've always been in Cupertino, started and eventually got the at the corner of De Anza and 280. - [Narrator] The previous was no longer big enough for the growing company. The buildings constructed along a circular private named after a programming term for a code that will In order to cope with the growing number of employees, the company and more buildings in the area. Eventually, Apple was of buildings that were originally developed entirely and are by no means ideal for a coherent office headquarters. - So, we're renting buildings, not very good buildings either (audience laughs) at an ever greater radius from our campus. And it's clear that we - [Narrator] The plan was not at Infinite Loop but to expand it with Apple was able to acquire a large piece of land that is not only located nearby but also sits directly on Interstate 280, which runs through the offering good accessibility for employees. A large part of this area was for sale because the computer company Hewlett and Packard And Steve Jobs personally came full circle by acquiring this site as it - I, when I was 13, I think I called up Hewlett and Packard were my idols and I called up Bill Hewlett 'cause he lived in Palo Alto and he picked up the phone and I talked to him and I asked him if he'd gimme some spare parts for something I was building And he did. But in addition to that, he gave me something way more important. He gave me a job that at Hewlett-Packard right here on in Santa Clara off 280, the division that built frequency counters and I was in heaven. Well, right around that Hewlett and Packard on some property over here and they ended up buying it and they built their computer And as Hewlett Packard they decided to sell that (calm instrumental music) - [Narrator] Apple hired the design studio Foster and Partners by British one of the most influential in the world. Foster's career initially took off in the 1970s when he made his name by creating machine influence buildings that borrowed industrial design elements for a modernist look. Over the decades, his style has evolved and his newer buildings but an evolving modern aesthetic. His buildings display a as his design approach is akin to Apple's own product philosophy. In designing the new Apple campus, Foster worked closely with Steve Jobs, who had a very personal and Jony Ive, then Apple's who having worked at was about as renowned in as Foster was in the It was the beginning of of exceptional talents. - We've seen these office parks with lots of buildings and they get so we'd like to do And the campus we'd like to build there is one building that holds 12,000 people. (upbeat instrumental music) - [Narrator] The final and it is characterized a single ring shaped building And while the campus itself is the result of a unique collaboration, to enable exactly these The parks should invite in completely different parts of the building to cross The circular building is each connected by a light-filled atrium. And although the building as a whole offers an due to the ring shape, it at any individual point. Within the individual segments, walkways lead around the building along the outer and inner rims. These walkways are separated by a continuous wall made of glass that stretches from allowing a panoramic Apple claims that these are used in any building to from the facade are white at the interior hallways. In addition, these elements are also part of the building's active bringing fresh air in from the outside. The office space is also kept very open with glass walls laying In this concept, the to a large open floor plan to available desks. This layout should increase collaboration and is inspired by co-working But this vision of a modern with reality in many places. There are reports that some of Apple's employees with programmers struggling to concentrate in this new setup. Another place where is the central cafeteria. It is a single lunchroom for the entire building. Delight filled space to the roof offering a as yet another meeting space. And along the outer wall, there are two giant glass to allow the interior of the into the exterior landscape. When it came to the design of the parks, it was important to Steve Jobs that the landscape is a reflection of the California landscape The new campus is not only but also not far from where His childhood home where he assembled the together with Steve Wozniak in 1976. More than 30 years later, in addition to the immense global influence Apple has also become a fundamental part of the local environment in not only as one of the largest tenants in the area and as a large employer but also as the city's biggest taxpayer. The company that once started in a garage here had transformed The parks at the new campus therefore had to celebrate and Steve Jobs wanted them to be based on nearby Stanford University. Jobs appreciated the by Frederick Law Olmsted, of American landscape architecture. Steve Jobs also appreciated that surrounded the Stanford dish right behind the university. For the design of the parks, reclaimed landscape architect Laurie Olin was hired who relocated to in order to get a real feel His park design is a representation of the California landscape. On one hand, there is from the building, which and resembles campus parkland There are also two Adjacent behind are several over 800 fruit trees countless food plantations. And then there is this manmade pond again referencing the waters which enable all the greenery to exist. California's two largest rivers flow all across the state until they in the Bay area before It is a fascinating piece of landscape architecture reflects this unique And all of this is of oak trees that structure inside and outside of the building, creating a natural feeling parkland that connects the different parts of the building with pathways. For the planting of the trees, Apple hired the arborist, Dave Muffly who had previously that jobs wanted to replicate. - [Steve] Today about 20% Most of it is a big asphalt parking lot. We want to completely change of it landscape. And the way we're gonna do this is we're gonna put the most - [Narrator] Accessible is the underground parking garage, which was custom designed with the same level of Jony Ive's design team created with the information displayed in wide frames attached and the traffic lights and reference the icons in the corner of applications But because the underground Apple also had to build at the southern end of the campus. Located in the top left corner is the Apple Park Fitness Center. On the outside, there are facilities for team sports like volleyball, While inside there is is a to Apple employees only. (calm instrumental music) Located on the other side of the park is a building for outsiders, during Apple's press events However, only the entrance because the actual auditorium itself is completely underground. The theater is used for the presentation of new products by the company The award-winning pavilion for the fact that there The roof is made of a and the entire structural by the glass. It's the largest structure in the world that is and the electrical wiring and sprinkler pipes are completely hidden along the thin silicon joints between the curved glass panels. Inside, there is a glass in such a way that only It is just one out of countless details that such as custom designed or even specially designed which Apple even patented. (calm instrumental music) Apple Park is a space with no compromises but implementing the idea of a collaborative space for cases where the reality With the needs of certain teams not Apple had to build separate buildings for research and development departments. These are departments especially important and the resulting building doesn't follow the open transparent idea of the main building. The roofs are filled with AC of solar panels as present The offices are also arranged instead of the open concept and surface level parking is available in front of the rectangular office towers. The magnificent round building for Apple. And instead of using the new buildings are built nearby with less ambitious design approaches. - [Steve] And, it's It's a little like a (calm instrumental music) - [Narrator] Perhaps Steve Jobs comparison of the building with a spaceship applies to much more than its visual appearance. Apple Park is an uncompromising attempt to create an isolated island to the life and troubles of the adjacent streets and communities. Apple operates its own private bus service to shuttle employees through The company also operates its in Cupertino exclusively for employees. While Apple's attempt to for its employees is rife with benefits, it might be even more forward thinking if the company had in an environment where interaction with local businesses is encouraged, where environmentally would be possible and where the success of their campus could rub and integrate into modern Perhaps the goal wasn't to but rather to create a building of perfection that is within the company and for how the company should More than anything, Steve not as an architect or but as a storyteller aware of the power a well told - [Steve] I think we do have a shot of building the best office building in the world, and I really do will come here to see this. - [Narrator] It shows that architecture can do many different things and while this massive and nurture a specific design approach, in my next video, I will look at a very, of real estate as I will be Similar to this video, I have mapped out the area in 3D and two companies alone have secured control over a large part of the The video will go live on but you can already watch where I'll be posting all my videos first. Now here's what's really Nebula is not some It is a streaming service, I am building together with and what started as a small into a massive success that more ambitious projects - [Narrator 2] The Nighthawk - I don't like the red. - I would get this in gray. - I know. - [Narrator] Special - [News Reporter] Russian up on the border with Ukraine. - [Narrator] If you sign up using my link on screen right now you will get a $10 discount a year which means it will cost That way you will support and my friends have embarked on of building our very own streaming site. Thank you so much for watching.