- Good evening. I'm Stephen Colbert, coming to you live from my secret mountain lair. I really wish I could be there tonight, but unfortunately, just outside my door with a taser. (audience laughs) I am honored to celebrate receiving the Mark Twain sponsored by America's funniest corporate financial service (audience laughs) What's in your wallet? Tonight, it's laughter. (audience laughs) First, entirely fitting that Jon is receiving the Twain Prize. In fact, I think Mark Twain would be lucky to get the Jon Stewart prize. - Boom! Boom! Yeah. They're both brilliant satirical writers, both called out the and, like Mark Twain, Jon also appears to (audience laughs) Jon's not only a comedian. He's also a prophet. Years before anyone had heard of COVID 19, Jon wore nothing but stained sweatpants and avoided all human contact. (audience laughs) He tried to warn us, but we didn't listen. (audience laughs) Now, it has been said that a genius is one whose work changes and Jon certainly changed late night. All of us who do topical humor on a daily basis are Which reminds me, I do hope you're taking the Boniva, Jon. It looks like you drank in an Indiana Jones movie. (audience laughs) Fun fact. I was already working at &quot;The Daily Show&quot; when Jon took over. I had been there with the God rest his soul. Before Jon changed the it was my job as a correspondent to interview unmedicated who believe in Bigfoot and aliens who put babies in your butt. But today those people are in Congress. (audience laughs and applauding) Now, in addition to being Jon is one of my dearest friends. One of my dearest work friends. (audience laughs) So few people understand the work that we late night hosts do. So how blessed am I that who can just check in with me, or I can check in with him. Do you have any idea how rare a friendship like that is in show business? Rarer still, we didn't (audience laughs) Of course, all of us here know that Jon is a brilliant comedian. But his close friends know that Jon's true passion (audience laughs) It's his superpower. Instead of a radioactive spider, Jon was bitten by a (audience laughs) But that, that is why to publicly worry about the why so many people think he And I get it. (audience cheers and applauds) Yeah. He's got a lot in common A keen intelligence, the (audience laughs) And those early days of &quot;The Daily Show&quot; were a special time that with the success of the show. No one was really watching. It was all about the fun and about how much we cared about getting the jokes right every day. And that spirit of adventure, that feeling that we were that all started from the top with our fearless and ridiculous leader. And the show really came into I remember the night that Al Gore conceded after 32 days of indecision We finally got to perform all these pieces we'd been sitting on for a month. And it was a really great night. And I remember I was sitting and as we went into the I turned to him. And I don't know if you but this is true. Under the applause, I said What I knew to be true. I said, &quot;This is the And as well as the show and it did, I know now that what I was the best job on television I meant that when I said it in 2000. And 22 years later, I no longer mean that. I have a way better job now. (audience laughs and applauds) Okay? I make a lot more money. I have a much bigger audience. People chant my name. CBS has a plane I can sometimes use. It's really nice. You can get up and get your own Diet Coke or peanuts or whatever. But I couldn't do my job, I wouldn't have my career if it wasn't for those years with Jon. If I hadn't seen his example of working with intention, of staying silly while giving a damn, of always doing his best and treat people with He is the kindest, most thoughtful friend, the fastest mind, the stupidest doofus, and most passionate patriot for whom his love of country is no joke. So ladies and gentlemen, the most fitting recipient I could imagine, my brother, Jon Stewart. (audience cheers and applauds) - Thank you, Stephen. Thank you.