What you are going to see in this video is blowing. I will show you an incredible game of chess If you are a Chess Lover, then sit back, relax I am sure you will enjoy it. Mikhail Tal is playing as white &amp; Alexander playing with the black pieces. This was a training game and Tal started with Then knight f3, d6 and d4. Then Pawn takes on d4, knight takes on d4, We've reached the Sicilian Najdorf position, After this, Tal played bishop g5. Koblents went for e6. Then pawn to f4. Bishop e7, queen to f3 and queen to c7. Then Tal castles queenside and Koblents develops Usually, the main move in this position is But in this game, Tal goes for bishop to e2. Then Black attacks this bishop and white retreats Now Koblents went for b5, opening up this Tal immediately played e5, attacking the rook Black was ready for this and he responded We have reached a critical point in the game In this position, any normal player would But Tal had other ideas, Instead of moving f6. And That's the first sacrifice by Mikhail Koblents obviously took the queen and Tal Now as you can see, both the rook and bishop his rook. Okay, now how does white proceed from here? If he takes the bishop, then black can give And after king b1, queen takes the bishop Therefore, in this position, Tal did not take Another good move could be f takes g7 threatening What Mikhail Tal played in the game was another He took the pawn on e6, giving away his knight. What a fantastic move. He is attacking the queen and at the same So black is left with no option and he has Now what this does is that it exposes the immediately goes for bishop h5 check. Black wants to connect his rooks so he decides escape this way. Again, Bishop takes with a check. Then king f8. Then f takes e7 check. Then king g7, attacking this bishop. After which, Tal plays bishop to g3. Remember, black cannot take this bishop because attack and the black queen will be gone. Going back, after bishop g3, a good strategy dangerous diagonal. But instead, we see knight to f6. Black is now attacking this pawn with the Then comes rook to e1, attacking the pawn Black goes for b4, attacking this knight. And guess what Tal plays here? He does not care about this knight one bit This is his third sacrifice of the game. Black, as usual, accepts it and takes the Then Tal plays f5 throwing a discovered attack Black moves his queen away to b7, threatening That's why Tal plays pawn to b3, blocking Black goes for queen D7 trying to get it closer By now, Koblents realises that his position queen. Queen takes rook, white takes with the pawn Right now, Tal is a rook down but he has these Anyway, Tal turns on the heat by playing rook Black will lose this knight for free since Therefore, Koblents goes for knight h7 and Okay, It's time for the magical move, which If you want, you can pause the video here for white. Well, Tal found the best move in this position The idea, is that if knight takes, then pawn and wins the game. Therefore, in this position, black had to Then e takes f8, promotes to a queen. Black takes back with his knight. Then comes e7, attacking the knight. Now If black moves his knight, then white be game over. Therefore, Koblents goes for king f7. Now White takes the knight and black recaptures After all this, Tal played king d1 and Alexander The idea, is that white will soon be able game easily because of this massive pawn advantage. Okay, so it's puzzle time. In this position, It's your turn and you need If you are able to find the solution to this I am reading all your comments and will give All the Best Guys! Let's see how many of you can solve this. Well, if you enjoyed this video, then hit And don't forget to Subscribe to our channel For extra chess content, you can follow me Thanks for watching &amp; I shall see you in my