So I'm here with 20 of my daughter's friends, and I need to find out who's lying, because when I was in school, I had a lot of but they were just lying to me. And I don't want my daughter to which is why I pick her friends for her, But my husband disagrees. Honey, you will never be able especially if you meet them So to settle this, my husband came up with a plan. Today, 20 kids will compete in a series of and ten will be telling the truth. And hopefully, after four elimination rounds, I'll be able to catch all the liars. Let's see. Honey, you're going to see that I'm always right. Milaaaaaaaa. - Hi, Mimi. Mimi, do you think mommy's good Sometimes. Well, we'll see today, honey. - We're going to prove both of you wrong. And we headed to our first location, where my without me knowing who will lie So look! In your envelopes, There's a red card, and there's green cards. Okay. If you're team red, you're probably Every single thing has to be a lie. If you're team green, then you have We're going to open the cards. Are you guys ready? Yeah. Oh, my God. Okay, on the count of three. Three, two, and one. Look at your cards. So we have one more little rule. Okay. Asala will be eliminating at every round. Whoever is the person who stays all A real $1000. So you have to really try to win here. Okay, guys, let's go. And for level number one, Then I'll have to eliminate ten of them by Asala is going to ask us only one question, and you will have to answer with one sentence. Contestant number one. Do you have a green card or a red card? I have a green card. You know what? I'm going to go with my So when you open the envelope, did you Green. So I'm going to keep you. You looked a little nervous. I'm not nervous. So you have a red card or a green card? A green card. I'm going to have to say no. So now if she says no to you, - You're kidding. I have a green card. Wow, she has poker face. I know she's good. So do you have a red card or a green card. I have a green card. Let me go with my gut feelings and say no. Alen, Alen, Alen! I know you too well. We grew up together. Like, I just look into your eyes, I'm green. I have a green card. I'm gonna go with red. Okay. I opened my envelope. I'm gonna say no. Okay. Now there's more team red than team green. I'm green. I opened my envelope, Oh, wow. We're 50/50 now. Dude, that's crazy. She actually got five green, five red. That's that's actually insane. By the end of this day, my And I have to focus, because in the final round But with five liars and truth tellers, we where, for this challenge, there are ten and I have to find out who will be Let me show you what this is about. If you think they're good, you move on. If you think they're not telling the truth, you have to trust fall into the pool. So in this level, you're going to There's five good, five bad currently. So Carter's going to help us open the tarp. Now you're looking. There's red water behind you. Do not jump in. Just trust me now. If you don't want to get wet, don't jump in. She's good. I'm sold. I trust you. Now. Okay, we're opening the tarb. There's a ball pit. That's it. - A ball pit? - That's it? - You don't want to give it another look. Okay honey, you have to decide. - You trust him? Okay, let's move on. So we're going to remove the tarp right now. And after going through two truth tellers, it's water. It's water. I'm not lying. I trust her. With one of them being eliminated. Okay. It's like sand or dirt and I don't Why is sand gross? You're going to get all sandy in your clothes. You're not at the beach. I don't think you're telling the truth. - My God. Look what you just missed. How did you do that face? Okay, come here honey. Thank God, it wasn't a slime. Okay. Okay. Legos. A lot of Legos. You can eliminate me in the next round, Has your daughter ever put Legos on It does not feel good. I have trauma myself. You're blinking, like, a lot. I can stop blinking. You can eliminate me in the next round. But if you fall into that, that is going to hurt. Number two is she team good? I'll keep her. - You're keeping here? - You sure? Here we go. Okay, so we're covering the pools because we don't want Asala to see if the person before was good or bad. But after going through the remaining Oh, they're plushies. There's a unicorn, bear, and then there's one right here. A unicorn. I'm being honest. She's hyperventilating, which means Okay, you have to decide. But I'm not gonna let you. Show her. Okay. That is slime. It's like the green. It looks like slime. I'm not even kidding. I don't want you to go in there. Usually when people aren't telling I'm sorry. I'm going to go with NO. You're going to have green hair. I'm sorry. I was telling the truth. I have a green card. Okay, so next it's Alan. And if you haven't figured by It's like white water. I don't know what it is, like, What do you mean, white water? Maybe like ublek like cornstarch and water. The water is moving a little bit, but not like waves. That's pretty detailed. Okay, you keep your brother, and And that's because I'm only allowed to That was really detailed. And I know my brother. He does not come up with That sold it for me. Okay, so we're good. I think I trust him. And because I already kept five contestants, So now there's three bad and two good. The odds are not in my favor. Okay, let's go to the next round. But with a very difficult decision to make at And for round number three, where the most random things will be to explain to me what they're what's on the other side. And I have to eliminate two people for this round, and And we'll see if Asala is Okay, here we go. - Are you guys ready? - One by one. - No, no. - Good luck. Okay, here we go. Okay, you could walk straight. You could take this off now so you could hear her. Okay. - Are you ready? - Contestant number two? One, two, and three. Would you like me to explain it to you? Okay, you have to tell her what's going on. Okay. So there's a very tall person on stilts. I don't know where you get stilts from. Do you know what stilts are? What are stilts? Like, the things that were really high. It's like to right here, and they're I don't know the name. It's a TV show. The 3D ninja turtle thingies. You know that TV show? - Has your daughter ever watched that? It's like one of the turtles. Do you think you have a decision? She was so specific. Okay, so are you ready? - Either you're a really good actress.. I trust her. You trust her? - So you're keeping her? - So she's staying? Okay, well, number two is staying. Okay. Are you ready, contestant number five? Not really, but we'll see what happens. Okay, here we go. You can take it off now. Okay, here we go. Are we ready? Okay, here we go. Okay. Do I have to describe it right now? Yeah, look at Asala and describe it. Okay, so it's Dora the explorer holding what is that? It's like a ball. I think it's a bowling ball. Like tossing it back and forth. - You think it's a bowling ball? You would know if it's a bowling ball. No, but it's like a sphere. I just can't see the three But it looks like a bowling ball, and the weight of it looks like a bowling ball. Just tossing it back and forth. - Who's tossing it? I'm not joking. But a bowling ball is heavy. Pretend this is a bowling ball. Just tossing it back and forth Sometimes, like really really low. Okay, you have to decide. And there will only be one more - Okay, honey. - You trust her? So you sure you trust her. For now. - Are you sure? Okay, number five, you're trustworthy. - Please don't make me fall Are you ready? Very simple. All you have to do is Ana's got a pro sumo wrestler Three, two, one, open. So the guy's like, They're like T-shirts and tank tops. And he's also shirtless. He's also a wrestler. What? He's also a wrestler. A wrestler? What does that even mean? Like, someone who fights. How do you know that? Because of what he's wearing. I feel like you're not It's on a black table as well, and there's, like, a red rope, kind of, Okay. I feel like I'm going because the longer I take in my I'm going to say you're not telling I don't know if I pick the right choice. - Okay, honey, are you ready? Are you ready? Oh, my gosh. No. What! She's green. Look, you know what's the problem now? Everyone you have is a liar. You literally have one person You always claim that you know everyone. You know their personalities, They know that they're cool, they're good. Who our friends should be? - Mr. contestant number 19. Okay, honey. Okay, you have to eliminate one more person. - Do I take it off? Are you ready? Okay, now open your eyes and look there. It's literally Barbie wearing Shoeless. With Ken. He's wearing, like, a pink headband. A blue tank top and pink shorts. And they're doing, like, disco dances. Ken's doing this and Barbie's doing this. So random. Why are they all sounding so convincing? That's my whole point. You can't tell if people are You have to know them for longer Okay, now, are you going to decide? - Tell me more about what you see. It's just two people wearing a costume. - They're still dancing? Okay, honey, you have to make a decision. You know what? - I don't think you're telling the truth. Are you sure? So you're going to eliminate him? Yeah, because it's almost Okay, honey, if he is green, the game is over. - And if he's not? - You look too excited. Like I'm wrong. Oh, my gosh. You are extremely talented. He's crazy. - Oh, my gosh. Mila's having no friends. Okay, this is what this game taught me. Okay, honey, your brother Alan then is safe, because you had to only eliminate So, Alan, you made it to the Now it's the big round. What you wait? All you have to do is subscribe And we will send you the gift And after interviewing all 20 people, eliminating contestants by jumping into their it was time for the moment of truth. All right, guys, so this is the final round. The winner of this round will get $1,000. You will have a timer, At the end of this, you have Remember, there's two team - Are you guys ready? One, two and timer starts. Ask us anything. Okay, so tell me who you Both of them. No, see, I know who it is. So can I still decide or should I - I'm the green card. Yes, I am. It's kind of funny that you're just blaming I'm not blaming them. Everyone in these was so stuttery. I wasn't stuttering this whole round. And for the pools, Because I was backing your word up. you can eliminate me in the next round. But that's going to hurt. Exactly. And that's exactly what I said. Because it was a lego. She would have hurt her back so bad. - Was it really lego? It was legos. Why are you quiet? Because.. All right, so why do you think I'm the red card? Because you've been so You were kind of quiet. - I'm always quiet. You been quiet because you know you're guilty. Exactly you can't say anything. So are you. - So you can't even be speaking. You were just, like, on your phone, not talking That's suspicious. I'm always on my phone. I'm not. - So who do you think is the red card? Okay, so I feel like one of And I'm going to say that only because I felt like which is something a red card would have to.. It's the truth. I also told her exactly what I I told her exactly stilt in a guy She has blue eyes, he has brown eyes. So if they had stilts when No. She wouldn't. - She's lying. Oh my God. Okay, so I think I've come I'm leaning more towards you. Listen, honey, you have 30 seconds left. Look! 30 seconds left on the clock. If I end up picking her, what would you.. If you end up picking her, But if you end up picking, I promise I'll look you dead straight in the eye. Okay, wait. I'll be honest. Three, two and time up. Okay, honey, moment of truth. Trust your gut. I thought you're really good at psychology and Oh my God, this is actually so hard. Hey, we're all friends, though, guys, right? We love each other. - No hard feelings. I got a little heated. I know that face he makes. It's your decision. He makes that face to where he's already And he usually doesn't fight Because I know from our childhood, And this time he didn't talk. But I also feel like you're so confident Okay, honey, so you spent thewhole Three of them are still here. Now it's your time to show You're good at psychology, at reading people. So I think from everything, goes to number FIVE - You made the right decision. Okay, here we go. The cards. You almost believed me. I'm done. You be a liar. I am smart. Hey, congratulations. And you get $1,000. So, honey, what do we learned today? Truth always win. Now, I can judge all your And you got to listen to me, because I'm right. You're wrong.