- It's not hoarders. - It's hoarding. - Ouch, oh, I got hit in the butt with a nail. Why is there a shotgun shell back here? Well, what are we supposed I have my feet in the rice. No, that's why, oh! - Oh, my gosh! Linus! (laughs sarcastically) - Come here baby. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is definitely an (dramatic music) - Yvonne and I finally got COVID. Don't worry, we're gonna be fine. But, it means we can't which could be a blessing in disguise. Because, it made us realize that, if all those according to plan, (knocks on wood) we're gonna be moving in three weeks. Which means we have a But, it only took about 15 to realize a few things. One, this place is absolutely Pretty much our entire adult lives, raising children, starting this company, has taken place within these four walls. Two, we've shown bits and usually as parts of videos. But, never the final form. And this is gonna be our last chance. And three, I have stolen over the years than every Intel extreme to the point where logistics And asked me to go through the house, and try to find this stuff. So why don't we do that together. And take a trip down memory Oh! And why don't I tell Hetzner, for a limited time, Hetzner Online is offering with AMD Ryzen CPUs, and select EX dedicated route servers with Intel core I7 and I9 CPUs, without a setup fee, no setup fee, guys. Get these servers configured today, using the link below. (upbeat music) Before we go any further, I just wanna say that, we It's a symptom of thinking around the corner, for like six months. You know, instead of I make a pile. Instead of Yvonne putting she makes a pile. Instead of badgering the we're just like, ah, throw it in the pile. So why don't we get - Where do you want me? - Do you wanna help? Are you tired? Do you get pretty... - I can help for a little bit, yeah. - It's no secret, I'm a big Love the rechargeable AA batteries. So you're never just like And they're still working 'cause you're not dependent - I don't think you use this. I just dug this out from the corner. - No, it's there. So I have have easy... I actually, how much dust is on it? - [Yvonne] A lot, look at it. - [Linus] Well, we have - [Yvonne] Look at it. - I wouldn't lick it. - So this is going in the pile. - No, no, no. When I need it, it's very useful. This will be in the theater room for sure let me just-- - What? - Okay, these little Sedco things, I don't think you can get them anymore. They're actually kind of great. Two AA batteries, one on each side and it's a gyroscopic mouse. So you go like this. And then it has a little But they're not great. The quality sucks. They die all the time. And I only have two more And I haven't found a - This is not that replacement. - Well, no, but occasionally you just, you need to like use a mouse and keyboard. There's gonna be a computer in there. I need it. - But this is huge. Why don't you just get a small one? - I mean, sometimes bigger's better. What can I say? - Bigger's not always better. - That's good that you think that. - I have to. How many headsets do you have? - Oh, like VR headsets. Okay, this is a long story. This is the Pimax 8K. And the reason I have this here is that, I really wanted to do a review of it. These guys actually flew a representative, over the ocean from China because they were so excited like years ago. And it was terrible. It was atrocious. The leg was awful. Everything about it was awful except for the groundbreaking field of view. That's what they do really well. - [Brandon] It's huge. - And they basically were like, yeah, we fixed everything We want you to review it now. And I was like, all right, I'm gonna go for it. And it actually looks amazing. The leg is totally fixed. But the problem is that, I think that Pimax is I actually meant for my prominent nose. - Your nose that's now growing sideways. - Is not, thank you for that, is not compatible with the shape of this, of the nose piece of the headset. Does it bump your nose? - No. - Yeah, okay. See, that's what I figured. And because it's so heavy, and bulky, within like, two minutes, I have a horrible red mark, So I really wanted to review And I just found that it And then I meant to take but I hadn't disentangled it from here. - Okay. - And then, I also brought 'cause I wanted to compare them. And so they're here and these can go back. My VR setup here is really cool though, and has changed since the I've still got four of And I'm using a Valve Index. This is interesting. The reason I have four base because, two actually, technically one is enough, is that I was having this issue when I was trying to stream So where you've got these and on your hips. Like, they would kind of wander away. And it seemed to be some or tracking issue. So I made sure that I in base stations, that didn't help. And then I tried repositioning, these are called Watchman. These are the little from these guys to tell them the position, that didn't really help it. It made it better but not perfect. And then what ultimately fixed it, was when I upgraded to the gen 2 trackers. But it's not the trackers that fixed it. These have better battery which is nice, but it There we go. That fixed the problem. These actually have the as the old ones. But the performance seems So the reason that I haven't back to the office is that I was lazy. I even had to switch my So that I could install Got one of these sick So each of these ports has And that was because I thought bandwidth issue or compatibility issue with having the Watchman I spent so much freaking One thing that didn't is the external fans. Oh, okay. 'Cause they came unplugged. Well, there's your problem. These fans in the cabinet just never spun. So and I never bothered dealing with it 'cause I just opened up the door. Otherwise, this machine's Got that 30, 80 in there. 800 Watt power supply. This thing is so compact. - I hope you have a more elegant solution for charging when we go to the new place. - This is pretty elegant. You got the anchor, like, what is this? Like 10 port charger. And you plug the thing into the thing. - I think, the problem with all the wires on top of it. So you never knew where to put anything. - Yep, agreed. - [Yvonne] I just plugged and it sparked really big. And I noticed that there's one plug that's plugged into one circuit and one into the other, is that a problem? - I'm like, sorry, what? There's a single device that is plugged into two receptacles. - Yeah. - Oh, that wouldn't be best. Oh, this is hilarious. Yep. And-- - [Brandon] Oh, oh, that's bad. - That's a swing in the miss. - [Brandon] That's very bad. - Oh, this is an interesting one. I felt very judged about it, but, I actually daily drive a soundbar. And the Sonos Arc, from my experience, has just been the strongest performer. And shout out Sonos, for sending a loner unit of and then totally forgetting So it's just been like, for Sonos to remember that I have it. I'm sure now that I've said this, they're gonna figure out that I have it and ask for it back. This was a fun project. Learning how to put in-ceiling And actually, because it's a I was able to wire all as well as that security camera by crawling around in the insulation. We're not gonna go in there again today. We have plenty of file we reblew cellulose insulation But that was a lot of work. - I don't think there's - No tech in the kitchen. Bam! Sonos speaker. Bam! Nest, smoke thing. So you can press the button, be like, shut up! - [Nest] Press to test. - Oh, no, I don't wanna test. - There's a whole pile of tech here. - Hold on a second. Don't you mean, there's a whole lot of tech here in this-- - Okay, wait. - It's not hoarders. I mean. - What's wrong with from 15 years ago so that your - On your window sill? - Fun story. These headphones were actually that Yvonne ever bought me. I had never owned like a And she went to all the what the model I wanted was. These are the HD 555s from Sennheiser. And what were these? Birthday present, I think? - Probably. - Yeah. So these would've been in And I actually used these Gotta love that mod mic attachment. No detachable cable though. Gotta move up in the line up for that. Okay. I'll accompany you on the recorder. Just pair of things. (piano plays) (flute plays) - [Brandon] And that was - Yeah. - How much do you love - [Brandon] You're not - Not using most of the pantry. Do you mean by sheer volume, we haven't actually used most of it? Thanks, Brandon. - The problem is that because and find things we need, every time we need - That's not even true. Be fair to us. There's not that much I need all of these pickles, obviously. - [Brandon] Oh, my God! - Oh, my gosh! You're crushing things. And people always thought... Oh! Duke. - That wasn't my fault. - [Brandon] What did you do? - The shelf just fell down. - He just broke this shelf. - They're not attached to anything, they're just-- - Okay, just, just stop. - Well, what I'm I supposed I have my feet in the rice. Man, what's going on in here? Oh! See? How could I enjoy charging my car, with something that wasn't installed by the one and only I remember, giving Brian Like stupid two by four I was like, shouldn't we like do something that'll look a little nicer? He's like, yeah, but I didn't. Oh, here's a fun one. Guess what this line is? One day I was feeling ambitious and I put badminton court lines, down on the floor and a net line. So that I could like I used it, I think twice. Oh, hey, look, there's the Wii modes and stuff. - [Yvonne] Yeah. - [Linus] Okay, that's awesome. And one of your many helium tanks. Every time there's a party or something, she goes and buys another (beeps) helium tank. How many do we have of these right now? - I think, we have three, but, I think, that might be empty or - Might be empty. Hold on. There's only one way to find out. - You are sick. Don't put your mouth on. Oh, okay. - Are you sure it's empty? Because, I think, there might - This feels like a really bad episode. - But it's really fun. You sound all funny and stuff. (laughs loudly) - Jake. - Oh, I'm a little lightheaded. (beeps) Sit down and get some oxygen here. It's closing down around me. - [Brandon] Where did Dennis - [Yvonne] Oh, that's here. Wasn't it? No, no. Dennis fell through the ceiling, here. - [Brandon] Hey editor, roll the clip. - [Yvonne] Oh, God damn it, Dennis. - [Linus] Almost die. Why is there a pillow on the stairs? - Oh, I was bringing it upstairs. - Oh, yeah. And you made it that far? - Yeah. - Oh, good job. - Stop it. - Okay, I joke sometimes a cartoon character. 'Cause I always wear the same thing. This is literally my pants drawer. One pair of these pants, two pair of these pants, three pair of these pants. I only own one kind of pants. Basically, if your wardrobe just full LTT store, LTT store, then you're not doing My night stand's a fun one. This is where all the tech that I like kind of want to try, but, I'm not gonna get around to, ends up. So first of all, I keep all my wireless earphones here. I sleep with earphones in. So I need like, a few. Because if I wake up in and they're dead, then I I just like can't sleep without them. Got my favorite handhelds, And then, Ideonyx, I do They've got some, sounds like they've got coming as well. Hey, Brandon, check this out. This is that charger that we did the very first short circuit on. So it's Apple Watch and then iPad and phone and AirPods. But, I took the, ah, there you go. I took the iPad one and I So it just sits there I pop it on. And then, I've got the packaging for one of these earphones. Other more different with this watch that I wanted to try out for a little bit. Really wanted to try this never got around to it. Wanted to put this, wanted to use this doc and on the Inneo, didn't do that. - This looks too stylish for you. - I know, right? - It's really nice. - Old Note 9, 'cause I - Oh, I think one of these had your, what's called, LMG business plan. - No, it's not one of these ones, I don't think. - Are you sure? - Yeah, I'm pretty sure. Oh, wait, what's this? This is what our infrastructure in the very early days So whonnock, 24 SSD raid 51, that goes to editors, whatever the rest of this says. And then that would which would back up to Camloops, nightly. This is a brilliant, way better than what we have now. - Okay. You have a whole bag of headphones when you use wireless headphones. - Right. Because, someday, a solar flare, (chuckles softly) might fry all the wireless headphones. I don't know. Oh, do I still have a TV in my bathroom? What a wonderful question. That's gonna be a big fat, yes! I actually, don't use it that often. More often than not, I'm like vegging in the bathtub. And I just want the little screen 'cause I don't want my If it was an OLED and I I'd probably use it more. Oh, man, should we go up to the attic? That's probably the sketchiest upgrade we made to this house. Ironically, because of how recently it was completely redone when we put in the air conditioning, that was such a great It was a ton of work, We saved like 15 grand doing it ourselves and it's been like-- - It's been great, yeah. - It's been awesome. I think it's been one of the least controversial home upgrades that I've actually made. - Okay. I think, the one thing that was the ceiling cassettes were so big, they were way bigger than just the-- - Do you even notice it anymore? - Yes. - This is really sketchy. This is my racket stringing machine that probably weighs about 250 pounds. That is sitting on the underside This is really not ideal. And we actually, put plywood down over almost the entire attic. That's why everything is spread out. 'Cause we're trying to spread the load out as much as possible. But it's just like, once and they do all these You've got equipment for this. And you've got jackets for that and. - So three kids worth of stuff is like three little bays here. That's what we call these things. And then, this over here, is three bays of Linus stuff. - Okay. Okay. First, literally, last night, she's like, you don't keep from our relationship. Now today, she's like, oh, why do you have this case? That was like, the in our first couple of years. And why do you have, okay, that's probably the only thing to do with our relationship. - Yeah. - Necessarily, but. - Oh, my gosh! Linus. - Okay, well that's broken. Ew, why did I keep my retainers? - [Brandon] Linus. - So Linus will keep three and won't keep sentimental Like, what are you talking about? - It's not that I don't keep it. It's just that it's not in this bin. You know what? Maybe I just don't need a lot you are because I live with you every day, if you think of that. - We actually did during an entire video on all had in the attic. So you can check that one out. - Yeah, you're like a pro, you're like throw into an other video. Okay. Here's a sentimental thing that I kept that's to do with you. Remember, when you encouraged 'cause you thought they were stylish? - [Yvonne] I did not encourage - Yeah. - These used to be bright pink, Brandon and green. - Yeah, like the laces. - Like the Lambo. Okay. And then, I literally because he was in the women's section wanting to get these shoes. - Yeah, you were like, wow, can you believe these are You should totally plan for this. - No, no. - I can't believe how much and we hadn't even made it into Here's a fun one. This piece of plywood has been I took it off the wall, of the world's most When we took down the world's and turned this into the and do not look at the mess the kids made. I puttied the wall and and paint over it and then never did it. And now, I like to not look in this room and I like to close the door. Yvonne setup. I finally convinced her to She insisted for the longest time on having like two small monitors. She was like, no, I'll get a headache. I'll get a headache. This keyboard is the one that Sort of, we kind of broke As for my setup, there's some things that I have changed since the last time you guys saw it. And there's some things Sennheiser HD 600, those are still here. I tried swapping them out with the HD 8, ah, man, whatever the Mastro I tried them out. I just can't get over the comfort. Still using the Rode Podcaster mic. But, I've changed my display. So that Aorus, 48 inch OLED, that I believe was a sponsored video. Man, this video, not sponsored at all, but this thing is freaking awesome. I don't think there's any going back to smaller than 48 inch, which is tough. Because, the new QD OLED stuff That Alienware that we real, real tempting. Got a Stream Deck. Literally, never use it. You can see it's just got the And Razor's Thunderbolt good performance, good reliability. Great. Why is the uplink on the front? From a cable management perspective, why would you want that? It took me a solid 10, that it wasn't broken. Because I was trying, using I think there's like three 'Cause I assume the front one was for, like, convenient front IO access. I never did properly figure out all the cable management in here. This is really bad. My power bar is just hanging But I'm not gonna fix that. We're just gonna do it up And then there's the server room. This is the heart of it all. I'm gonna miss you. I'm gonna miss you, server rack. Microtik 10 GB switch, Ubiquiti has some really So we're going almost full Ubiquiti PoE Switch. Ubiquiti, is this the Dream Machine? Yeah, this is the UDM-Pro. So we're gonna have pretty except like times three, because that place has of Cat6A cable in it. These personal rigs But I think, we're actually that's just way smarter, better front IO, better water cooling layout, And maybe this time around that we'll be comfortable or who knows? If it's good enough, Maybe we'll do like a Partner with some kind of case - So I'm not gonna have my OeL anymore? - I mean you can keep it if, you can keep yours if you want, but I'm gonna have to carry mine. - Oh, okay. - This was hand painted Who used to be our neighbor He actually technically The office he works in is just 25 seconds farther away by foot. Also in here, we've got the Ultimater 2 from the office to make flexy cats and-- - [Brandon] Are those C-stands? - Sorry? - Yeah, so that was during the pandemic when we were filming a lot from home. Honestly, looking around all it feels so old. - It feels old. Pretty old. Like I just, I look at even though that was only done like, you know, a year or it looks so unprofessional - Hey. - Stuff that we've got going. - Well, you know, what's Telling the truth about our sponsor. OVHcloud. It's a global cloud provider within 33 data centers, covering 1.6 million customers. They offer a wide range of cloud services, combining performance Host a game on an OVHcloud for you and your friends. Define, who can join your server. What equipment is available? Character starting levels, boss levels and much more with two gigabit per second, unmetered bandwidth for more players. OVHcloud VPS, makes it possible to play the classics Doom, Quaker, Unreal Tournament. Plus, their VPS Elite servers, come with eight vCores, and up to 32 gigabytes of RAM. Learn more about the lucrative while simply creating for you and your friends If you guys enjoyed this video, hey, I like the one you threw too. Why don't you go check out for old memories one. That's got a lot of different stuff that we didn't talk about today. So this is it. We're outta here. - You ready to start boxing stuff up?