This is the largest shredder and this Lamborghini We're also nuking shooting real tanks and crushing this store This is the first You're going to love this video. - Ready! All right. Come on. All right, it's working. It's actually working. Are we going to have to run? You hear the thud? Oh, it's going. All right, that was the tallest That was the new tallest domino Down goes the domino! Oh, my God! That was insane! - That was crazy! This isn't even the coolest thing We're detonating the biggest launching a rollercoaster Let's go to the next experiment. We got a lot of experiments today. And up next, we're going to destroy with a massive creeper explosion. And just for reference, a human sized version - Oh! But we're going to be detonating Steve, somehow you survived This one... I'm not quite sure We don't believe Steve's Oh, heck no. Even though this is 50 times bigger, Bye, Steve. - Okay, let's head in the bunker. Let's send Steve into the abyss. Just so you know Steve is actually taller than me. - He's getting close. This is going to be It's getting closer, any second now. I don't know Oh, I'm scared. Oh, my gosh. - Oh, my God. I'm still processing that. - That was insane. - We live in a country called America. If you thought that was cool, It's about to get a whole lot cooler. I bought another Lamborghini. - Adam, this is your Lamborghini. And you're probably wondering, Yes. That's exactly How do I put this? Recently, I may have obtained In exactly three days, I'm going to be raining And you get to use my credit card to spend as much money If the Lamborghini survives, I'm going to spend whatever That's why I gave you my card. Okay, fine. I'm going to do it. A lot of things racing but it's simplified into Stop Shell, Adam's first move was to call to bring in building materials I'm going to want all the walls That'll at least protect Now for the second part of my process, There was a MythBusters episode where they were so that should stop Adams got a lot of work ahead of him And speaking of danger, we bought the world's And if you're Basically, I put bombs on the ride. In theory, if you were to ride you should get launched off this rail. The only question is Let's see how far it goes And obviously, before we launch it, Everyone, put your mannequin He's got a good head on his shoulders. And the final touch. Push! As hard as you can! - All right, get out of the way. All right, there it is. This thing's going fast. All right. Now, it's going Here it goes. Go, go, go. All right. Oh, that actually scared me. To be honest, That was cool and all. Let's do that again. but with an explosive in the cart. Inside these boxes, When we're done pushing, You don't have to tell me to do that. Go, go, go, go. We're going. All right, I'm running. Go, guys. Go! - Go quicker. Oh, my Gosh! - Get inside. That was awesome! It might not have flown 100 feet, But that explosion compared to what you're For the next experiment, one that costs $1,000, $10,000, and finally, the $100,000 safe. It's bigger than me. And we're going to see These are actual explosives. Why is Chandler bringing them in? He's my dealer. - Okay. I know this doesn't look like a lot, For however much we spent the same amount on TNT. And we're going to see who wins or $1,000 in explosives. I'm going to put an egg Let's see if it turns Usually during explosives, This time, it's hardwired. Why? That actually scared me. Well, the egg in the safe Let's try this again with 10 times the explosives No joke, this thing has three-inch-thick steel. Grab a crate of explosives. This is like explosive Jenga. Oh, my gosh. We're like putting presents The last egg did not survive. Let's see if a $10,000 safe Is this safe if it can't protect an egg from TNT? I don't know - This button is hot. I do. 3, 2, 1, go! Oh! - What? Oh, my... The next one is supposed Than that one, which was ten times Oh, my God. Yo, can you guys believe Nolan's Oh, my God. It broke the glass In hindsight, I should've Ever since we were born, if you put $100,000 worth would it protect an egg? The age-old question. You're in luck So heavy! This safe is now surrounded You could say it's unsafe now. Out of every explosion what you're about to see Our videos have gone so crazy This is a real explosion. Three, two, one. I don't even have any words. - We woke up everybody in the city. Let's see if the egg survived. Bro, the back of the safe is gone. Bro, it broke the foundation. It's all cracked in the floor. It seems like they in the 37,000 pound door And the egg did not survive. If you ever want to rob a bank, just buy a hundred grand worth of TNT. in the meantime, Adam had been going It's like 2:00 a.m., And when I came back in the morning, I noticed he had some Adam! Scrapyard had a lot of cars, I'm going to have at least and I'm probably going to stack them. The real secret is I'm going to be That should give it than just the side of a vehicle. So far, Adam has two layers of stacked cars all just to protect What do you think the odds are That Lambo's mine, baby. But I wasn't about to go easy on it, so we brought in extra support Boys! Bring them in! Oh, my gosh. Jimmy. Now that we brought in two more tanks, the Lambo will be Adam doesn't stand a chance. You have a little less Good luck, Adam. You're going to need it. All jokes aside, If I'd known there were I would've strategized While you're building, Oh, great. Thanks. Kris. Do you want to do the honors? - Yeah. The test we built consists a trampoline Did it go through it? Oh, I can literally see through it This is the weakest Adam is screwed. While Adam was wrapping up for his Lamborghini, we're going to throw one And to show you I'm going to shred - Karl, send it. Let's see what happens. Oh, yeah! That is so awesome! That doesn't sound like piano noises. Yeah! I think we need to wash down I agree. I'm 99% sure these are going Oh, there it goes! And while we're doing this, I want to tell you guys It's a gaming league brought to you and eight of the biggest It's like having a front row but you're not just watching. You're actively drafting teams, changing strategies Oh, my God. Up next, we have I'll do you guys a favor There it goes. There goes the Hershey's. Is it stuck? Turns out not even this can digest Hershey's. When you purchase you're able to influence the league, compete at weekly tournaments, and potentially even meet And if you sign up in you'll receive a free box I'm grabbing the porta potty. Who taught Kris how to use this stuff? Creator League gives you full control Kris, drop it! Who's on each team, What are the rules, Oh, it smells. We've been in this junkyard and even I took a One Creator pass equals and you have full influence over almost everything Click the link in the description and sign up for Creator League while we clean out this shredder we're going to go shoot And things aren't looking good because he was running on his last night of filming. We're hitting some issues. Nothing's open, not being able This is my last bricks. I can't believe we even three tanks is just impossible. I got to work through I wouldn't forgive myself Adam. Hi, Jimmy. Please tell me Can I get five more hours? Over the last 24 hours. Adam has managed build four more walls to the sides, and he also put two more giant pools. But you went out of your way but didn't fill it up. Yup. I ran out of time to fill it up. You should learn time management. Yes, I should. Noticing a lot less cars over here. Yeah. Oh, I see you put sand in here. Does it make it harder to push over? It'll be fine, Bro, do you just not want the Lambo? It's going to work. Okay. This might be the last time Stay strong. I'll be back soon. And I've obtained 20 real tank shells. Don't ask me how. And we're not going to stop firing The boys are loading the tanks. This is going to be awesome. - Why is mine so small? The moment of truth. Are you ready? Three, two, one. Oh. One of my pools. We got a pool. No, no, no. Our first shot literally The water poured everywhere. How much water did you put in those pools? Oh, this is gross. Fire in the hole! Oh, my God. I'm still holding out faith. Hey, this one at the same time. - All three. Three, two, one. Adam's walls make it impossible So until we run out of ammo, we have no idea if - I felt that one. Reload the tanks. Kris. Karl. Nolan. Your defense is not holding up there. This is not good. I'm kind of grasping the straws I've done all I can do. Fire in the hole. I have way too much power. I was so confident today too. I love how is just rapid-fire tanks My only hope is that they're missing. Anyways, what were you saying? Adam, this time - You have to pull. Imma go down looking like a G. All right. Oh, he's running! Adam's car, it's done for. I can't see. I can't see. Let's go! Come on! Wait. Are there no holes in it? - Man, let's go baby! What's crazy is, even though the cars aren't strong enough they were able to deflect them away from the Lamborghini. - There's a bullet in the pool. There's a bullet in the pool. The pool right caught a bullet for you. Thank you, MythBusters. I owe you this, Oh, my gosh. Oh, will he fit? Hey, he fits! Hey, we're gonna make it work. That's fine. Congratulations on the Lambo. Let's go shred another one. And now, the moment you savages This hunk of metal is going - Is it time? Let's drop it. Karl, are you ready? - Ready! This suspense is killing me. - Oh, my God. Oh, my God! There it goes. Lamborghini versus It's about to... Oh! Yeah! Look at it. This is the coolest Bro, our building's shaking. Oh. The car's fighting back. I think we need to push it down. It's stuck in the Lamborghini tires, so the crane's going to push it down. Whoa. Yeah! Shred the car. Shred the car. It's doing it. Oh, my God. All right. And that is what a shredded Don't worry, it didn't work. Subscribe, because we have and I'd hate for you