In 1809, Napoleon Bonaparte, Emperor of the at the height of his power. He had just won another crushing victory against peace treaty. But the war he'd started in Spain and Portugal, year, continued to rage. Napoleon had placed his own brother Joseph country against him. His troops had dealt ruthlessly with popular armies. In February 1809, Marshal Lannes overcame siege that cost 54,000 Spanish lives and 10,000 But still... the Spanish and Portuguese remained And 3 months after their escape from Corunna, In April, Sir Arthur Wellesley landed in Lisbon British redcoats would fight alongside Portuguese would soon prove themselves highly effective. Three weeks after arriving in Portugal, Wellesley which had recently taken Porto. Soult and his troops, preoccupied with plundering advance, and were soon in headlong retreat, Having secured Portugal, for the time being, Cuesta, commanding the Spanish Army of Extremadura. On 10th July, the two commanders met at Casas Relations between these two allies were not Britain and Spain had a long history of conflict: The Spanish were deeply suspicious of British a low opinion of the Spanish army, which they Wellesley's request to take over command But the generals agreed to a joint advance supported by General Venegas, advancing from In the face of their advance, Marshal Victor's was joined by King Joseph and General Sebastiani's The French plan was for Joseph's army to corps down from the north, to get behind and But Joseph, worried by Soult's slow progress, decided to attack at Talavera. The Battle of Talavera saw British infantry stood firm, and repelled the enemy with disciplined Talavera was a small battle compared to the But it proved that under Wellesley, Britain's reckoned with... even though in the short Warned of Soult's approach from captured retreated. ... while King Joseph and Fourth Corps marched at the Battle of Almonacid. That autumn the Supreme Junta in Seville, two new armies for another attempt to liberate from north and south. But Wellesley, ennobled as Viscount Wellington by the lack of Spanish co-operation that summer, Predictably, Spain's inexperienced armies their biggest defeat of the war, when a smaller army, taking 14,000 prisoners and 50 cannon. A week later, the Army of the Left was heavily There was more bad news when Girona fell to The Supreme Junta's plans to retake Madrid And Southern Spain was now wide open to French In January 1810, King Joseph marched south In the face of his advance, Spanish resistance... Spain's Supreme Junta was overthrown in a fight. Joseph, who still hoped to win over the Spanish by many as a saviour from anarchy. Only Cadiz held out - its defences reinforced by Victor's First Corps. Meanwhile Napoleon sent Marshal Massena to He was reckoned one of Napoleon's best marshals, for his heroics in the recent war against Massena was to lead a third French invasion back into the sea. He laid siege to Ciudad Rodrigo, a fortified Portugal, which surrendered after two weeks' Wellington, with only 33,000 men to face Massena's Massena crossed the Portuguese frontier, After just 13 hours of bombardment, a lucky 70 tons of gunpowder went up in a devastating useless. It was a serious blow to Wellington, who'd to buy him time. At Bucaco, he found a strong defensive position Massena's uphill, frontal attack failed But the next day, the French found a way to retreat continued. As Massena's army neared Lisbon, his scouts Stretching across the Lisbon peninsula, protecting of fortifications, in two major lines. Known as the Lines of Torres Vedras, the British defences for more than a year. Now the Lines bristled with more than a hundred troops and 250 guns. Massena soon discovered the Lines were far What's more, a 'scorched earth' strategy anything that might help the French... While Portuguese partisans attacked French the mountains to reach Massena's army. Massena faced a grim predicament: starved to retreat. But throughout this stand-off, it was Portuguese When their villages and farms were burned, died of starvation and disease. Back in France, Napoleon had been preoccupied and then a new marriage Archduchess Marie She was now expecting their first child. Nevertheless, from Paris, Napoleon sent frequent urging them to take more aggressive action. But when these orders arrived, weeks later, little understanding of the problems his Marshals He now ordered Soult, based in Andalucia, away from Lisbon, so Massena could take the Soult laid siege to Badajoz, a fortified city When 12,000 men of the Army of Extremadura Soult... after which the city tamely surrendered, of stores. It was another heavy blow to Spain's armed But remarkably, despite such disasters, and remained willing to fight, the courage of Victor's First Corps, besieging Cadiz, had that the Anglo-Spanish garrison decided to The allies landed along the coast, to strike But they were ambushed by the French at Barossa. Despite heavy losses, the Anglo-Portuguese falling out between British commander Sir General La Pena, threw away any advantage. Soult, alarmed at these developments, marched Meanwhile Massena, out of food and with no to retreat. Wellington's army pursued, discovering evidence by the French against Portuguese villagers. There were running battles with the French Ney, until he was sacked by Massena for criticising Having chased the French out of Portugal, Massena's army, now rested and reinforced, The two armies clashed again at Fuentes de In two days of heavy fighting, Massena failed relieve Almeida. The fortress fell the next week, but to Wellington's French garrison to escape. Massena had lost 25,000 men in Portugal. Now he'd lost Almeida too. And a string of bad decisions, not least to cost him the respect of his officers. The Marshal, whom Napoleon had once nicknamed to France in disgrace, never to hold senior Napoleon sent Marshal Marmont to replace him. Meanwhile Marshal Beresford, the British commander with 20,000 British and Portuguese troops. When Soult approached with a relief force, it was one of the bloodiest battles of the with more than a third of the British infantry Marshal Soult declared, &quot;There is no beating I always thought they were bad soldiers, now I had turned their right, pierced their centre did not know how to run!&quot; Soult had been checked, but he was determined The newly-arrived Marshal Marmont marched This combined army forced the British to abandon But when Wellington withdrew to a strong defensive and Marmont did not pursue. French commanders in Spain had learned grudging of his troops. For now, the war in Spain had entered stalemate. While British, French and Spanish armies criss-crossed every day in the mountains, hills and woods. From 1808 Spanish and Portuguese civilians, against the hated French invader. They waged a war of ambushes and hit-and-run little war'. Its fighters became known, in English, as Britain's Royal Navy supplied vital weapons, enemy lines. Much of Spain's rugged countryside fell North of Madrid, Juan Martin Diez, an ex-soldier led a guerrilla band 6,000 strong. In Navarre, Espoz y Mina, a former peasant, for the French, capturing convoys and couriers branding 'Viva Mina' on the forehead of While in the west Julian Sanchez, known as de Castilla'. El Charro himself wore a French hussar's down. There were dozens more bands operating across bandits, terrorising civilians as often as The guerrilla war was merciless, marked by A French soldier's greatest fear was to tortured their prisoners before killing them. Tens of thousands of French troops were tied outposts, or patrolling the countryside. The roads were so dangerous for French messengers men or more. Many still didn't get through - their valuable they became an invaluable source of intelligence. The war in Spain would ultimately cost the As was typical in wars of this era, the great The twin threats faced by the French in Spain alongside a popular insurgency, left them If their armies remained dispersed, to fight But if they concentrated to defeat Wellington would quickly fall to the guerrillas. This was 'Napoleon's Vietnam' - or his war that cost his empire an average of 100 of victory. And in 1812, as Napoleon launched his gigantic launched their own offensive... that would By 1812, Napoleon's French Empire had a bogged down in a war that seemed to have no They faced a bitter struggle against the people war... as well as the remnants of Spain's under Lord Wellington. But French forces in Spain remained formidable, and most major cities. And the year began with another great French Spain. Spain and Portugal would become a graveyard for the reputation of some of France's most General Junot... Marshal Soult... and Marshal Jourdan had all Marshal Massena had been recalled in disgrace. Marshal Louis-Gabriel Suchet was the exception. French generals in Spain were notorious for Soult, based in Andalucia, was probably the million francs' worth of art from Spanish As Governor of Aragon, Marshal Suchet behaved He enforced strict discipline on his troops, money from the Spanish, while treating local He combined this hearts and minds strategy guerrillas... and was able to establish firm In June 1811, after a particularly bloody for which Napoleon rewarded him with his Marshal's The Emperor then sent him reinforcements, First he routed a much larger Spanish army siege to Valencia. The city was packed with Spanish troops and Blake surrendered Valencia on 8th January The French took 18,000 prisoners, including It was a devastating blow to the Spanish cause. But to reinforce Suchet, Napoleon had stripped withdrawn 25,000 of the best troops for his The result was that French forces in Spain Wellington prepared to strike. Spanish guerrillas kept Wellington well-informed forces facing him in western Spain had been to strike a blow before the French could concentrate On the day that Valencia fell, he laid siege frontier. Eager to take the city before Marshal Marmont after just 10 days. It succeeded, though Major General Craufurd Wellington then marched south, to besiege An assault was made on the night of 6th April. The first wave attacking the main breach were a diversionary attack on the city's castle city soon fell. The storming of Badajoz cost the British 3,700 In the aftermath, survivors went on the rampage: more than 100 Spanish civilians... before Wellington had secured the two main routes Now he sent his most reliable subordinate, force to destroy the bridge over the Tagus This was a vital link between Marmont's South, as the next usable bridge was at Toledo, The bridge was well guarded by forts and redoubts, The French defences were taken by surprise, equipment burned, for the cost of just 177 Wellington was now ready to begin his advance Spanish regular forces and guerrilla bands troops as possible... While from the Bay of Biscay, Sir Home Popham's on French coastal targets. In four days, Wellington was at Salamanca, Douro River. But when reinforcements arrived, he crossed For six days Marmont tried to march around matched him move for move, their two armies each other. But on the seventh day, Marmont blundered. On the morning of 22nd July, Wellington's of Salamanca. Marmont was not interested in a direct assault threaten his line of retreat to Portugal, Around 8am, the French won a dash for a hill made his observation point. The French army began to swing round behind Marmont had convinced himself that Wellington not risk attack. The hills hid most of Wellington's army And when Marmont saw dust clouds to the west, leaving Salamanca, beginning their retreat. But it was the British 3rd Division and a Wellington's flank... Because he wasn't planning a retreat... Around 2pm, Marmont ordered the five infantry to march west... to cut off Wellington's General Maucune's 5th Division, in the lead, the British rearguard, in the village of Los General Thomieres' 7th Division continued Wellington watched as the French left flank was an opportunity too good to miss. He galloped three miles across country to in person. Many of his staff officers struggled to keep On arrival, he instructed the division's to attack 'and drive everything before him.' 3rd Division's advance was hidden by low Thomieres' division was caught completely Thomieres himself was killed, half his division At this crucial moment, Marshal Marmont was field seriously wounded. His second-in-command, General Bonnet, was passed to General Clauzel. 45 minutes later the British 5th Division and General Le Marchant's dragoons. The French saw the cavalry coming and formed infantry, who unleashed a close-range volley The French were routed and charged down by French 6th Division was caught up in the collapse. Le Marchant himself was shot from the saddle, battalions and capture two eagles. Wellington's echelon attack continued, as But Pack's Portuguese brigade was thrown division was soon falling back in disorder. Despite the devastation of his army's left attack on the Lesser Arapil, the hinge of If it could be taken, he might still snatch But the French advance was met by fresh troops of musket fire into the French columns. They began to fall back. The French army had lost the will to fight behind them. General Ferrey's 3rd Division mounted a the army time to escape. But it faced a hopeless task. It was soon outflanked by the British 5th Only General Foy's 1st Division escaped With darkness falling, and his army exhausted, Wellington had smashed Marmont's army, taking more - a French casualty rate of 25%.... The next day, dragoons of the King's German achieved the almost unheard-of feat of charging another thousand prisoners. Wellington now decided to march on Madrid, and retreat to Valencia to join up with Marshal On 12th August Wellington liberated the city, Soult, now at risk of being cut off in Andalucia, on for two and a half years... and marched The following month, Wellington marched north, besieging the castle of Burgos. But his army lacked heavy guns, and the French As powerful French armies gathered to the Wellington himself was now in danger of being He had no choice but to withdraw. Wellington's retreat turned into a desperate The supply system collapsed, and many starving from Spanish villages. Madrid was abandoned, and re-occupied by the Wellington was back where he'd started five But despite the campaign's dismal conclusion, of huge swathes of the country, and left the Reinforced and resupplied, Wellington would blow to Joseph's Spanish kingdom. 1812 had seen the tide of war turn. And not just in Spain... Because 2,000 miles to the east, in Russia, In 1807, following his defeat of the Russian to Tilsit to meet the Russian Emperor, Alexander. During their celebrated encounter, the two alliance. But it was not to last... Over the next five years, relations between The Russians were irritated by Napoleon's which they regarded as meddling in their own They feared it would lead to the return of thorn in Russia's side. Then there was Napoleon's offer to marry to cement their alliance. But the Romanovs hated the idea, and after married Marie Louise, daughter of the Austrian Later that year, Napoleon broke a guarantee ruled by Alexander's sister's father-in-law. Worst of all, was the fallout over 'the effective economic blockade against Britain, Alexander had agreed to join the Continental in Russia, and ruinous to her finances during When Napoleon found out that Russia was flouting illicit trade with Britain, he was furious. With both emperors accusing the other of bad for war. Napoleon knew an invasion of Russia was a had an unfinished war in Spain, that was tying Nevertheless in 1811 he began to assemble Around 600,000 men... though less than half The rest came from allied states across Europe. There was a Polish corps from the Dutchy of from each of the German Kingdoms of Saxony, Italy, as well as Swiss, Dutch, Croat, Spanish the army. There were even contingents from Prussia and uneasy allies. Some of these allied troops, such as the Poles counterparts. Others were very inexperienced, or like the there at all. This gigantic formation was deployed in three another led by his stepson Eugene, Viceroy Jerome, King of Westphalia. Neither of these two were experienced commanders, the other would not. On their left flank Marshal Macdonald led While the right flank was guarded by General Another 100,000 troops were in reserve, including Initially the Russians only had 220,000 men de Tolly's First Army; Tormasov's Third Army. They would be outnumbered two-to-one. But in the run-up to war, Russia scored two Sweden had been at war with Russia just three By a curious turn of events, Sweden was now But after Napoleon occupied Swedish Pomerania Russia that Sweden would remain neutral. Meanwhile a peace treaty with the Ottoman its southern rival. These two agreements secured Russia's flanks to face Napoleon's invasion. On 24th June 1812, French troops began crossing The army was so large, the crossing took five Napoleon's plan was to attack north of the army, while Jerome pinned Bagration in place. French forces would then swing south to trap Napoleon expected the campaign to be over But the sheer size of the French army convinced only option. Prince Bagration, a much more aggressive commander critic, was forced to agree. As they withdrew they burned villages and to deny supplies to the enemy. In four days Napoleon had reached Vilnius, To the south, Jerome failed to pin down swung southeast to trap him, he'd already Napoleon's younger brother was out of his Stung by the Emperor's criticism, humiliated command, he resigned his post and returned The campaign was already beginning to expose Knowing his troops would struggle to live he'd organised huge supply depots and transport But wagons rolled slowly along Russia's mud by summer thunderstorms. The army had to make frequent stops to allow Napoleon's plan to catch the Russians, but of young conscripts in his army, not used Many were soon dropping out with exhaustion; There were also huge problems of command and that was three times bigger than any Napoleon La Grande Armee, once famed for its speed After a pause to rest and regroup at Vilnius, Barclay continued his retreat to Vitebsk, be able to join him. But Davout blocked Bagration's path at Saltanovka, At Vitebsk, Napoleon clashed with Barclay's after setting fire to all the stores they Meanwhile, 300 miles away, on Napoleon's and defeated the Saxon Seventh Corps, forcing corps to their aid. By the end of July, Napoleon had advanced he'd planned. And the long marches in extreme, summer heat Without fighting a major battle, the army exhaustion and illness, particularly typhus The army had entered Russia with quarter of at a rate of a thousand every day, from exhaustion It wasn't just cavalry horses that were to haul the army's transport wagons, making This crisis in horsepower came just as the ears, met their match... in Russia's Cossacks. Cossacks - self-reliant, proud, ruthless, same rules as other European cavalry. Every day they shadowed Napoleon's army, but melting away into the forests if they Cossacks, as well as Russian partisans, made and depots, forcing Napoleon to divert thousands Alongside Russian regular light cavalry, they out reconnaissance, which meant that Napoleon or the enemy's whereabouts. Napoleon stayed 16 days at Vitebsk, resting Among his many mounting concerns was the security But at Vitebsk he received news that Schwarzenberg A week later at Polotsk, a French-Bavarian Corps to a standstill. Napoleon's flanks were secure, for now. Although his main force had been reduced to decided to push on to Smolensk, and try to for the city. Barclay was indeed under pressure to give and Emperor Alexander in St.Petersburg: the it, they told him. With the First and Second Russian Armies finally to attack Napoleon's army, which he believed The offensive was led by General Platov's at Inkovo. But alarmed by false reports that Eugene's Barclay called off the attack. Napoleon, reassured that Barclay's offensive move to the south, to take Smolensk and cut The so-called 'Smolensk Manoeuvre' was Using Murat's cavalry to screen his movements reached the Dnieper on the evening of 13th His engineers quickly threw up four pontoon was across. Marshal Davout led a second column across But a single Russian division, the 27th , fought the French advance... and buying time for The chance for a surprise assault on the city And as the Russian army began to pull back, of urgency, even halting the army for a parade When the main attack on Smolensk began two 150 French guns battered the city, as three The Russians resisted bravely. But Barclay, fearing encirclement, ordered With Smolensk in flames, the Russians began way into the city, to scenes of utter devastation. Bagration's Second Army withdrew first... As Barclay's army followed, its rearguard General Junot, commanding the Westphalian retreat - but having crossed the river, he A furious Napoleon swore that Junot would The Battle of Smolensk cost both sides around most historic and holy cities - but settled After the missed chance to defeat the Russians consider his options. His men were weary and far from home, and He considered sitting out the Russian winter 1813. But now he was just 230 miles from Moscow. A century earlier, Peter the Great had moved remained its historic and spiritual heart fight. Napoleon, always a gambler, decided to push The Russians faced their own dilemma. Emperor Alexander had experienced a kind of the Russian people to the country's defence, to save Holy Mother Russia from the Antichrist. For months the Emperor had received conflicting Now he decided change was needed. The cautious General Barclay kept his job, to take overall command of Russia's armies. Kutuzov had been beaten by Napoleon at Austerlitz victories against the Ottoman Empire, and Although Kutuzov agreed with Barclay's strategy destroying the soldiers' and the nation's If Moscow was given up without a battle, the And so, 70 miles west of the city, near the to make a stand. Europe was about to witness the bloodiest September 1812. 10 weeks had passed since Napoleon invaded The French Emperor wanted a quick victory Alexander to make peace, and agree to French But at Vitebsk, and then Smolensk, the outnumbered The holy city of Smolensk had been virtually Napoleon had advanced deep into Russia, and by disease and exhaustion. It was now half its original strength, and But finally, 70 miles west of Moscow, near turned to offer battle. Napoleon would have a chance to win the decisive The Russian army, commanded by the 67-year-old, a defensive position across the two main roads General Barclay de Tolly's First Army was River, steep-banked but shallow and easily Prince Bagration's Second Army was on the by major earthworks - the Great Redoubt, the Fleches - the arrows. Another forward redoubt at Shevardino was Historians still dispute the size of the Russian 121,000 men and 680 guns at Borodino. On 5th September, Napoleon's army began and 585 guns. Napoleon quickly saw that the Shevardino Redoubt his army, and ordered an immediate assault. The attack was led by Compans' 5th Division Fifth Corps to the south. In several hours of heavy fighting, the redoubt But late that evening the Russians finally fell to the French. Its capture had cost them an estimated 4,000 6,000 men. Napoleon noted how few prisoners were taken resolve. Both sides spent the next day preparing for Marshal Davout, commanding French First Corps, subordinate, appealed to the Emperor to use to the south... But Napoleon dismissed the idea as too risky, frontal assault on the Russian defences. Shortly after dawn on 7th September, Orthodox icons, Our Lady of Smolensk, before the Russian It was a stirring sight for many devout, Russian to see dusk. The battle began at 6 am, as French batteries defences. Eugene's Fourth Corps advanced on Borodino Imperial Guard. After clearing the village, his infantry crossed Redoubt, but were driven back with heavy losses. The Russians burned the bridge across the and Eugene was able to move cannon into the Redoubt. In the centre, Davout's First Corps began heavy fire... While on the right, the Polish Fifth Corps, woods and ravines... Their slow advance allowed Tuchkov's Third the Fleches defences. Kutuzov, at his headquarters in Gorki, took decisions to his subordinates. Barclay.. and Bagration.. had spent most of but in the hour of crisis, they put their They could see the main French attack was so Barclay ordered General Baggovut's Second Fighting around the Fleches intensified, only to be driven out by a Russian counterattack. Davout himself was injured in the fighting to leave the field. When Russian cavalry counterattacked, Marshal to meet them. Ney's Third Corps now joined the attack A charge by Russian cuirassiers forced Murat infantry. Murat, with his flamboyant dress and reckless among the Russians - the Cossacks in particular to capture him alive if they could. To the south, Polish troops now took Utitsa, But General Baggovut's reinforcements arrived Around 10am, Eugene launched another attack It was briefly captured by Morand's First a ferocious Russian counterattack. The Russian army's 27-year-old artillery one of these counterattacks. A heroic death, but a blow to the organisation Fighting continued to rage around the Fleches Some counted as many as six major French assaults, cannon on both sides pouring fire into the More than once, French infantry fought their to be driven out again at bayonet point. Junot's Westphalian Corps was sent forward from the woods to the south. General Bagration was close to the action, forward reinforcements and ordering counterattacks. Around 10am he was hit in the leg by shell Mortally wounded, he was carried from the Shaken by the loss of their iconic commander, back, and the French finally took the Fleches. Marshal Murat then led forward Friant's by waves of heavy cavalry on both flanks. Russian Grenadiers formed squares to ward While their own Guard cavalry fought the French on both sides. The Russians resisted doggedly, but the combined infantry proved irresistible. As the Russians pulled back, Friant's infantry The Russian centre was in disarray... and Surely now was the time for Napoleon to deliver For most of the day, Napoleon remained at Those around him later said that illness, had left him tired and irritable. As the Russian centre buckled, Murat and his the Imperial Guard. The Emperor refused. "If there is another battle tomorrow," But he did make one exception... Barclay was continuing to move troops from As Ostermann-Tolstoy's Fourth Corps arrived feared they were massing for an attack. So Napoleon ordered forward General Sorbier's His batteries opened a devastating fire on Yet even as they were mown down in their ranks, On the Russian right wing, all remained quiet, proposed that he lead an attack on the lightly-defended Permission received, Generals Platov and Uvarov across the Kalatsha River They fell on French and Italian troops around panic and disorder. Grouchy's Third Cavalry Corps had to be the Russians. Russian commanders saw this raid as a missed But it had delayed the next French attack that he was right to hold back his reserve. Around 3pm, the French launched their biggest Russian gunners targeted the French infantry cavalry to outflank the Redoubt, and charge Saxon cavalry were first in, cutting down last man. It was an astonishing feat by the horsemen, to the ferocity of the fighting. As Eugene's infantry consolidated their the available cavalry to exploit this success. But they were met, and checked by the last Eugene now implored Napoleon to commit the But again, the Emperor refused. "I will not destroy my Guard," he told and I will not risk my last reserve." By 5pm, both armies were in a state of utter The battlefield was strewn with dead and wounded. Some infantry battalions could muster only Cavalry could advance no faster than a trot. Gun crews were collapsing with fatigue. As dusk approached, fighting slowly died out Napoleon and the French army expected the But by dawn, Kutuzov, having learned the full, a withdrawal. The losses on both sides were enormous. Russian casualties are estimated at 44,000. French losses: around 30,000, including 49 Borodino would prove to be the bloodiest single The Russian army could not fight another battle And so Kutuzov decided that he must abandon On 15th September, a week after his victory He would find it virtually deserted, and already, 15th September 1812. 83 days after invading Russia; a week after Moscow. He expected to be greeted by dignitaries, Instead, he discovered that 90 per cent of A fire had started the previous night, and But over the next 48 hours, fires continued the city was ablaze. Count Fyodor Rostopchin, the city's governor, than allowed to fall into enemy hands. And now fires were being started deliberately acting on police orders. French soldiers rounded up and shot any they to contain. In four days, two-thirds of Moscow was destroyed. With the fires finally under control, Napoleon's looting the ruined city... While from his new quarters in the Kremlin, in St. Petersburg, inviting him to make peace, He received no reply. Napoleon waited, confident that Alexander But as the days passed, he grew increasingly Cossack raids were disrupting his vital communications While the steady attrition of French forces, was outnumbered for the first time in the Rumours also reached him that his reluctant talks with his enemies. Napoleon had proposed that the army winter Reluctantly, he accepted that the army would winter quarters. Napoleon knew how severe Russian winters could reassured by fine October weather, and hoping message from Alexander, offering peace. It never came. On 13th October, the first light snow fell. Five days later, Kutuzov launched a surprise and defeated it. Napoleon, stung into action, gave the order 100,000 men of the Grande Armee left Moscow 40,000 carriages and carts. There were women and children too: army wives for the soldiers, as well as some civilians. Every wagon and pack was stuffed with as much As he set off, Sergeant Bourgogne of the Imperial It contained: "several pounds of sugar, some rice, some Chinese silk dress embroidered in gold and amongst them a piece of the cross of Ivan Besides these I had my uniform, a woman's relief, 12 inches long and 8 high, all in Also several lockets and a Russian Prince's I wore over my shirt a yellow silk waistcoat, over that a large cape lined with ermine, cord. This was full of various things - amongst little Chinese porcelain vase. Then there were my firearms, powder-flask This heavily-encumbered army did not yet realise The Russians were beginning to move against That very day, Wittgenstein's army was driving at Polotsk... and drawing Victor's Ninth In the south, Admiral Chichagov's advance back to cover Warsaw. The corridor was closing. And then there was the weather... though Napoleon quarters in Smolensk in twenty days - well due to hit. Napoleon planned to withdraw via Kaluga, through for supplies. But Kutuzov sent General Dokhturov's Sixth In fierce fighting, Italian troops of Eugene's town. It was a hard-won victory, reminiscent of Kutuzov now stood between Napoleon and Kaluga. Napoleon now took the unusual step of conferring And after discussing various options, he decided they would retreat the way they'd come, Napoleon had hoped to avoid this route, as stripped bare of supplies. The day after the fighting at Maloyaroslavets, Cossacks, and saved only by General Rapp's After this close shave, Napoleon had a phial his neck in case of capture. Napoleon's army set off on its new course, army to the south. They passed the old battlefield of Borodino: at half-buried corpses. Relentless marching quickly began to tire A few days later, the temperature fell below The army's overworked, starving horses died Discipline began to break down, as some drivers roadside, to try to ensure their own survival. As the French column became increasingly strung advance guard, fell on Davout's rearguard For a few hours Davout's First Corps was rescue. The battle ended with street-fighting in Vyazma, town. For the soldiers of the Grande Armee, so was an alarming, demoralising blow. On 4th November it began to snow heavily. The next night temperatures plummeted to minus Few men or women had proper winter clothing, Many froze to death overnight. The next morning wagons and guns were abandoned. Many soldiers now sought to save themselves, and leaving the column to scour the countryside Many of these foragers were found by the Cossacks, every possession and left to freeze. In a few cases, they were handed over to peasants, invaders who'd plundered all they owned. As the army struggled on towards Smolensk Fourth Corps to strike out for Vitebsk, where But Vitebsk had already fallen to the Russians. Fourth Corps was too weak to fight its way artillery, and most of its baggage. A colonel who saw Fourth Corps at this stage clothes, exhausted and famished, sitting on rousing themselves out of this stupor to grill Just three weeks after leaving Moscow, a third About half the rest formed a growing army to fight only to survive. Napoleon reached Smolensk on 9th November. The first troops into town ransacked the supply including Ney's rearguard, which arrived Napoleon had hoped to make Smolensk his winter supplies meant the retreat had to continue. But the five days he spent there gave Kutuzov When the French retreat resumed, he struck In three days of desperate fighting through Guard to hold open the road, as Eugene and the ambush with heavy losses. Two regiments of the Young Guard were ordered the Russians at bay.. and were virtually annihilated. Kutuzov held back many of his troops, and army when he had the chance. It's possible he was concerned at the number terribly in the freezing conditions. Not every French corps broke through at Krasny. Marshal Ney and his 6,000 strong rearguard blocked by 60,000 Russian troops, and no sign Corps. Ney's men hurled themselves against the were mown down. Rejecting several invitations to surrender, of the Dnieper river, then across 45 miles Platov's cossacks, to reach Orsha. By the time Ney rejoined the army, his rearguard a column of several thousand stragglers. The army regarded his escape as a miracle, dubbed Marshal Ney 'the bravest of the brave'. Napoleon had escaped one trap, but now three directions, and outnumbered him nearly 3-to-1. From the east, Kutuzov's main army, with From the north, Wittgenstein with 30,000, Corps. And from the south, Admiral Chichagov's General Osten-Sacken with 30,000, to prevent Saxon corps marching to Napoleon's aid. Napoleon was heading for Minsk, a major French clothing, shoes and ammunition that his army But on 21st November, disastrous news arrived: Minsk had fallen to Chichagov. He'd then marched on Borisov, driven out over the Berezina River. By rights, the Berezina ought to have frozen anywhere, but a sudden thaw had turned the Napoleon was, at least, joined by the hard-fighting hadn't suffered as badly as the main column Oudinot launched an immediate counterattack stop the Russians burning the bridge. With no other bridge for miles in either direction, finally doomed. But there was one sliver of hope - Polish near the village of Studienka. Napoleon issued a flurry of orders: Second crossing south of Borisov, Victor's Ninth a rearguard east of Studienka to hold the as quickly as possible to build pontoon bridges a fighting chance of escape. On the afternoon of 25th November, General 300-foot pontoon bridges across the Berezina They worked day and night, sometimes chest-deep in less than 24 hours. Few of the engineers survived the ordeal. Chichagov had been totally fooled by the diversion south to face it - allowing Napoleon's virtually unopposed. Oudinot's Second Corps led the way, to secure remnants of the main army. Priority was given to formed troops, still For the time being, the army's vast crowd By the time Chichagov realised his mistake in place to defend the crossing. On the east bank, General Partonneux's 12th from Victor's Ninth Corps - formed the rearguard. As Platov's Cossacks approached from the army - Partonneux tried to rejoin Ninth But caught in a swirling blizzard, with visibility Wittgenstein's army. His entire division was killed or captured. The next morning, Chichagov and Wittgenstein of the river. There was desperate fighting on the west bank, wounded, but his Swiss infantry held the line... army's last heavy cavalry, charged and routed At great cost, Polish and German troops of until dark... then pulled back across the For two nights, officers had been trying to bridges when they weren't being used. But with temperatures reaching minus 30 centigrade, their fires. At dawn on the 29th, with the army leaving stragglers surged in panic towards the bridges. Dozens were crushed underfoot. Others fell or were pushed into the water, When French engineers burned the bridges at mercy of the advancing Cossacks. Some became prisoners, others were simply Since the retreat began 43 days earlier, the - under constant attack, starved, exhausted... temperatures without proper clothing or shelter. In that time, the fighting strength of the 124,000 men to 20,000, with as many stragglers As the retreat continued to Vilna, the weather to minus 37 degrees centigrade. The Russian armies at least now held back, to finish off the invaders. On 5th December, Napoleon left the army, travelling and reaching Paris in just 13 days. Naturally, English satirists capitalised on and many soldiers did regard it as an act But his generals supported his decision to coup against Napoleon in Paris, and there and reassure France's allies. On 9th December, 51 days after the retreat Grande Armee began crossing the Niemen River, According to legend, Marsal Ney was the last Napoleon's invasion of Russia had proved in history. He had made fatal miscalculations about geography, and strategic response to his invasion. These blunders cost his empire around half million horses, and 1,000 cannon. Put another way, of every 12 men who marched One was killed in action or died of wounds. Two were taken prisoner, one of whom died Seven died from disease or the effects of Just two returned alive. Contrary to myth, many more soldiers had died and dysentery - than were lost in the winter Russian military casualties were estimated of civilian deaths. The Russian campaign was a catastrophe for Not just in lost troops and resources, but That winter all his enemies sensed weakness, the first time... But the Emperor wasn't going down without Back in Paris he admitted to his ministers, I've let it lead me astray. Instead of following my plan I went to Moscow. I thought I'd make peace there. I stayed too long. I've made a grave mistake... but I'll 1812 had been a disastrous year for Napoleon. His invasion of Russia had led to the almost men. Now Poland and Germany were wide open to Russian Some advised Emperor Alexander that this was - Russia's own armies had been mauled, But Alexander was determined to see Napoleon his clutches, and avenge Moscow's destruction... Napoleon's allies were deserting him: Prussian Russians. Schwarzenberg's corps marched back to Austria, Napoleon had left Marshal Murat in charge But he left for the Kingdom of Naples, hoping him keep his throne. He was replaced by Napoleon's stepson Eugene, in Russia, but was unused to independent command, As Russian forces advanced through Poland, to hold strategic fortresses, most of which On 7th February Russian troops entered Warsaw the Duchy of Warsaw, effectively ceased to Three weeks later, Russian troops entered Sweden was ruled by Napoleon's former marshal Prince Karl Johan. Many would accuse him of betraying Napoleon, became Sweden's Crown Prince, he'd pursue claimed to do. In exchange for Norway, to be taken from France's Britain, Bernadotte agreed to join what was the Revolution, with an army of 30,000 troops. Ten days later King Frederick William of Prussia It followed weeks of indecision - the king of Napoleon. But with guarantees of Russian military support, financial and material aid from Britain, he On 17th March he issued a proclamation to Volk', 'To My People'... summoning them in what would soon be known as the 'German The Prussian army had been greatly reformed 1806. A military commission, headed by General von and abolished flogging; expanded recruitment training, tactics and drill. When Napoleon met the new Prussian army in animals have learned something!' Small consolation, they'd learned most of As his enemies massed in Germany, Napoleon new army with which to face them. 137,000 new conscripts joined the army, and 40,000 veterans from the army in Spain, 16,000 - a home defence force - were transferred The new conscripts were nicknamed 'Marie who'd passed the new conscription laws in They were young and raw: two-thirds were teenagers. And there was a severe lack of experienced irreplaceable veterans now lying beneath Russian There was also a critical shortage of cavalry It would take Napoleon longer to replace the who'd perished in Russia. When Napoleon left Paris for Germany in mid-April, Eugene had been forced back behind the River Dresden, the capital of Saxony, had fallen The Duchy of Mecklenburg-Schwerin became the Confederation of the Rhine... Russian Cossacks raided as far as Hamburg, forces... Meanwhile Austria stood on the sidelines - so Napoleon's miraculous feat of organisation in Germany. And the Emperor's personal magnetism was The Russians, on the other hand, lost their pneumonia, on 28th April. His role was taken over by General Wittgenstein. Russian troops were exhausted and far from French garrisons across Poland and Germany. Prussia and Sweden had yet to fully mobilise 100,000 men. They were now heavily outnumbered by Napoleon, He ordered Marshal Davout to Hamburg with He would march against the Russian and Prussian battle. Victory would make Austria think twice about 90,000 men trapped in garrisons across Germany over Europe. As Napoleon advanced on Leipzig, the Allies Napoleon's larger army, or give up Germany blow to Allied morale, and any chance of winning Allied Headquarters made the bold decision army was made up of raw conscripts; that their great superiority in cavalry and artillery. The Allies agreed that as Napoleon crossed flank, before he could concentrate the full The two armies were on a collision course. But Napoleon's shortage of cavalry meant On 1st May Marshal Bessieres, commanding our reconnaissance himself... when he was Bessieres was the second of Napoleon's Lannes, an old comrade and trusted friend. The Allies were able able to surprise Napoleon, Lutzen. Ney's troops had to cling on in the face Napoleon rapidly redirected his other corps At one stage Napoleon had to personally help face of determined Prussian assaults. But on the whole his young conscripts fought fighting, Wittgenstein could not exploit his As French reinforcements arrived, the battle Towards dusk the Allies were forced to break around 22,000 casualties, losing just half General von Scharnhorst, mortally wounded, Crucially, Napoleon's lack of cavalry meant in good order. Expecting the Prussians to fall back on Berlin, he continued east. But the Allied army stayed together, withdrawing close to the Austrian border - hoping to Napoleon to violate Austrian neutrality. Neither happened. Instead, Napoleon ordered Ney to swing south, he launched a frontal assault to pin them The battle lasted two days, as French infantry Russian lines. But a misunderstanding over Ney's orders narrowly escape Napoleon's trap. Once more, the Allies fought with great determination, There were more casualties during the pursuit Grand Marshal of the Palace, responsible for closest surviving friend. Riding with Napoleon's staff, a freak cannon him. His slow, painful death deeply upset Napoleon. The Emperor continued his pursuit to Breslau, cavalry... while Oudinot was sent north to Bulow's Prussian corps. On 2nd June, with both sides strained to breaking which, to the surprise of many, Napoleon accepted. The Armistice of Plaswitz would last more and military mobilisation, by both sides. Napoleon wanted time to rebuild his cavalry to escape twice. But he also wanted to keep Austria on side, 200,000 troops - even though Emperor Francis marriage to his daughter, Marie Louise, in Austrian foreign minister Klemens von Metternich, most influential statesmen, now took centre Metternich wanted peace, and to see Austria meant Napoleon contained, but not crushed, In June he travelled to Dresden, to ask Napoleon that if he did not, Austria would join them. But Napoleon dismissed Metternich's terms Provinces to Austria, agree to the re-partition of the Rhine. All were out of the question. Napoleon famously threw his hat to the ground "Peace and war lie in Your Majesty's hands," you can still make peace. Tomorrow it may be too late." But Napoleon preferred war to what he called On 12th August 1813, Austria joined the Sixth The Allies now had a numerical advantage of Plan. Recognising Napoleon's genius, the Allies target his marshals, threaten his flanks, time to close in for the kill. Over the next few months, the coalition would Britain, including 8 million pounds in silver and gold coin 120,000 firearms 23,000 barrels of gunpowder 150,000 uniforms 1.5 million pounds of beef, biscuit and flour The total value of British aid to the Coalition around half a billion dollars. Napoleon, meanwhile, had turned Dresden into cavalry arm, though it remained a pale shadow Murat returned to lead it - his secret approach But when news arrived of King Joseph's disastrous army... at the Battle of Vitoria... Napoleon had to send Marshal Soult, one of On 15th August Napoleon left Dresden, and urgent threat: the joint Prussian-Russian Army of Silesia, - soon to win the nickname 'Marschall aggressive leadership. But Blucher followed the new plan, and retreated Napoleon then received news from Marshal St.Cyr, gigantic Army of Bohemia was approaching, Napoleon left Marshal Macdonald to keep an sending Vandamme's First Corps to threaten By the time the Allied assault began, enough attack. The next day Napoleon, despite being heavily Struggling through mud and heavy rain, Marshal Second Corps, broke the Allied left flank The Allies had suffered a disastrous defeat, take on Napoleon in battle. But news soon arrived that turned the situation Marshal Oudinot had resumed his advance on of heavy combat around Grossbeeren, he was Some of the most savage fighting was between Prussians - two German states that, for Three days later at the Katzbach River, Blucher driving some French troops into the river Macdonald lost 30,000 men, 3 eagles and 100 Three days after Napoleon's victory at Dresden, it became trapped in wooded valleys around General Vandamme himself was dragged from his men were made prisoner. Napoleon sent Ney to take over from Oudinot, The Prussians, fighting to save Berlin, held arrived, to turn the battle decisively in Ney's retreat became a rout, with the loss Napoleon's brilliant victory at Dresden days. The Allied plan was working. Napoleon became increasingly frustrated, as and advanced wherever he was not. His teenage conscripts were exhausted by constant stripped bare of supplies. Thousands fell sick, thousands more deserted. Russian and Prussian light troops were now his communications with France. Many of Napoleon's marshals advised him wasn't giving up Germany without a fight. By October 1813, Napoleon faced a third of on him from three directions. 900 miles away, Field Marshal Wellington was first enemy army on French soil in nearly While the Kingdom of Bavaria, a French ally agreed to switch sides, and would declare Napoleon planned to defend the line of the But the arrival of General Bennigsen's Reserve marched to join forces with Bernadotte... Napoleon went north with 150,000 men, seeking fortunes. But once more, Blucher narrowly escaped him. Then came news from Murat, who'd been left enemy had bypassed Dresden, and was heading If the city fell, Napoleon would be cut off Once more he was advised to fall back to the But instead Napoleon ordered all his forces He would risk everything in one great battle, fate of Europe. May 1813. While Napoleon's Grande Armee began its disastrous invasion of Russia... 1200 miles away... at the other end of Napoleon's to strike. The previous year, Wellington's Anglo-Portuguese but been held at Burgos, and forced into a frontier. But after a winter of rest, reinforcement than ever: 100,000 men, many of them battle-hardened And for the first time, he had sufficient medical services had also been improved. Morale was sky high. Their chief, known to the troops as Old Nosey, "I never saw the British army so healthy In contrast, the French position in Spain Napoleon severely underestimated the threat 20,000 French troops for his own use in Germany. As commander-in-chief, King Joseph knew his Napoleon allowed him to give up Madrid, and Valladolid. But withdrawing further, to a strong position That would send the wrong message to neutral allies. And so, with serious concerns, Joseph and Wellington's offensive. Wellington's plan was for his army to advance against Joseph's forces. In the south, Murray's Anglo-Sicilian-Spanish an attack by Marshal Suchet at the Battle Murray would now mount a diversionary landing Wellington's advance, and prevent Suchet Wellington had also counted on large-scale he was, since November 1812, theoretically But the Spanish Cortes based in Cadiz was suspicious of British motives. The result was that Wellington would only Spanish divisions. Fortunately, he would receive considerable better armed, organised and operating in greater A large area of Valencia had effectively been Espoz y Mina had captured major towns in Navarre... Army of the North busy... While Juan Martin Diaz, aka El Empecinado, near Madrid. On 22nd May, Wellington bid farewell to Portugal, Four days later he was in Salamanca, from under Sir Thomas Graham. Joseph and Jourdan expected Wellington's to defend the line of the Douro River. But Graham's rapid advance north of the and they ordered a retreat. By a series of brilliant marches, Wellington forcing Joseph to keep falling back. Wellington's army was able to use small highway, which the French had dismissed as But thanks to his Spanish allies, Wellington Backed by British sea power, he was also now to Santander, drastically reducing the length had written off as impossible. At the Ebro River, the French found themselves Here Joseph decided that he must make his The Zadorra river valley west of Vitoria seemed Expecting an attack from the west, French General Gazan's Army of the South formed Then General D'Erlon's Army of the Centre. Then General Reille's Army of Portugal. Joseph hoped that he could, at least, buy of the city to get away. It contained not only military supplies, but And - as satirised by this contemporary British French occupation of Spain, including priceless He also expected General Clauzel to arrive However, thanks to the guerrillas, Wellington than Joseph himself. Knowing that Clauzel couldn't reach Joseph on the 21st. The day before, French patrols reported enemy So Reille's troops were moved to cover any ... Apart from one division, which left to - an odd decision that deprived the army Marshal Jourdan had been bedridden with fever The next morning, he reconnoitred the army's They agreed that their position was overextended, But by the time their orders reached General He was already under attack... Wellington, enjoying the advantage in numbers across a 10-mile front, with General Graham's of retreat. It was a bold plan, with the potential to careful co-ordination and precise timing. Fortunately, the French had not thought it the Zadorra River, which was also fordable At 8am, General Hill's column began its troops advanced up the western Heights of forcing General Gazan to send reinforcements Hill's troops then seized the village of prevented any further advance. Convinced that Hill's attack was the main were probably a diversion, Jourdan continued the left. This was exactly what Wellington wanted. But at 11am, he was waiting, with growing action. Lord Dalhousie's 7th Division, supposed column, had got held up in the mountains... had got off to a cautious start. But seeing the size of the approaching force, back across the Zadorra River. This encouraged Graham to get things moving. Colonel Longa's Spanish division advanced King Joseph, and a bitter struggle for the British and Portuguese infantry advanced against They were soon engaged in bloody street fighting This scene shows an attack by the 4th King's Regiment. Though they succeeded in driving the French bridge over the Zadorra, which was expertly Around noon, a Spanish peasant informed Wellington unguarded. He immediately ordered Kempt's elite light a bridgehead. But there was still little sign of Dalhousie's General Picton, the notoriously short-tempered ran out of patience. Fed up with waiting for Dalhousie, he ordered They charged across the Mendoza bridge and General Gazan, with his left flank pinned on his right, and had no option but to pull Wellington's army was now crossing the Zadorra Heavy fighting continued to rage on the Heights But here the French also had to give ground, Scottish Highlanders and Connaught Rangers now stormed the village of Arinez, routing and a gap began to emerge in the French centre, Army of the Centre. The allied advance continued, with heavy pressure Wellington's army appeared to be building poised to cut off Joseph's escape. By 4pm, Wellington's army was formed up blow. But his infantry came under heavy fire from ranks. Allied guns were brought forward to provide The biggest artillery duel of the Peninsular Allied skirmishers, exploiting the gap in to work their way behind the French guns, Gazan found himself threatened on both flanks D'Erlon to his north, on his own initiative, own left flank completely exposed. Around the same time, Longa's Spanish troops the French army that their escape route had D'Erlon's Army of the Centre fought on line, just one mile west of Vitoria. French guns kept up a steady fire on the advancing outflanked. Around 5.30pm, King Joseph bowed to the inevitable, As the main road to France had now been cut have to retreat east towards Pamplona - along either side. Bad enough for thousands of troops and guns... the army's enormous convoy of wagons earlier The result was pandemonium, as military units the streets of Vitoria, and the congested The task of forming a rearguard fell to General an organised withdrawal, covered by its cavalry. Wellington hoped that Graham's column would cut off the French army's retreat. But Graham, overestimating the enemy's strength, East of Vitoria, the French retreat descended The single, narrow road became blocked. Wagons that took to the fields got stuck and Allied cavalry fell upon this confused mass, opposition. King Joseph and Marshal Jourdan themselves Among the abandoned wagons - many civilians priceless paintings, jewels and furniture... Troops on both sides broke ranks and dived One British officer described the scene: "About dusk, the head of our column came by the enemy. Someone called out, &quot;They are money-carts!&quot; No sooner were the words uttered than the and in an instant the covers disappeared from of inverted legs, while the arms were groping The scene was disgraceful, but at the same Wellington, however, was furious. Not only did the plundering delay pursuit But giant sums of cash, which might have paid pockets instead. Of 5.5 million francs, only 250,000 were ever Vitoria was a great victory for the Coalition... Not as crushing as it might have been - reflected But in the chaotic retreat that followed, guns, and even Jourdan's Marshal's baton. French military power in Iberia was broken; end. Joseph returned to France to face his brother's service. Napoleon sent Marshal Soult to replace them. But even his shrewd military mind could not Counterattacks to relieve the French garrisons That autumn, Wellington began what proved and into France. In southern Spain, where Marshal Suchet remained him also to withdraw towards the frontier, After a bitter five-year struggle, the allies their War of Independence - to a victorious It had been a long, hard road, steeped in The alliance between Britain and Spain had But ultimately both nations had fought together, the Pyrenees. New research provides a clearer insight than in Iberia: An estimated total of 260,000 lives lost. Three-quarters died of sickness. Of approximately 66,000 deaths from combat, forces; 38% fighting British-led armies. And 19% fighting guerrillas. By contrast, British military deaths are estimated thousands of civilian deaths, while Spanish as a whole may have lost as many as half a For Napoleon, this disaster had been an unnecessary born of arrogance and false assumptions... But as the Napoleonic Empire crumbled in Spain, in central Europe - where Napoleon faced yet. If the French Emperor was victorious in Germany, the Pyrenees... The fate of Europe was about to be decided... October 1813. Napoleon Bonaparte faced his greatest crisis years before. His long war in Spain had ended in defeat, crossed the Pyrenees to invade France itself. In Germany, the Kingdom of Bavaria had switched France. While in Saxony, Napoleon faced four armies What's more, these were not the same bunglers and Jena. Prussia, Austria and Russia had all learned organised, trained and led, and more wary The largest Coalition force was the Army of the Prince of Schwarzenberg. His was a huge mixed Austrian-Russian-Prussian To the north, Blucher's Army of Silesia, ex-Marshal Bernadotte, now Crown Prince of Together, 130,000 men and 536 guns. To the southeast, General Bennigsen's Army Another 34,000 men and 135 guns. In total, the Coalition had fielded 360,000 bulk of the troops. One unique addition to Bernadotte's Army rocket artillery - an experimental weapon-system here in 1830. Although wildly inaccurate, their high explosive Napoleon's forces around Leipzig were outnumbered But with 200,000 men and 700 guns, the Grande with many experienced troops and commanders, conscripts to make up numbers. There were another 140,000 men that Napoleon General Rapp's Tenth Corps besieged in Danzig, Dresden, Marshal Davout's Thirteenth Corps besieged garrisons across Germany and Poland. Napoleon was currently about 20 miles north Marshal Murat was 40 miles to the south with Napoleon now decided to rapidly join Murat, defeat Schwarzenberg, before Bernadotte and Murat had orders to conduct a fighting withdrawal drawn into major combat with the enemy's Around 12,000 horsemen fought what some have Europe's history. Murat, in the thick of it as usual, was very The battle ended in a minor Coalition victory, The next day Napoleon arrived to take command. By 16th October, Napoleon had concentrated Field Marshal Schwarzenberg meanwhile, against side of the Pleisse River, which would hinder Napoleon had entrusted the northern sector out for Blucher and Bernadotte. But Napoleon didn't expect them for at least most of his troops south for the attack on Schwarzenberg, however, knew that Blucher and that Bennigsen was also marching up from This was the moment the Coalition had been on Napoleon with overwhelming superiority However the Coalition's Headquarters were will decided all. Schwarzenberg had to attempt to co-ordinate separate states. And although he was Commander-in-Chief, his Alexander, the Supreme Commander... whilst Prussia and the Emperor of Austria, all of The plan finally agreed was for General Wittgenstein's columns - with two Austrian flanking attacks At 8am, a bombardment began along the line, regiments advanced across cold, muddy fields. Wachau soon fell to Russian infantry, but them to advance further. Victor's Second Corps then counter-attacked, Wachau would change hands twice more that These bloody contests for small Saxon villages At Markkleeberg, Kleist's Prussian Second bitter fighting. While on the left bank of the Pleisse, Merveldt's ground to attack well-defended villages. Their assault on Connewitz stalled, but with in Dolitz. On the right flank, around 10am Klenau's Kolmberg, and fought its way into Liebertwolkwitz. Napoleon, observing from Gallow's Hill, Young Guard in support. Macdonald's Eleventh Corps was now also His troops retook the Kolmberg, and counterattacked and pursuing them over the fields beyond. The advance was only halted when Russian Cossacks warning that Bennigsen's army was not far The Coalition offensive was going nowhere, counterattacks. But there was one sector where the Coalition General Gyulai's Austrian Third Corps, with advanced over marshy ground towards Lindenau. Ney had to divert Bertrand's Fourth Corps to France was kept open. Napoleon was waiting for Ney's reinforcements But now Fourth Corps was tied down at Lindenau... Blucher's Army of Silesia was approaching Marmont's Sixth Corps had had to turn about, Heavy fighting broke out around Mockern, while Dabrowski's Polish division clung Russian corps. This was a nasty surprise for Napoleon, who'd away. But the old Prussian general, hearing cannon-fire the attack. Blucher intended to draw as many French troops Army of Bohemia. His actions, and the bloody fight for Mockern, Napoleon was outnumbered across the whole a numerical advantage... not as large as he'd Schwarzenberg and Alexander were already moving that his were on the wrong side of the Pleisse It was now or never for Napoleon. At 2pm he ordered the attack to begin. A grand battery of 180 guns blasted the enemy Then Victor's Second Corps, Lauriston's advance. In support, Murat gathered two entire cavalry in one of the great mass cavalry charges of Cuirassiers of the 1st Heavy Cavalry Division Some even nearly reached the three Coalition But the ground was marshy and broken by fences The French horses were soon exhausted, and Austrian cuirassiers and Russian Guard cavalry When these fresh Allied cavalry reserves charged French were eventually driven back to their Maison's division of the Fifth Corps was The fighting swept back and forth through and wounded from both sides. But as Russian and Prussian Guard regiments were forced to fall back. Around 4pm, the Austrian Reserve Corps finally - one of the morning's objectives, which By 5pm it was clear that Napoleon didn't in the south. To the north, Mockern was being stubbornly artillery support. But despite terrible losses, Yorck's Prussian Marshal Marmont himself was wounded twice, Finally a brilliant charge by Prussian hussars Mockern fell, as Marmont's corps streamed As dusk fell around 6pm, fighting died out The first day of the battle had cost the French at least 30,000. Napoleon had come close, but failed to land The chance for victory was slipping from his Sunday 17th October brought a lull, with both Napoleon needed to rest his troops and resupply low. He also sent a message to his father-in-law, and finally offering concessions. But the allies were no longer interested. They knew time was on their side. The only major combat that day occurred in Russian infantry stormed Eutritzsch... and Russian hussars charged and routed part of That day Napoleon received 14,000 reinforcements arrived from the northeast. But the same day, the Coalition received more continued to converge on Leipzig. Colloredo's Austrian First Corps... Bennigsen's Army of Poland... and Bernadotte's widely criticised for his leisurely march The next day Napoleon would face odds of nearly to begin planning his retreat. On Monday morning, the sun shone across 40 half a million troops and 2,000 cannon were Russia, Austria, Poland, Italy, Sweden, the This was truly 'the Battle of the Nations'. In preparation for his withdrawal, Napoleon perimeter.... and ordered Bertrand's Fourth Corps to march Two divisions of the Young Guard, under Marshal Schwarzenberg, meanwhile, planned to close Fighting in the south began around 8am. The Austrians took Dolitz, but Marshal Oudinot Guard division, and drove them out again. Schwarzenberg was so alarmed by this reverse, Corps. General Barclay's troops initially faced Liebertwolkwitz, scenes of such bitter fighting Barclay then paused, waiting for Bennigsen continuing his attack. Bennigsen's troops had more ground to cover, infantry and taken their objectives. They would now wait for Bernadotte's army But the Army of the North was again making its commander, who seemed exceedingly cautious Blucher, in contrast, did not hesitate to northern defences, though their attack failed By 2pm, Napoleon was hard-pressed on all fronts, His attention was now focused on Probstheida, Kleist's Prussian Second Corps. French troops had turned the village into on the advancing Prussians. Probstheida was soon engulfed in smoke and Some Prussian regiments lost half their men generals were killed as they organised its Napoleon even sent in Friant's division To the north, Bernadotte's army was finally Marmont had assembled 137 guns around Schonefeld, In response, Bernadotte massed 200 guns of The fields were soon strewn with the dead it impossible for either side to advance. Around 3pm, von Bulow's Prussian corps, British rocket detachment, attacked Paunsdorf. Reynier's Seventh Corps could not withstand An hour later, around 3,000 Saxon soldiers The Saxons were deeply disillusioned with Their main wish now was for a quick end to many months. The hole in the line created by the Saxons' But the Coalition juggernaut could not be Towards dusk, under relentless Russian pressure, while the Prussians took Sellerhausen. In the south, Probstheida still held, but The third day's fighting cost both sides Napoleon's army was exhausted, outnumbered, on ammunition. Finally, the Emperor gave the order to retreat. Overnight, under cover of darkness and early Leipzig's walls... and at 4am began its the Elster River, that led back to France. There'd been time and materials to build oversight, no one had given the necessary Furthermore, there was no clear plan for Leipzig's units, mostly Poles and Germans. Napoleon left Leipzig around 10am. Behind him, there were scenes of mounting jammed with troops, guns and wagons. The 20,000 wounded troops in the city had 30 minutes later shells began to rain on the assault from north, east and south. The rearguard held the city's gates for But they were soon overwhelmed by the enemy, the city. A barge, packed with gunpowder, had been moored be quickly destroyed after the rearguard crossed. Around 2pm, a corporal lit the fuse when he though the bridge was still packed with troops, The bridge was destroyed in a gigantic explosion, the wrong side of the river. Panic broke out among those who suddenly found Most became prisoners, but some tried to swim made a Marshal by Napoleon just three days Weak from his wounds, he rode his horse into far bank, it rolled over him, and he was drowned. Marshal Macdonald had also been cut off by trying. He found a place where engineers had cut down his attempt: "... and there I was, one foot on either A high wind was blowing. I was wearing a large cloak and fearing that I was already three-quarters of the way across, unsteady feet caused the trunks to shake... Fortunately I could touch the bottom, but Some of the enemy's skirmishers came up.... They fired at me point-blank, and missed me, drove them off, and helped me out. I was wet from head to foot, breathless and Marshal Marmont, who had got across early clothes more, but they were not to be had." The loss of the bridge turned what was already one. Later that day the three Allied monarchs met great victory. It had come at enormous cost. Exact numbers are impossible to establish, armies suffered at least 52,000 casualties. Napoleon, who could less afford such losses, 35,000 taken prisoner, 325 guns lost. More men were killed and wounded at Leipzig World War. Sir George Jackson, the British ambassador Metternich, the Austrian foreign minister, "A more revolting and sickening spectacle "Scarcely could we move forward a step without gashed with wounds and clotted with blood... here and there a headless trunk, or a head start aside... It made one's blood run cold to glance upon We got over this 'field of glory' as quickly Napoleon had suffered a calamitous defeat. He had lost the battle for Germany - his With 80,000 survivors, he began a fighting There was now no chance of rescue for the and Poland, though some would hold out for Marshal Murat took his leave of the Emperor, planning to cut a deal with the Allies to It was the last time the two men saw each Eleven days after the Battle of Leipzig, Napoleon's his escape at Hanau, with 40,000 men. The Bavarian commander, von Wrede, had served But on seeing his deployment for battle, Napoleon make him a general." The French Emperor then ordered the Imperial to fall back in disarray. The French army reached the safety of Mainz Napoleon himself pushed on to Paris, to contain Behind him, his Empire was being dismantled. On 4th November the Coalition announced the - several of its former members now joining In the Illyrian Provinces, local revolts, brought an end to French rule. In North Italy, Eugene was retreating steadily army. While in Hamburg, Marshal Davout, with 34,000 Napoleon's situation was desperate. But in the next campaign... fought for France Napoleon would prove that he was still the In October 1813, Napoleon had suffered his of the Nations. Surviving French forces, exhausted, sick, and prepared to defend France from invasion. But in November, the armies of the Sixth Coalition minister Metternich offered peace terms: 'The Frankfurt Proposals' would allow to her so-called 'natural frontiers'. It was the best offer Napoleon was likely and all Europe's great powers were united Even so, he did not accept the terms, he merely To the Allies, and many in France itself, reason. The war went on, and by January 1814, Napoleon's Many of his besieged garrisons in the east Marshal Davout with 34,000 men in Hamburg Denmark, one of France's last allies, was made to join the Coalition. French troops evacuated the Netherlands, which years of French control. In Italy, Eugene's army faced a new enemy: north with 30,000 men, to honour his new alliance In Paris, Napoleon responded to the crisis taxes doubled, state salaries and pensions from a country already exhausted by 20 years He ordered the release of Pope Pius (under to try to shore up his support in Italy. He even agreed to release Fernando, the Bourbon for peace between France and Spain - a condition But these concessions were too little, far In January, two Coalition armies crossed the Blucher's Army of Silesia... and Schwarzenberg's Outnumbered French forces in their path could On 25th January, Napoleon said farewell to before leaving for the front. He would never see either of them again. With just 70,000 men, he faced odds of four-to-one. Most of his troops were raw conscripts, some hold a musket. But for the first time in years, Napoleon's direct command over all its movements. The result would be one of the most audacious The battle for France would be fought east region divided by the rivers Marne... and In late January fields were dusted with snow, Napoleon learned that the Coalition armies army near Napoleon's old college at Brienne. The Emperor advanced rapidly, hoping to trap But after a hard day's fighting that cost able to retreat towards Schwarzenberg's That evening, Napoleon was nearly skewered Gourgaud's good shooting. As Napoleon tried to work out the enemy's Schwarzenberg, made a surprise attack at La Allied troops advanced through swirling snow young French conscripts. One was so inexperienced that Marshal Marmont musket during the battle. By late afternoon, Wrede's Bavarian corps Heavily outnumbered, Napoeon had no option and 73 guns, abandoned in the thick mud. The Allies' frontal attacks meant their But by combining their armies, they'd defeated Believing Napoleon would now retreat towards two routes, to ease pressure on the roads: Blucher would take a northern route along Seine. But dividing their armies again... would play After two days to reorganise, Napoleon continued the Allies had split their armies. Not only that, they were advancing at different while the more cautious Schwarzenberg lagged Leaving Oudinot and Victor to guard the Seine raced north through mud and rain with 30,000 The Army of Silesia was strung out on the First Napoleon fell on General Olsufiev's it, taking its commander and 2,000 men prisoner. The next morning he marched on General Osten-Sacken's This was a much larger force, with two infantry from Yorck's Prussian First Corps. But the Prussians were late... and Sacken's At this desperate hour, the Emperor's elite often thrown into the thick of the fighting. By the end of the day Napoleon had inflicted losses - and the Allies were in rapid retreat. Napoleon had ordered Marshal Macdonald to Marne bridge at Chateau-Thierry. But Yorck's Prussians got there first. The next day Napoleon could only batter their destroying the bridge behind them. Sending Marshal Mortier to rebuild the bridge to re-join Marmont, who had been left to keep Napoleon attacked at Vauchamps, using General army, which was soon in headlong retreat. A merciless French pursuit inflicted 6,000 Napoleon lost just 600 men. Napoleon had taken on an enemy army almost just six days. Blucher had lost an estimated 15,000 casualties as stragglers, or deserters. For now, the Army of Silesia had been scattered, But in the south, Marshals Victor and Oudinot Army of Bohemia from crossing the Seine in Austrian troops were now just 40 miles from Leaving Mortier and Marmont to keep watch Schwarzenberg, alarmed by news of Blucher's ordered a retreat. It was too late for Wittgenstein's advance Napoleon sent Victor's Second Corps to seize by its slow progress that he sacked Victor, The next day, at the Battle of Montereau, back across the river with 30% losses. According to some accounts, the Emperor sighted 18 years before. Napoleon had the Allies on the run. But how long could it last? Even as fighting continued, negotiations between on 5th February. The Allied terms were now more severe: a return the additional loss of Belgium - a humiliation Instead he tried to revive the Frankfurt Proposals the Coalition, whose war aims varied from ambiguous position. But this hope was thwarted by British foreign On 1st March, he persuaded the Allies to sign In it, Russia, Prussia, Austria and Great field, and not to negotiate separately with of a 5 million pound subsidy to be shared The treaty's secret articles specified common including the future independence of the German was to be returned to the Bourbons, and Holland The four powers even agreed that once they'd defensive alliance to maintain peace in Europe each other. A split in the Coalition had been Napoleon's That was gone... And news from across the country was bleak. French cities were surrendering to the Allies all fallen. In the south, Wellington defeated Marshal on Toulouse. Two weeks later, as British troops approached to France's Bourbon kings. The mayor himself rode out to greet the British allegiance. Napoleon's hope for 'a nation in arms' Allied troops, particularly Cossacks, often atrocities. French peasants took revenge when they could what French troops had encountered in Spain The chief desire among ordinary French people Any talk of Napoleon's defeat in late February The French Emperor was driving Schwarzenberg's was twice his size. But Schwarzenberg scrambled to safety behind Napoleon knew he had to land another decisive Blucher. After an aborted attempt to join forces with his advance on Paris - gathering reinforcements weak corps to oppose him. Leaving Marshal Macdonald in command in the covering 60 miles in 3 days along terrible At Napoleon's approach, Blucher retreated him. 24 hours later they'd been rebuilt by French Blucher against the Aisne River... because held by a Franco-Polish garrison. But after just a day's fighting, the garrison allowing Blucher to escape. Napoleon continued his pursuit across the Silesia. But at Craonne, he encountered Russian troops The Russians fought stubbornly. The French finally forced the enemy to withdraw, including many irreplaceable veterans from Napoleon pushed on to Laon. But by now Blucher had concentrated his forces, two-to-one. French attacks were repulsed, while Marmont's counter-attack, and routed. Napoleon was lucky to avoid a much heavier point of recklessness, was unwell, and had as it was, leading him to act with unusual Laon was a heavy blow to Napoleon - 6,500 Undaunted, he fell back to Soissons, and after on the city of Reims, which had just fallen In a whirlwind assault, Napoleon retook the Saint-Priest himself was mortally wounded, Meanwhile in the south, Schwarzenberg had out Napoleon had gone north. In heavy fighting, he'd driven Oudinot and Five days later, the Allies had recaptured River Seine. Now, after four days to rest and reorganise once more. Schwarzenberg, emboldened by news of Napoleon's would stand and fight. Napoleon advanced on Arcis-sur-Aube, ignoring as he believed, but gathering for battle. As heavy fighting broke out, Napoleon still It was a nasty surprise to discover that he 28,000 men against 80,000. In desperate fighting, Napoleon personally to enemy fire, having his horse killed under But the odds were too great. At the end of the second day, Napoleon was Napoleon believed his army was now too weak So he decided to change strategy. He would march into the rear of the Allied garrisons, and cut the enemy's lines of advance on Paris. But the Allies, until now always one step information. Talleyrand. The most brilliant French diplomat of the He'd served France's monarchy, the Revolution, irrevocably with the Emperor over foreign He now believed that Napoleon was dragging to ensure his downfall. From Paris, he wrote to the Russian Emperor him that in the capital, support for Napoleon been completely neglected. He urged the Allies to march immediately on them. Talleyrand's information was confirmed when chief of police, General Savary, meant for "The treasury, arsenals, and powder stores We are completely at the end of our resources. The population is discouraged and discontented, As Napoleon advanced on Saint-Dizier, the cavalry to harass his army, and to screen on Paris. At Fere-Champenoise, they collided with Marmont An entire National Guard division, 5,000 men, a crushing defeat. Napoleon feared that the fall of Paris would His political authority, and ability to wage So when he received news of the Allies' a forced march back to Paris, intending to Napoleon's wife and son were evacuated from His brother Joseph, the ex-King of Spain, had done little. Paris was awash with rumours of treachery Marmont and Mortier were able to reach Paris the garrison. It now totalled 37,000 men, including some more young conscripts, while a third were The Allies had 120,000 seasoned troops outside And given the urgency of taking Paris before and grenadier divisions would lead the way. On 30th March they began their assault from Heavy fighting raged throughout the day. The city's defenders fought bravely, inflicting enemy. But defeat was inevitable. That night, to save Paris from destruction, on condition the garrison was permitted to At the Hotel des Invalides, the 71-year old flags and standards captured from France's sword and sash, so they would not fall into Napoleon was just 15 miles from Paris when He sat, with his head in his hands, for 15 On 31st March 1814, France's enemies marched Years' War. Parisian crowds cheered the three Allied monarchs, Everyone in Paris was suddenly a royalist, Above all they cheered for Emperor Alexander Don cossacks bivouacked on the Champs-Elysees. Allied troops generally behaved well. 35 miles away, Napoleon was at Fontainebleau after their 100-mile forced march. Nevertheless, Napoleon began planning an immediate But for the first time, he faced unanimous including Ney, Macdonald, Oudinot and Berthier. They reminded him of his oath to act for the He accused them of disloyalty, acting only They told him the war was lost, and he must On 4th April Marshal Marmont surrendered his over to the enemy lines, against the wishes This was a devastating blow to Napoleon, and of a conditional abdication in favour of his Two days later, he abdicated without conditions. "The Allied Powers having proclaimed that to the re-establishment of peace in Europe, declares that he renounces, for himself and and that there is no personal sacrifice, including the interests of France." Napoleon's abdication was formalised by allowed to keep the title of Emperor, become retain a bodyguard of 400 men. News came too late to prevent Wellington's pointless battle, with more than 7,000 casualties. The night after his abdication, Napoleon tried been made for him in Russia, in case of capture. But it had lost its potency, and he survived. Two weeks later, Napoleon bade farewell to began his journey into exile. The Napoleonic Wars, which had raged on land an end. The death toll is unknown, but historians across Europe. Most soldiers died not in battle, but from Many thousands were left maimed and disfigured. For most of this period, Napoleon was master redrawing frontiers, overthrowing old regimes He was the last figure in history to combine genius - in the mould of Alexander, and Caesar. But it seemed Napoleon's reign was to end However - exile on Elba did not prove to Napoleon's In less than 10 months, he would return to to reclaim his throne. Thank you to all our Patreon supporters for Visit our Patreon page to find out how you access and help to choose future topics.