Two meters of pure paradise, 2 meters of pure delight, two meters of pure fatness. Our express pass to fatness, our express pass to paradise. This really is a heart instant atack, bullet train like the ones that are in Shangai. [Music] Chamo! chamo! damn it, he can't hear me. Hey mi pana! Do I know you? You are the boy from the internet, right? I don't know what are you talking about. How could it not? My daughter sees you on the internet! I don't know what you're talking about. You are Luisillo, Luisillo the fatty. Damn it! of course I am! Guuuys! Once again, your reliable, unreplaceable, irrefutable, irreplaceable source of morbid food on the planet, Luisillo the Fatty. This time, from the very high altitudes I don't see anything. Look at this, You can't see anything, really all this Something tells me that the venezuelans eat very tasty, very succulent, very fattening I will be visiting different areas of the country, analyzing the deep fattening street gastronomy. You already know the dynamic. Let's go for it! [Music] Let's get started with our gastronomic tour tasting the epic, legendary massive empanadas. People around here are telling me that We had to taste them. This is a very typical food from the eastern coastal region of Venezuela right now we are in a place called Puerto La Cruz and this set of little stalls are known without any mystery, as the boulevard of the empanadas. Only empanadas stalls one after another, working hard all the day from early to late. No matter how hungry you are, what time you are, you can always come and have a good big empanada. In most of these stalls, the empanadas cost one dollar, 4 million bolivars and to see how they are prepared is the art of handling the hands, they put the ingredient, they put it in the fryer they give the shape with a mold. Is really something artistic. The empanada for world heritage my love here are the tasty empanadas from Ferry, you want empanadita? I have shrimp, calamari, chicken, cheese whatever you want, pavilion, break mattress, whatever you want my love I'm going to try a delicious, majestic artistic, empanada. Call it empanadita its simple affection, it's for love. You're wrong if you call this empanadita to this thing, this a tremendous empanadon Look at this! it's bigger than my face. Half my face is this empanada and I'm going to eat it all This is empanada of cazon, the tiny shark and it's usually accompanied with guasacaca. Guasacaca is this sauce from here that you actually eat this with everything, with your arepa, with your tequenos of course with your empanada and it's basically avocado with mayonnaise, parsley and chives. I am seeing that to bite it is quite an art because these things are delivered to you freshly made, freshly fried it's really hot, it's boiling this. Apparently I have to bite, exhale out smoke like a dragon and squeeze it to get the heat out, then I proposed the idea of splitting it in half and that the heat was coming out and they told me Luisillo don't come to disrespect us, if you're going to to be doing those things you can go to the guaira [Music] Let's go for it then. Let's give it a try. it's super hot this! squeeze squeeze squeeze squeeze to get the heat out. Oh the smoke coming out, the camera will capture it? I don't think so I don't think the camera gets this, but woow Im seeing it once you've bitten, now you pour the guasacaca inside. I was going to dip it I was told that, that's a big mistake, so let's see, let's try How brutal is this! it's delicious, it's exquisite I never thought I would say this, I love the taste of the little baby shark. It tastes very good, it's obviously very fried, it leaves the mouth with that sensation like sticky like greasy but it's part of the charm, it's delicious, it's exquisite. Paradise for $1 dollar the beverage with which you have to swallow the empanada is the malt. it's basically a soda, prepared but it doesn't have any alcohol in it, it is sweet, it's tasty, super sweet. I'm not that much of a fan I have to admit it, I'm not that big a fan but that's the way you eat an empanada. They brought me this delicacy, that its called empanada pabellon. Whats pabellon? Pabellon is Venezuela, is the dish that includes all, normally if you ask pabellon, it includes rice, beans which are called caraotas. It includes mechada meat, that its the shredded meat, and the big plantain the macho the fried one, that as such is the pabellon, it's a typical national dish. T So they make arepas and empanadas of Pabellon, this one right here is the legendary let's call it that, legendary empanada of Pabellon. I feel it's bigger, I don't know if by size but as for weight I mean this weighs as much as a newborn baby. Let's see, let's try same technique, we bite, we exhale, we squeeze it burns. Wow I already tasted the banana, it's a full meal. This one costs $1 dollar also? Ah of course this thing costs $2 dollars, it's got a lot of things like to cost just one dollar because it's a full meal. This looks tasty Pabellon &gt; cazon, this one it's much better, much more tastier. Is a complete meal even I'll call it a balanced meal if it wasn't so fried, if you eat the pabellon like this, you're eating balanced, tasy, the empanadas problem is taht that look at this. Look at the level of fat that stains up to three layers of napkins Well they say, the fatter, the tastier. This is delicious We wash it down it with the always emblematic Maltin let's see what else we find! [Music] Next stop my love! we are going to meet, to taste what's in a hamburger cart a hot dog cart, authentically venezuelan. Hamburgers and hot dogs in the streets, nothing innovative we see them everywhere, but what characterizes the carts in Venezuela is the huge, really huge sauces, additional ingredients that you can put on your hamburger, your hot dog. Look at this, you can put french fries, corn kernels, cheddar cheese, corn sauce, barbecue sauce, mayonnaise, ketchup, hot sauce This is the cream tartara, and this is what the price of the hot dog will depend on. they are usually from one dollar up to maybe four five dollars and well, we came to this special place that's called &quot;El Gordo Burger 12&quot; because it's famous in the city of Caracas, because in here they prepare the legendary there is no other word to define, the legendary pepitos of 2 meters. a Pepito is like a sandwich that has meat, sausage, it's got like a lot of ingredients I think even egg can be added to it. And in this place they make sizes from half a meter to 2 meters OMG, that's too much. Let's taste it It's got steak, chicken, chorizo, avocado, lettuce, cabbage onion, potato, yellow cheese, bacon, corn and rain cheese that's like a song, is a rap. This man puts Eminem Look how it's prepared the Pepito. This is the one about a meter. What is done is that they put together different buns, it's like the baguette, they put the sauces on it, they proceed to put the vegetables on it and then all the rest of the marvelousness. This basket is the 60 centimeter, this is the 40 centimeter, this is the one meter and this one is the 2 meter. Wow not even from the famous WhatsApp man I don't know if I like it or it scares me. We have from the smallest one that's not small at all, I mean it's an arm of Luisillo and a half 40 centimeters, 60 centimeters, a meter and two meters. How many people it feeds this? Like 10 12. The two meter eat 12. 12 people. 10 or 12 people, with the one meter, five people eat, with the 63 centimeter one three people eat and with the 42 centimeters and eat 2, and they are full. I would say that they eat about 12 13 people Let's get full. Two meters of pure paradise, 2 meters of pure delight, two meters of pure fatness. I think that if they have a contest if anyone can finish this, viral. Millions. This place would be viral. A simple tip Let's organize it, the challenge of the world's biggest Pepito. oh well, helps me get it on the table, guys and let's start eating it up our express pass to fatness, our sxpress pass to paradise. This really is a heart attack instant, bullet train like the ones that are in Shangai. I want a heart attack Let's go for it! This mission it is the most complex even for a professional chubby like Luisillo the fatty caliber. The flies are coming, I don't even know how to start, this is very complicated Normally it would be cut obviously in chunks but I'm &quot;lambucio&quot; and I want this all for me, is a word that I have liked from Venezuela: lambucio. Is someone hungry, who wants it all for him. First of all, obviously sauces If we are fat, we must fatten but seriously. There it is, cheese, corn sauce, ketchup also sauce tartara. What's wrong with them? let's give it a shot one bite and I feel like I'm already full. Whoever ventures to eat the whole two meters is a glutton. He is not afraid of life, is a person who experiences to the fullest. Thank you, it washes down with the emblematic Maltin By the way we didn't give the information, this morbid costs 40 dollars, honestly it doesn't seem that high a price to me, considering it has meat, chicken...40 dollars and think, more than 12 people eat! It means that for three dollars and something else, eating every one is eating it's eating good, complete, of all. There you have it, The Pepitos, authentically venezuelans, are like this. This is the most morbid, very surely from all over the country I have been fascinated, let's see what other delicacy we find. [Music] What kind of Luisillo the fatty venezuelan special would this be without a good arepa? They brought me to this place, that I am told is very emblematic of the Caracas area, because it's a place that is open 24/7 24 hours no matter if it's 5:00 in the morning that the mouse approaches your body after a good rum, you can come for a luxuriant arepa And they sure are morbid in this place, OMG, size of an obese baby arm. In this place it's not like a taste is the specialty, you can really put everything. They have a wide variety of ingredients that change as the day goes by, even though it's very early in the morning, they propose to stuff it with egg, if you come in the afternoon, a little bit of shredded meat and in the evening the plantain will abound with ground beef and I'm really surprised with the amount of things you can put in an arepa. Look at this. This is a sweet plantain. Corn kernels and these right here are that you can put in whatever your mind can think of, look at this dish they're about to serve. Wow, they're stuffed, they're morbid. They could fill you up for four days The price of the arepas here starts a little bit high, in this place specifically, they start at 20 million bolivares, 5 american dollars. $5 dolars, or 5 divisa, as they call it but there is a reason for this, is because they are really big, they are very well stuffed we're going to taste a nice arepa 100% Venezuelan I ordered one of the ones I see that is bought the most, they really come out and keep coming out of the kitchen it is the arepa &quot;llanera&quot;, which consists of chunks of beef, guayanes cheese which is like a soft cheese from the Guayana area, it has tomatoes, avocado and its respective It costs 7 dollars and I understand why, is it really very big. I will bite first from here then from down to taste all What a combination, what a beauty. but the seasoning itself is very tasty. I also ordered a famous emblematic arepa pelua, we understand from its name pelua which is because it has hairs. it's not because the cook or the cooker hairs have fallen out you bite it, you proceed to use it for dental floss. That's not the reason it's called pelua because it's made with meat shredded, the shredded meat looks like hairs as it is lush the situation, that's why it's called that name. In the same way, this is morbid. I don't get how big would a mouth have to be this one has delighted me, much more my style of meat. Easy to chew, soft, juicy Full of flavor, a delight a beauty. 10 out of 10 you can't tell you came to Venezuela if you didn't have a good, legendary emblematic arepa. and extra meal, bonus meal. They brought me to taste a Cachapa this one they brought me, is called the Cachapa rumbera, which has pork or pernil (pork leg) and it's got melted cheese tasty, delicious, it's buttered. Ok, enjoy! Not bad, actually not bad at all, combine these sweet notes with the salty in a very interesting way. To finish exaggerating these sweet and salty notes, I would add maple syrup and let's go. A complete breakfast. I liked it, I didn't love it. I will say that if I had to order something, I would ask for an arepa instead of Cachapa but if Dona Rosa is just cooking cachapas, I'll gladly have it and I would say, Dona Rosa exquisite, tasty, thank you for the cachapon. There you have it, in your country they eat it something similar to this with this combination a complete breakfast [Music] well, chubby guys, that's how we conclude this Venezuelan edition of Luisillo the fatty, how about this tremendous view? gorgeous at my back. Caracas at its best. I hope you've seen this video eating a ham sandwich at the very least, because they whet your appetite. I hope you liked it, you enjoyed it. tell me, what of what you saw in the video did you crave? what looks like something you sell in your countries, in your cities? you can put it in the comments below. Thank you for joining me. We'll meet, as you know it, in a few days with a new video. for so much fattening, for so much delicacy. What we would do without such delicacies? Bye-bye venezuelan, fatty pimpollo