Hasn't he been wonderful and kind and merciful? Haven't his blessings been bountiful in your you could ask or imagine? The presence of the Lord is in this place. Would you just tell the person next to you, Tell them what I taught you last week. Tell them, &quot;God is in it with me,&quot; tell them, &quot;God is fighting for me.&quot; Tell them, &quot;Don't pick on me, because God He's fighting for me.&quot; You understand what I'm saying? Oh, you can't curse what God has blessed. He's a defender of the weak. Yes, he is. Come on. How many of you said that a few times this &quot;God is not against me...&quot; I gave you this prescription. Did you take it? Last week, the Furtick pharmacy on behalf take, a new meditation for your heart. Just take that swing out, and let's sing that [Worship] Isn't it good to know that he loves you, that he's So, the next time shame tries to tell you mistakes, plead the blood of Jesus and say, The next time depression tries to wear you give to the world, look back at depression And if he be for me, who can be against me? Now I know. I came to preach the gospel to every tribe, know what the good news says. I found out he loves me. I found out he's for me. I found out he's a friend of sinners. I found out I'm his righteousness. I found out I'm his friend. I found out I'm beloved. [Worship] Come on. Let's lift up a mighty shout of praise to wise God. I feel like preaching and prophesying and up to something. Believe that. If you don't believe anything else... If you don't believe in balloons that fly You don't have to believe any of that. If you don't even believe in the flu, believe Even if you don't believe this is a real church you heard it was weird or there were girls Even if you don't believe this is a great Absolutely. I am so thankful for this opportunity to minister I'm going to share with you a Scripture as I call it a series. It's really just a flow. I asked the Lord for more flow of the Holy the name of Jesus for his glory and to build Be careful what you ask for, because God has Every time we write a song, I send Chris another I feel the spirit of DJ Khaled on this church Oh man. He just keeps speaking. He just keeps moving. He just keeps making ways. He just keeps on keeping on, keeping us alive, I announced I was going to teach There's So walking with Joshua in the Old Testament book, life, just sharing from the overflow of what Well, this one this week I have been holding all day is, &quot;Lord, don't let me scare them. I don't want it to come out too quickly and Holly said, &quot;Let's go,&quot; but she's already She's used to me. She knows how to put up with me, but you don't. But maybe just for a little while we can enter and just see... What if he speaks? What if he shows you? What if he does something for you that you but he just does it? What if he uses you in an amazing way? I'm believing he will. So, go with me to Joshua, chapter 3. In an effort to conserve my energy for the preach, I'm just going to do one verse right That's verse 13. &quot;And as soon as the priests who carry the foot in the Jordan...&quot; &quot;Set foot in the Jordan.&quot; That means I'm stepping into this. That means I'm not waiting for it to happen. No, I'm stepping into this. I'm stepping into this moment. I'm stepping into this pulpit. I'm stepping into this day. I'm stepping into this worship service. He said as soon as they set foot in the Jordan, cut off and stand up in a heap.&quot; See how this works? When you step into it, the waters stand up. The word the Lord gave me for today... Are you ready for this? He said to tell you God's up to I won't make you talk to your neighbor one you take your seat, &quot;God is up to something.&quot; Notice I didn't say, &quot;God was up to something.&quot; Not just what he did in the past. I appreciate what he did in the past, but Say, &quot;God is up to something upstream.&quot; Now in the chat put a bunch of exclamation Oh, thank you, Lord. He's up to something upstream. He must be up to something. Old preacher Bob Lowman said, &quot;When you're Isn't that good news? Put in the chat as we go where you are watching Give me city and state or city and country, Don't just put &quot;United States&quot; or &quot;South America.&quot; Put &quot;Brazil.&quot; Put something in the chat that lets me know I'm going to pull that up as we go. As we do that, if you live in any of the following I never miss an opportunity to promote, y'all. While I'm waiting for those, because there's Austin, Texas; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Minneapolis, Colorado; St. Louis, Missouri; Fort Wayne, I felt it when I said it); and Toronto, Ontario. April 18-27. You can go to elevationnights.com. If you live within 20 miles of any of those expect God to do something. We're going to preach and release the sound Holly said, &quot;Twenty? Two hundred miles. Get there.&quot; She said it's worth buying a plane ticket, But you didn't have to fly in today, did you? God brought you right here to All right. We have Nashville, Tennessee; Allentown, Pennsylvania; Manila, Philippines... They're going too fast. Y'all think I can't read, but they're just I thank God for that, that we're reaching That's amazing. Sometimes I like to do this. Y'all think I'm just stalling, but I have I want us to take a moment and consider that but all over the world...in Richmond, Virginia; Rico; Tampa, Florida. Now, one thing I'm noticing. All these are places I've heard of before, There's a lot going by. I'm skipping ones I've never heard of because If you went through them really slowly and they may say, &quot;Yes.&quot; They may say, &quot;Well, I'm kind of from a town I understand that, because I grew up in one the town, you had to tell them another town When you say, &quot;I'm from Moncks Corner, South always wanted to visit there.&quot; I don't know why. It's a beautiful place, but you usually don't &quot;Yeah, man. That's on my bucket list.&quot; &quot;Oh yeah, we did our honeymoon there.&quot; Nobody, unless they did it not by choice. It's a good place, and I love it, but I learned 16, &quot;I live in a little town called Moncks Charleston.&quot; &quot;Oh, yeah, I know Charleston.&quot; You just learn. The frame of reference for Moncks Corner had behind it. So, you just learn to say over time, &quot;Yeah, Now I notice myself... I'll just say, &quot;South Carolina. I grew up in South Carolina.&quot; I'll just say the state now, but when I really &quot;A little town about 30 miles north of Charleston I have it memorized. I can say it in my sleep. &quot;A little town 30 miles from...&quot; You know, I've just said it so many times. I know where I'm from. Hmm. I could preach that, couldn't I? I know where I'm from even if you don't know I have food to eat that you know not of. My Father in heaven has called me by his name. But that's not what I want to preach about When we look at this Scripture from Joshua, locate the miracle because we don't know the At least I don't, and I went to school for I read about places where things happen... Like, the Jordan River always felt like a I went to Israel, and I'm like, &quot;This is it?&quot; &quot;Yeah, this is it.&quot; I thought it was huge because it's so significant Jesus got baptized there. The people of God crossed over into the Promised So many amazing things happened there, but just that significant. That will preach too. Just because it isn't big doesn't mean it's You have only 220 followers on Twitter, but say. There are a lot of people with 220 million Size doesn't indicate significance. I'm not trying to preach that today, though. I could preach that at a men's conference, Men are weird. That's all I'm saying. Let's go back to the text. God is up to something. In this particular Scripture, they are crossing have been known and relevant to the readers They would have gone, &quot;Oh, I know that town. Oh yeah, my uncle is from there. Oh yeah, I pastored there one time. Oh yeah, that's where we wanted to do our But for us, places like Capernaum where Jesus the Sea of Galilee... We don't really know... Capernaum to us is a great place. Galilee, where Jesus did his miracles, was beautiful because it's Galilee, and we've It even sounds lyrical when you say it. Now, with that in mind, I want you to consider have been taking spiritual steps either toward from it. I want to know which one because I'm nosy. I want to know... Have you been stepping into the true self one he calls by name, or have you been retreating Who has been in your headset this week, and I gave you this prescription last week to He's in it with me, working through me, fighting Then I wrote you a song for it because I'm heart. One thing I said last week that I'm not sure uncertain, when you find yourself discouraged, yourself tempted, do the thing that you would I'm going to have them put that sentence on we understand I'm not trying to sound like Doesn't that sound kind of like something &quot;Do the thing that you would do.&quot; The Lord spoke that to me as I was praying to do this. I don't feel like I have enough to do that. I don't feel like I will ever be if I'm not It came to me, &quot;Do the thing that you would true.&quot; When you don't feel that what God spoke is So you don't wait for a feeling. You act as if it's true, because it is. Even though you don't see the truth, do the The steps of a good man are ordered by the &quot;Trust in the Lord with all your heart and all your ways acknowledge him, and he will God does not always bless your good intentions he will always support a step you take toward calling on your life. I don't know who this is for, but you're stepping You're stepping into it even now by listening You were stepping into it as you lifted your You were stepping into the &quot;you&quot; that God That's the &quot;you&quot; you've got to do. Put my sentence back up, but this time put I told them to break it down like this, and Look at it in these phases. &quot;Do the thing that you would do...&quot; Let's break it down. One part of that speaks to faith. If you believed God was with you, if you believed to help you, what would you do? Then do that. Whatever you would do if you knew he was with &quot;So I can open the coffee shop because the I don't know about the coffee shop. You might be horrible at business and your all that, but I'm talking about the attitude Do the thing you would do if you felt like I thought it was brilliant when you were telling Graham said, &quot;When I'm in an awkward environment in Madden. But not a main character. I pretend like an NPC, and I jump.&quot; He said, &quot;Because it's better than feeling I'm like, &quot;Dude, there are TED Talks about Even if you take a confident posture or an You're not as smart as you think. You can trick yourself into a better mood. Just start jumping. You can. You can smile. Sometimes before I come preach to y'all, I'll my muscles in a way that reflects what I need you to be up here, so I need to look like So I start smiling. &quot;Oh, it's the fake smile.&quot; No, it's a faith smile. It's a faith praise. &quot;Oh, you got a new car this week?&quot; &quot;No, my car is in the shop. The brake pads wore off two weeks ago. But it's a faith praise.&quot; &quot;Oh, you know how it's going to work out? Oh, you know your kid is going to end up in Oh, you know you're going to get into college?&quot; &quot;No, I don't feel it, but I just want to step So, that's one way I mean that sentence. Do the thing that you would do if you felt Do the thing by faith that you would do if Can I move on? I'm going to go backward. &quot;Do the thing that you would do...&quot; Now, when I say, &quot;...that you would do...&quot; I'm talking about that you, not the other We taught at the beginning of the year there We would really be in overflow at Ballantyne We would need a hundred times more campuses your situation showed up at church today. We couldn't build the buildings big enough. Am I right? Okay. Don't make me prophesy by the Spirit of the I will. There is a choice that is to be made. The strong and courageous you that God calls... What would that you do? Do it. Give some away today. Why? &quot;Because I want to be more generous.&quot; Well, do the thing that you would do, the You know, that you, the one you get glimpses and leader...that you...the one who's able him, the one who doesn't have to figure everything When you feel stuck and paralyzed and discouraged, would do. When you don't have enough resources to do you would do with more resources with less Five loaves and two fish to a smorgasbord Do the thing. The thing. The thing. Paul said, &quot;This one thing I do.&quot; Why? Because if I try to do all five things at up on all of them. I remember an older minister told me, &quot;When was, 'I can do all things through Christ who He said, &quot;But now I'm 65, my Scripture is That's wisdom, because you learn how to focus Joshua is doing it, and the people are doing The thing the previous generation wouldn't And so are you. You don't give God enough credit for how far You don't give the Holy Spirit enough credit &quot;I don't want to be prideful.&quot; I don't want you to be prideful either, but praise for the progress you've made. Here they are on the brink of an amazing thing God is up to something. They are about to cross over the waters. The Lord is doing it in a very different way the Red Sea. Remember that one? At the Red Sea, Moses took his staff and stuck The waters parted. They went through. Pharaoh drowned. All the chariots, wheels rusting off in the his people free. This time, however, it's going to be a little I'll stop right here and just pause for whoever God is going to make you do it a little bit Not to repeat the same routines you saw from them and say, &quot;Does this line up with God? Does this line up with who he's calling me That means sometimes the &quot;me&quot; God is bringing and say goodbye to certain things from the The important thing is to keep stepping forward, With every step, he shows you something. Joshua gets the people ready and says, &quot;In In three days we're crossing over. In three days we're crossing over.&quot; They don't even have their marching orders &quot;We're going to blow trumpets at the walls,&quot; God doesn't tell you everything. He knows what would make you turn around. He knows if he said, &quot;Hey, I'm going to take blowing trumpets. We're sending the marching band in, boys,&quot; That's why sometimes he will trick you into Y'all didn't like the way that sounded. You thought I meant God was deceptive. I don't mean he's deceptive; I mean he's selective. He shows you what you need to know to do what So he tells them, &quot;Let's go toward the Jordan.&quot; Now imagine the conversations they have as As they're stepping, they're stepping toward The Bible says something in the next verse. I read you Joshua 3:13, but verse 14 is important It says, &quot;So when the people broke camp to ark of the covenant went ahead of them.&quot; The ark of the covenant represents God's presence. You have God's presence, not on the shoulders Jesus, who lives inside of you, so you are He's in it with me, working through me, and So, they carry this ark of the covenant ahead The whole passage is filled with anticipation the people who are walking into it. Life feels like that. I told Holly the other day that, a lot of excited, because I don't always know the difference. I get excited, and I label it anxiety, but That's what I think we're stepping into in They're excited. They're faith-filled, but they also have an next. The Lord says through Joshua when the priests' This is what he said. &quot;...the priests carrying the ark of the covenant Verse 15: &quot;Now the Jordan is at flood stage Yet as soon as the priests who carried the Not prayed about the Jordan. Not studied three books about the Jordan. Not took a class about the Jordan, but when When they got to something that they had no It was in walking toward it that they demonstrated It says that as soon as their feet touched stopped flowing. Now, when I say &quot;faith,&quot; we should take a the context of a Christian church. Faith means almost anything you want it to &quot;I have faith in you&quot; could just be a nice &quot;I have faith in you.&quot; Well, if that's what we mean when we say faith, we have in the friend that we would say, &quot;I have a good feeling that it's going to turn I need when I'm going through an overflowing Let me tell you what I don't have when I'm feeling about this. So, I need faith that will help me step through Anybody else? I need faith that can take me to the brink the absence of the information I need about it, even at the moment that I don't see how The nature of Christian faith... It is distinctive from any other kind of faith, Most versions of faith are generated from object. You sat in that chair today because you had of your faith in that chair. Well, in the 1600s in England, these theologians There was a civil war happening in the country, to the distinctives. Now, this Westminster Confession came to be especially in the Reformed tradition. What do we really believe? One of the things they said about faith was of Christ unto [you, and you] receiving and Watch this. &quot;...which faith [you] have not of [yourself], Now let me give you the Moncks Corner version Are you ready? &quot;It doesn't come from you.&quot; So, if you have dried-up faith, if you have faith, but you have a great, big, full God over the affairs of men, then you don't put this life. Sometimes up, sometimes down. The good news of the gospel is even my faith So, God says, &quot;I want to give you grace for I want to give you grace for your situation. I want to give you grace to save you from But you need faith to receive grace, so guess &quot;I'm not just going to give you the grace, but I know you, and you don't even have the So, what I'm going to do is send my Son in dies and the blood runs down, and when they the stone away and he gets up and ascends Guess what he's doing. He's sending you faith from another place. He's sending you trust from another realm. He is sending you the gift from another dimension, If it doesn't come from you, it doesn't depend run out. It'll be like that wine at the wedding in It'll just keep coming, because God is up My faith flows from him. Don't put him on two different levels. &quot;Oh, grace comes from God. Faith comes from me.&quot; You need the faith to get the grace. What they were saying in England I'm saying Somebody is watching it in England too, somewhere The first time I went to England, they were We got there. We landed one day. I was preaching in London. We landed at 6:00 a.m. at Heathrow. Heathrow at 6:00 a.m. Heathrow is hell. That place... They said, &quot;It's only 20 miles to the hotel.&quot; We got in a car in London from Heathrow Airport. Three hours to get 20 miles. Twenty miles where I'm from... If you don't respect the Lord or the law, from. So, it's relative. That's what I'm saying. It's relative. The amount of faith you have in your steps his sovereignty. When I tell God all of the reasons he can't that, so I step into it anyway. As I step, he makes me strong. I see you in the Spirit stepping toward something I see you stepping toward a better version and you didn't, but you're stepping into it for it, but you're stepping into it. We have an upstream God who knew you'd be in the situation and prepared you for the The Bible says that when their feet touched I love that picture. That means they had to step all the way toward wet did it break apart. Do y'all know something? Apparently, I still don't know how to read In my imagination, I always pictured this They stop at the Jordan. It's overflowing. Boom. Step. It splits. I always pictured it like that. What's that Kevin Costner movie? Waterworld. I always picture that on the Jordan. Remember, the Jordan is small. Also, that's not what the Bible says. The Bible says (verse 13), &quot;The water flowing That's where they saw the miracle: when they That's where you're going to see the miracle: as you step into it, as you move toward it, praying, keep believing, keep trusting, keep keep showing up, keep scheduling stuff that you to do it, keep coming, keep going, keep When they got there, they saw it. They saw it when they got there. When did they see it? When they got there. They got there when they saw it. &quot;Are we there yet?&quot; God says, &quot;No, you're not there yet. You'll know you are there when it happens, you step into it.&quot; Yet that's not really the point I want to It's true they did not see it until they stepped That's when God cut off the waters and enabled what the Bible says. In verse 16 it says, &quot;...the water from upstream It piled up in a heap a great distance away, Have you ever heard of Zarethan? Let me tell you about Zarethan. Zarethan is about 20 miles from where they You know the Jordan River. You've heard of that? Okay. Twenty miles away. You've heard of Charleston? Okay. About 30 miles away. You've heard of Charlotte? About 20 miles away in a place they still I don't know how long that one is going to They'll rename that soon, I'm sure. Hey, you've heard of Charlotte. You've heard of the Jordan. Yeah, let me tell you about the Jordan. That's where we crossed over, but that's not Twenty miles away. I studied it out. I asked ChatGPT, &quot;Where is the town called The thing came back, and I looked it up in It said it's 20 miles away, which means...watch For them to get to the edge of the Jordan water at flood stage, carrying that ark, after that... For this to happen at this moment, for the that means God must have been up to something God is not walking with you; he's going before He's not shockable; he's sovereign, sister! He's sovereign, brother! He's sovereign, baby! God got there about three hours earlier to He said, &quot;Hey, waters of Adam, I need y'all Why? &quot;Because about three hours from now, the priest's About three hours from now, they're about Abraham.&quot; See, this thing didn't start with Joshua. God was up to something upstream before Joshua As a matter of fact, it goes further back The Bible says, &quot;In the beginning God made He got down in the dirt and made a man, and Now we've progressed a few hundred years, promise. God was getting started in the garden. What has been started in this moment of your God was 20 miles ahead of you. They say raising kids you have to stay one God said, &quot;I'll beat that. How about 20 miles ahead? How about I get there and handle the situation How about I get the friends out of their life Don't you ever come back'? How about I get this thing started so when make it through. How about if I give you the faith to believe Okay. You have a mustard-seed faith? Let's put it up against that mountain real Great is the Lord! I want to preach to everybody in this room 20 miles away...stuff you can't see, stuff stuff you can't move. Not the stuff you can do. Just do that stuff. Wear your own seat belt. Don't ask Jesus Christ to buckle your seat He's a busy God. You do that before the other stuff that's You step into that just believing. What would you do if you believed God was about? Wherever you see a problem, heaven has a plan. Wherever you have a problem, heaven has a I'm going to say it again. [Singing] Wherever you have a problem, heaven Turn that thing over to the Lord and leave I said, &quot;Wherever you have a problem, heaven Turn that thing over to the Lord and leave Yeah? You want me to finish that song? I'll finish it and get somebody good to sing God is up to something, but you won't see Can you trust him with the 20? Can you trust him that you can't get them them about it? Can you trust him? Can you trust him with something 20 miles I always pictured that the waters stood up No. They didn't see it piled up. It had been piled up for hours. You have no idea what God is speaking. We ask God for blessings, and we should. We also need to ask him for dams. He got to a town called Adam, and he built (It's too much, I know. I'm going to save it for the Basin.) It's a miracle what he did. He said, &quot;Waters, pile up here.&quot; Now remember, they can't see this on the live If it was today, word would have spread, right? &quot;Oh, y'all, don't worry. Just keep walking, because in Adam there's The water is going into the Dead Sea, and stopped, so it will be dry in five...four...three...two...one...now!&quot; Nope. Not God. He's the God of the upstream. He's the God of the unseen. That's the nature of faith. In case all of the Westminster Confession let me give you the picture. And in case the picture in the Old Testament it over to the New Testament. This same Jordan River would be the Jordan was baptized in. God is up to something upstream. For Joshua, this moment represents the end When Jesus was tempted in the wilderness for wilderness and came into the Jordan River which is not a denomination; it was his occupation. He said, &quot;I can't baptize you. You need to baptize me. You are the Savior.&quot; Jesus said, &quot;Shut up and do it.&quot; Jesus had the spirit of Nike before Phil Knight He said, &quot;Just do it.&quot; Boom. &quot;I've got to get baptized...&quot; Boom. &quot;...to fulfill all righteousness.&quot; Boom. &quot;Just do it.&quot; So he did it, and guess what happened to John He was thrown in prison for preaching to a He was in prison, about to be beheaded, and the one?&quot; How did we go all the way from you're baptizing Everybody has doubts downstream. Me, you, the pope, the bishop, the attorney have doubts downstream. When God speaks something to you or when you I hope you feel a little bit of it today. Well, Sunday is upstream. Sunday is where you get that dose of &quot;God for me. Where I have a problem, heaven has a plan.&quot; Downstream, that Devil is waiting. Ask John the Baptist. He said, &quot;Are you the one or should we wait Now, I want to give you a word from Jesus. Don't doubt downstream what God showed you For that to make any sense in your life, you week, because if you're not getting it from you're not ready for. The better I am when I get to the brink of presence and staying in touch with him. I need time with God upstream. In business terms, the term upstream doesn't In business terms, upstream is where the product Downstream refers to all of the activities Why do we live in a world where people spend they are than upstream with God so he can is and what he has for your life? You're never going to be able to do the thing and you will not know that you if all you Those downstream distractions... Do you know what they are in your life? Those downstream doubts. Disappointment can put you in a place where &quot;Oh, now I'm here, now I'm at this moment, moment because... I know God did some wonderful things back I believe God is doing some wonderful things.&quot; But like John the Baptist, you find yourself Even the one who heralded Jesus Christ began That means downstream distractions... You have to really be careful, especially be speaking to. You are stepping into a season of your life yourself. You are willing to let some things die now If that is you, and if you are walking through an issue, a situation, you can't even really If that's you, you have to spend more time There are so many Bibles on your phone right For free in the app store, put in &quot;Bible.&quot; &quot;I don't like to read.&quot; Hit the little speaker. It'll read to you. &quot;I don't want to listen to a man read to me.&quot; They have a woman too. I found one yesterday that was talking in I bought it. Don't tell me you can't spend time upstream. You'd better make that car a church. So when you get there... You have to be ready for what God is going God built a dam where you came from, and he Now walk into it. Flow into it. Speak into it. Pray into it. Serve into it. Step into it. He's up to something. I saw your Nikes, and I wanted to tell you, Now step into it again. Somebody made those Nikes. That was upstream. Somebody else sold them. That was downstream. But when the product is good enough, the sales the product is good enough... God said, &quot;In this season, I'm building your I'm getting you ready for some things. People aren't going to call you as much. That's all right. Don't worry about the downstream. I'm the God of the upstream, and when it's When it's right, it's right. When it's mine, it's mine, and he can use About 20 miles away. I was writing songs with Brandon Lake this Do y'all love Brandon? I told him to come to church. He said he had to keep his kids. I wanted to tell y'all what he told me. He said, &quot;Pastor, we've written so many times We wrote some this week that I can't wait We've written with Chris and others and all We're sitting around. He said, &quot;I never told you this, but I want Did you know that about 12 years ago, I emailed about songwriting?' and they said, 'No. We don't offer that'?&quot; He told me the name of the staff member. The staff member isn't here anymore, and that's of bad things. They were a downstream staff member, let me They were a Dead Sea staff member is what I'm going to help y'all. He said, &quot;Twelve years ago...&quot; When I thought about that, I said, &quot;That's Now here we are eating sausage, and we wrote We wrote &quot;Graves Into Gardens&quot; and &quot;My Testimony&quot; We did all this stuff. Isn't that crazy that you were living in Mount How far is Mount Pleasant? Actually, it's about 38, but for the sake Did you ever read your Bible to see how far we know about, from the place where God did It's 20 miles. Did you ever read your Bible...? The Bible says when Jesus left Nazareth to How far was the place where he went to live was raised? Twenty miles. When he got to Galilee for his ministry... Matthew quotes the prophet Isaiah in Matthew, God is up to something upstream. I can't see it, can't prove it. I don't need to. I know him. I see the problem; heaven has the plan. God is up to something in my life. I emailed, and they said, &quot;No.&quot; Twelve years later, here we are writing music is up to something. The Bible says in Matthew, chapter 4, &quot;When he withdrew to Galilee. Leaving Nazareth, he went and lived in Capernaum...&quot; Twenty miles away. &quot;...which was by the lake in the area of Zebulun Places like Moncks Corner that we don't know, Watch what God was doing to fulfill what was Some of the things you are going through right They are to fulfill God's purpose. Don't be selfish. Don't be myopic. Don't get buried in self-pity. That's exactly what the Devil wants: to get Let him deal with that. You walk toward it. Let him deal with your enemies. Let him deal with the people who talk bad Let him deal with their ignorance. Let him straighten it out. Let him deal with the things you can't deal to do. I feel like I'm preaching right to somebody's God is up to something upstream. It started in Adam. It moved through Joshua, and here's Jesus through the prophet Isaiah. Verse 15: &quot;Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, Do you recognize the Jordan? &quot;...Galilee of the Gentiles--the people living living in the land of the shadow of death...&quot; Somebody has been living in the land of the It's not death; it's just a shadow, because God is getting the light ready, and it will forth. A light has dawned in Galilee. I believe that God, while Jesus was 12 years in Nazareth, was getting ready for what he When he came to Galilee the first time, as Cana. Then he went back. He went back to Cana. I could tell you what Jesus told John the He said, &quot;Hey, the blind see. The lame walk. The deaf hear. Go back and tell John the good news is preached Go tell John, 'Blessed is he who doesn't fall upstream.'&quot; He doesn't say those words, but that was the You know what? Of all of those miracles Jesus did that we but one the Holy Spirit led me to for you I don't know if you're 20 miles away or 2,000 I don't know where this word is going to reach I believe it is. I believe that right now God is up to something It's upstream. Some of the things he is blocking in your Will you trust him with the 20? Will you not stress for these next two weeks While you wait for the MRI appointment, will Because where you see a problem, heaven has You can't see it. You're not supposed to. You can't know it. You have to believe it by faith. Driving to situations you don't know how to But 20 miles away, God was getting a light Then the Bible says in John, chapter 4... This was the very last Scripture he showed It says that after he left Samaria... Do y'all remember when he met the woman at Yeah, my favorite story. Right after that (he stayed two days in Samaria), &quot;(Now Jesus himself had pointed out that a When he arrived in Galilee...&quot; Feel the pregnancy and the potency in that &quot;When he arrived in Galilee...&quot; The upstream prophet Isaiah said, &quot;A great and now it's happening. It's happening. It's happening now. That's why God sent this word to you today. It's happening now in your life. It's of generational consequence, and he's &quot;When he arrived in Galilee, the Galileans They had seen all that he had done in Jerusalem been there. Once more he visited Cana in Galilee, where And there was a certain royal official whose When this man heard that Jesus had arrived begged him to come and heal his son, who was &quot;I can't do anything about that. I can't heal him. I can't buy it. I can't do it. I need you to help me with this.&quot; Jesus said, &quot;Unless you people see signs and The royal official said, &quot;Sir, come down...&quot; &quot;I need you to come. Come to Capernaum. Leave Cana. Come with me to Capernaum.&quot; Jesus says something that's very prophetic Verse 50: &quot;Go, your son will live.&quot; The second part of that depends on the first Walk toward it. Watch what he did. This is what you must do with the situations that you don't understand that you can't figure &quot;The man took Jesus at his word and departed.&quot; Now watch this. &quot;While he was still on the way, his servants When he inquired as to the time when his son at one in the afternoon...'&quot; When they said, &quot;One in the afternoon,&quot; the which Jesus had said to him, &quot;Your son will As he's walking back to Capernaum from Cana, We came all this way to tell you he's better.&quot; &quot;When did it happen?&quot; &quot;It happened at 1:00 p.m.&quot; He said, &quot;That's the exact time,&quot; and he trusted I want to suggest to you that the most significant at; it was how far they traveled. Cana is 20 miles from Capernaum. That means the words from Jesus reached all need the dad to make the journey. You are not even going to have to do everything God is just going to do one of these &quot;20-mile I declare a 20-mile turnaround. Depression, let the daughter go. Addiction, let the son go. I call you forth. I call light to your situation. I call strength to your ankles. I call joy to your spirit. To every barren womb, I prophesy a new song. He did it 20 miles away, and you think he He can do it for you. He will do it for you. He has done it for you. The God who fights your battles stands at Here comes my child.&quot; Now give him that situation. Give him that praise. Give him the praise that you would give him If you believed there are more with us than He's up to something. He's up to something in the unseen. He's up to something in the unsuspecting. He's up to something in the hidden place. He's up to something in the shadows. He's up to something. Get ready, Galilee. There's a carpenter in Nazareth. He's not building tables; he's getting ready to you, and you will walk into the rest of That time is now. &quot;Wherever you see a problem, heaven has a Turn that thing over to the Lord and leave Twenty miles away. Like Bianca said to me at Barnes &amp; Noble... She came over. I never go to Barnes &amp; Noble. I went that day. The only reason I was there at that moment and then I ran out of time to go where I wanted &amp; Noble.&quot; I was wandering around like a homeless man I said, &quot;Let me go over to the Christian living somebody's title and put it in a sermon sometime A little downstream sermon preparation happening She walked in and started crying when she She said, &quot;Pastor Steven, I've never met you. I moved three years ago to go to Elevation, I quit coming to church. I turn on the sermons once in a while, but because I know I'm not where I'm supposed But lately, God has been doing something. So today I decided I would go and get my facial around, not doing anything, and that I would led me to. Is it random that you're here?&quot; I said, &quot;I don't know, Bianca. The way my brain works, your feet hit this a reason.&quot; She cried, we talked, and then I said, &quot;I'm You don't even have to buy them. The Lord wants you to know he sees you.&quot; I said, &quot;But I get to pick them if I'm going And, no, I did not buy one of mine so I'd No, I bought her two books, and I said, &quot;Let's you forward believing that God is not done She said, &quot;Can I ask you one more thing?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Dang it! I bought you the book. When you've made the sale, stop talking. God sees you. We've got to go.&quot; She said, &quot;One more thing. What would you say to me, after all I've been is done with me?&quot; I believe the Spirit of the Lord gave me this I'm like, &quot;I can't give her the Westminster What I can do...&quot; I grabbed the first book I saw, and I said, You're only this far in. There's so much more to your story. I speak it prophetically over you. God sent us here at this moment so you could is working. Father, what an amazing, amazing moment this I thank you in advance for testimonies I will in this moment, for people who gave up on in this moment, who put their big toe in the week and said, &quot;I'm coming to work on my issues,&quot; week, and I'm going to apologize for that I'm going to get up this week, and I'm going You're in it with me, you're working through God is not against me. No, he's in it with me, working through me, We send this word 20 miles to your home. We send it to your Capernaum. We send it to your sick child. We send this word to your depression. We send it to your situation. We're getting the revelation. Now lift your hands. I want to hear your voice. Things are happening at your house right now. Things are happening in your spirit right God is working this thing out right now. You have to believe it like never before. I call you forward in trust. I call you forward in faith. I call you forward by grace in the name of &quot;Now unto him who is able to do immeasurably To him be glory in your life! thank you for watching the Elevation Church our online extended family and join us live you don't miss a single video or live stream support the ministry by clicking the give around the world for Jesus Christ thank you