Imagine that you have lots and lots of data Yeah, lots and lots of data. Of course, I could insert a pivot table or sense of it all. That is, if you even know how to use them. Or you can simply hire your very own AI Data Let's check this out. To get your very own personal AI Data Analyst, And you may recognize this. This is ChatGPT. And down below, you have the familiar chat AI. Over on the left-hand side, there's now some These are custom GPTs. And in a moment, we'll see what you can do. To be able to see this, you need a premium If you don't have that, this functionality Let's click on this option. This now drops us into GPTs, and here you'll In fact, in the top right-hand corner, you That's a fun one to test out. On the page here, you can search for various You also have categories of different GPTs, you'll see some of the featured and also trending These are different GPTs that organizations and have made available. So as a few examples, here if I scroll down You can design logos or presentations using Down below, another fun example. Here, you can turn yourself into a cartoon, of a sudden, you'll see what you look like If we scroll down just a little bit, there's These are different custom GPTs made by OpenAI Here, we can see more, and you have all sorts Right at the very top, one of the most popular will analyze data on your behalf. And it is truly mind-boggling what it can Let's click into this one. This now drops us into the Data Analyst. And at first glance, it looks somewhat unassuming. We just have this basic white background, But just wait until you see what it's capable To analyze some data, first we need to load Down in the text box, you can click on this also drag and drop a data file into the Data Here, I'm going to drop in an Excel file, this same exact Excel file in the description Before we start asking questions about our contained within this Excel file. The Excel spreadsheet contains order data We have order IDs, there are also customer also the cost. There's no profit here, but you could calculate And then also the order date, and that's all There's also a second worksheet titled Customers, here at the Kevin Cookie Company. Right up here, you'll see that this sheet ID. And over here, you'll see that we have five customer information. Back now within the Data Analyst, let's start Down below, I'm going to ask, how many customers If you remember when we looked at this spreadsheet, Let's send the message to see what it comes And look at that, it successfully identifies Cookie Company. Now, of course, that was a simple question, me through how it went about getting that So over here, it starts by analyzing the overall Over here, it found that there were two different customers. And then because I'm asking about customers, customer sheet. And here it walks me through step by step By showing me how it does it, it gives me correct information. Let's now try a question that's a little bit Down below, I'll type in, which customer ordered Now, you might be thinking, well, that's not a little bit more complex is that it uses it uses some information from the orders sheet. So, it has to tie these two sheets together. Let's see what it comes back with. And look at that, here it tells me that it's And I went back to Excel just to double check Back here in Excel, just so you appreciate Here, it took all the different customer IDs cookies shipped by the customer ID. Once it had that information, it figured out Then it went over to the customer sheet and it connected it to this customer name. That is so impressive and it's amazing how In Excel, you would have to set up a pivot You'd have to feed in both of these different Of course, that's doable, but it takes some effort. You're probably getting the idea now that it make visuals? Well, let's test it out. Down below, let's see if maybe it can make Now remember, the workbook doesn't actually We just had the revenue and the cost. So first it'll have to calculate the profit. Over here, let's see what it comes back with. And look at that! Like I've always said, there is money in the If we scroll up just a little bit, we can Here, first it calculated the profit. It took the revenue and it subtracted the That's how you get the profit. And then here it walks through all the other And this is beautiful, but if we look over in this weird notation. I want to see it in just currency format. So, I want to make some modifications to this Down below in the text box, let's see if we I'll say, can you show the Y axis in USD Let's try that. And look at that. Over on the Y axis, we now see different notation. That's a lot easier to comprehend. Let's also try one more quick change here. Can you change the bars to green? We had all this profit and nothing speaks So, let's try that. And look at that. Now I have green bars. That is so much easier than fumbling through of a chart. This makes things so much easier. Now let's see if I can outsource all of my Down below, let's see if it can also think. Why was profit flat from 2021 to 2022? I would have expected some growth. I mean, we've been killing it in the cookie Let's see what it comes back with. And just like that, here it pulls together have been flat between those years. For example, here it said, maybe the sales the product mix or pricing. And here it goes through and it analyzes all This will get me lots of good information Now I want to try one last question. Let's see if there are any seasonal trends My boss keeps asking me about that, so let's Over here, let's send this message. Right up above the data analyst has now aggregated year. And here at the end of the year, I see this If we scroll down just a little bit more here, with holiday seasons. Well, that's the Christmas holiday, and we of the year. I'll have to tell my boss what I learned. As you can see, you don't have to know how to get insights from your data. You just have to be willing to prompt the The value no longer comes from knowing how questions and then to make the right decisions. Imagine what this can do for your business It's truly incredible. To watch more videos like this one, please next video.