Do you hate Google Docs? Are you sick of paying and you think Word and outdated anyways? Maybe you've heard about thinking to yourself, got an iPad, I've got Notes can help me solve don't know where to start No worries. Stick around. I got you covered. I'm Dylan Stewart, I love Apple Notes. It's one of my favorite it every single day for I need to write down. I don't use I don't bother Apple Notes has then some, which is why specifically to teach know about Apple Notes. In today's lesson, we're create a new note and and functions that exist Make sure to stick around power tip because I'm to scan things into When you first open up going to find yourself which is where we are now. You can tell that top it says Folders. This is where you go your notes and put them Folders can easily have them to help you sort Sometimes when you yourself inside of a There's a ton of different the Notes app for, so I'm couple of examples before If you love quotes, you quotes and put all of so they're easy to get read anytime you want to. Or maybe you need to an upcoming video. You can use notes on your to easily create a script, use it as a teleprompter You can also use it to itinerary, complete with and all the information trip unforgettable. Or maybe you're a In this case, I used my wife and then I found added it right onto the and the poem are front to do is click the share my wife to make her day. Or maybe you want to to create an amazing the favorite meals spouse love to cook. Popping notes open on your it super simple to create share it with loved ones. There's tons of practical just writing things down I use notes to keep track documents, to capture to give myself an easy I'm looking for, from my So now let's step Creating a note is easy. Click the new note right corner here and brand new empty document. The first things become the title. So let's create I'm going to use dictation How to use notes. Because these were the down on this note, they they were put in a very us know that this is the As we hit the return our note, we'll find line shows up as body Let me show you We're gonna talk about today, exclamation to get started, So right off the bat, you top of the note is bold underneath that, it just You can adjust or change a note very, very easily. On the toolbar above the side, we see the capital is our formatting tools. From here, you'll lots of options. We can change or into a heading. Let's Or into or into a body. We can even set the format addition to changing can also add additional making something italic or on or off, and with iOS 18 using different colors. By clicking on this little we can highlight in any sure that what we're is easy for us to see. All of the separate format have different purposes very very special and I'm Using the title I'm piece of text here. Now I'm going to continue to be talking about. I'm going to use It's easy to create a by pressing the tapping the space bar. That sets it up into the So now I can come in and Creating new notes, images, and scans. Now, all of that comes Formatting Notes, but If I give us another get us another number Tags, Using Smart Folders. Now, we did all this in a very specific reason. if we put our cursor any of the title to notice this little Tapping on that arrow underneath that header. This means if you have of different sections in it, you can collapse sure it starts with the opening or closing that for you to see everything for you to collapse it everything without making This is a new feature already loving it. Now in addition to making lists, we can also do Let's select this and let's click back on And you'll notice down separate list styles. We've got our numbered dash list or we've Once you've created any on that list, it'll add or dash, allowing you list easily and simply. In addition to those also something called see that to the right. of the formatting tool. Clicking on this button items into checklists to cross anything off If you're using notes this is a great way can come right in and And then click on the to add the separate . And then once you've those items, checking to the bottom and allows next item and the next To the right of the something called columns. And columns is like when Microsoft Word or when It gives you a way separate categories. So I'm going to create on the button here. And you can see I've columns, but maybe I need Maybe I need By clicking on the of the column list, an additional column. Now, over here, I can say Clicking the next to the next column. We can say this is add birthday right here. So now, I can start to I can say Paul. 53, 10, 17, and continue By doing this, it can of very complicated way so that I can easily from a note, just like using Microsoft Excel. or a chart inside of To the right of our attachment paperclip. We're going to come to but before we jump there, tool over into what's That's this little like a pen in a circle. If I click on that, I get tools, and you'll see Whether it's a felt pen, A an eraser, or even a When you work with the you to draw anything, anything onto this note. You can even tap on you get a straight line something for a blueprint to make it look a little Clicking on the ruler And using two fingers, of the ruler just by Now, if you grab a pen you can create a very . You can also use the document or a photograph. or anything on your note. But the best features of hidden under this plus Right from this plus sticker which allows you from your photo library you want on this document. You can add a text box you want to show, an you can add a signature. So if you've ever received and you've wondered without printing it out, It exists in notes, it exists in pages, place, and it always it's that symbol right circle with the little and it has amazing tools sorts of functionality. Now, let's talk The paperclip hides all Let's click on it. Up at the top, to attach a file. This connects to your documents or images iCloud drive can easily Clicking on it opens you to find whatever it Click on it and it will In addition to can also record audio. This is another new What does it mean And some people might just be dictating? For reference, if you that microphone in the And you can click on it, you want, and it will But there's a problem First off, sometimes Secondly, sometimes of what I said. So with the new record click on the paper clip, button, and then I can say, even if it's a song a speech I'm trying out. I can record anything it onto this note. When I click the red bottom it will start Let's give it a shot. I love notes and there's features that it's always releases something new. I'm going to press On the lower left hand this little speech bubble. Clicking right on the side will show you a that was said in You can also resume by pressing the resume Audio recording is I really love the I'm going to Now, on the right side, I I do, it will save that onto the document that so at any point , I can recording and click listen to my own voice wanted to capture for If you click on the will bring you back to some new tools here now. Clicking on the three hand corner will allow from this recording transcript to paste it in the transcript or the audio file itself. So if I click add here, you're going to words from that recording onto the note, making it my voice to capture any Let's go back to Underneath record audio, choose photos or videos If we already have a use on this note, simply photo or video will open allowing us to choose and click the add right hand corner. When you do that, it will the note, You can choose up as large or small. By pressing and holding this option down here let's make this one small. When you look at it thumbnail, so sometimes But if there's a lot it's helpful to put them completely overwhelmed. If I click on the three hand corner here, I'll to change all of the large simultaneously, easily save space in working on the text, or all those attachments can see them perfectly. Whichever way you use they're small or large, small and some are large, up to you being able to you want it to be. Let's go back to And underneath that take a photo or a video. This can be really helpful business card and I want that I've created for this than saving it in my about it entirely. Simply click the take will open up your camera and click on that and save There's a better way to also under the paper clip. Here we'll see this option What's the difference and scanning a document? Well when you go to scan that it is a document and edges of it and it will so that that document Let's give it a try. Notice how it grabbed allowing me to just note super easily. Now, when it comes to notes on the phone, I some clients that heard went around with their everything that they tossed everything into that was the way to make But unfortunately, if you and scans into notes, a little dysfunctional to find what you're crammed with all sorts of Going paperless and going valuable tool, but there's and I highly recommend or using a different inside files in order to Scanning everything going to make things Now, when you're building to pull information different sources. Maybe it's not Maybe it's not in Maybe you need to a specific website. Let's head over to you how to do it. Coming into Safari here. I've got a webpage of some great quirky I might want to There's multiple ways link into a note. The first way to do it is down at the bottom and tap Now I can swipe back over drop it right in there. That's one way to do it or the best way to do it. Let's head back over to a different way to do it. If we click the share this web page, we'll get directly into Notes. See it right here? Clicking on Notes will create a new note or add Let's tap here, Head and right up at the we've been working on. Now by clicking this, I I can add a little bit but if I don't and I just to take that information And look at how much now instead of it just got an actual website exactly what it is. Still not my favorite Let me show you one Let's come over here. Now, when we're grabbing website, the real question it or just a part of it? In this example, I just that we see right here. Pressing and holding keep my finger down, being held by my finger. And if I simply swipe back that right down that way. So you can drag and into Notes also. But the most important stuff from websites don't want to leave For example, it's great but what if I want to find movies when I don't have Clicking on this takes that doesn't really Start by clicking on left side of your address it says Show Reader. The Reader View will ads and other junk to see on this page. Now what I can easily to the title here. Press and hold. Grab the little selection the way down the page. By doing this, instead link, we're grabbing the link so that I Now all I have to do is hold in order to grab that the note and I can drop giving me all of the so that if I don't have There's no problem. There's tons of ways to note, whether it's from from an email, whether some other app, just copy hold and drag it over to to have everything that right in front of you internet connection or Microsoft Word and great, but they're This is an elegant tool everything you need, all the information captured dictation, captured by websites, copying and build an amazing note But trust me, In a moment, I'm going to power tip, which is properly scan things from note without having to which can be a little bit But before I do, if you this, if you can already Google Docs and Microsoft this powerful tool, give It really helps out the so much easier for other And if you've got a something you didn't you want more information to tell me I'm wrong happens, drop down into leave your message there. I respond to every hear from you guys. And if you haven't channel yet, this Finding this kind of with all the different can be exhausting. I deliver clear, valuable use all of the best Apple you to find it by hitting and that notify bell so when I drop new content. And now, I think you've It's time for One of my favorite is keep track of some But, if you're like me, in cookbooks like this. So a lot of my clients the notes look so pretty Some of my clients have I've done by coming in Let's take a look I'm going to open And let's come into our into scan documents. For this example, Let's click the I'm going to hold it Notice that it Now I'm going to grab cookbook over here and When I'm done, I'm button on the right. It adds those images hard it is to read that. Yes, I can click on to kind of zoom in, read it, but imagine pinching and spreading cookbook scan document. It's just not the right a better way to do it. So let's create And let's try again. This time, I'm going button, but instead of I'm going to scan text. Watch what happens here. As I point at the recipe the words and I can insert pieces as I go by clicking Let's grab the second part Click Insert. And just like that, I've information that I need. Now I do still want the So let's click And this time I'll Grab it right about there. And snap that image. It's not perfect. I'd rather do it from I can just drag a But that at least what I'm working with. It might take me a few these pieces and make good using tools like give me a bulleted list. It's always a good idea scan worked perfectly but cookies from this note than trying to make it So as you can see scanning But if you can grab the and put it into the note, becomes easier to find, edit, and all of a sudden whenever you need it So if you learn something learn something new, you this video right here. So that's what I'm Dylan Stewart, The my passion and profession Get more done on your ever thought possible. Go watch that video over in the comments section.