I'm Chris Como, and we're back with Swing Expedition And we have a special guest today, Sean Foley, Sean Foley is one of the top instructors in the game such as Justin Rose, Lydia Ko Danny Willett and Cameron Champ. Plus, like myself, Sean is one of the few coaching Tiger Woods, having worked At the end of the day, I mean, yeah, But they're human being. You know, the honesty that's necessary, So having a trust with one But they're still just golfers. Sean's work in the game isn't just limited He's also intent on growing the game Sean is a part of the advisory board a foundation that offers golf instruction for young men in Harlem in 2017 to found Sean Foley performance Academy program that offers I get these young players now come to work and I mean if all I did was teach them how to practice why to practice I mean that's just gold for them right? Sean is a good friend of mine that he has one of the brightest minds However, he recognizes available these days, getting better You know, early on, when we started we kind of had a scarlet letter on our back Golf's a game of feel. It's a game of rhythm and tempo. It is I'm not saying it's not. But that's now, like, way more acceptable. So it went from being made fun tripping over 100 track mans every time But that being said, you know, Hogan That's still very applicable We're in Orlando, Florida. We got a really special episode Sean Foley, longtime student Ryan Corbin. Sean where do you want to start? You know, we obviously spend a lot of time Right. And I think you really push the envelope But at the end of the day, hit the ball better and have more enjoyment doing it. So when it comes down to it, you know, starting with Ryan when he was 12 years old, that's been now 21 years, where has my mind went? What do I think matters? And I think as you start you start to make it more simple. What are the things we don't really see Two consistent ball strikers do. I think this is a really good way Because if we're to be like, What? What do you think's important in the golf? Or What happens with a great ball I mean, they're all over the map, right? Like, I mean, how many different swings have we seen on the PGA But if you were to sort of what are things you don't really see you can start to kind of narrow away All I know is whether I have a player when they're not hitting the ball well, and they feel stuck and then when they're hitting the ball they feel like they have time and there's not enough time in life. So what's the sequence of time? Why do they feel like they have time? So my point is, many successful ball strikers take back Do you don't see that? I'm not going to have any time to do anything to create speed, Right. So now turn your hips more than normal. Okay. That's probably actually better for him Yeah. So the idea behind why we turn the pelvis. We talk a lot about shoulder turn Shoulder This is my torso moving. Yeah. But the pelvis facilitates. You got this ankle, and then So the interaction will be able to create to safety, to know that we can get through So you watch Cameron and how much that pelvis turns and almost And then you watch Nolan Ryan, So as human beings through evolution, and speed through a function having a phase of counter rotation. So what I mean by stretch has happened and then in transition, stays this way and everything below Well, from that point, So for the most part, you know, we talk about keeping our butt back full of people who extended early Yeah, it's a long list. So that's not really a detriment. Sure. So to me, I have to put my finger And the tumor Okay. Now set up again Ryan So now what I want the line is just take it really upright Okay. So from here, with the face that open, with the hands and arms way to above where to get the natural squaring from here He's going to be like this. So that's our everyday pro-am player. Yeah. So, yes, I've seen world with an extended left wrist But it's quite rare yeah. So the key is knowing how to use your hands So there's two points right there. If this doesn't move, unless you have incredibly freaky rotation If you're super upright with the left arm in front of you, to get it back down So set up again and get it super narrow. With both arms to super narrow. There have we seen many great I mean, your arms are straight at impact, to straighten your arms there. In order to do that, you're going to have to create forces And then if you don't apply your body's So set up for me there. We talk a lot, If you look at great ball strikers, but what you will see is that the right arm in that right So it's gone from getting the weight of the club in a place to where And that's what it wants to do So I know we can see, you know, Viktor Hovland and they get it up to here and they're able to rotate the side bend And if they did, Yeah. But that's not for the people Sean, you've had an amazing some of the best players in the world. Arguably the best player of all time. Tiger Woods definitely bats out. Do you have a breakthrough moment I think the breakthrough when I was able in 2006, after a lot of hard work to come and work in Orlando and Orange County, where we first met My wife and I came down. She quit her job. I quit my job. We took this giant leap. It probably to everyone around us They probably thought we were making But I just I really felt strongly that what I was going to do. Yeah, I really believe that. And so we moved down, took a massive pay cut, and started this junior academy I was back to waiting tables again after not doing it for seven years, but And then the extension of that breakthrough moment was after in November. The second of that year I got a phone call from Steven Ames, and Stephen Ames but his back was was hurting a lot. And so he believed that it was kind of Steven had a high left arm with a bone And which was amazing, though. Yeah. But basically, He needed to get the ball And we did some of the things And so Steven, after three days, decide to work with me From Sean O'Hair came on our man Sean O'Hair and then from Sean, Hunter If I don't get the visa, yeah, So that that's the breakthrough. Sean, you is distilling a lot of complex stuff What's maybe something that golfers can do watching Well, if you look at all of these back swings you'll see differences when you get from rib cage to rib cage, And so people will look at Jim Furyk in his back swing. But you fundamentally slow his swing down So it makes sense that he's fourth on the iron players to ever live get a little too much of the vanity looks And so something functional to me, something I've always done, I just always called it the nine to three You see Tommy Fleetwood do it a lot. And so the idea in this drill is from 9:00 to 3:00? So if we look at impact so set up for me, we don't see many great ball strikers with tons of that but I think if you look at a lot of the great ball strikers over time the shaft is pretty close Give me back swing three quarters. Okay. So Ryan's tendency So remember all this angle right here, he's going to have to get rid of it, So in the punch shot, I don't really like because I think it doesn't help so when I take it back because the club heads and because it's moving at the speed Okay. So what I'm trying to do with Ryan just take it back into my hand so you feel that activation there. You feel how that starting So Chris, the thing about the hands and I think the hands and arms of the GPS So I think being able to get people need to be in space to the synergy of what the body So we could watch golfers that come to us But if we went with them they would all be throwing the sandbags And I think that's the trick, Chris, that it doesn't always help us I try to get every single player arm punch shots so they can learn how to use their release I wouldn't teach Justin Rose and Lydia Ko the same things, Yeah. So stand up for me. There could be Okay. So reach for me on this side. So you can see from in front to reach for me. He's turning into his weight shift. All right, now stay there. Okay. Now on this side, feeling like reach for me on this side. So that's really it is. How far can I get this to travel? I don't think you can get that far off I think when the angles start looking kind of here and then having to get rid of it with too much over here, that's where inaccuracy comes from hands are changing the path of the club, the loft of the club, So how can we kind of get the image in how can I create this strong looking, wide, move to make sure that the ball starts And like you've mentioned you're not doing a version Lag is not a good thing But we're in the world. You could ask people like my my buddies they're like trying to lag it You can argue that you're only going as you can get out anyways. So it's like as soon as you start hitting your ball, you're going to lag it to throw it out and make contact with it. So many people try to hold back and then when they make a swing, Nienaber have the most lag Is because their hands are moving So it's happening and then these hands are going this way But their ability to hit it far And so set up for me to make that no hands on it, just really stretchy So in counter rotation still keep that club out there And that's where we start to see that that we're going to see. So from there now he's in position to do what's next. But basically reach for me on this side Okay. And just to let people understand, I've been coaching Ryan and we still talk about the same things to become a master at anything, it Right? And the same type And on this as you come through impact Okay. So wide on both sides That's money! And the reason I say the eyes right is when we're born so much of our sensory are detailed to our taste, our eyes When you look at Hanukkah, Sorenstam, Henrik Stenson was here, David Duval's here, 100 Marchand got here. And so we talk about rotation a lot. It shouldn't be obvious in golf but where my eyes go, my body will follow. So where my hands go, my body will follow. And where do my eyes go? My body will follow. So to make this into a bigger one set up again, for me and what I want you to do is just allow and allow your eyes to go with the follow totally crazy. But once you get good at it, you realize by keeping your head down If you're sitting there today and you think keeping your head down is going to help you, So just show me a practice swing through again. So I'm going to tilt this ear until this ear to the ground Okay. And you're Awesome. Sean, I've known you for a long time. You've always been on the cutting edge to make your own coaching What are some technology that you trust? I think there's a lot out there. I think I think all of it you're trying to learn. But the beautiful thing is that I've been fortunate enough called Sports Box 3D, A.I. And so what Sports Box have done to take a video of a player and get really consistent 3D analysis of what we're seeing in its measurement They kind of light up they're supposed to be congruent Right. You know what that's like. You're getting to And you say something and you see So what kind of technology So for me, sports box 3D and an advisor, but That's how much I believe in it. Im back with Sean Foley Sean, you mentioned a counter rotation, all these things that are helping Do you have any drills Well, I think that, you know what we hear the commentator but we know that power is nothing So it looks it looks like but the things they're doing to the ground inside their joints and then what in their hands in different directions. There's a lot going on. What we're going to do here with Ryan with all of my kids. Like I said, I called it the drill, It's more about human movement. So, Ryan, what we left, they go right, So the idea of, you know, watching baseball players or even pitchers is there's a lot of movement there, but that actually helps to their accuracy. And I think you and I grew up in a time where it was all about Because that makes a lot of sense It sounds good, When you get guys, 100%. Right. So the first part of the drill It's starting in the position here Then I start with my feet together. Now, as we talked earlier as soon as my arms have reached a way and as I'm doing this, my back swing Duffy, used to tell me that he thought It was when everything started So because the club had some momentum in But everything was already starting at least from under the belt. Yeah. Okay. So starting here and going into this position, this point, I'm starting to step back. And as I do that, But now I'm stepping back and I'm starting to create a real stretch And as I'm doing that now, some of the forces are going to start to also start to rotate So in the drill, as a player starts like this, just do it at slow and now as I take it back, So that's the first part. Then you can get to where you progress it So I can start over here and do it to take me back as soon as those arms Then I'm going to step And then I think being able to get people start here take it back and then get to the top and be more So can you learn and I do it in bare feet but from here is taking it to the top and then stepping and going there. So what happens is I've got so much room to make great things Whereas if I haven't gone much, I'm kind of already in that place that I need to get to So the good thing for Ryan, how this helps Ryan and so if I'm dragging it because if the hands of the GPS, in this direction, there's a good chance So I'm looking for Ryan I don't want everything to go. So for Ryan, the idea of really as he's trying to pull it with money. Absolutely. That I mean, I don't know I was good. Now go full Nolan Ryan, but this is great. I mean, it just looks effortless. Swing speeds game and so this is kind of I think, Bob Toski called it the Fred Astaire drill, right? So we we talk a lot. You hear commentators talk about rhythm rhythm is the summation Like Fred Astaire had great rhythm, but If I remember on the on the range, I know I'm missing it because I know and create the synergy between the club and the pelvis and the legs and the feet, the rhythm is right there. Yeah. Yeah. Now, just give me give me a normal one where you're kind of intrinsically And that's why I think, look, the future in training has to be more martial arts Yeah. that really you and I very long to get Bruce Beautiful right. But it'd take us a lot longer to be able Just beautiful. So I think that I think can can do at home to help him out, Because the problem as much as we love golf, we sit too much. We're in this position too much. Yeah. And when we look at these fluid, beautiful the Mickey Wright These are movers. Yeah. These people are able to move. So it's easy to look at a position But if that person intrinsically doesn't or mobility to do it, then it's Yeah. Great stuff, Sean. Thanks Ryan Corbin