Crash Course Philosophy is brought to you Squarespace: share your passion with the world. Let's say, for the sake of argument, that By which I mean, you want him to be alive. And let's also assume that you don't have any attachments to your mother that you might describe as... romantic. Well, guess who thought felt the same way about his parents? Oedipus. According to ancient Greek legend, when Oedipus a prophecy foretold that he would kill his So his father left baby Oedipus in the wilderness, and the prophecy would then not come true. But instead, the abandoned baby was discovered As an adult, Oedipus learned of the prophecy that he would kill his father and marry his mother. So, not knowing he was adopted, he left his adoptive parents in order to avoid fulfilling that prophecy, figuring that if he wasn't near them, it Lo and behold, as he was trying to flee his fate, Oedipus killed a stranger in a fit of rage, who turned out to be the father he had never He then proceeded to marry the dead man's who was actually his mother, though he didn't Needless to say, this is a fate that, needless to say, any of us would like to avoid. But for philosophers, the whole point of the story of Oedipus is: there is no escaping fate. [Theme Music] Are we free? I mean, on the one hand, most of us have the We feel free. We feel like we make all sorts of decisions that lead to both beliefs and actions that are wholly of our own choosing. Like, I could do that. I had oatmeal this morning because I felt This view - that humans are capable of entirely free actions - is known as libertarian free will. And to be clear, libertarian free will is Both views get their name from the word liberty, but political libertarians are all about freedom while people who accept libertarian free will could be anything from political libertarians to socialists. They just think that, metaphysically, we can So a lot of us figure that our thoughts and But, most of us also believe that every effect And that everything that happens now, in the is the necessary result of events that occurred This view is known as hard determinism. And many of the people watching this probably that many of your actions are free, and that But, it turns out, you can't rationally Because, traditionally, libertarians have defined free actions according to what's known as the Principle of Alternate Possibilities. That might sound like the plot device for but this principle says that an action is - that is, the person doing the thing - So, truly free actions require options. Determinism, by contrast, doesn't allow It holds that every event is caused by a previous Which means that an agent can never have done and therefore, they are never free. But let's look at these two options more And also, let's look at my breakfast. Libertarianism says that my decision to eat wasn't necessarily caused by anything that Instead, it could have been the result of - specifically, my own thoughts - I ate oatmeal because I decided to eat oatmeal! End of story. But libertarianism runs counter to what we with one thing causing another. So libertarians need a way to account for One way they do that is by making a distinction between what's known as event causation, and agent causation. Event causation means that no physical event can occur without having been caused by a previous physical event. So, many libertarians concede that the physical Like, a baseball is flying through the air But many libertarians also argue that there's which says that an agent can start a whole chain of causality that So, the person who hit the ball most likely By this logic, agents have the ability to They can make stuff happen on their own. But, many philosophers find this idea untenable. Where would these free decisions, the ones that launch entirely new causal chains, come from, they ask? Are they simply random? What would compel an agent to make one decision, And if you can answer those questions - if you can explain what would cause an agent to act - Then well, you've just reinforced the position The fact is, it's pretty difficult to find The best argument in favor of it seems to be that it just feels an awful lot like we're free. And libertarians argue that we shouldn't discount the legitimacy of our own personal, subjective experiences - so if we feel so free, we should seriously That point has a certain intuitive appeal. But if you can't come up with an argument then good philosophical reasoning recommends or at least withhold judgment until you can So now let's see if the hard determinists 18th century French philosopher Baron D'Holbach said that none of our actions are actually free. D'Holbach believed that everything that's happening right now is the result of an unbroken chain of events. Everything, he said, is the inevitable result Including everything that we do! Our actions are caused in the same way that, say, home runs are caused by bats hitting balls, or tornadoes are caused by warm air systems This means that humans and our actions are just part of the physical world, bound by its physical laws. This belief is often explained through a view Reductionism is the view that all parts of can be traced back - or reduced down - to So, for example, you see your mind as being You think that what goes on in your head when you make a choice is not at all like bats and balls. But, well, mental states are brain states, And brain states are biological. And biological states are physical states. And the physical world - as we already said There's just no room for free will in this We think we're free - but we're not. And really, as scientific thinkers, why would Why would we think that we're any different What would make us so special? Libertarians are right that it's really If I didn't choose to eat oatmeal this morning, And what made me do it? But hard determinists say that the difference and the causes of physical events is that our actions have all sorts of invisible Specifically, when beliefs team up with our desires and our temperament, they say, you get a deliberate human action. Combine my belief that oatmeal is nutritious, and the temperament that predisposes me to and ta-da! - you get oatmealy breakfast! Now, you might argue that those particular might lead to any number of breakfast choices But, if you dig deep enough, you'd see that - as well as every other option. Maybe I'm a little worried about one of so I'm shying away from the granola because Or I just don't think about cream of wheat I mean, they don't have very good brand What even is cream of wheat exactly? And the oatmeal is sitting right there in Or maybe I think briefly of making one of those quinoa breakfast bowls that are so hip right now. But my lazy temperament, or my belief that pushes me to choose the 90-seconds-in-the-microwave See how it works? All you have to do is change one factor - a belief, desire, or temperament - Hard determinists argue that, just because led us to an action, we could, in theory isolate if we knew enough about all the beliefs, desires, So, in this view, what we call "decisions" are really just the inevitable results of a bunch of mental stuff combining in just the right way. And maybe it feels free. But hold up! Like, what if I have someone choose my breakfast Or what if I fall back on randomness, by, After all, if I just flipped a coin, then it wouldn't look like that decision was made by beliefs, desires, and temperaments. But, well, no such luck. Because even if I thought I chose randomly, or who I asked to pick for me, was just as And guess what! If you're getting angry right now about well, that anger was determined! If you're finding this whole topic confusing, You think you can just freely choose to stop watching me, good news: that's determined Determinists believe that you can't help but feel and react the way you're reacting right now. You can think you're choosing to act in selected and shaped for yourself, but even of already-determined factors about you and Hard determinism is tough to refute. And it has some really uncomfortable implications. It means the deeply held feeling most of us Is just wrong. And the whole concept of personal responsibility As D'Holbach put it, we're all just "cogs doing what we were always meant to do, with Oedipus had to kill his dad and marry his I had to eat the oatmeal. And you? You just had to keep watching! Today we learned about libertarian free will Next time, we'll see if some middle ground can be found between determinism and libertarianism. And I sure hope there can be. Today's episode of Crash Course Philosophy was inevitably made possible by Squarespace. Squarespace is a way to create a website, Squarespace features a user-friendly interface, Try Squarespace at squarespace.com/crashcourse Squarespace: share your passion with the world. Crash Course Philosophy is produced in association You can head over to their channel and check out a playlist of the latest episodes from shows like Coma Niddy, Deep Look, and First Person. This episode of Crash Course was filmed in with the help of these awesome people and our equally fantastic graphics team is Thought Cafe.