Transcriber: Irina Rafaelle Grinberg Hi there. Let's start. You may have heard of speed dating we'll do a speed experiment, It's voluntary and it's anonymous, but if you do it, don't worry There is no right or wrong. If you see yourself you call yourself And if you are on this side, And the important thing is and you answer on the slips and just do everything silently. So, first, group number two, so you don't see it, Turn away, so you don't see And, group number one, here we go! Please, read this question Now, please, read this question silently Sorry to rush you, but if you can get Now, group number one, at the top of the slip and circle it Group two, you can turn toward the screen. Are we ready? Please, read this question Now, please, read this question If you finished up, please, write your group number And everyone can turn forward again. And if you are in group one, And if you are in group two, They'll be collected, So, let's talk about and let's begin by talking In modern science, are processes that go on They don't take any effort, so you don't know they are happening, And because of this, what is influencing our thoughts, so that has a huge effect on our behavior. But I want to contrast with the Freudian And what we mean by the unconscious is our mental processes that are outside because of the structure of our brain. It's not the Freudian unconsciousness and that could be revealed This unconsciousness is totally different from that traditional idea And the field that I'm going to talk about It is a new field that has just begun and it's a combination of three fields: which is the psychology The second is Cognitive Psychology which And the third is something especially neuroscience such as fMRI technology and can show what parts as you have thoughts, feelings, And this kind of technology because prior to this, of course, to see what was actually going on, But this has made psychology because we can connect brain mechanisms So, I'm going to talk today The first is the realm of physical And the reason I'm going to talk about it's very important to how we survive and partly, because all the processes, that have to do are similar or analogous to the same processes that happen which we can illustrate very clearly. And I want you to come away that our perceptions, both and also our social perceptions and situations, in life and business are very much affected by our unconscious. That what we perceive, isn't really but it's a construction It's not really what is there. This is an example from sight. This is just a typical scene if you are driving down the road. And it's what we normally But now I'm going to show you a slide that is made from the data So, this slide I am about to show you if there was no unconscious processing if you saw, literally, And, as you can see, it's very fuzzy. It's a little bit clearer and outside it's very fuzzy. And the reason and bump into things, is that your unconscious mind, processes that data And when it processes the data, it uses not only, of course, but it uses other things, and it uses things like your expectations, So, let's see, how that works. One of the things And I'm going to illustrate that here. If you look at the squares A and B, A looks like a dark square, That's not really what's going on. The optical data that's coming are exactly the same. They only look different is taking the fact and there is a checkerboard; and it's presenting you As I remove the context, Now you can see So this is an illustration helps you to see things Now, notice the automaticity! If you look at the square, you cannot see A and B being the same, even though if you look at A and B you see that they are. Here is another example. So, facial processing is very important what people are thinking And because we are social creatures, a lot of our mental processes to help us to get along with other people These two pictures are of Barack Obama. And they probably both but what happens when I turn them over? The part of your brain and helps you to identify faces, because we are not used So, it evolved for right side up faces. Look, what happens when I turn it over. So, now you can see that the picture the picture on the other side is not. Now, watch, as I turn it back over, So, this is your unconscious mind Let me give you now to show you that hearing works in in how you use, for instance, context. Here is an old song It should be playing right now. Audio? Well, these are the words to the old song, so you don't really have to hear but I need to get the audio going Anybody? Is the audio going to work now? (Song plays) There we go! Alright. You can trust me that these are the words. But the question is, are you going to understand words? Was the group Led Zeppelin smart enough to design a song that makes sense So, I want you to listen to this audio. Let your ears process it I apologize, if you don't speak English, (Audio plays) So, is this making sense? I bet it's not, When you hear the song backward, But now I'm going to play the song again Just like you saw the squares differently and when I took them away, I'll put a 'checkerboard' here, You follow along with the words and see if you don't hear these words. (Audio plays) So, now you heard the same thing but you heard a different reality. Now you heard words So, which is it? Well, they really didn't make but we take the music, and we match words And when you have that context, your brain makes you think So, this is an example of your I'm going to play again but just to show how automatic this is, I'm going to play the song, I want you to listen to it but don't hear the words! Try and hear as you did (Audio plays) So, now, when you hear it just like you couldn't see and see those squares differently you can't avoid hearing the words, So, these are examples and how you have no control But let's talk about social perception, because that's really And I want to convince you not a direct construction from the data but uses a lot of other factors, your expectations, and the context to make a picture of other people This slide illustrates an experiment Researchers made flyers for the candidates And on the flyers, they listed the qualifications and the views, and also for the conservative But they also put a picture in And then they had people come in &quot;Who would you vote for?&quot;, And the difference is saw flyers where the liberal and the conservative and the other half saw flyers And so the question is, that was in these flyers or do they vote just on the data which is the other data that was listed? And the result was very dramatic. When the conservative candidate she got 58% of the votes. But when she looked So there was a 14% vote swing. So people thought that they were voting based on certain data, but they were really also voting on looks. Of course, this was in a laboratory, &quot;Does it really happen in real elections?&quot; And, fortunately, a Professor In 2006, he collected pairs of head shots in dozens of races And then he got people from districts people who didn't know the candidates, just to look at the pairs of photos So he had these people and tell them who looks more competent, took the statistics on that, and he predicted the outcome of all Not beauty or handsomeness, And how often was he correct? So, in 70% of the races the candidate who looked So, obviously, we are not just basing our vote but our unconscious mind is pushing us Another thing that influences All primates rely on touch to form bonds Most primates spend hours a day Humans do it a little bit less but it really has an affect. So I'll talk to you a little bit now based on whether or not they touch you. And when I say &quot;touch you,&quot; I'm talking about something as subtle as a quarter to half a second light touch And my favorite experiment where French researchers hired in a town in Northern France, and proposition all the single, And to all the young women Here's the script translated into English. The difference between to half the women they provided on the forearm or the shoulder, and to the other half, they didn't. And the question was, would they increase And the answer is yes, They were successful in getting 10% of the time without a touch So it doubled their success rate. Now, of course, picking up a woman so you might think that touch is expected but this same experiment For instance, waiters and waitresses if they give their customers So this is something again When they interviewed people most of them did not remember and they all denied that the touch In my last minute, I want to convince you that these because a lot of people &quot;Yeah, other people are silly, So, before this talk, at the beginning, I asked you how much you would expect And I divided you into two groups. And, typically, when I do this experiment, group one tends to average around And group two tends to go Let's see, what you guys did. Sean? Thank you. Wow! OK. Group one 1,857 dollars So, how did I, the magician, influence you subliminally because I didn't twist your arm, and I didn't give you Both groups took in exactly the same data, and, somehow, And the difference was this. Group one was asked first this question, &quot;Does this room cost I think, the answer is pretty clearly no. But group two was asked, The answer is also no. So, when you answered the second question, you are basing your answer This is the context, And just like the words were So, let me end who I don't agree with but I think he was right when he said: &quot;These subliminal aspects may seem to play but they are the almost invisible roots Thank you. (Applause) (Host) Thank you, So, you know that how do we choose... You just proved Leonard Mlodinow: You choose, how are you doing the choosing. Host: Thank you very much. LM: Thank you very much. (Applause) (Host) Thank you. Thank you.