In this video, we're going to we're going to look at how we may want to create an email sign up for a newsletter, you Let's see why. We're going to can really do this on the Mac, to my Mac. Let's first take a look at what create an email address, such as you create that email address, I'm going to go to my mail here, can see that I have note Boom my primary email address. When I this primary email address. And it comes into my inbox here, do is we can give that address, it'll still go into going to go to your primary sender is concerned, they are email address. So then what rules, you could have a email address, go into a So how do we create these addresses these email aliases? different ways to do it. We're ways. The easiest way is to just address as an example, I did this email here. If we look at says no boom productions plus D alias the plus d t is the alias to my primary email address, no what I can do is I can create a plus d t, go to a different we create this secondary email Let's go over to Safari here, want to sign up with an email you would do is you would use I'm just going to go nope, boom productions@icloud.com. That's now let's just say I wanted to able to do is create a rule for alias that I'm going to create email box. And if I no longer specific service, what I could to the trash, I will never see just go right before the Add plus. And we type in what the alias is all we have to do. So for this dance tutorials, I could even go that is now the alias that I'm that email address or that email my iCloud account my note one But what we'll have here is the now how do I use that? Well, can create a rule like I that includes note one tutorials@icloud.com, I could could have it go into a folder. So let's go and see how this is rule in the Mail app on the Mac. create a rule in here we can, recommend it is those rules are awake and on a network. What you rule in icloud.com. So now what to Safari, I am in iCloud here. rule is just go over to mail preferences here. And what you're going to see is or click on rules, I can go and is just say when it is addressed created so I could go nope, boom And now I can move any email this new alias that I have separate folder. So all I have folder, choose a folder, we're just say it's for feedback. Now, address, it's going to show up going to go to my inbox, and applied. And it'll go into alias, let's go ahead and add this. So that's one rule. I have over to is address two, I'm just is to Dan's tutorials. So now I can do is say when it is I want it to go to a different it as read, I want to move it to let's go ahead and do that. And email that has that alias plus to the trash and mark it as red. So that's the easiest way to do is just when you sign up, all plus there, and then type in the original email address in create a rule. You can also Gmail as well. Now I mentioned that there was alias. The other way of creating completely separate email work, but you do have more separate email address, it is your primary email address here. completely different. So how do back over to our iCloud here. over to accounts, we do have to iCloud and then I go over to my And from here we go to Accounts. what I can do is I can add an aliases here I have no Boom dance tutorials@icloud.com We with note Boom my primary email address. So if dance tutorials@icloud.com What to my alias here, and then it note Boom not creating separate email they are different aliases, and account. So if you were to send tutorials@icloud.com, where Boom productions@icloud.com address. And then from there, rules for that email address as of using this type of an alias? because it's a completely could have a completely separate you want to have a professional personal email address. But you inbox, where you can do that So the advantage to this is you identity. Another advantage is, that email alias, what you can go and delete that alias. any will no longer receive because going to be used. So it's almost email address. But instead of it does is it goes to your main advantages of this. The bit more work to set up and you you can't create unlimited type of an alias. So if you want you may want to delete that you may want to go into your up a new alias. If you just want maybe you're signing up for a into a separate folder. Then use the other trick where you after your email I'll address and then create a different types of email aliases may want to create an email us further control or more create rules based on different as an example. And then of separate identity without having email account. We do this through icloud.com. with Gmail and other email you how it works on Apple. This You can do this on the iPad. You course you can do it on the Mac. aliases and why we may want to control our email on the Mac,