- This could be the factory of the future. Actually, this could be several - We have automotive parts and then aerospace parts - This is called 'roboforming.' It's a new way of shaping metal by using robots and Why do this? - We're still manufacturing things the same way we were making To make the next leap and keep we need to accelerate the physical world, and that requires for manufacturing to go to the next level. - Right now, most metal manufacturing is sheet metal forming, basically, stamping metal into a shape. - Sheet metal industry right Most metal parts you see You're driving in a freeway in your car, you're basically sitting Or you're sitting in an airplane, it's basically a sheet metal aluminum can. Even electronics, all sheet - Sheet metal forming is fast and cheap, but there's a downside. - You have to build a factory and most factories are for the design you're It's not easily changed; - The uniformity of our world is an artifact of the assembly line and the way we manufacture things. But this technology could create a world where custom manufacturing could be just as affordable and efficient. - I'm working on a product that allows you to design a new car and start manufacturing - Our scanning technology and form those without the same agile way that craftsman did it. - This is some serious metal. Actually, it's heavy metal. No, I mean it's really heavy. It's, it's like a 1/4&quot;-thick steel plate. Stick around to meet the robots This is &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; a series about rebuilding We came to Chatsworth, which but is in fact a city in the Why here? Because that's where Machina Labs is, a company that is trying to This is Ed. He founded Machina Labs he wanted a robot blacksmith. I mean, who doesn't? - Manufacturing used So back in the day, they and bomb forming is a process where a craftsman sits behind and slowly deforming a kind of almost conquering physics, right? They can incrementally deform with a limited tool set that they have- a bunch of hammers, but how can they use the in a creative way to get to a final part? So what we are trying what those craftsmen did back then, but using robotics and our system, and form those without the same agile way that Yeah, so- Can you tell Cell 1 folks, when they open the clamps, - That's okay. This pause gives us a moment to appreciate Ed's magnificent beard. It's just a masterpiece of beardsmanship. Yeah. Anyway, let's move on. - I come from the additive world. I was in charge of a a very large envelope metal 3D printer for aerospace applications. - Ed is being modest. He was helping build a rocket for a little startup called SpaceX. - So when I was at SpaceX, we had this very large, We were building large tanks. Think of a tank for a and 10 feet in diameter. And when we were working on Falcon, and Falcon 9 specifically, the diameter of Falcon 9 because there was so much tooling that was specifically So if you want to add you had to just make it taller. Well, you can never make you couldn't make the rocket fatter. So even a company like in terms of like once you you kinda have to stick with it. In order for us to build process, we have to take that and see if we can scale it. And once you're looking at the detail, it's actually very complicated. 'Cause what happens in or a sheet shaper is pretty complicated. It has dexterity of the robot, so we needed robotics to of their hands, but then we also need to replicate what's happening in their mind. - Instead of just stamping out a shape onto these metal sheets, to create whatever shape you want. Actually, one robot pushes The support part is super important, because if you just pushed from one side, you'd get a big stretched out mess. Using two effectors allows and where the metal bends. This is Michael. No beard. - It's a bit of a dance between two very synchronized robot fingers that are slightly offset with each other, and they're kind of gently and extruding it. And when we actually we're not just moving we're actually thinning it that it needs to achieve to form a part. - This beautifully the robots to slowly nudge the metal into whatever shape you want. You might think this is but people have been trying Well, not quite that long. - This method of sheet forming, you know, people have the invention of CNC. Have been doing research I would say, actively, but loosely, the past 30, 40 years. - A blacksmith doesn't They are constantly has changed the object, and adjusting it, changing the way they hold This is a feedback loop that patience, and intelligence. And until recently, robots to both manipulate the metal and observe and adjust to - From a hardware standpoint, what we're doing has been but from a software standpoint So our access to GPUs, our access to neural network type models were incredibly helpful for us in sort of being the And we will even touch sense what's happening, and then feed that back into models that can essentially do It's like, &quot;Okay, this alloy is feeling a little bit rigid today. We're gonna have to - The robots here are constantly sensing and compensating for super complex forces, which has only been made In fact, the intelligence is the real star. These robots are actually - What we do here uses and commodity hardware. In fact, one of the really that we have in the building, I'm not gonna point out which one, but we bought it on eBay, - I was told you bought these on eBay. - I didn't buy 'em on eBay. - You didn't sound defensive at all when you answered that, by the way. - Well, no, I mean I could have. I didn't buy 'em. The person who was selling I think that's where probably - Someone was just selling and we're like, &quot;Okay, Let's try it out.&quot; One of the joints has a and it's a little like dangerous to use, but it works, right? The darker orange ones are really old. I think they started - But yeah, we didn't buy 'em on eBay. - I got the sense that what you're doing with their arms, and they feel like you guys are sort of like well beyond - These robots are not created but yes, definitely. It's not an application &quot;Oh, you can use robots for And I remember in the first early days, when I started talking to use these robots for, they're like, &quot;Not doable. Don't do it. It doesn't make sense.&quot; - So an off-the-shelf robot arm isn't quite everything You also need an end effector that is strong enough to survive the tremendous amount on the sheet metal. So you make all these in-house? - Yes. All of these are made in-house. So we are, to some extent, but allows 'em to basically The substrates, usually it's that doesn't deform under pressure. So think of like carbide and tungsten. - Wow, that's heavy. - They're a pretty heavy material. - Wow. That is not light. One thing I would love for on the arm, is sort of like where does the standard KUKA arm end and your hardware begin? - So you see in this robotic arm, anything after the Now, there are a little bit in terms of sensors that added to capture some of the Obviously, we also So everything on the frame, everything is also built - The sensors on these to the amount of force they're exerting and where they are in space. They can even scan the geometry of the object they're shaping to make sure it's coming out correctly. I'm surprised at how although I know there's tremendous but it's sort of, it's almost - Yeah. I think right now, we're on one of the sides. So 2,000 newtons is around, And then on the other side, you have another 2,000, 1,500 newtons. - A newton is equivalent to about 102 grams of weight in your hand in Earth's gravity, which is equivalent to So 2,000 newtons of force is about 13,161 Fig Newtons I am hungry. When is lunch? Anyway, so now that these robots have the intelligence they need, what will they build? The world runs on heavy metal. Oh sheet, I mean sheet metal. It runs on sheet metal. Actually, heavy metal is a you don't want that. Look at the appliances around you. Or look at cars, or airplanes, sinks, bathtubs, ducts, facades, roofing. We use it to make so much stuff. We've been doing it for a long time, and we're pretty good at it. - Manufacturing technologies most of them haven't changed in the past, I would say 60-70 years. The way we manufactured Model T at Ford, the first mass-produced car, is the same way we're Make it very giant, archaic, press that just does this with a lot of force. Put a sheet in between - Each of the parts that get stamped out which requires a huge investment and a long time to set up. - When we were talking with a plant that manufactures a vehicle, we're looking at a $150 million investment in just equipment. These are plants that are like And then you need to also that are like three-stories-tall, and then three-stories-down in the ground. - A hundred and fifteen million dollars seems like a lot of money just to keep Eminem busy during the day. I don't even want to try and convert that to what it would cost in Still hungry, guys. Oh my God, when is lunch? - You kind of need to be a to make something out of sheet metal. That's boring to me. I don't want the design power for the things that I of probably some of the organizations that might be least ready - Ford famously said, as long as it's black, because I need to change my factory if you want something custom, and I will never be able to do that.&quot; - Manufacturing on an into a specific way of doing things. Making adjustments like or stopping the assembly The uniformity of modern manufacturing is what has made it fast and affordable. - If you look at World War II, what enabled the United States to win that wasn't necessarily superior technology, but much faster rate of production. We could make tanks faster - But with technology like this, we could see fast, that was also customizable and flexible, even on something that rolled - One of the things we're working on now is the Anvil project: It's our platform for So what you're seeing is of this hood that we formed. And you can see it's still very raw, but it is our first attempt at actually getting - The team here is building a totally custom vehicle, replacing all the visible as a way to see how their can integrate with existing products. - We're not redesigning We are doing the thing that most people that are interested in which is, &quot;I wanna make So we're going from a truck to a truck that you would see in like a sci-fi movie, basically. - So if you're making a new model of car, you could send the part specifications to a roboforming factory and they could start instead of taking years and to set up a new factory. And if you want those parts that's as easy as loading in a new file with the custom shape. - By using this type we want the cost of this custom car to essentially approach the - This project is also a way for them to let the machines practice and I mean that literally. Because these manufacturing they learn in a way that is similar to us, trying, failing, and trying again. And once they've practiced it a few times, they begin to make it perfectly. - Whenever I interview who come from like traditional that are more research-focused, they are appalled that we before we do it. - Custom parts have more This is also important for repairing things like exotic airplanes or equipment that they don't If I brought you in a part where I'm like, &quot;I need this aircraft wing. I can't get it made anywhere,&quot; can you scan that and that then can be duplicated? And what does that process look like? - That's exactly one of for the customers right now. Sometimes there's a part that comes in that they don't even have a drawing for, we have to scan the part and it's part of our stack. You can scan it, it automatically generates the CAD, and we use that to our path-planning software to figure out what kind of a We lost a lot of these We don't have those manufacturing plans. We went more toward bespoke and million-dollar fighter it can do a lot of things, but once it gets damaged, it'll take years. So what we are working with is can we bring this so that we can maintain, like, we can fix a plane as opposed to four years. - At this stage, there to roboforming. It's not as accurate as it but it's getting better all the time. It's also getting faster. Beyond just being quick roboforming can also work and other alloys that with sheet metal forming before. That means it'll open up we've just never had. I mean, if you ever wanted to drive above the speed of sound, you kinda need a titanium truck. So I mean, really, for science, I think it's a necessary - I think so. I think we need to design of titanium and do - Yeah. I think it's only, it's only fair. - Yeah, I agree. - Right now, we work with a but ultimately, I think what is what we call 'democratization Get this in the hands of the people who couldn't make these parts like, somebody like a SpaceX Can we enable those guys? Because those are the the next generation of that we want to look into Those tools are gonna be very crucial and will change the landscape. - So what will it mean when our factories are as capable and So, picture a scenario where we rebuilt our manufacturing That world would include a lot of different ways of making things, 3D printing, machining, you name it. But sheet metal forming will always be a massive part of that world. So, how would it all work? - You know, I imagine a you as a designer, you upload your design, get guided through how you can manufacture it in the most efficient way, hit submit and say, &quot;Okay, I in Los Angeles, California.&quot; And the right facility, that doesn't look like it more look like data centers that has bunch of these robotic systems that can be programmed to I think that would be the I think manufacturing needs to go. - But manufacturing this way is about more than just speed and cost, it's also about proximity. Roboforming factories are and that could change where we build them. - If you go to Midwest, there are areas where we had large manufacturing plants, manufacturing certain type of the car. Once that car was obsolete, that whole economy around 'cause that factory could It was cheaper to just let it go and go start somewhere else from scratch. But once we move to this new paradigm where you can configure the you can distribute it for one thing, it can be very closer to the consumers because it can be very adaptable. You're gonna have much They're gonna manufacture very close to where they live, and they can constantly be adaptable to changes in needs in those communities. - When it doesn't take hundreds of millions of dollars smaller companies will be able to make products like cars or appliances. It will mean more ideas, more creativity, and more personality is infused - The reason I care about manufacturing is at the end of the day, You know, it's a form of self-expression. You are conquering the to create something that and what you are about.