[music] In 1970 there was a battle for the with 16 different models available across Europe. It's a fight that was even more intense and it's something I remember well. This is the sort of car my father was purchasing, and I often went along with him I'm not going to talk about ultra luxury or Jaguar, although Mercedes has snuck in regular transportation in Germany. I'm thinking more the premium mass market in Germany, and I'm going to stick with so no 2-door mid-life crisis cars! Anyway, without any further ado, here's [music] At the start of the 1970s the executive market Rover's main offering was the P6 and in fact the older P5 was still on sale. But the P6 was the one to have. Rover had also just launched the Range Rover, than a luxury town cruiser. That shift would come much later. Rover had been integrated into British Leyland They'd been selling the 2000 as long as They were good cars, but not in my family's We made do with the lower end Austin 1800 from the British Leyland stable. If you were looking for something British version of the Zodiac. But it was a slow selling model. Ford was well aware of that, and was beavering Ford's big rival General Motors owned Vauxhall, a luxury version of the Vauxhall Cresta, and For those who wanted something a bit more due to import tariffs, there were various Over in France Citroen had just launched cars I'm going to talk about here, but the as good as ever. Peugeot had replaced the 404 with the new They sold in France of course, but also had South America and Africa. Over in Italy Fiat offered the Pininfarina Italy always had a problem with large cars so this car was expensive to purchase. Lancia were still selling the Flaminia launched year of production. They also offered the Flavia that itself was that would soon arrive. These cars provided luxury and comfort, but an expensive car - reliability. To be fair, no car in 1970 was great at this, Germany. Mercedes' 200 series launched in 1968, and but out of the price range of the average A little more reasonable was BMW's large It was the first BMW to feature four headlights It featured a new 6-cylinder engine that would cars throughout the 1980s. At this time BMW were only in the process were selling bubble cars just 8 years earlier, The 1968 Audi 100 was the new top of their to take on Germany's other two luxury car If you wanted a little safety in your car, the first 6-cylinder car they'd ever produced. And although it's a little small compared mention the Saab 99 that was pitched as Saab's So, that's the choice in 1970. It was almost identical in 1971, the only given a facelift and renamed the 2000. In 1972 the Vauxhall Viscount ended production, do with the next car down in Vauxhall's It was updated for 1972, with the highest a 3.3L 6-cylinder engine. While Vauxhall was taking a step back due a step forward to combat slow Zodiac sales. Its replacement was intended to be called the TV company with the same name threatened the lower models the Consul and the upper After legal issues were resolved, the Consul The Granada was a breath of fresh air in the produced cars. Their choices were looking increasingly long were now almost 10 years old. In fact, the last new British car that had With little else new on offer, the well made, Over in Germany there was another new car BMW introduced the 5-series, a car a little executive saloon, and it would Not many Brits were dreaming of owning a BMW at the start of 1973 when the UK joined the the forerunner of the European Union. Suddenly those French, Italian and German the usual Rovers, Triumphs, Fords and Vauxhalls. Some people, including my dad, decided to in his case the Audi 100. Surprisingly, buying a Ford or a Vauxhall, a British purchase as they employed a high the cars, even though the profits went abroad. In 1974 Volvo introduced a brand new model The 264 was the top of the line replacement Volvo would become the "alternative" choice offering features other cars from sunnier seats and headlight wash/wipe. Surprisingly they also offered air conditioning, it to help it sell in the US market. Volvo weren't the only company with a new Citroen finally replaced the DS with the It might look like a hatchback, and it would Citroen were famously against hatchbacks, the people who bought this class of cars weren't Audi would produce an Avant version of the encouraged my dad to get - I thought it But like many he preferred saloon cars. The Avant can't have been a success as Audi British Leyland might not have released a that in 1975 with the 18-22. Like the Citroen CX it looked like a hatchback It was designed to replace the unloved Austin version had a Wolseley badge. It was hard to get a new one at launch due constant problems with strikes meant not enough It didn't help that British Leyland went To confuse matters, just 6 months after the But the nail in the coffin was poor reliability. Demand dried up and customers started looking Like to new cars on the continent. Peugeot released the new 604, a larger and Renault also entered the fray with the 30 Like Italy, France taxed cars with large engines developing larger cars, which left the market Unlike the competition the Renault 30 had that debuted in 1965. The Princess might be struggling, but British for ancient Rover P6 and Triumph 2000 would The hatchback Rover SD1 launched in 1976. Like the Princess it was a massive hit, but And also like the Princess, very quickly customers Maybe it shouldn't have been such a surprise. If you can't get the level of quality on you couldn't expect the higher end Rover It was hard to focus on both production volume involved in a daily "them and us" pitched battle. Lancia ended production of the 2000 and replaced The Pininfarina car was stylish, but like and would damage Lancia's finances. Mercedes on the other hand were doing just Like the previous model it sold well around taxi of all things in its native Germany. Today it's not unheard of for people to concerns meant cars were traded in much more often. After owning the first generation Audi for the second generation that launched in 1976. German cars became known for their reliability, spec than the Rover SD1, but they weren't When we received our new Audi there was some sucked up, causing problems with the engine. And this picture must have been taken when fog lamps had been stolen! There was also supposed to be cruise control, but that wasn't ready The next generation Audi 100 built on the were finding that they were a smart purchase with great build quality, and lively performance Another car that got an update was the Ford UK thanks to its good looks and reliability. My dad test drove one but discounted it due The second generation Granada was a hit though Mercedes got more competition when BMW launched It offered more luxury, better quality and out of my dad's price range. He test drove a 5-series around this time a 7-series, but this was in 1986 as a close-out generation model. 1978 saw a flurry of new models, but really Vauxhall finally replaced the Victor based different models, and Vauxhall didn't have That honour had been passed to The first of these cars was the Carlton - sold While this was the first generation Carlton on the continent. The top of the line Carlton was badged as and the Opel Commodore in the rest of Europe. One step above this was the Vauxhall Royale. This was a stretched version of the also known as the Opel Senator. This all made for a very confusing line-up, Granada, and if Opel could take sales from The last new model of 1978 was from SAAB. They replaced the 99 with the 900 - a more pep to liven it up. The 1970 Range Rover was still on sale - and cruiser around town. If I'm going to mention that car, I also that launched in 1979. Like the Range Rover it was intended as a eventually become adopted as a luxury cruiser. Also in 1979 Peugeot updated their 504 as Like the 504 it would go on to sell well in Fiat had given up in the luxury battle, ending take up the baton with the Alfa 6, their first in the 1960s. Work on the new car had begun in the late but a quadrupling of the price of fuel in large V6 engined car. With demand for large cars rebounding in the and the underlying mechanicals showing their this "new" car in 1979, just in time for The 505 and Alfa 6 might be new, but in the reputation for reliability and rust, as were and Rover SD1. Vauxhall's weren't known as being that This would soon change in the 1980s with Opel One thing that mattered for luxury cars was 1970s was on the Ford Granada and BMW, Mercedes It's no surprise then that at the end of the new flagship 200 Turbo. This matched BMW's &amp; Mercedes' quality In the 1980s Brits warmed to Audi with the campaign and the German three horse luxury As the 1970s dawned, there was a plethora By the end of the decade it was even greater. But the range coming from Britain hadn't In 1970 British Leyland had the UK market By the end of the 70s they were almost irrelevant. Customers of not just executive cars, but reliability and started demanding it, and It's maybe no surprise that the Ford Granada in Germany. But as the 1980s dawned it became clear that An executive car needed to have the right brand. The future belonged to BMW, Mercedes and Audi. I've done videos on many of the cars I've of them in the description. There's links to a couple on the right as well. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in