MALE SPEAKER: We have a very, today. I remember reading that he didn't know a smart man And he has categorized Warren The inspiration from there a very effective learner? What is the science of learning? And reading Barb's book, seems to be teaching us. And I have loved Not only loved could identify that is the voice of a teacher, and personally. So I'm very glad Barb So without further ado, please join me in [APPLAUSE] BARBARA OAKLEY: It's such And I'd like to a little story-- another one. And this story is about-- love to watch other To some greater And I love people watching. And so I have to tell guy who was one of the I've ever watched. And this was when in Antarctica at and this guy's name was Neil. And Neil was this with kind of a And he had a big like this sort of upside-down And what Neil used to like the phone and answer it of the 6'8&quot; gorilla of a So one day, phone rings. Neil picks it up, as usual. (IN DEEP VOICE) &quot;Hello. This is Art Brown speaking.&quot; And it was Art Brown on So Art says, who Or more unprintable And Neil says, why, I'm so glad you've finally And so that's actually what is to help you to get more and what you're doing one of the you can do as a human being, Now, to start, I a little bit about my I grew up moving By the time I'd lived in 10 different places. Now, moving around a lot but it also has some drawbacks, And one of the things is a very sequential topic. And if you miss it anywhere Somebody's a little and you're from the school All of a sudden, fall off the bandwagon, It's hard to get back on. And that's what I fell off the math bandwagon. Just said, I can't do this. I hate it. I really want nothing Science is the same way. And so I basically through elementary, middle, and And it's really funny, because I'm a professor And I publish well in so I do very well But one day, one of my students as a math flunky, and he asked How'd you change your brain? And I thought, you I mean, looking back on it, and I loved animals, and I and I liked to knit, and I loved And at that time, there that were relatively And so I really wanted And I couldn't afford and so how could in that kind of situation? And there was one I could actually go and get paid for it And that was to join the Army. And so that's what I did. I joined the Army. And there you see me, about to throw a hand grenade. And I did learn a language. I learned Russian. And I ended up working Soviet trawlers, up And that's me standing I can still swear although the rest of the But I loved having adventures And so I also ended up in Antarctica. And that's where So I always say, I had to to meet that man, and I did. So the thing is, though, was I began to realize interested in these but they always that I was kind of You know, and having sort of a comfortable thing. But I wasn't actually to really have a I thought back on the worked with, West were in the military. And I realized that their in many ways, exceptional. They could think in a way And I thought, you could read these like they could read equations? What if I could, in some that they were able to speak. Could I actually change my To learn what these people knew? And so as I began to try to how did you change your brain? I started working on a book some of these key ideas were. And while I was I did things like I went Probably a few of you realize that that's a And I looked to see who were teaching subjects like physics, economics, a lot of And a lot of very as well, like How did they teach so and how did they And I also reached out to and neuroscientists. And my background I've taught for several decades done active research And so all of these things And what I found that I thought I reached out to all these in the STEM disciplines Technology, used these approaches like metaphor or analogy. But they were very that, because other professors oh, you're dumbing things down. But it was actually of these top professors used the ideas. It was like this They all knew how didn't realize these using the same approaches. So what I'm going is I'm going to give This, these, are the to learning that all of So first off, we know that the So what we're going And you can simplify into two fundamentally First one is what I'll and the second is what And this is actually-- it network and other related-- neural resting states And so all of these I'll just call the diffuse mode. And what can happen-- way to really understand is to use a metaphor. And the metaphor is that of a pinball machine. And a pinball machine, You just take the pinball and and a ball was boinking and that's how you get points. And what we're going to take that and we're going to And you see the Here's the little ears, and And what we're going to take that and we're going to put And there you go. There's the pinball And you can see how you can and you've got all these or the rubber bumpers, together. So what happens is in like what I'm you've got these close and you often have patterns For example, if you've already and you're trying to do you would sit in got these patterns And you think a thought, and it moves roughly along the pathways it's that you've developed of previous learning. But what if the pattern is something new? What if you already know but you've never So you're trying to Or the concept of How do you go at a that you've never Well, that's where this in diffuse mode thinking, Now, take a look. Here's the representative And it's just an analogy, that helps us understand. Look at how far apart When you think a the thoughts can range Now you can't think in to actually solve the but you can at least of thinking about things that were just in the focused mode. In fact, sometimes, to solve a really the worst thing you sitting there and focusing Because you can be up on so to speak, and yet you need place. So the best thing to stuck and frustrated is not to keep focusing on it. You actually need to get of thinking. And that's what's And so what this for you is you're sitting there, Go for a run. Go down and have a-- go take Or do something that really Because when you're as long as your attention you're still in this to this way of solving things. So how can this If you look at this he was Salvador brilliant of the Surrealist He's shown here with And what Dali used He'd sit in a chair when he had with his paintings to solve. He'd sit, and he'd relax, And just as he'd you know, kind of letting he'd have a key in his hand. And just as he'd relax so the key would fall the clatter would wake go with this new idea taking it back to the refine and really use them. So you might think, that's just great for artists. But what if you're an engineer? If you look at this guy right And what Edison used to do, was he'd sit in a chair with And he'd relax and relax, he'd fall asleep, would fall from his hand. And whatever he'd, in been thinking about, some of those ideas and bring them back with him he could refine it, analyze, of those brilliant inventions. So the lesson for us, out I'm giving some exemplary But whenever you're even if it's a or even millions of other people it's the very first time that And you need to use some of that these other brilliant And what you want is that you can or you can be in diffuse as far as we know, unless well-trained monk-- be in So focused or diffuse. And you want to Diffuse thinking is but it is also learning. And so that's why that be very important. Now I just wanted to give This shows some of the brilliant mode network. See all these connections of the brain? This is a web for but focused mode has So if you're only not making access to a lot of the different are available for you. That's why going back can be so very important. Now, it takes time to do this. That's why you can't solve a difficult You often have to go back And in some sense, you like this is a weight-lifter. And a weight-lifter, he before a big meet and It takes time to In the same way, it takes time that is involved in learning But I know what you're You may be thinking, I wait. Sometimes I don't, like, And so let's talk a little And sometimes you can be a but still procrastinate And so in that sense, to learn to help improve and your effectiveness So procrastination arises Studies have shown that if don't like, the pain centers of So if you look at a book for you can actually feel a twinge, if you're being imaged. So what do you do I mean, it's the same your thumb with a hammer. Well, you have two different The first way is you can work or so, and the pain will But if you're like most is you'll just kind of turn more pleasant, and guess what? You'll feel better And so in some sense, can actually be a little You do it once, it's not that big a deal. You do it a lot and it actually can be very, So I'm an engineer. I believe in totally So what I'm going to do and say here's the to help you deal And it is simply to use And this is a technique that Cirillo in the 1980s. And it involved-- he called because he had a and pomodoro is And what he would he recommends you set Actually, you can Different time lengths are But you set it, in and then you turn So no alarms, no instant that can disturb you turn that off. And then you work with as as you can for those 25 minutes. Now sometimes, I'll be am I really focusing And then I think, because I just got wondering whether I'm focusing But I let that and then I get back And that's what you're You want to just keep And what happens is focusing on the task and the must complete this task,&quot; it to do. I mean, anybody, can sit for 25 minutes and work. And then when you're And that reward is Because what you're focusing during but then you want to train and do something different. Just surf the web, go out for you go off and do that. And this, actually, Because we know that some place during this So your tendency is working when I'm not focusing. But you actually are. So it kind of gives of a feeling of relief that is OK to relax. So a couple of little pointers. First, don't sit down and you know, I'm going Don't focus on the task. Only focus on the time. And that's the trick Because it gets you past and allows you to just into the flow of the task. The other thing I'm going to do 20 and think that you're going productivity that way. You want to just gradually start and you'll see that it Now another aspect that's really is we've also been really important before a big Actually, sleep is important And I'm going to mention a little bit of one of that sleep's important We've found that if these little circles cells, neurons, in the brain. And what happens when Well, when you're awake-- these metabolites will go in between the junctions. And they kind of sit out toxins in your brain. So when you're are gradually accumulating And they affect your judgment. That's why, when you stay it's more and more So when you go to sleep, Now watch very carefully to You go to sleep, they shrink. I'll do that again, have so much fun doing this. See? They shrink when And because they is that allows fluids and wash these metabolites out. So a very important is just the housekeeping, that takes place, that so much more effectively. Now, another very relates to neural In this wonderful paper by Guang is if you look at you can see here This is the same neuron The top neuron is before The bottom neuron is after All of these little triangles And so when you learn that's when the new synaptic And this is what's going So that's why it's very learning something don't want to cram You want to have many short learning, sleep, you build that helps you learn so much better. So there's another and people often think this from real learning that recess from kids. Because they're like, oh, Only when they're sitting in that's when they really learn. But that's not true at all. We're now finding how is to the learning process. Now if you look here, this and they were to differentiate between And if you look in the is all of these blue Now we used to think you are that you have, and got for the rest of your life. Well, of course, now we But it was wisdom, received And so what they found was-- Those are actually that are being born as well as in this mouse, And that is how-- essential to our ability new information. There's two ways to allow and survive. One is you get exposed That's why travel That's where your And these kinds of things can But the other way of helping that's just as powerful as So exercise is And I'm not talking, to be an Olympic weight-lifter, Even simple walking can And I'm sure you've You're all muzzy-brained, and and it clears up But even a few days is doing much more than that. It's actually enhancing to grow and survive. Now, if you look, there's a name He was on one of the this original research. He's the Francis Crick and she's also my colleague in Course that's based on the book. And Terry is-- he's And it was really a lot of fun Course with him. And so we went and we did And so then I asked him, I you're talking all this of exercise. Do you exercise? What do you do? And he's like, do I exercise? And what he does is he goes and he goes down-- he's The guy's 65, and You know, I'm And he goes running on the And this is how he I love how he finishes here. Watch this. [LAUGHTER] Look at that. So he is a legend And I'm convinced is because he uses that he's found in his keep his edge intellectually. Now, so let's just talk a called working memory. Working memory is how you It used to be seven slots in working why you could hold a phone But now we're kind of realizing four slots in working memory. So maybe for me, it's like But anyway, so you and it in your prefrontal-- as your working memory, in your prefrontal cortex. So I've got it kind of as your four slots So when you are are thinking about something you can think of at least, as something like of Attention, that reaches of working memory between different ideas. And that's why you can't in your brain before But what happens if What happens if you've kind out here on some, you know-- am In some sense, that's like away of your working memory. And you don't have So it really is kind whatever intellectual you're kind of You're getting a little stupider So that's why careful focused important, especially when that's rather difficult. Now, I just like to contrast The diffuse mode, it's but they're much more random So how do you take something into long-term memory, which in your brain? Well, the best way Practice makes, in The more you practice, the pathway becomes, and the more So if you're learning those patterns get And that's how you can from long-term memory If you don't practice, is you've got those like you've got these little come and they suck before they can get deepened. And so that's why sometimes from a professor-- you You've had that great You walk away. You don't look at and those little suck that pattern away. And you can't really what you had learned previously. So the best way to get in your long-term through spaced repetition. So you might practice maybe again on Friday. And by spacing things that you're getting those new every time you learn a little What you don't want of thing, where you're just And then look, that kind of sucks at all away, and It's hard to remember A good way to think about this If you're building a brick time between layers and you can build a But if you don't, it's And it doesn't turn into that you can actually use. So let's go back going to talk a little about attention, and the memory. Now, if you look you've got one slot in your When you have one slot filled, in your working memory. But here's the trick. How do you get things It turns out that if you of the material, it's easy So here's what I mean by that. If you look here, here's a raw It's a puzzle. It's hard to figure out. It looks like a mad scramble. And look what's going on It's kind of going trying to figure things out. In fact, recent has shown children who are their little prefrontal as they try to assimilate But once they've got those What's actually They've got the essential idea, is like is one smooth, pull into working memory in order to understand and make that they're trying to solve. Now, if you just understanding what that's like creating And you can see it. You've got it. It really is a chunk. But you can't fit it very So there's another important and that's this. Once you've compressed an mathematicians of the great aspects of that you can compress it. You grapple, grapple, grapple, and you've got it compressed. Once you've got it there's actually-- you can Just like learning a You can actually learn another and you've got a bigger chunk. Or you can also learn similar and it's very, very helpful. That's an idea of transfer. But what you're you're learning and is you are, in some sense, And you can draw on connections between things. And that's how great is making connections So true experts often have that they've developed. Now, when you're sort of a-- you can think of it So if you're you can almost think of it that's that tire, and here's and another tire. So you're learning and when you get them it forms the big Even if you're missing a you've still got But if you don't practice your chunks, it's like this. It's like you're trying to with chunks that are faint. And it's much harder to put with that in mind. So again, as I got one ribbon of thought. That's a chunk. Here is another chunk but it's of a similar shape. And that's the idea of transfer. So if you're a be able to learn because some of the chunks are If you are a language learning math and science, For example, that idea of for language also applies in So let's go to some think relates to learning. Some of you may have wonderful memories here. But some of you may wish Well, let me kind of give What you think may be actually can be a very, It turns out that when you have that really means is you very well, right? So you're looking at your all this different stuff. They can hold it in turn somersaults with it, and quickly. And you're lucky they were even talking about. But here's the thing. Research has shown that if you and your four slots other stuff is That's why you can't hold But because the other you're actually more creative. And research has shown that Disorder, or your attention Then what that means potential for being creative. Do you have to work harder in order to make up for that? Yeah, you do. But that comes that you are highly creative. So you can be very, very even though you may have to have that achievement. Now, you may say, well, but I'm actually a slow thinker. I see these other people, and car brain. They can pick up and I kind of move Well, one of my heroes is the Nobel Prize Cajal, who's known as the Ramon y Cajal was not a Part of what he did was he But he said, these which he was not-- and they jump to conclusions He would see them, and he was When he'd see a mistake, Whereas the race car to being right and being able to be persistent change in the light So if you have a slow brain, There's the person with Great. But you're the hiker, is completely different. You walk along. You can see the little rabbit You can reach out and You can smell the pine forest. All of this is missed So your way of thinking can as well. In fact, Maryam Mirzakhani, which is the top the equivalent for mathematics And she was told you think too slowly Well, guess what? She's one of the most So if you think slowly, You're doing good. Now, I also want to and that is the aspect This is so important And what it is, it's the fake in the room, right? I'm working here? Maybe I'm working at as good as they say that I am, here. And people feel this no matter what they're doing. You're a professor? Oh, wait a minute. You know, they're going to find I took a test, and I did well. But next time, because I know they'll find Really, really common feeling. And the best way to address is to just be aware So next time you I'm really not as I am, remember, that's the And probably one of the that I could bring why I'm doing it is this idea of illusions Now, let's say that a bear came hurtling and rampaging through the room. Would you feel a surge of I mean, suddenly your body to this feeling of intense fear actually in front of you. But the thing is, when you think we often say, students you know, I have test anxiety. That's why I didn't But for a lot of sitting down and is like there's a bear there. They just realized, that they really didn't even though they So students, and people, that they're learning not learning something. So I'll give you some of the something. First off, tests are the best. Test yourself on The same hour spent to that hour spent studying, by taking a test. And use flashcards. Flashcards are not just Why let them have all the fun? Flashcards are for ordinary-- and science, for example. If you talk to great poets, you is memorize the feel the passion and the power Why should mathematicians not How about engineers? When we have equations, if and really look at what does it it actually can bring of what you're learning. And the thing is when Homework-- a lot make the mistake you know, I did my And it's like saying, and I played this piano piece Well, nobody does learning a musical instrument. And in the same way, you don't want to just do You don't have time and kind of repeat them, but and see if you can do it again. Like practice it, and Can you step through If you can play it almost you've really got it. You've got it down can help build your Now, probably the most when you're trying to really is simple recall. When you're reading material and your tendency going to underline it, right? Because when you're hand you think it's moving it But it actually is not. So resist the urge. You can do a little But it's better to write to neurally encode these ideas. And then when you look away and see That, as it turns out, is your understanding of that other techniques, including they're not nearly So another very important to study judiciously or talk about what you're with other people. Now, this has to be Obviously, all learning in a cooperative fashion. Sometimes you have to go off. But when you're of in focused mode, of that focused mode, that what you've just This sort of rightness feeling. And the only way you can really is to go off and bounce your And they can almost serve like to help disabuse you when So judicious studying with with colleagues can Also, explain in a way that So frequently we the flow of electricity, as It's an analogy. It breaks down. All analogies break down. But Richard Feynman, the used to go around and challenge to explain in a simple that their grandmothers what they were doing. And you know what? They could. So this means that no that problem is that if you find a way to you'll be able to understand One thing to do into whatever the problem is. Like, here I am in a Barbara McClintock, the Nobel used to kind of imagine herself so she could understand and see be operating. So that's a trick that's often thinkers. Try to find a way into almost like you're trying to understand. If you want some more I've talked about here, &quot;A Mind For Numbers.&quot; And there's a lot free-- in the Course for Coursera, through How to Learn. And that is the key, I'd like to leave you We're often told, That is the key to everything. Just follow your passion, be a better place for it. We're told that. But some things-- about what you really good at. And some things take much So don't just follow Broaden your passions. And your lives will Thank you very much. [APPLAUSE] MALE SPEAKER: Thanks, Barb, Now we'll open it up for Please raise your hand and I'll bring the AUDIENCE: So one I had was that, you know, and tackling tough say, well, break it that you know how to do. And so I wondered how that fits mode. Because that seems kind of into a bunch of BARBARA OAKLEY: Actually, to is that idea of chunks. So remember that you've got The more you can understand and make it into another little aspect into a chunk, and so you're focusing to do that. And then in diffuse mode, and making the when you're sleeping, out all these kinds of things. So they all are related, but If you try to learn it all at it's like your little prefrontal but it's overwhelmed. So you want to just so you can draw Very good question. AUDIENCE: A chunk So when there is a that there was an experience of BARBARA OAKLEY: Not necessarily. You can learn a and you can not know And you can learn a lot but not know what that means. But if you do know it actually can make it and easier to chunk that word. And easier to use those chunks, So for the most chunking to involve But technically, no. You don't have to It's just that understanding together so that you can For example, if I'm trying to in Spanish, if I'm I'm trying to I don't have any understanding it's kind of harder to remember. But if I know that &quot;pato&quot; what if I'm trying to remember that my duck is floating that understanding, help into my mind. So that's a really good think, oh, you automatic that Not necessarily. But it's a very good thing I AUDIENCE: I wanted mentioned that people can find it easier to because they're related chunks. BARBARA OAKLEY: Depending If you learn Icelandic, going to be able to But it may help a of the metacognitive when you're learning so very different that it's of things that might And there's still a little bit &quot;how do you structure a is common to all languages. So it depends on how But what I think is fascinating That's why it's so people coming from one field to You're a deep sea diver, And you actually can bring And the best ideas by two different One is someone who's haven't been sort into &quot;this is how you think.&quot; But the other is who are trained in a different an initial look and have fresh So, good questions. AUDIENCE: Thanks. AUDIENCE: Maybe a I'm curious about your familiar with the Everyday a lot of schools are teaching my kids take. And for example, they emphasize like a number theory feel. Like they learn, like, to multiply instead of one, And so for example, incredibly confused by this. I'm just wondering if If you have-- how and if you think BARBARA OAKLEY: It's of the country. And so I'm out of Michigan. We have different techniques. It depends. I think it depends on the kids. For some kids, all these different techniques. For other kids, you down really well, and then My own personal opinion math supplement programs is And I'm not a paid spokesperson But what they do is they have and repetition to in your learning of mathematics. And they don't give you a They just make sure you You know how to divide. And you really know So I guess my gut sense, encountered that is I think I'd prefer to see using one technique. When you're older, you But if you've got that one and you can move up. But if you're learning too I suppose it would be growing up learning You know, some But for a lot of kids, it to have too much going on at one thing. AUDIENCE: I have a and not like math or reading, say, a philosophy for example, which And I'm a slow reader. And I'm assuming I'm because I do grasp and retain But I'm incredibly slow. So do have any methods to figure but at the same time, and deeply grasp BARBARA OAKLEY: The Research has lately shown that are actually-- they're somewhat spurious. To read anything difficult I always think, in STEM disciplines-- Science, Math-- is really difficult But then there's philosophy. That's, I think, one of the for people to really grasp. It's incredibly important, And I think just having a little for yourself, that tackling among humankind's And if it's slow, well, Because I would be the same way. And I think a lot of people There's some probably super-fast who could buzz right But they would miss AUDIENCE: I've been wondering more generally to kids. And you briefly on a previous question, practice and repetition. But more concretely, how kids interested that they keep on practicing? BARBARA OAKLEY: been teaching kids let's give them introduced We're going have them going to have them all this exciting stuff. And then they get to college, and it's like the They start dropping like flies. Because they're Everything's always So we don't do that when we're We don't do that when we're But students fall in because they can gain through some drudging through So I think part of have so many kids in this is we try to make everything And we forget the lessons and musicians, and dance instructors-- that practice and repetition And when we get that into the curriculum-- but it's not nearly as sound as Which is why I think we to this country with a love in science and in mathematics organically, because we're not States to some of the supplemental importance So those are my thoughts. We do do a little bit of Because for a long been this feeling that too in mathematics will Instead of the reality, has to have practice with what they're learning. So those are my AUDIENCE: Thank you. AUDIENCE: Hi. So understanding is important, And speaking of that, so there and bottom-up approach. So what do you think is better? Is it better to and then try to study subject? Or it's better to and build this or maybe we have to mix it? BARBARA OAKLEY: You've You don't want to be just doing And you don't want to be You want to be-- it's hard to when you're-- you learn one another little chunk. But you want to start piecing as much as you can. And so you want to be kind One of the techniques that's very important, And a lot of times, when some new technique do 10 problems in learning that But you don't want to do that. You want to do one or two Flip to another Do that problem. Kind of compare-- am I using this technique Why are those different? Flip back. Do another one of Then flip to a training people-- we don't to interleave. And we need to start what actually-- it's but mixed with interleaving, So those are my Good question. AUDIENCE: Like when I was and taking math, I Like I did well, and But my problem was outside that to use it practically or whatever it was that I I just could never do it. And I was wondering if you or strategy or ideas to take math from the able to apply it or just outside of school. BARBARA OAKLEY: That's One of the things that and they say, how am I In fact, I remember into the principal's because I wasn't doing my math. I was actually reading a book. And so I remonstrated saying that there was I would never use it. And they gave up on But it's kind of like this. When you're at lifting a specific are you ever going to go and lift that kind of weight? Of course not. But you're actually that you might use related your luggage to get in and put So what you're doing when in math and science sort of neural pathways. You may not use exactly that they can shape how you're So an example is this. They did a study, and there's some kids who go And you can kind of take courses really, involved. You know, math for poets, And you go all the way through. But people who have where they've had very little for all aspects of what's going control for, the ones who have are far more likely to default So you know, think about that. But it's actually, you're able Now, what about-- about the environment. So someone comes up got to have electric cars. Sounds really good, right? But if you're trained, you've you could go, yeah, What about the on the environment, right? Do they actually In fact, does that create more harm than a regular gasoline engine? If you're taught to think a and carefully about you're using those that you haven't realize how important So one way, though, just a little bit because your When you're learning a language, is you're learning, And it can be really tough somebody and talk with them, But that real life experience is and what nourishes the So I think finding ways-- and you're thinking about mathematically, look into the environment you're in. And try to think about That's such a great question. Because it helps us be aware of And so I think trying to bring learning into the life around and a great attitude to have. So I thank you so very BARBARA OAKLEY: Fantastic talk. Great answers. AUDIENCE: And happy learning. BARBARA OAKLEY: Thank Thank you. [APPLAUSE]