- We're gonna be reacting to the fastest eaters on the planet. - Wow, look at 'em go. - And we're gonna kick and a chicken leg. - Wow. - Oh, that was pretty fast. That was a fast eater. - 10 outta 10. No way. - Is he gonna eat a whole apple? Like a horse? - That's not healthy. - He looks like the kinda guy - He looks like the guy Mr. Incredible's good This guy's seeing how - I would throw up. - Notice how he's eating - Vanilla's better. - Agreed, I'm glad we I would've had to punch you. Honestly, I don't care that he ate 'em all in under 15 minutes, I just care that he ate the vanilla first. - Good job. Oh he drank all his milk - This is an official world record for eating a raw onion. - Oh god. - Oh man. - He's eating it like an apple. - Oh look at his face. What is he doing? What does that mean? When you're going for a world record, you have to show the inside of your mouth, you're like ah. - Watching him tear up made me tear up. That was impressive. - Now Matt Stonie, come be Here's our guy, Matt, back eating six Whoppers. - Those are humongous. Is the Whopper actually that big? - No one knows because no - Yeah, everybody eats at Beast Burgers. - Hey, let's go. - I've never seen nobody be able to do this. - Fastest hot dog choke. What? Wait, what? - It's the glizzy gobbler. - What? - This has to be Florida. - I've never seen this before. - You've never seen this? - I've never seen this. So it's Wednesday, you open up the pantry, you see a box of Pop Tarts. - Everybody's been there, - Mom forgot to grocery shop, let's see how fast you down it. - He just looks so scared. He looks like someone's forcing him. - It's the saturation, it makes it look like a hostage situation. - Oh, that's a good technique. The old fold her in half, - I'll keep that in mind, if I ever wake up one morning and I'm like, &quot;Man I really wanna gain a few pounds of pure fat.&quot; I'll use that to make sure I achieve it. This is a professional eater versus a regular eater. - All right, so he gave him - In case you can't tell, the professional eater's on the left, regular eater's on the right. - He just inhaled it. - That was epic but I versus Joey Chestnut. We'll react to that later though. All right, no, oh I thought he was about to just shove it in there. - He's using his hands. - That chick in the background thought he was just about to go. - Take a look at her, she's like, &quot;Okay, you can leave now. Don't do this in front of me. I have to work here.&quot; Why does he eat it like that? - Oh, that was tasty, that - That was tasty. - Eating a dozen donuts in 45 seconds. - First off, this is insane. Second, we've had a lot Furious, if you're ever in - Hey, you wanna eat with us? Just slowly please. - Yeah, no, no, no, actually it'd be fun because we'd sit down and he'd be done and then we're done. - Hey Bob, go Bob. He's eating pretzels. - I don't know who this guy is, I don't know what records he's attempting but I'm cheering for you, Bob. - Bald Bob eating so many pretzels. - Yo, Bob got his name on his cups. I don't even got my name on my cups. - That took Bob 9 minutes and 30 seconds. - Good job, Bob. - Yo, is this just a Matt Stonie appreciation video? - Matt Stonie's gonna be like, &quot;Yo man, I want some of that ad revenue on that video.&quot; That's insane, he ate - This clip just reminded if you haven't already. - We're a little over from another diamond play button. - Do it. - Help the boys out. - Do it. - Oh, I've seen this, he just - All right, so here's my question, are we counting this as eating? He's really just breaking it. - Chris. - It's funny. - Don't ask questions when it's funny. Oh, Joey Chestnut. - Do you think he'll be that's smaller than the - It's kinda sad watching this after seeing him eat the - Oh God, it's so covered in I hate watching people eat. It's just so gross to me. - It's fascinating to me. Oh, yo, dude in the blue, Joey beat you. - You don't beat Joey Chestnut - We tried. Oh, spaghetti, fun fact, I hate spaghetti. - To show how much I disagree, I'm not talking the rest of this clip. - You know what? I'm sick of you, you're and act like that in front of me. I express my opinion, and you're just not And there's a victory royale on the screen and you don't even wanna react to that. Fortnite in 2021, you Wow, you've changed, Jimmy, You're not the same person I once knew. Hey, look at this. They're about to drink milkshakes. - How did they somehow make milkshakes not appetizing? This is probably the first where I've been like, &quot;I if I didn't eat that.&quot; in a bucket, who wants to drink anything out of a bucket with a hose? They're drinking with hoses. - A straw or a ladel. - Oh, you can use a ladel. - I don't know what that is. - A ladel's like a giant spoon. - I also don't care. - Hey, look, it's BadlandsChugs. You ready for this? Jimmy, no, he's drinking the entire ocean. - No, oh my gosh, stop. The National Geographic - No, dude, you're gonna destroy earth. All right, now everyone is five year olds, gonna manly things now. - All right, shaving. - Um, taxes. - I pay taxes. - I also pay taxes. - I didn't, I keep not paying it. - I need a new co-host in a month. So he's eating a giant cookie. - I guess those are candy bars on top but they just look like poop. Oh, he's scooping it. This looks like one of those things that sounds good on paper - I mean I wouldn't mind eating a cookie. - He looks like he's kinda - 17 minutes. - Wait a minute, there's Hey man, finish your plate. We'll let it slide this time. 350 packs of Pops Rocks. - Pops Rocks? Play back. - Pops Rocks. - Cut him in 4K. - I'm going, I'm leaving. - It's fine, I'll react to the Pops Rocks. What a guess, Matt Stonie's - This looks like it could actually hurt. - Oh my gosh. - Shut up, I'm listening to rocks pop. - I thought it was a great idea but I didn't anticipate it tasting so bad. - It tasted bad? Who would've thought. - 72 ounce of steak in - Why does this look like The quality's so low and the fact that she's with her hands, she's like argh. Yo, that's a big calzone. - Yo, nice shirt though. - I was about to say, he had People who flex their - Agreed. - People. This is just gross, I - It looks good, that's good - Okay, this is two bros though, do you think me and you could? - I would just like to I'm kinda gonna put Chris on blast. I'm been trying - To watch anime with this man, I wanted to play Yu-Gi-Oh with him. Every time I wanna hang out with Chris, he's always busy. Flame him in the comment. - I have a child. - I want bro time. - Yeah, Dan is a - That's what she said. - He just said he's a Is that what they say - Yeah, I mean he is good at swallowing. That's like, - That's a lot of food you have to be good at swallowing. - All right, 100 dollar - Wow. - 12,000 calories? - Yo, I miss eating in like a long time. You know what? That's what we can do as - I'm on keto, dog. - Oh. - I gotta keep the carbs low. Waa. This video's hard for me. - I gotta keep my carbs low. - I gotta keep my carbs low. I have stable energy. Wait a minute, I just in the video and there's Pop up a clip of Epic Meal Time? - 15 Big Macs please. - Excuse me? - 15 Big Macs please. - All right, much better, let's continue. - Isn't this Epic Meal Time? - Is it? Oh. what are you doing? leave this in, there we go, - Oh no. - I hate that cheese, it is It's this again, who's this guy? - I don't know this guy, - I think this is Joey Stoney. There's just no way he's gonna eat that many Big Macs. - You can tell I'm - Oh really? - I couldn't tell you were - He looks like he just There's no way a human should - He did the same thing when he was in the challenge with us. - Yeah. Oh he's saved the lettuce for last. - Is it 'cause he doesn't like lettuce or was it strategic? - Strategic, everything's I mean. did you just say Joey Salads? All right, that's a great place to end, thank you for watching, goodbye.