- I'd have to say Goldilocks They weren't too thick or too thin. These were just right. (upbeat music) - It's a tale as old as time. Where there's food, there's mess. Cleaning is just an unfortunate but does it have to be - A few years ago, on the best gear and tips and since then our team has kept going, testing more cleaning products and discovering even more great tricks. - So we're back with an update. We've got a bunch of our and tips so you can tidy - First up, Hannah, with her favorites. - All right, first up, handheld vacuums. I love these little suckers. (drum roll) The best handheld vacuums and convenience without sacrificing on suction power and efficiency. They're ideal for tackling and for for getting into Most don't need to be and they typically come with And in fact, this was a I accidentally bought one once that had to be plugged in all the time. I basically bought a micro vacuum and it was on the curb outside The best models made and offices easier. We found a few factors This is our winner here the cordless Pivot. We also had a Best Buy called the Dust Buster. It was great too, This one was just a little better. Cost about, you know, 10 to $20 more depending There are links to both of these models and all the equipment we're gonna talk about today down below. And just a reminder, we are not sponsored by Black and Decker. They just happen to make two of the best cordless handheld vacs on the market. So what are you looking The first factor we because with the vacuum, that really is the most important thing. We made this disgusting mixture with a hundred grams of dirt, pet hair, uncooked rice and onion skins, and we sprinkled it on a and we timed how long it took each model to pick up that mixture. We saw a real difference here. The best models only took 30 seconds, and we definitely prioritize those here because if it doesn't vacuum well, what's the point? The Black and Decker pivot right here was the fastest model we tested. Another important factor You really wanted one big enough to clean up your mess in one fell swoop. You don't wanna be emptying The collection bin had to be easy to open. We don't want multiple steps. We don't want, you know, Our winner here just had It opened easily every time. Size and shape mattered too, we preferred moderately sized models that were customizable in length, no longer than 17 inches. Look at, you can pull this out here, get a little extra reach. Weight was also a factor, and unfortunately to get that power, it often added a few pounds. If you're looking for something lighter if that's really your The other Black and Decker, the dust buster was five ounces lighter and that can make a difference. A customizable nozzle we found this to be really important. It just helps you get into tight crevices, gives you a little bit more height, a little bit extra reach. We really preferred During testing we found for really scraping up pet hair, and the most effective ones were the ones that are attached to because you'll actually know The last thing that we was pivoting or rotating nozzles. This helped us get into without straining our Our winner here pivots an Check that out. It also folds up to store really but you can fold it all different ways to get behind things, under things. It was convenient and more comfortable. Here are a few tips for in tiptop shape after purchase. First of all, it may be convenient to leave it plugged in all but this will actually from running at its full capacity, so it's better to unplug it Another tip is to clean every time you use it. And you want to clean the filter roughly every five or six times you use it, a filter that doesn't won't run as optimally. It actually affects the suction power. You wanna replace your you know six months of full use. The filters come in packs of two to four for like 10 to 15 bucks. It's just a small thing you can do to keep this machine running If you are looking to keep but don't have the room to store a big bulky mop and bucket set, a spray mop might be right for you. Because they can't be rung out, even the best spray mop cleaning capacity as a but they're great for smaller spaces, smaller touch ups and Swiffer popularized the 2000s with its automatic and it's spray out cleaning solution. But most of these spray mops on the market today are trigger style, which means they operate Squeeze, squeeze. The thing that really is it has single use cleaning pads. I have one of them right here, so you have to buy them and after a single use, boom you're done. It's wasteful and you're required to purchase them from Swiffer. Same with the cleaning solution. You have to purchase their bottle so it clicks properly If I had to do it all over again, I would just avoid Swiffer entirely. We really loved mops like our winner here from O-Cedar that has that you can fill with you prefer to use. We love Mrs. Meyers here. This is the lavender scent. It smells beautiful, you reconstitute it, so this bottle lasts a long time, and that was a major thing for us. We don't wanna have to buy from the manufacturer This allows you the freedom to clean with whatever you want at Our winner here had a big that we talked about, but not all of them We really preferred large that had two sides to them. This allowed them to clean They were just much more effective. It's also great that You can just throw 'em in the wash, you know you don't wanna spend time washing your washing equipment. We preferred lightweight and sturdy models that were between three and four pounds. This was enough heft apply some scrubbing but not so heavy that they We preferred comfortable roomy grips and spray style triggers. You wanna make sure the cleaning solution gets out easily, quickly, and evenly. Our winner here from O-Cedar so if you pull it a little bit, it just goes out a little bit. If you pull it all the way back, it goes three times further than any of the other models we tested. I'm talking eight feet total here, and if you've ever used a model that doesn't have this feature you're squeezing it again and again and again and again and again and again. That quick easy coverage will reduce your overall cleaning time. What more could you want? Now let's get into some cleaning tips. One of my favorite topics. First, one of the most searched kitchen cleaning topics on Google. How to clean your oven. Like most people, myself included, your oven may accumulate and blobs, burnt on cheese. If you never clean your oven, you run the risk of either and smoke when you're trying to cook something delicious coming out. Or these can actually be really dangerous, and you can start a fire if your oven really is egregiously dirty. So let's start with a couple My oven was in pretty rough shape until I luckily smashed my oven door and had to get a new one. So now it's perfectly clean. That's one method. It is quite expensive. I would not recommend it. Let's start first with a couple others. First I wanna talk about Some ovens have a self-cleaning mode. You can use it. There are some safety tips When you are cleaning your oven, whether you're doing it by hand or with the self-cleaning mode, you want to make sure Turn your hood on, open your windows, move your pets and kids out of the room, but don't leave home. You don't wanna leave an oven in the self-cleaning mode unattended. What the self-cleaning and rev the heat up incinerate any mess in there. The first step you wanna do is make sure to remove the racks from the oven. Take any pots and pans in the oven or in the drawer below out while you're gonna self-clean. You also wanna start by cleaning up any big gloppy messes that are in there. You know, get a head start. Clean out anything you know is gonna create a huge smoky mess. If you're using the self-cleaning mode make sure to never use at the same time. This can actually void It is okay to use dish soap and water between oven cleaning cycles though. Now most modern ovens have but if yours doesn't or if there are all sorts of These use lye, solvents, and other grease cutters to help dissolve and break down the grime in your oven. Now they can be pretty powerful. So you can choose a fume free You know, I have a bun in this oven, so if I'm cleaning one of those ovens, I wanna make sure I'm not Oven manufacturers like recommend wearing gloves, an old apron, and covering the floor around your oven while you're cleaning. Many oven cleaning so you don't wanna run the or ruining the floor in your kitchen. Some of these work pretty quickly so you can use them for spot cleaning. Others need to sit on the so make sure you're aware of so you don't need to use Some work best with a warm oven. So you can turn your oven on to 150, 175, for 15 minutes before you But make sure to read your to get the best results. What if I told you there that could clean anything in your home that you probably already Vinegar! All right, that was probably vinegar is an amazingly that you probably already have. We're not talking about beautiful white wine vinegar We're talking about maybe even gallon sized bottles that you can find at every supermarket. First of all, you can make for countertops and whatnot. You wanna mix one part You can use a little as well to make it smell nice. And remember, this won't disinfect, but it will help clean your counters. Next up, cleaning your microwave. You wanna mix a quarter cup of vinegar with a quarter cup of water and microwave it on high until Allow the steam to circulate and the steam will help loosen any stuck on grease or food bits. Afterwards wipe everything clean with a dish towel or sponge. You can also use vinegar to clean produce. Mix one part vinegar and three parts water in a spray bottle. Make sure to coat the produce fully and rinse it completely afterwards. You can also use it to clean your drains. Pour a half a cup of baking one cup of vinegar and then plug it up. You can use a drain cover or just an old fashioned dish towel. Let this mixture sit for 10 minutes for that fizzy reaction to happen, and then rinse it with hot water and everything should run All right, now let's go to Lisa But first, hit that subscribe button. It really helps the channel out. - So first step on my These are long slim brushes on a long stem to get into narrow spaces or a water bottle or a baby bottle, and really scrub where you This is our favorite. It's called the Quickie bottle brush. I have one of these right by my sink. It hangs on a little hook, and I grab it almost every It's a small thing that in your kitchen and in cleaning. The right bottle brush. Now this really had a lot of things that the other ones lacked. One is these medium length bristles. Bristles that are less than an inch long are about right but not too short. You want a medium length long ones just kind of Shorter ones are not very effective. You're just scratching at things. The texture of these is really good. They can really get in and clean things effectively. You're not just either or just brushing them with something soft. They can really scrub and they can really keep The other thing was the length of the handle was just about right. You could really get to the The handle was just stiff enough so that you could get some good leverage. And there's a nice grippy area at the top. Now this looks a lot like another brush that we tested by Oxo. I had the Oxo brush, and I like threw the Oxo one away. It looks the same. It is not the same. Some of them don't go in the dishwasher because they're made of wood or something and you can't put it in the dishwasher. They're not safe. This one you can put in the dishwasher. So if you want to put it in the dishwasher it comes out completely clean. Looks brand new. If you're rinsing it in hot soapy water, it releases all the food There's the bristles are That stuff doesn't like and you can really get it clean You don't want to just where bacteria is gonna grow with the tools that you're If you don't have a your home, your RV, your vacation home, and you would like to have that, this is something you should consider. It's a countertop dishwasher. We tested them in two sizes. They come in this small size and one that's about twice as big, and we have recommendations The smaller kind does not have The larger ones do have to be hooked up. So they do monopolize your which can be, you know, the length of a dishwasher This is our winner by Comfee. It was our overall that option to not have Some of the key factors that let's start with size. The small ones really hold and I'm not just talking single plates, I'm talking like a full The larger ones hold twice that. They have different cycles. A lot of them are very similar. They have glass cycles, short rapid cycles or they call eco cycles. Some of them have baby care cycles so like you're supposed to be We would not recommend using or sterilize baby bottles. But otherwise they did a nice job. This one we also loved. It pops open at the end of the cycle. The door just pops and that just helps it So the dishes came out drier in the end, and that was just a nice little extra that put this one over the top. So to set it up is pretty simple. This hose just screws onto the back and that goes into your sink. There's a little suction cup to keep it pointed the way you want. It doesn't come out with such force that it really splashes around. It stayed pretty quiet. If you don't wanna use this near a sink or you don't have a sink nearby, you can just have it drain into a bucket and they gave you this which is nice because it still goes in. It doesn't make so much of a mess. We had another model that and it was, you always ended up with a little puddle of water up here. You fill this up three times to the top, pour it in and it will So you know you've put enough water in. You just close that up, choose your cycle, push the button and go. And it's, and the dishes came We checked the temperature of these. We ran them with a special dishwasher temperature thermometer and it recorded the high and these got up to 160 According to the US the dishwasher has to reach 140 degrees to activate the soap and The models that were a little bit bigger that were twice the size so they all reached a safe temperature. These machines also used less detergent than full size dishwashers. You only need about a or liquid detergent and you could use pods, and those are great in these, but if you're using a short cold cycle they may not fully dissolve. So they're best for when with you know hot water and then the pod will fully dissolve. But they're very economical to run. The Department of Energy between $15 and $30 a year to run. So they're not using a ton of of power. And in fact, when you're and the water is running the whole time, they use much less water as well and they heat the water, and then wash the dishes and then drain. So it's all self-contained, and you're not continually and wasting a lot of While we were testing dishwashers we actually thought a lot about We talked to some experts, and I know this is a point of contention in a lot of households, like one person throws things in and the other one is secretly behind their back and getting aggravated. So just to settle some arguments, These are some of the things we learned. Any kind of bowls or cupped things, you wanna face them down. A lot of the water comes So you want anything that needs you want it, you know, facing down. Silverware. First never, never put your chef's knife in the dishwasher. You're gonna freak out every They'll know. If you have butter knives, If you have forks and spoons, put them in handle side because then they'll get Put things in snugly, but not pinching. So if there's anything that's really up against something else through when it's getting sprayed, you wanna make sure nothing is pinched. Don't overcrowd. Don't be tempted to get Take it out, wait for next time. And finally, you do need If you're not getting good results, all dishwashers including have a little cup at the And if you don't take that Rinse it out, clean it out. You're gonna get a bad odor. It will stay in there growing bacteria and be flushed all over your new dishes. It you just really couple weeks, just eyeball it. If it has anything in it, rinse it out and put it back because that will make the performance of your dishwasher so much better. Last but not least, one of the most important the dish towel. We tested a lot of dish towels, and we tested their their durability, and These are by Williams Sonoma. They come in a bunch of other colors, and they're really nice. They come in this little package It makes a great gift. I've given them as gifts, Tell my sister, send And I got 'em and I was very happy. But honestly, they, they wear like iron and they're like a great pair of jeans. These are all cotton towels. They have this nice sort of lattice weave. The weave just stays really and they become softer and softer and more and more absorbent with time. Even though they start they just get better and better. They're nice size, they're They're not too enormous, but they're big enough if you're gonna use it as a it's nice and thick. If you're gonna get like drying the inside it can do that too. And I just find it's just for everything I want We also tested microfiber Microfiber towels were pretty absorbent, but they melted if you And they also, some people they feel on their The cotton was much better, doesn't melt, and it really holds up to It can absorb a ton. We dangled these into water and watched how far it traveled up in a certain amount of time, and these really held a ton of liquid. And so that's great for or for just drying a Also, I'd have to say Goldilocks They weren't too thick or too thin. The really thick ones are kind of clumsy. You can't get into little You're feeling like you've Thin ones can't absorb as much. You're bunching them up and you're trying to to do what you want to do. These were just right. Worried about cleaning your dish towels? Now, after you use 'em in the kitchen and you're using 'em They look sad and gray. You wanna get 'em really We have a few tips for you. The real key here is when no fabric softener. Fabric softeners work by to the fibers of your And that makes them feel But the fact is, if you've and you want your towels you want them to be cleaned You don't want fabric and making them less absorbent and kind of almost sealing the stains in. You wanna just use the most simple straightforward laundry detergent and soak out the stains - There you go. Hopefully with our favorite you're well equipped to tackle - For more cleaning tips and information about all the gear we talked about today, check out the links below or go to AmericasTestKitchen.com. - What are your favorite cleaning tips? What questions do you have Ask us in the comments. Make sure to like this video, and hit that subscribe button (upbeat music)