- It can take a major auto a decade to design, from the ground up. There're thousands of hands working together to make it happen. So I thought in the year 2020, is there a better way to make a car? Yeah. Turns out there is. And it's called the CCzinger 21C. (edgy music) The Czinger 21C is an American and built using 3D printers. Is this foreshadowing the way the automotive industry is Or is it just a gimmick to sell cars? Why don't we find out? (mellow music) (sign buzzing) Thanks to Raycon for I used to hate to see that (car honking) - but with six hours of playtime, these everyday E25 earbuds and right into the front Ooh, that's old Tony tickling the ivories, they sound just as amazing as but they're half the price. Better yet, they offer a So you can make sure you're - Jerry, we gotta shoot. What are you doing? He's at it again, he or something like that. Now with all that bass and he's probably at a jazz club right now. - Tony is tickling away my ear holes. - He usually finishes by telling you to click the link in the description or go to buraycon.com/bumper for 15% off. But who knows when that'll be. - Oh, Tony, don't tickle that should be illegal. Manufacturing a car has for the last 120 years. Manufacturing facilities are expensive and take up loads of space. For example, Volkswagen's and Wolfsburg Germany is of Monte Carlo. And the methods have for manufacturing since manufacturing in the automotive industry existed. As technology grew, these processes got more but they still require a lot I mean, a whole lot of space, but with the growth of there comes a new thought process and brand new technologies, namely artificial intelligence and something called (suave music) Kevin Zinger, CEO and founder of Czinger is tapping in a room full of 3D printers all American 1,250 hypercar called the 21C, which stands for 21st century. And Czinger decided to of making a car and instead work from an inside out methodology, letting the engineering and then drape the body to make a sleek yet aggressive machine. And a byproduct of this is a huge portion of the production process. First, we gotta get a little crash course on artificial intelligence, which consists of two main ideas, machine learning and decision making. Machine learning is essentially It's a computer that learns by watching YouTube videos. Okay, also it learns through experience and the more experienced a machine has, the more data it has to thereby learning more information. And the second part is Programmers will give the to follow that are set and the creators of the car. And these are things like mounting points in size restriction, as There are a ton of parameters So many in fact, that when you build a car in the real world, it takes thousands of people in millions of dollars to at a fraction of the time. You're basically defining and then pressing Enter. - It's very simplified, Now AI can even account things like wind resistance and gravity and other natural phenomena, and a result of this is that artificial intelligence produces some crazy looking designs. - Nature, you know, obviously and evolution is very viciously and energy, which is why, you know, those structures have no material where it isn't, and it looks like a leaf the internal structure of a bone marrow, other things, right? That you have say a major of its own load cases, you and other things. Say the machine is running those cases, selecting materials out of a database that have already been correlated, meaning physically tested different load cases and So then you have the for the case that's needed that uses the minimum amount you're reducing mass to the max and still meeting a performance - And this sort of super efficient design also comes into play with the normal Typical car contains about all of the pieces and parts connected and talking to each other. Now a mile of wiring is going And with this computational engineering and artificial intelligence, to design a car, it's that Czinger can incorporate for that wiring, not to mention all of the like the air flow and the AC vents. Normally cuts and holes have to be made to accommodate those sorts of things. But with this method, they can incorporate it of the car. This allows for huge portions to be handed off to software programs, not only to diagnose the inefficiencies in the engineering process, but also build around those inefficiencies with the structural Basically AI is learning to route that wire so that of wire and taking up the It's just way smarter This means that a human being could never really manufacture the parts that are being designed by Czinger, which is the other component of how this hypercar gets built. That's additive manufacturing, better known as 3D printing. (mellow music) Now this method directly contrasts to subtractive manufacturing of the automobile space. It eliminates any and all waste associated with manufacturing because the process only of material needed. A 3D printer doesn't Now the 21C is primarily titanium and carbon fiber. So how do you print out things like that? Well, Czinger uses a method that incorporates in a high powered laser that essentially melts the together and builds the Once the first layer the printer pushes a new layer across it and the laser goes back to work making the second layer of material. It's like building a cake. Okay, you put one layer on, then you friggin put another layer on. Then you put another layer. The 3D printing is the only viable method for this sort of manufacturing that the materials are There's no sort of tooling these designs with the strength and structural integrity that's required for them to work optimally, it's just not humanly possible, which is why Czinger doesn't use humans. In the Czinger method, They took our jobs! Czinger doubled down on the obsolescence of the current car creation process and developed something called And that uses a bespoke assembly method called vertical assembly. One A.U. is a 50 foot by that work in total harmony with each other to fully assemble a car. Some of the robots hold and rotate it as needed all of the pieces and and then assemble them. The 3D printed parts get incorporated into the A.U. and assembled We're talking about four, So there's no frigging door It's tight baby. Now the car as a whole takes which if you're wondering, but the assembly of the than an hour. And the reason that Czinger can so quickly is because of all of these different bleeding together at the same time, each robot can move at up which doesn't sound fast, but when you consider that while holding an entire car, it sounds just a bit more impressive. And also each arm is of objectives while taking of the other robotic arms, each one of the A.U.s operate as an independent manufacturing cell. It's totally autonomous, it needs little to no input Other than actually getting the parts, both 3D printed and otherwise to be done with the A.U., other than pressing go on the computer that runs the fricking thing. A side effect of this sort of assembly is that the robots can be to accomplish a new task Unlike the dyes and presses and the current manufacturing process, Czingers A.U. simply gets reprogrammed to incorporate the new into the vertical assembly. Making the process essentially as simple as clicking a button. Again, this is a computer that's The robot in the A.U. itself which allows for the in a matter of minutes, There's no additional tooling This is why a conventional $500 million or more. Czingers' vertical assembly to only cost about 3 million. Imagine being able to save not to mention nine miles of space, what would you do with $497 million? Put a link in the comment, I would, I'd buy Noland. This closed loop of manufacturing which is where this concept really starts to show its potential impact as a whole. So as it stands, one A.U. can theoretically 21C vehicle structures each year, and it costs a small fraction of what a conventional However, the A.U.s are of space that's available and as it stands, one A.U. takes up 2,500 square feet. Now, if we scale that up to say 100,000 square foot warehouse, we're looking at 40 A.U.s which in their current state could make 400,000 car structures a year. That's almost double the amount of Corollas made just last year. Now Czinger's approach to making a car small scale right now, they only plan to build 80 because the net result of all these bleeding edge underneath one roof is arguably and insane hypercars that has like ever like- - As a car, this thing as the methods used to make it. The Czinger team is constantly talking about how the71 SR Blackbird of inspiration for this car, it's probably the most in the history of making planes. Even down to the front view of the car, it's meant to mimic the and be a slick possible like a razor blade. And from the front, it basically in a few vents, which is This copycatting comes as no surprise considering the plane can Czinger is coming out with The first of which is a track only variant that's meant to just of track records, which is And the second variant is and be a road legal car, and now because it has less downforce, it gets super duper slippery of 270 miles an hour from a 2.88 liter, twin turbo V8, and two little batteries not to mention, it can go That's pretty quick. If computational engineering that were otherwise impossible to design, and then 3D printing actually to be built, then cars are And you can think of the 21C of concept car. Thanks to everyone over at Czinger for letting us pick your brain. I got to speak to another CEO thanks to Jens, the for all your help. Thank you guys for watching B2B. Follow us on Instagram Follow me at Jeremiah Burton,