How to lay Siege in the Age of Louis XIV - The The art of Siege Warfare was perfected in the 17th more complex while the methods of attack became To be sure, sieges remained extremely diverse, but them, culminating in an almost infallible method Le Prestre de Vauban. The great French engineer of in the siege of Ath in 1697. It was considered of one." This is quite convenient for us, because a typical 17th century siege in the way we've a better overview, we are going to structure this look at the siege of Ath, a masterful example In 1688 King Louis XIV of France was the most extend his influence across the Rhine and confirm France was opposed by the Grand Alliance, a Republic, England and Spain supported by other war raged mainly in France's borderlands (Savoy, also overseas. By 1695 almost all parties were for peace. While conditions were discussed at Historian and Vauban-expert Jamel Ostwald, this When the Duke of Savoy, Vittorio II Amadeo, late 1696, Louis seized the opportunity. He to force the Allies to acknowledge his rumors of an impending suspension of arms, France For his demonstration of force, Louis had a Early on 16 May 1697 12'000 French cavalry arrived the town and occupied the main roads, river town. (Step 1: Surround) This was always the first The faster a place was cut off, the less time the patrolling the surroundings, the French siege army marshal of France Nicolas Catinat and the engineer looking from their camp at the The fortress of Ath in modern-day Belgium had been French had ceased it to the Spanish in the Treaty fortresses. He had turned it into a cutting-edge proportions. The rivers Dender and Leuze meandered Normally, just about 30cm, but in times of war closing a sluice. Massive and well-placed and the side facing Mont Feron had been In short, Ath was a pretty much perfect Now, Louis XIV called upon Vauban While the siege army was beginning in total 140'000 men, screened the surroundings armies of observation and were a reaction to in the 17th century. Thanks to them Catinat's They faced a small garrison of 3'600 soldiers, 30 defense was commanded by a sixty-five-year-old man de Croy, comte de Roeux. Roeux was sluggish and officers were caught by the French when they The major reason that Ath wasn't prepared and unclear whether the French would attack Brussels, defenders to split their forces and Ath, the best After the French cavalry had cut off the town to invest the town, which was the second step in Assisted by 20'000 civilians, they had their men surrounding all siege works (map1). It consisted a six-foot deep ditch, wooden palisades and of the siege army would man this line of build a second fortified line closer to the town, the defenders. At Ath, however, Vauban thought At the same time bridges were constructed to Leuze rivers and 4,000 wagons brought 290'000 mortar bombs, 950 grenades and 12'000 sandbags to from nearby forests, thousands of picks, shovels, While the soldiers were busily preparing all snuck up to the fortress to have a closer look at Reconnaissance and Strategic Planning) Vauban on the defenses he had designed thirty years On the defenders' side things went off tracks a finger, so that preparations only really of Anhalt-Zerbst took over. Anhalt-Zerbst had make sure the French couldn't use them as cover, Then his gunners opened fire at the men working probably with a sneer on his face. He knew within reach of the defenders yet. All their and revealing their exact range of fire. ready. After nightfall, the trenches step (Map3) (Step 4: Digging Approaches). The main Silently, two battalions filed off to open two made on the other side of the Dender river. While the shovels, six regiments guarded them. Vauban The men made good progress and quickly Just short of 600 meters from the defenses, usually was step nr. 5 (Step 5: First Parallel). an assembly point - and at Ath somewhat replaced stretched from the Dender River and the Burgundy a third of the town's circumference. Usually, installed the first set of batteries to cover Vauban thought this wasn't necessary. working in the dark almost invisible, the Now that the attackers were within range of the as sapping, which means approaching the fortress advance to and construction of the second parallel Parallel). This was dangerous and hard work. Layer heaped it up towards the fortress. This way, the until a man standing upright was fully covered Just before the point at which the enemy could caused the trenches to form the characteristic negligible during this process, even despite heavy dug after only two days, about 300m away from The ever-approaching network of trenches was which forced those defenders still hidden Now, the garrison really took to the guns. trenches. As the saps approached the walls musketry joined the infernal orchestra. he would bring his own artillery in It was rather an exception that a besieging up its batteries but it seems like the master Jean-Baptiste de Vigny the commander fire when on 25 May he finally received He installed his guns in eight batteries, each May they fired their first roaring volley. on the covered way by smashing through the slope just outside the ditch, and to clear the This was to prepare step 7, the advance to the final parallel (Step 7: Constructing the third ricochet fire. The historian John Lynn developed by Vauban and for the first time used the gunners didn't load their pieces to the parapets and bounce along the covered way and the This took a heavy toll on the defenders of that their muskets and artillery fire mortar batteries (map4 1&amp;2) bombarded the Cambron, This suppressed the defender's fire almost drive the saps forward rapidly. Within three days way (opposite the Brabancon ravelin and the Namur about 30m from the covered way, installed to establish a secure But the extraordinary success of the artillery had small redoubts built to shelter groups At this point he also brought the so-called cavaliers de tranchee. These were could enfilade the defenses and bring the work there wasn't much to perfect, as became clear of the glacis - the covered way was almost effective Vauban's ricochet fire must have been. hitherto usually the costliest phase of a siege, The scouts immediately sent for support and They only met a few surprised Throughout the next days, the French workers their system of trenches and by building a parapet hailstorm of lead and stone from the ramparts. by the workers covered the attackers already, so Catinat rejoiced over the ease at which the inspected the works personally to prepare step 9, Outworks), a musketball pierced through a pile Immediately, Catinat's joy was blight with worry wound, but he shrugged off medical attention time after all. He had the workers expand the tunnels through the glacis to prepare the attack at the very bottom of the ditch, they began to the artillery was rearranged (Map5) and two new enfilade the neighboring ravelins. In addition, on the top of the glacis. Now, mortar bombs denied them any cover and the heavy guns of the the ravelin. On 31 May the walls crumbled and When one of the mortars hit the sluice gate which hours as well. The time for an assault had come. was charging through the ditch, fighting its way Within minutes they established a lodgment on cover to repulse several attempts to recapture it. defenders retreated to a redoubt at the back of completely surrounded. With no hope for help and Now the ravelin was turned around as well. Roeux were digging trenches and building a gallery to and the Brussels gate behind (Map6). But and Limburg bastions. The breaching batteries firing at the sturdy bastion walls. the bastions was step nr. 10 (Step 10: Make usually first targeted an imaginary line then moved in a vertical line upward, placing This procedure was slow but very effective. The defenders rushed to the spot to repair the made the interior of the bastions a field of out so that musket fire from the town ramparts breaches grew larger, the helpless defenders lost Frenchmen in the surroundings had turned away a of England, they knew they were on their own and Catinat and Vauban in contrast, were was that peace might be concluded before "things are going marvelously [...]. I see better than they do. It is also true, and that never has a place been attacked with On 5 June time had come for the last step, the breaches were wide enough. Vauban and a look at the situation. Twenty companies But before Catinat could give the order to In the same night still, terms were agreed on and on 7 June. While the defenders had suffered an the French merely mourned 50 dead and 250 attacker usually suffered tremendous casualties, Also, the fortress had been taken in a and with much fewer resources than expected. The methods could be when properly executed. Not with it. The siege of Ath became a showpiece both to this day. Vauban, the creator of the method siege in in the age of Louis XIV. If you follow Our videos take a lot of time to research and of us. Unlike other channels, we can't release if you enjoy our content, please