SAL KHAN: So first to thank Elon for You didn't even have dinner. And we didn't even ELON MUSK: No, sorry I just came from the SAL KHAN: Yes. Was something wrong? ELON MUSK: There's SAL KHAN: Did you have to like-- ELON MUSK: At any given point, SAL KHAN: Yes. ELON MUSK: Because there's So one of the trickiest is that there's thousands there are thousands and even if one of you can't make cars. So today's fiasco not-- we were missing OK. So we could not SAL KHAN: So the whole ELON MUSK: Yeah. So essentially, because it's So you can't put the interior And so we could either of cars minus the means that you've got to SAL KHAN: The resale ELON MUSK: Well, it can be of sequence, and it's you don't have a Then you have to send of cars that are sitting And so this happens to be a It's kind of routed under the And it's literally $3. And so we basically had to send to go and buy USB cables. SAL KHAN: Like, ELON MUSK: Like Fry's. SAL KHAN: Oh, Fry's. That's better. ELON MUSK: You're going to have right now at Fry's, because SAL KHAN: That's good. ELON MUSK: And so we're And I don't want to but essentially the And we had plan A and was like the normal But what the supplier of sending our parts they grouped it of other stuff for and sent that all via some to LA. And when it got to LA, the And so they wouldn't let SAL KHAN: They put it like ELON MUSK: I don't but something that And the paperwork wasn't So it got stuck there And then we had plan B. look you've got to air cause they're just And we talked to and ordered from who then communicated to China. But then because this was so it was kind of it exceeded the credit So it bounced off the credit SAL KHAN: Fascinating. So someone's losing This is-- no, I'm kidding. You shouldn't fire anyone. ELON MUSK: I mean, And, anyway, so, it's at 11:00 PM or something. SAL KHAN: Wow. And these things are This was an unusual ELON MUSK: Yeah. That's like one example, but SAL KHAN: I guess, I a really good leads into what I've by a lot of what you're doing. Well, I'll start with, ELON MUSK: Into cars? SAL KHAN: Into cars. Into taking over NASA. Well, not taking over NASA-- ELON MUSK: Just for the record, SAL KHAN: You're not They are an independent But you are becoming a major Obviously, kind of internet generally. I mean these are three I think a lot of people would if they had a business ELON MUSK: Right. Sorry to eat. SAL KHAN: Oh, yeah, What was your-- did you were going to be doing dawn on you that you three industries? ELON MUSK: Well, when I didn't actually So it was not like this is some But when I was in about what were the effect the future of And the three areas were the and space exploration, if humanity becomes a You know, there's kind of like in our future, if we're on multiple planets, to Earth until some obviously Not Not that I'm pessimistic I mean, things are More likely to be SAL KHAN: Yellowstone's every several hundred thousand-- It's been 700,000, ELON MUSK: Right. Right. Yeah. SAL KHAN: Super volcano for It would envelop, but well-- ELON MUSK: Yeah. I know exactly what So-- SAL KHAN: We read I can tell. ELON MUSK: Absolutely. I mean something bad if you give it enough time. And civilization has been around of time that these time but on an evolutionary time A million years on an is really not very much. And Earth's been around billion years, so that's a really. But for us that can imagine if human at anything remotely like the advancement for a million years? Where would we be? I think we're either extinct SAL KHAN: Yes. We should-- ELON MUSK: Those SAL KHAN: But given one, that's kind can think about How did you make that concrete? How does that turn into ELON MUSK: Well, so I kind of in the abstract. Not from the expectation have careers in those arenas. But, I wanted to be involved And at first I was going to be electric cars. And so the area was advanced capacitors. So essentially capacitors exceeding that of batteries. Because they have density, but a low Maybe you have lecture to SAL KHAN: Oh, yes, no. We should do that. We'll get to it later. ELON MUSK: Exactly. So obviously, if you could had anywhere near the with this incredibly and this quasi-infinite you'd have an awesome and mobile applications. So I was going to and try to leverage the for advanced chip to create ultra-precise at the molecular level. SAL KHAN: And this going to go into grad school? You had a brief ELON MUSK: That's right. SAL KHAN: At a PhD ELON MUSK: Applied SAL KHAN: Right. So even then you were to do something in the space? ELON MUSK: Actually, this was solutions for electric cars. And I'd actually in Silicon Valley called did advanced capacitors. There were electrolytic And they actually They had like the energy density for a capacitor, But they used ruthenium And I think at the maybe like one or mined per year in the world. So it's not a scalable solution. But I thought there could be like just using That was going to But it was one of those if success was one It's difficult to bound that SAL KHAN: So you're like this was a destined to parse that sentence. But anyway, sorry. ELON MUSK: No. I didn't think it would that success was a possibility. SAL KHAN: OK. Yes. ELON MUSK: And to embark on something-- if success is at least SAL KHAN: Right, exactly. ELON MUSK: Because is one of the possibilities. But, ideally, you want and say success is in And I wasn't quite sure I think success on an academic likely, because you can and most papers are SAL KHAN: We have a ELON MUSK: I mean, how many used by someone ever? SAL KHAN: That's a good point. ELON MUSK: Percentagewise And so it could have been where you add some leaves And that leaf is, nope, And there goes seven So that was one path. And I was prepared to do that. But then the And it was like, oh, I'm pretty sure success and it seemed like I and watch the could participate and help Like, I was just concerned with So I decided to and start an Internet company. And we worked on internet maps and directions, yellow And we had as investors and So like the New York Times SAL KHAN: And this is I mean this was like-- ELON MUSK: '95. SAL KHAN: '95. So it's really early stages, ELON MUSK: Yeah. Absolutely. And so then we-- the reason we was because we There was no advertising In fact, the idea of seemed like a ridiculous Obviously, not so But, at the time, it seemed like And a lot of the media that they should be online. Like, what's the point of that? SAL KHAN: And did you all going to be a simple, or did you think it into the major kind of that it is right now? ELON MUSK: I didn't expect to be what it was. And that actually So we started Paypal After the first month or so we 100,000 customers. SAL KHAN: Really? That fast. Wow, I didn't realize it was-- ELON MUSK: Yeah, it was nutty. SAL KHAN: And how did it start? How did people just I mean, obviously, both buyer ELON MUSK: Yeah. Well, we started off first if they opened an account. And $20 if they referred anyone. And then we dropped it to $10. And we dropped it to $5. As the network got the value of the network itself that we could offer. SAL KHAN: So much spend with that kind of to get that critical mass going? ELON MUSK: It was a fair amount. I think it was probably SAL KHAN: Oh, wow, OK. So it was substantial. OK. So we're not talking ELON MUSK: It depends It's a peanut to Google. SAL KHAN: Yeah, That's right. ELON MUSK: Here's a peanut. I mean, Google's Apple's got $150 billion, That's just cash. SAL KHAN: Yeah. So it's not an realize that was so core. ELON MUSK: Like 1% of Google's So, you know, that's 0.1% SAL KHAN: That's true. You're right, It's nothing. ELON MUSK: Relative to them, SAL KHAN: That's right. ELON MUSK: And then we to decrease the friction. It's just like bacteria So what you want to do is try like two customers. OK? Or something like that. Maybe three customers, ideally. And then you want that And you could like bacteria growth And then it'll just until it hits the and then it slows down. SAL KHAN: And then mean-- to some in Silicon Valley, we kind We know people. PayPal's obviously of the but then SpaceX just seems one, how did you decide that And then like what's the How do you even go know how to start trying ELON MUSK: Well, And in fact, the first So it's not as though It's like, did not But SAL KHAN: But even you're launching rockets. I don't even how One, how did you decide? And then what did Like, who did you call? Did you write a plan? Did you start-- I ELON MUSK: Actually, is that I was why we'd not sent Because the obvious was to send people to Mars. But what in fact happened to the moon and then after that to the moon But if you'd asked people look like, they would will be a base on the moon. We would have least sent And maybe there'd even There'd be like And there'd be all this And that's what people expected. And if you said, well, actually, will not be able to But I'll tell you is that there'll be this that's like the size of-- that has access to all and you can talk to any And even if you're like in some long as there's something called know what that then you would you be able instantly and have access to They would have There's no way that SAL KHAN: Right. Right. ELON MUSK: And yet And space is not happening. So I was trying to figure out And this was 2001. And it was just a what am I going to And I said, well, you know, in space, but I don't that an individual because it's the province a large government. But, I am curious going to send some one to Mars. So I went to the to figure out where is the And I couldn't find that. So I was like, either I'm bad or they have a terrible must be a date. SAL KHAN: That ELON MUSK: Yeah. This should be on And then I discovered had no plans to send people to the moon. So this was really I thought well, maybe this is Like do we to get people And try to get NASA and then we would And so I started becoming more familiar with And I came up with this idea which was to send a small in dehydrated gel that upon You have green plants The public responses to So it would be the The furthest that And you'd have this money on a red background. So that seemed like it would So I started getting into this. And trying to can I afford to Because I had some money but it had to fit And I figured we had to do two did one and it have like the opposite effect. SAL KHAN: But you were willing on this? ELON MUSK: Yeah. Well, I figured I was willing to from PayPal with no Because I thought this that was pretty it seemed like I could I made on PayPal on this, and and resulted in us would be a pretty good outcome. SAL KHAN: And when your friends and said, look there's You're a guy, I mean you did you say or do or think? ELON MUSK: Well, so I had try to talk me out of because they thought And one friend of a video of rockets blowing up. And there were that thought it was And there was some tried to start rocket And they tried to But the thing is that-- their of it was, well, we to lose the money I was like, well, that so I don't really mind if I but I mean it's not like the rank-ordered best and on that basis chose space. It's not like that's-- SAL KHAN: You weren't looking AAA bonds, rocket company. You weren't like-- ELON MUSK: I could I could invest in shoe making. Anything. And, whoa, space That is not what-- it I just thought that that humanity and we weren't doing was something I could And then I was able to compress and everything down to a And I got stuck on the rocket. The US rockets were I ended up going to Russia-- to negotiate a I tried to buy ICBMs in the Russian And I actually SAL KHAN: I'll just let I'm not even going I have to-- like ELON MUSK: You open Go to ICBMs. Oh! SAL KHAN: How does want to get too much curious about this You decide at some point ELON MUSK: Yeah. Well, actually at first I tried program that they use but those are too expensive. SAL KHAN: I see. I see. ELON MUSK: The Boeing Delta each, so two would And then I was like, woah, right there. And I tried to And that was not-- I SAL KHAN: How much I'm curious what's the ELON MUSK: Well-- SAL KHAN: This is it might have gone up. ELON MUSK: Yeah, it's But in 2001, it would've So two would have And then I thought I could down to also around $10 have a dual mission with two identical spacecraft And so I thought, SAL KHAN: But you like rocket scientists This sounds like I mean you were-- ELON MUSK: Yeah. I engaged a bunch of to get familiar with But then after the I came to realize wrong about my first premise, In fact, I think that there's in the United States Because the United a nation of explorers. I mean, it's a distillation of exploration. So of course it was to think that people But what people is that, OK, sending is going to be so have to give up health They're not going to do that. So it's got to be is not going to cause in their standard of living. So if it's like maybe or half a percent like that is palatable. Anyways, so I thought, going to maybe do this mission, because what So I was wrong-- I thought but there actually if people thought So then I said, OK, well, How hard is it really Historically, all rockets have in the future, all But actually that's not true. If you say, what is And say, OK, it's made of carbon fiber, if you want And you can break down and cost of all these components. And if you have them and could wave a magic wand so the atoms was zero, then what be. And I was like, wow, It's like 2% of So clearly it would be in So you've got to can we get the atoms much more efficiently. And so I had a series with people some working at the big just to try to figure out that I'm not appreciating. And I couldn't figure it out. There doesn't seem So I started SpaceX. SAL KHAN: And you some failures, but obviously What was the cost that you were relative to what they were ELON MUSK: So let's see. For the Falcon 1, which is And the first three In fact, we got But like the first rocket a couple hundred yards site, and tiny fragments. So, yeah, anyway, costing around $6 to other rockets in were about to $25 million. SAL KHAN: Wow. So significant? ELON MUSK: Yeah, like a quarter. But there's an even which is to make Right now that is around what excluding the refurbished ICBMs. So, if you say building how does the SpaceX to a rocket from It's about a quarter However, if we make can be two orders of SAL KHAN: Two orders A 100th of the price? ELON MUSK: That's right. For you. SAL KHAN: Only today. Memorial day sale. And I've seen some-- you all are like literally out of like And that's what ELON MUSK: Yeah. Essentially, the rocket and land at the launch site, and take off again. Like an airplane SAL KHAN: How far do you When do you think-- when we'll actually ELON MUSK: Well, I'm hopeful SAL KHAN: Oh, OK. Yeah. That's-- we've got some for the next year, too. So we can compare. We're redesigning the site. ELON MUSK: Right. We've been working on I should say, SpaceX has and thus far we have not We recovered the So that was great. But none of our attempts to have been successful. The rocket stages have on reentry. Now, we think we've figured And it's a tricky thing, because quite strong. And with an advanced rocket, of your lift-off mass And then reusability So then you've got like And that's obviously And so the trick is to say 2%, 3% in an to make the rocket mass and so forth, so much better 3.5% to 4% in expendable And then try to get clever and try to drop that to So you have a net payload SAL KHAN: But you're doing it cheaper. ELON MUSK: Yeah. Absolutely, because our Falcon But the propellant oxygen-- it's two-thirds is only about $200,000. SAL KHAN: Wow. ELON MUSK: And it's It costs about as much as it does to refuel a close, essentially. SAL KHAN: So assuming and you all have successful on these audacious what happens? I mean that seems like it's-- 10 years in the space industry, there? I mean do we get to Mars? Do we have kind of market of space starting to happen? ELON MUSK: Yeah. Let's see. Well, the first to earn enough money to So we have to make sure that Commercial satellites like mapping, government satellites Earth-based or GPS satellites. That kind of thing. And then also servicing Transferring cargo to and which we've done a few times. And then taking people to So we've got to service the to launch satellites But in doing that keep to a point where we can And we have sufficient to be able to take SAL KHAN: Wow. So you think this is What's your best going to have someone on Mars? ELON MUSK: I think SAL KHAN: That's nothing. And you think it'll It won't just be some type ELON MUSK: I think it's It's not for sure. SAL KHAN: I could talk about ELON MUSK: Aspirational SAL KHAN: This is mind blowing. And then on Tesla. I mean Tesla's obviously, it's a huge success. What do you think in that I'll ask kind of What did you think-- that GM and Toyota and these organizations have been trying. What gave you the And now that it seems to do you think this to be the next 5, 10 years? ELON MUSK: Yes. So with Tesla, the goal the advent of I think it would happen But because we have an in the cost of gasoline. We weren't pricing in the in the oceans and atmosphere. That's causing the normal properly. And so the goal to act as a catalyst those sort of normal forces. The normal sort of market We're trying to have a And try to make it happen, sooner than it would That's the goal of Tesla. So that's the reason we're any other kind of car. And we also supply powertrains and maybe to other car to accelerate their production So that's the goal there. And so far, it's SAL KHAN: I mean, I just saw that you all sold more are leading that The Mercedes S class, the BMW or whatever it is. ELON MUSK: Yeah, actually, I didn't realize they sold Because we don't We sell 5,000 a SAL KHAN: Well, out here they ELON MUSK: Well, this So it's-- we better sell Because otherwise we're like-- SAL KHAN: And, well, How did you start? What gave you the confidence? And do you see of a major automotive, all the way down to competing and Civics? ELON MUSK: I mean, yeah. Our goal-- it's not to or to compete with to advance the cause And so we're just more and more electric cars and until the industry is Like maybe half of electric or something like that. Which is not to to make half of all cars. We want to just have that at least that occurs. And I think the point at of all new cars then I think I would consider condition. And so the faster we can SAL KHAN: When would be your ELON MUSK: Well, I about three years ago that it So it's 17 years from now. But that's conservative. I think it's probably SAL KHAN: Wow. Right when we're going to Mars. ELON MUSK: Right. SAL KHAN: It'll ELON MUSK: True. Exactly. I was just thinking about that. It was like, oh, those time The nature of new is it tends to So what usually happens in in the beginning, tend to extrapolate And then they'll over-predict because there's late adopters. And then it'll than people think but much shorter than people But I'm pretty excited And, in fact, I think that the in electric energy moving faster than SAL KHAN: Wow. I got one more-- how Where's Ester? Oh, 9 o'clock. So how much time do you have? I want to make sure ELON MUSK: Well, I guess SAL KHAN: OK. So I'll finish with and then we'll open it up. What advice do you have ELON MUSK: I don't know. You guys seem to be So I was wondering if SAL KHAN: Oh, no, well. ELON MUSK: Yeah. It seems like you're doing super leveraged. I mean, obviously, a having a dramatic effect-- SAL KHAN: Yeah, half these There just like-- so ELON MUSK: Right. So it's, I think very doing to spread knowledge throughout the world. SAL KHAN: The universe your end of the bargain. ELON MUSK: It's If you think, what is education? Like you're basically into your brain. And it's actually amazingly Because like it shouldn't So you're making But I think a lot of you've probably heard 100 times. And, in fact, are if not doing. The more you can of learning, the better. For my kids, I do them to play video games. I have to like pry them from SAL KHAN: Yes. ELON MUSK: It's like, SAL KHAN: You have that The crack is addictive. ELON MUSK: So to the degree that like a game, then it's better. And I think, unfortunately, is very vaudevillian. You've got someone of lecturing at people. And they've done the same and they're not very And that lack of enthusiasm They're not very They don't know Like why are we We don't even know why. In fact, I think a lot learn that probably there's Because they never use SAL KHAN: Because who's going I mean, that's just like-- ELON MUSK: Well, people don't stand why are we teaching And we should tell why we're teaching these things. Because a lot of kids are probably puzzled as I think if you can then that makes to people's motivation. Then they understand purpose. So I think that's And just make it entertaining. But I think just in general should be massively overhauled. And I'm sure you pretty I mean the analogy is, have you seen like movie, the recent one. And it's pretty And you've got incredible multiple takes, amazing and it's very engaging. But if you were to even if you had the same script, And you said, OK, instead of having to have that script performed OK, and so in every if movies didn't to recreate The Dark Night. With like home-sewn costumes and And not really getting And not really looking like And no special effects. And I mean that would suck. It would be terrible. SAL KHAN: That's right. Very-- ELON MUSK: That's education. SAL KHAN: So with that-- and guys for hogging up all of the could talk for hours But we do have time, minutes for a If none of you all have But, yes. SPEAKER 1: So I noticed-- I from what you were discussing. One was somewhat And the other was I don't profit in anything You seem to be-- each thing is an industry or bringing How much of your to having really just not being focused on in, or I don't know, investors? ELON MUSK: have to be focused on the in when creating a company, will die. So I think that a think like creating I would say it's I mean there are periods of fun. And there are periods And, particularly, if you're you actually have a problems in the company. There's no point in on things that are going right. So you're only on things that are going wrong. And there are things that other people So you have like a filter for the crappest The most pernicious So I think you have to feel And have a fairly There's a friend starting a company is like and eating glass. And there's some truth to that. The staring into that you're going to the extermination Because most start ups fail. It's like 90% percent-- it So that's the staring You're constantly saying, OK, the company will die, which And then the eating you've got to work that the company on and not the problems And so you end up working wish you weren't working on. And so that's the And that goes on SPEAKER 1: So how do you keep when you're we could be out of ELON MUSK: Well, it's just of mental energy is Like you know where you're and the actual some sort of zigzaggy You're trying not to deviate that you want to going to have to But I don't want to diminish motive is a good one, if are properly set up. So there's nothing In fact, profit just are paying you more doing than you're That's a good thing. And if that's not the case, And rightfully so. Because you're not Now there are cases, will do bad things in but that's actually Because usually the rules Like not completely, SAL KHAN: I think we have Joel. JOEL: Yeah, I have SAL KHAN: OK, very good. Yes, please. SPEAKER 3: No. JOEL: OK, so few months and we haven't heard So, first of all, a were talking about we have a few ideas, But, if you feel could tell us a little bit more. ELON MUSK: I was reading about and it was quite depressing. Because California to be on the hook to build the per mile in the world-- Those are not the And, it's like, damn, we make super high-tech stuff. Why are we going now the estimates are for something that will take Francisco? I'm like, OK, well, and do that it 45 minutes. It doesn't make much sense. And isn't there some better So if you just say, you ideally want in a You'd say, OK, well that relative to existing is faster-- let's say twice per ticket, can't crash, is you can make the whole with like solar panels That would be pretty-- SAL KHAN: That ELON MUSK: --a good outcome. And so what would do that? And what's the fastest way that you could do And some of the elements of that and some of them And then the in the details of like that work. But I came to the is something like And would be practical. SAL KHAN: Is this around The vacuum tubes? Like the old bank-- ELON MUSK: It's SAL KHAN: But you haven't been ELON MUSK: No. Although I did say that that I would talk more about it. But, we haven't done So I think I'll probably do And the thing is I'm on things that So adding another thing-- SAL KHAN: Learning could pick up all ELON MUSK: Right. I tried learning the violin. That's, by the way, a SAL KHAN: Yeah. Launching rockets, revolutionizing transportation. Yeah, it's easy. ELON MUSK: I cannot Very horrible. If you think about want a future that's and so if we had something I think that would be like cool. You'd look forward to And if something like in one place-- from LA to San or something like that-- that it would be like It would be like a So even if some of the initial the economics didn't work it would be cool I want to journey to that place That would be pretty cool. And so that's I think how-- if it should feel like that. You should really-- if you would they look that that thing And it would be pretty exciting Or an aircraft. Like I thought it was the Concorde was taking and there was no supersonic And of course the 787 But the thing is, the 787 is only a slightly better And it's like, OK, SAL KHAN: So this is something ELON MUSK: I wouldn't SAL KHAN: And one day in the some plans or consultants SPEAKER 4: You called Russia. SAL KHAN: You made some ELON MUSK: No, every now and I'm not actually But then they'll be some new Oh, this would make it better. SAL KHAN: Fascinating. Well, I think I'm This is like the most one could have over about And I think all of us would on end, but thank you so much. I know you have a so it probably wasn't that big But, it was a huge honor. And I think it's to go out and change the ELON MUSK: Cool. All right. SAL KHAN: Thank you very much. [APPLAUSE]