Carmen: No, T. The cook is off. The cook's off! Refire! Yes, 100% correct. You are always taught, never let your mistakes Hello, I'm Chef Paul Liebrandt, and I was the chef-owner and two Michelin stars in New York City. I've been a chef and I'm back to look at fine and judge how real they are. Sydney: Oh I'm sorry. Carmen: Stock's boiled. Sydney: Yes. Sydney: Yes. Sydney: I know. Sydney: I put it lower. The turning up of the happened to me many times. Sabotage. It happens all the time when you're young, and you have a big brigade of chefs, and it's always the small things that you don't check, i.e. you're busy in service, someone runs around, turns your oven off just to mess around with people. It happens. I would give a good solid 8 out of 10. It is very realistic. You left the preorder option open. 255 beef sandwiches due Everything on the grill. Fire everything right f---ing now! So there's a couple things that stood out for me in that clip. It's No. 1, great business. A lot of orders, which is what every So that's great. Maybe a little touch disorganized. So leave the preorder option open, OK. So would I have done the same OK, one thing, with all do you actually have enough food to fulfill all those orders? If you do have all that food, I would've taken block by block of orders. Not everything at once. Because that's, that's ridiculous. The customers will get their order. It might take a little but you have to deliver what is promised. Carmen: Shut the f--- up! Carmen: Holy f---ing shit! What, she stabbed him? Wow, really? OK. I've seen someone's hand get cut off. I've seen it all. So it's real. Kitchens are dangerous. You have razor-sharp deep-frying oil, flames. So your situational awareness is critical. You move backwards, and somebody has a knife that they're not holding blade-down, you go into a knife. So regardless of whether it was meant or not meant, you should have Get the f--- off! Thank you. I quit is what's going on. Carmen: You quit? So the quitting part, 100%. That's real. That happens every single day. People can be pushed to a certain point, and they go, I'm out. And I'll be honest though, I have done that before When I knew how to cook, didn't know how to Get the f--- out of here. I've done that. Oh yes more than once. And I've had sous-chefs You want to calm it down and keep everybody's focus on the task that's in front of them to get through it in the right way. And then you do an action report after. What went wrong? And then if people need to be Not during. Because you need everybody's hands. I'm going to have to give Sorry guys. The context is important about the chaos, but the overall actions of the chef were, in my opinion, overexaggerated. Tenderloin. You know what a lot of Using the home to test dishes for the new restaurant. Yes, absolutely, 100%. For me personally, when I ideate with the team, I don't generally like to do it in the kitchen, I'll be honest. I take the gladiator, so and think in a different setting, which gets your mind to So just in context, Jeremy and Ayo did actually work together in preparation for these parts at Institute to I suppose foster that which was obviously very well done here. Carmen: All right. Sydney: All right. That's salt. You marinated it too long. It's OK though. I'll say it in a very polite British way. To be tasting your own food with your own recipes, and then having to spit your own food out, I would question, do you You should be a little bit So I would rate this clip 7 out of 10. I like the context. It's at home. They're working on their first The spitting out of the food, Chef, I'm Marcus Brooks. I'm from - Pastry, start at 5 a.m. Your section's at the end of the bench. So in the context of the scene with Marcus going to Copenhagen to learn it is very common to send staff. I have many times to other contemporaries and people that you respect to gain experience and A hundred percent. Yes, it is very common to start at 5 a.m. in the kitchen. There's a lot of work to be done. If you're doing bread, that Luca: So that's 6 o'clock. That's where it's facing, yes? Yes, chef. No. Again, chef. I very much enjoyed watching It shows the discipline, the elegance, the mentorship. Regarding the positioning of the plating, 100%, you need symmetry on a dish. Pastry is about, is the final, So it's very important to make sure that you have consistency. And if one item of the dish is at 6, the other item should be at 9, if that's the way the dish is built. A hundred percent correct, yes. Training-wise, you tend to find, as you probably noticed in the clip here, that pastry chefs are a more technique-driven with their training. Savory chefs, yes, very technical, but pastry is more technical measurements. To make gelee. Thank you, Chef. And give me two ladles of that into there and just bloom the gelatin. So Luca's obviously showing Marcus the building blocks of A hundred percent correct So a gelee is a basically a gelatin that's used to set cold or hot. The context of how he's to the recipe being given, 100% correct. You would obviously oversee the development of said recipe. The recipe is a guide. It's not the be-all and end-all. Luca: Like that. So excellent demonstration on the quenelle. The purpose of doing a It doesn't have to be an but it's purposely just to shape whatever you are wanting You rub to a little bit of and then release the quenelle, which should be a perfect smooth shape of the spoon, depending Excellent technique. So the dessert that which is I'm assuming his own recipe that he's created, looked fantastic. Obviously, taking a lot of of how to build the dessert from Luca. You know, what makes It doesn't. There isn't It's more to do with the technique and the balance of flavor, texture, color is really what we're what he's doing here different I like this one very much. I'm going to go big on this one. I'm giving it 100%. Ten out of 10. I thought this clip was and very, very true with how you build your technique, your palate, and your mind All the servers take They communicate. Bogeys on 19, walk everything fast. What stood out for me with that clip is obviously it's a, you know, extremely by the second with everything done exactly the same as you would expect for the back of house. So in this scene, Richie is staging. Staging, or trailing, is by looking through the into somebody else's operation. So kind of like an intern, right? Where you're not getting paid, you're helping, and you're 22 doesn't like people to speak to them. How do you know that? Know what? About the people eating? We have a designated staff member that researches each guest. So yes, actually at We would do the same thing. We would research the We would actually send, a little form with obviously allergies, anything that can't be eaten, but also knowing where Therefore, if you come from Japan, if you come from France, you like your shellfish, for So we would then curtail on the menu for that evening, depending on the guest, a little more cooked, It's the details that really matter. Chef. Manager: Point on two by four. Pequod's deep-dish. hear me say that. Taking somebody else's dish and presenting it in a artful way. Yes, I have. More than once to guests, foreign guests, from coming outside of America. I remember very well a black-and-white cookie, which cookie, if you've been here. So we obviously organized And we obviously knew ahead of time. We did not eavesdrop, but the touch and the I would rate this clip 7 out of 10. It is realistic as far as the numbering and the organization of the kitchen. I wish everybody would have and a smile in what they're doing. Being that you are hospitality, you're supposed to smile and enjoy. Very, you know, Rocky-esque of all the training and working in different that I know very well So in the first scene, Chef Daniel Boulud, fantastic chef, know him dearly, and that was a great scene obviously about how to We saw with Rene from Noma in utilizing the local produce, which is a three-Michelin-star restaurant. Chefs that I have had the, I guess, privilege to go and work with in my past, Pierre Gagnaire in Paris, three-star. Marco Pierre White in London, three-star. Raymond Blanc of Le Manoir And you know, a lot of So, I do the same thing, think back. David: What the f--- is this s---? We already have a dish with dill in it. You knew that right? Yes, chef. Never repeat ingredients. - The dill scene there that for repeating dill. It really depends on your philosophy. There is the rule that you should not repeat a single ingredient. I personally, I suppose I'm You could do both. If you do a black truffle menu, you put black truffles on every dish. So you are repeating, but David: That's how you do better. So the idea of subtraction Generally speaking, &quot;less is more&quot; is always the rule of thumb. If you look at something like sushi, where you have rice, fish, Simple, but it speaks about the ingredient and the technique shown. And generally speaking, it's much harder when You have to be better. Yes, you do label ingredients with date, time, what the ingredient is. It's very important to be very organized. You get deliveries. You want to make sure that a new delivery with an old delivery. So yeah, 100%. I would rate this scene I thought it was very and very true for all of us that can think about Hmm, what's this? Carmen: Non-negotiables. That's how we do this correctly. That's how restaurants of The term non-negotiables You have standards and principles, I think, is more the right way So that's kind of what he's saying in a more younger way. We've all done it. We'll say it, but I've never stood there and went, &quot;These are my non-negotiables.&quot; I'm like, what? Like, just like, what's the plan here? Let's lay it out and be You know, like, that's Sydney: Hi. Carmen: What's up? What is this? It's uh, R and D? You redid everything. So the R and D term does It means research and and the service and the And it is very common, and Carmen: I'm going to change it every day. The cavatelli or the raviolo? Everything. We're going to change Yes. Well, I think it's very to change the entire So the idea here obviously of changing the menu every day is it is tried by some restaurants, obviously, around the world. You have to think about So with regards to a tasting menu and an a la carte menu, you have differences of You're not going to go back because it's a lot of food to eat. If you're a good customer, because they have a signature So if you change the menu every day, you wouldn't be able to do that, which would upset your customers. So it's really a balance. Who's they? The Docusign in your inbox. See that? No, saying what? Carmen: It's a partnership agreement. And what does that say? How much of this place Giving partnership to the sous-chef there and to other members of the staff is obviously a very, very big step and a very generous step on his part, which obviously engages very much more so. So they're not employees, they're owners, which has a very big way of So I would rate this 7 out of 10. If I'm talking to my team with me in my business, I over R-and-D-ing a couple of dishes and talking about what pasta I'm going to change every single day. Those are very big steps. Manager: Doors! Staff: Doors! So the term &quot;doors&quot; refers Like I said before in a previous clip, situational awareness. Somebody's moving with plates of food, don't be standing in front of them, watch what's going on. Somebody coming with a tray of Doors means backs, means get out the way. Sydney: Perfect. No, T, refire please. Everybody take your f---ing time. No T, do not refire. The cook's off. Refire! So in regards to the yes, 100% correct. You are always taught, never let your mistakes The other part of that Can you afford to do it? And that was a piece of Wagyu, But yes, it does happen. Yes, it's important to make and your principles are never undermined by sending something that I have a bill in my hands We cannot f---ing keep this up. I got to say it's like it's bulls--- . If you did that, you'd close The butter that they're using there, the idea is based off Animal Farm butter, which is from a wonderful So in regards to spending OK, there's the promise and then there's the reality If you go in and spent $11,000 on butter in a restaurant of that size, serving a smaller number you would close in one week. So it sounds great, but be Richie: The guy says he No it doesn't f---ing matter. He hates mushrooms. the mushrooms, he doesn't It's not about you, it's Get out of here, Richie. I'm going to send you the f--- home! In regards to the mushroom is it right or wrong to It's a hard one, depending on which platform you're standing on and which way you're looking. When you're a young chef, and I was exactly the same way. My vision, my food, da da da. But in reality, you do that once, customer walks out, leaves a bad review, other people stop coming, and I'll change the dish, I'll tweak it. So yeah, you abide by in a setting like this. And you certainly don't with your partner in the middle We're there to present a You can see just once you do an opening, you're like this. People drop stuff, people get angry. The communication takes time to develop. So with regards to how fast you should or shouldn't be in the kitchen, once you get to a certain but you are more accurate in what you do. I'm very impressed, Sydney, that she has matured and she is the one, the voice which is what she's meant to do. I would rate this, I would say 8 out 10. Fighting each other in probably it happens, but you know, you try to make But otherwise, I think We're going to start by showing you how to remove the wishbone. You can feel that wishbone in Fantastic in every way in this clip. Thomas Keller is the chef-owner of the French Laundry, where and Per Se in New York and Bouchon and many other beautiful restaurants. A very, very, very wise and gifted and dear friend of mine. He was in our movie and you know, he did the And so the importance I is the essence of which Thomas is trying to teach Carmy that cooking is lots of little things done well. It's not one big thing. that all join up to make one bigger thing. To me, it's such a profound profession, because we get to really be part of people's lives here today because of those who came before us. So this is your first day. Wisdom from Thomas Keller. He's one of those chefs look to as like, yeah, of like what we all think you should be. When I first came here years and Thomas and I had breakfast and I asked him, how are you you? Like, what, give me not a secret, but give me some life advice. And he was very much similar So the advice that I would that I have given to many is very much the same thing of understand why we do what we do. Understand the bigger implications of why are you doing what you're doing. I'm going to rate this 11 out of 10. It's that meaningful. And as a chef, the meaningfulness of what Thomas is teaching here goes far beyond this TV series and far beyond what we're all doing here. Hey everybody, this is Chef Sydney. Nobody just opens a restaurant Everybody goes through opening, closing. I know the reality of that. We all do. So the concept of having a funeral dinner for closing of your restaurant maybe is not quite exactly realistic. And anyways, it should be, it should be like going to a wake. It should be joyous and a celebration of what you have achieved. And the next chapter The thought process that you go through when you get reviewed by publications, by people. Yeah, it's very much like that. You're sort of 24/7 thinking about it. I mean, it's an initial presentation that you're doing to the world. My restaurant, me, this is who I am. There are a lot of emotions involved. The breaking up of his I've done the exactly the It's all or nothing. So I empathize completely, yes. You gave me ulcers and panic attacks. You were an OK chef when And you left an excellent chef. So you're welcome. I've been that guy. I've been in both. I've been Carmy. I didn't have the ulcers, but the anxiety and And I'm in a position now where I'm, I suppose, the other side, where I give the advice And he's correct. He came in a boy, and he left a man. And it's very true with what he says. You are better. So was it worth it? I think so. It's a tough, tough business to be in, and not everybody makes it. And some people get very emotional. Others embrace it. So it really depends and who the individual is. And I think what I've people don't remember the food. Sorry. It's the people that they remember. I would agree exactly with what Olivia Coleman was saying here, that it is about the company and the presence that you're in, not so much the actual Memories come and go. We might forget exactly but we can remember the and the feelings and emotions That to me is the most Very realistic with You got to think of it like a that you march behind. In our kitchen, we would Concentrate all your thoughts and feelings on the task at hand. And it's more of a mantra, but it's very correct. I would rate this a 9 out of 10. Everybody goes through opening, closing. My restaurant closed. We will be opening again in New York City. So be ready. My favorite scene from &quot;The Bear&quot; is the Thomas Keller episode. The sentiment, the advice to Carmy, the wisdom, and the impactfulness and in here, to me, is far that you could actually watch or learn. If you enjoyed this, please to enjoy more fine dining