Lillian: You never really loud when you're at the beach. And that's when we that this was a really and that's when we really [UPBEAT MUSIC] Person: Welcome to the &quot;Made by Google&quot; work on the Google products you love. Here's your host, Rasheed Finch. Rasheed: Today, we're talking to manager who works on Chen, a product manager for the Person: This is the Rasheed: Lu, Lillian, please you used Audio Magic Eraser Lu, maybe we can start with you. Lu: Yeah, sure. Thanks. I think the first time like I remember with some of the videos and that has been done at Google or at least reducing them. And it was on a video They were on the beach, And the wind was moving back and forth. And you could hear them And it reduced the wind could actually hear a and what they were saying. And so, it was a pretty cool moment. It really helped you focus on what was you know, if you ever got kind of thing that's annoying. It was nice to get rid of it. So it was a little delight moment. Rasheed: Amazing. How long ago was it, you think, that could actually be made into a product? Lu: To be honest, when it started, we hear a lot of demos and And so, it's not always clear, could be taken into a product. But when you start playing and thinking about where it could We know, in general, that noise is not a good thing, and people like So it seemed like a good match between and the technology and development Rasheed: I'll ask you the same, Lillian. Tell me about the first time and where were you when that happened? Lillian: So I'd been and we had got some initial So I was really excited to try it out. I happened to be in And I passed by this that my coworker had but it was really loud, just lots of So I just took a little in front of her favorite restaurant. And then, when I tried it worked really well in being able and reduce the sounds of the busy Rasheed: So, Lillian, you're a but specifically for Pixel. And, Lu, you make audio work on Pixel. In fact, we had you on the pod about Spatial Audio and Pixel Buds Pro. It seems to me that Audio exist because your teams came together. So what is that story of Lu: Yeah, that is one of the things is that we have a lot of different And the way that these come is prototypical in some ways, around within the research that they're developing. A lot of them, obviously, today have So we started with watching some of the And then, the product team got of the needs that we knew from users. And we put together some demos that to figure out, well, where should It could go in different applications Rasheed: Lillian, I guess, hey, we have this technology How did you felt that that could Lillian: Something that we was make 2023 the year And that's a strategy that we but even in the Google Photo space. So I was keen to look for those types So when I first heard about it, I It also relates a lot to is we take things how they feel true and authentic to that moment. And you never remember that the wind was That's not part of what you So I thought this really resonated and corrective applications of AI And one thing about this is, we really needed to hear Sometimes you shop an on who the person is, they might where I needed to edit my audio. And you may have to remind them, look, And so, Lu and I worked together Photos user research team. And we put together a of what this feature might in a round of concept testing. And that's when we really was a really relatable use case perfect except for somebody talking or a weird noise went by. And that's when we really Rasheed: So let's go back to Let's say, I have a What would I do with the recorded What do I got to do in the app? Lillian: It's pretty simple. First you go to Google Photos, that you want to edit, make It's going to be under the And when the tool loads, make something really easy So we have a button labeled Auto. And so, I would start there, just tap audio experience for your video. And then, if we don't get it quite to have more control, get into you can go and tap a specific buttons. In this case, it could be and slide it even further down to reduce Rasheed: Amazing. Well, I love live demos. So I was like, since this is we should maybe give that a little try. So I was looking through and I found this video Now, real Pixel superfans will of the very first Pixel phone. And I was at the launch in London, was performing. And it was an acoustic performance, a Pixel phone, but a Nexus phone. I still had to get my recorded that from the audience. And I thought, maybe we can play we can maybe clear in that concert So this is the original. And I'll just at some [AUDIO PLAYBACK] [LOUD CROWD NOISE] - (SINGING) --been searching for. Started believing that But I was never going to be the same. [DECREASING CROWD NOISE] Because with the money That's when things change. Rasheed: Put the noise back in. [LOUD CROWD NOISE] - (SINGING) Now I'm too concerned blinded by all the pretty girls I see. Rasheed: Now we'll make it silent again. [NO CROWD NOISE] - (SINGING) Beginning [END PLAYBACK] Rasheed: I thought I've made my hearing it like that, and being And, of course, it's that maybe it's not completely So Lillian just explained But, Lu, how do you, for between the wanted and unwanted sound? So what's happening on my phone in the Lu: Yeah, there's actually a First of all, everything that is done on the phone. It's not sent to the cloud or anything. And what we've done there is we have When the audio you have on that first thing is we identify We then separate them all out. In the case of your Rasheed: Yep. Lu: --was the noise that but we also identified music and speech. And then, we allow you to by separating those sounds the controls for the most prominent that you probably want to reduce. Rasheed: Now, Lu, I've been distinguishes between sound doesn't that distinguishing. Is that true? And then, what do you add into it? Lu: Yeah, that is true. When I mention the algorithm we are looking at the video as well are in the video and are the focus of the video. So there might be a they're front and center and speaking. Or there might be some We're looking for those clues, trained, kind of like, that the algorithm is replicating that. We see something, then we hear it. Rasheed: That's amazing. So you hear someone talking in the the algorithm will probably not the focus of the video, and it will something like that? Lu: Yeah, that's right, exactly. Rasheed: Lillian, I was wondering, I think a goal of many of the people is just making sure people can and capture their memories to do it properly. So where does Audio Magic Eraser sit Lillian: So I think what we did where we do have this Auto button. That's one tap, hopefully But we also thought it was control and multiple sounds identified. We decided to limit that and see how that does see if we've got the balance the control and the novelty of without being overly complicated had definitely appreciated to keep things assistive and simple. Rasheed: Now, Lu, I'm just wondering, like you are to bring such previously maybe was only with a lot of time and effort? What does it feel like to bring as an audio guru? Lu: Oh, it's super exciting. Having it exclusive to and maybe it's part of their But getting the general to be able to experience And it's actually part of the is that we have the ability to use to make it more easy and simple, like But they don't have to spend They also don't necessarily All they need is a Pixel. Rasheed: So, Lillian, 2023, the year of honing in on video. It sort of sounds counterintuitive that's focused on audio. So how did that happen, Lillian: I think for audio, I that you forget how important until you really hear where there's a perfect video but then, the sound What often happens too is or you're really close to the So if you could balance differently from the that helps recreate that But, I guess, my answer is just that I And Lu knows that on audio for a lot of his career. But it's one of those things that And then they realize Lu: Yeah, a few things that are the first one is that your ears and When you move your eyes, And so, we know that the brain with both audible and visual things. Sound makes a video much And this is like going It's the reason you go for And so, we wanted to focus on And a lot of people who share videos effect of getting rid of the distracting that they're actually videoing. And so, that was one of the reasons that Rasheed: Now, we love to offer the podcast a top tip with So I'm wondering, what give our users when it comes on the video that they're recording? Lu: There are two tips that I One of the tricks you can do is if you're taking a video if you want to hear them can reduce the other sounds and highlights the speech a bit better. It's not perfectly intuitive, because says speech, and you your natural instinct is But if you just leave that it actually highlights the speech. I think the other one is, one of is that when somebody they don't have to move now has less distracting noises. And I think that's a really that people have naturally learned. Unfortunately, because the they learned to move location a video to get to a quieter spot. But now you can actually edit it later, which is a nice benefit. Rasheed: Lillian, you mentioned I'm sure there are probably more places Magic Eraser is really on your on your Pixel 8 or Pixel 9 Pro. Any examples of that to add? Lillian: So one example was traditional Nigerian wedding. And there was just music, there was an emcee on a mic. It was just lots of things But when you listen to be certain parts that you want more prominent than others. In that case, I felt like having that come through And so, I was able to use Audio Rasheed: Amazing. Well, if you, as a listener, you'll find it in the Google Photos And may all your videos sound Lu, Lillian, thank you so much for and I hope to have you Lu: Thanks for having us, Rasheed. Lillian: It was great talking to you. Person: Next time on the Person: There are things that are There's a lot of interesting technology. But the most important should blend into the background. Person: Thank you for listening Don't miss out on new episodes. Subscribe now wherever you get your