This video is sponsored by squarespace. This is for lovers of English German is hard. Learning it means studying an array genders and knowing whether you're using the But in this video, we're ignoring all of that. I'm going to give you some simple tricks that the German words written in front of a menu, or in a movie. By the end we'll the untrained eye - into something that any No prior German knowledge required! And even if you don't want to learn German, tricks work tell us a lot about our own Los geht's! ...let's go. Let's get that mystery document back up. to lie in swapping letters in and out, to I'll go into exactly why it's possible, later. But the key point is that English family. They share a common ancestor by retracing that development, you can For example, where English developed a off in a slightly different direction So where English has "three" German has "drei", English "thing" is German "Ding". And where number of words of various genders and cases, all And while we're here, German's "du" as the age-old English words "thou" and "thine". So there's our first trick. Swapping the D in a German word for TH can very often get And linguistically speaking the "d" sound is very mouths to produce these sounds are extremely And that's why you can also often swap a German middle or end of words, like "Mutter" which This similarity between T and D sounds also this time between the two languages. German Ts can often be swapped for English Ds. deer all have German equivalents beginning with but that's precisely what deer originally meant animal in particular. In fact, the Dutch word provides a satisfying mid-point between German Back to German, the D swap works elsewhere in becoming unter and Leiter. Incidentally, Leiter While we're throwing Ts around, that instead of taking the Ts out, in the place of the "sss" sound Check out how neatly German Wasser becomes "was". And if you apply two of our English equivalent "that". Bonus fact: that use "wat" and "dat". As does our Ooh! And let's bring in that this fat, wiggly fellow, the eszett. it actually replaces a double S. So if you see a T! German Fuss becomes English foot, with Let's fling some more Ts around, because adding a subbing it in the TS sound, usually expressed the English "to", "two" - this time the number Right, more of these to come, but I realise flying around. I've become somewhat consonant why these tricks work when they do, which I admit We'll get to the cool reason just as soon as Squarespace! Squarespace empowers individuals to create their online web presence I've created my own website using Squarespace to enable you to easily move things around and powerful analytics tools to tell you who is visited mine from Vietnam! And if your passion Squarespace can help you do that That reminds me - we should try and Head over to Squarespace.com for a free go to squarespace.com/RobWords to save 10% off So earlier I said our translation tricks had Well what do Rapunzel, Hansel &amp; Gretel, Little Red is that they're all fairytales featured in the Wilhelm and Jacob. By the way, brother with because we can swap the D in German Jacob here is our hero, because as to bring together and reimagine European So I mentioned earlier how English and German languages. In fact, more specifically, Grimm was one of the driving forces behind an developed together - known as Grimm's Law. Long long ago - probably in the first millennium consonant shift that moved their consonant sounds the ancient ancestor Germanic languages the romance languages, celtic languages, But the language that became modern High spoke form of German - went through an extra like English, did not. That left sounds to English BUT those differences why we can often swap them in and out, So now you know the theory, Another way that English and German sounds /p/ and /f/. And it means that a double F, or PF /pf/ - can be swapped For example, German "Pfeffer" is English "pepper", But German "auf" has the same linguistic root "hope". There are so many more - Schiff When the English P, the Germans F. The next swap is a piece of cake. Or in sub this CH in a German word for a K Kuchen and cake. Also German "machen" means do. "Suchen" is related to "seek". Again, once you do these swaps, you Machen. So Dutch viewers, feel free to too. German Ich becomes Dutch Ik Old English for I was "ic". Or something like it. Anyway, that's all a Dutch distraction! that German words that begin with a K often C. Cake is a good example. A German Kuh others are really obvious like Kultur and Anymore for anymore? Oh yes! Hanging out at the end of the alphabet are W handy switcheroos you can do. We're going Let's take the German word Tag. So we already for a D - remember dream and daughter? And now G and putting in a Y. And we end up with Fascinating historical fact! The Old English word G at the end! Although it was actually Anyway, some more G and Y swaps: German sagen is English say! And if the Y doesn't Oh, and I've just thought of another good one! a look at the German words for "live" and And to stick things together is "kleben" Cleave is a fascinating word because it can Little doggy! Had enough of these yet? Well don't make me stop - with CHT. German words containing CHT often I give you: "light" both in the sense of the I also give you "night", "eight" Ones to watch out for though: nicht means blamed for thinking a Knecht was a knight. But it the words are related. The English knights saw Right! Or should that be richt? Actually a the administration of Recht. Anyway, RIGHT! Those are all the trickster" so let's put them to the And if you hadn't already worked out "Tagesmenu" Let's work our magic on the and we get something very close to "day's So what's for starters? Cremige Karottensuppe. Y swap in the first word, and we get And we can swap the K at the start of the next worked it out - this is creamy carrot soup. Mit help with the last word, swap the T at the end The next word is a bit tricky. You probably breaded cutlet. What about the start of the B with a V and you get CALVS. Does How about calves? Kalb is the German for Und is just German for "and". And we came across giving us pepper. And sauce is conveniently the that is extremely similar, but the English Onto our dessert. It's Apple cake! us an apple. Then swapping the K close enough to cake to work And finally, to drink - you have a choice of that double S for a T. I'm sure the waiter So there you have it, what I've basically consonant shift, dressed up as some top really work a lot of the time. If you've with French! Or check out my guide to the Hit like and subscribe and share this with someone who may find it useful. See you in