Translator: TED Translators admin The chances are you've looked in at least You've had a shave, or maybe you checked but what you didn't know is that the face looking back at you isn't the face that everybody else sees. It's a kind of reversed, distorted, back-to-front image. Some years ago, and I read an article in the FT, and it was an article about a phenomenon and for the Americans listening, The True Mirror was actually invented by a brother and sister team in New York, called John and Catherine Walters. What they discovered and you put them together at right angles, and you take the seam away, the images bounce off each other. What you see when you look is exactly what other people So, I land in New York, and ask him if I can go and see him, and I end up in his gallery in Brooklyn; it was like being There were True Mirrors full length, face sized, When I walked over and I looked in the mirror, it was one of the most disorientating The first thing you notice is that your head's not on straight. Yours is kind of going that way, and yours is quite straight actually, and yours is going that way a wee bit; so apparently most of us So when you approach a True Mirror, the first thing you try and do but, of course, because it's reversed so it's very, very disorientating. But more importantly, I had a flashback. I had a flashback I grew up in Glasgow - in case you haven't noticed, I grew up in Glasgow, and my mom, when she was putting her makeup on, I used to love sitting and watching you know, with my chin in my hands. And I would tell her occasionally: &quot;Isn't it funny is higher than the other side She'd look in the mirror And I'd say: &quot;No, it's only but that side of your cupid's bow than the other side of your cupid's bow.&quot; She'd say, &quot;Caroline, you're havering.&quot; When I looked in the True Mirror, there was the lip that I had been wearing, and I'd never seen it. The difference is you look for reassurance. You look for reassurance or you're young, or you're tidy, or your bum doesn't look big in that. But when you look in a True Mirror, you don't look at yourself, you look for yourself. You look for revelation, And this was deeply interesting to me because what I do for a living Not in any narcissistic but because I believe always starts with the individual. When you look at remarkable individuals - and when I say remarkable I don't mean monetarily successful; I mean people that have been successful at achieving whatever they set out to do - you'll find that the thing is they have nothing in common. These are people who, you know, work in many of the fields I work in. I work with people in corporations, I work with captains of industry, I work with selected politicians. I've worked with geophysicists. I've worked with chamber orchestras and ballet dancers and I've identified These are individuals who've managed that the universe gave them and then put that I think that we all come complete. We come complete with one true note and these are people It doesn't dictate your choice of job; what it dictates is how you do it. When we see these people we invariably call them larger than life. You know, you'll see and you'll say, &quot;Oh my goodness.&quot; Eve Ensler, she's larger than life, which always makes me smile because how could you be larger than life? Life is large. But most of us don't take up nearly the space We take up this wee space around our toes, which is why when you see somebody it's remarkable. They're at least a foot than normal human beings, and they shine, they gleam, they glow; it's like they've swallowed the moon. And all the work I've done that individuality really is In fact, people who are will work for those who aren't afraid. Now your job is not to be that I put up behind me. In fact your job is to be as unlike them Your only job while you're is to be as good at being you as they are at being them. That's the deal. So I want to start today by asking you an incredibly personal question. Not the one that says, &quot;Why are there so many syllables Not even the one that says, &quot;Did you know that Britney Spears (Laughter) Something a wee bit more pivotal. In fact, this is a question that's been It's probably the simplest and the most complicated Yet how many times in your life has somebody offered you that you should just be yourself? How many times have you One of your kids comes to you, and they tell you they're nervous, They have to go and do something and you say to them, because when you're Now it always resonates If you tell John to be himself, he doesn't want to be Mary. He's quite happy being himself, but it's the use of the word because it would imply two things. Number one, that that was Number two, that it was You know, John had never When it comes to being yourself, when it comes to being in the world, the minute you showed up, the minute you incarnated, you were given a life sentence. Now, you don't know how long you have. Maybe you have 70 years, and I have 62. We've no idea how long we have. Although, where you're born, when you're born, to whom you're born, all these things have a certain influence or impact on how you If you're born in Switzerland, chances are you've got a long time If you're born in Zimbabwe and I'm not kidding, So what I want you to think about but what do you expect from life? And what does life expect from you? Those are more interesting questions. And the two places in life you're fantastic at being yourself, one of them is when you're a kid. When you're a kid, because you don't know how to That's why you see kids on the beach, you know, naked up until the age of five, and then suddenly they want a bathing suit, Who's got a four-year-old boy? Anybody's got a four-year-old boy? I'll take a three-year-old. Jose, you've got a three-year-old boy. I want you to imagine and it's a class of three-year-old boys, and I say to the boys, What's going to happen? Every hand, right? Every single hand in the class will go up. They'll be competitively strong. If I go into the same class, but it's full of seven-year-old boys, they'll say, &quot;Him,&quot; because they He's the strong one, he's the fastest runner, he's the funny guy, he's the bully. Society archetype emerges around about the age That's why the Jesuits say, &quot;Give me a boy until the age of seven, because that's the birth of consciousness. And from then on and by default less good The other place you're fantastic is when you're a wrinkley, because you can't be arsed. You get to that stage in your life where you realize than there are in front of you, and everything intensifies. You become more honest; you become less compromising. So you're going to tell people, &quot;I don't want the spinach, And I don't like jazz, And while I'm at it, I don't like you!&quot; (Laughter) We call these people &quot;eccentric.&quot; We call our oldies &quot;eccentric.&quot; In fact, what they're doing So it's kind of like an hourglass effect: when you're young when you're old but the bit in the middle That's the bit you have to accommodate; So I've developed the &quot;I complex,&quot; and the &quot;I complex&quot; which &quot;I&quot; you mean when you say &quot;I.&quot; You're very familiar If you have a superiority complex, you're the most important If you've got an inferiority complex you suffer from These are both signs of a fragile ego. One of them and the other one There's a third way of being in the world, and I call it &quot;interiority;&quot; this is one of my made-up words. The word &quot;interiority&quot; and there are two reasons Number one, it's completely uncomparative. If you have a superiority complex you need other people around. For a superiority complex you need other people to be smaller. For an inferiority complex from the I'm-gonna-be-found-out syndrome, so somebody needs to find you out. Interiority is entirely unrelative, so to operate from this it's like a perceptual vantage point. It's a sensibility. It's an orientation. And it's the only place in your life, the only place in your life, you have no competition. Try and find a comparison to yourself, and you'll draw a blank. I could talk to you about interiority or I could just show you So I want to introduce you You might have her on you iTunes playlist, but Jill's a singer, and she's just about and in case you missed the question, there's a French filmmaker She's going on stage after Erykah Badu, and he says to her, &quot;Are you nervous, you know, going on after Erykah?&quot; And I want you to listen to what she says. (Video) Jill Scott: That chick right there has definitely led the way for me You know, I appreciate it. Interviewer: Are you nervous (Laughter) JS: Have you ever seen me perform? I am the lady Jill Scott. I am a poet, and a singer, and a lot of other things. We all have our own thing, and everybody comes and their own queendom. Mine could never compare to hers, and hers could never compare to mine. Caroline McHugh: See, you didn't That's what it looks like. When you figure out how to be yourself it's an incredibly liberating, You don't develop an identity that's predicated on being You're not a composite, an amalgam, of all your experiences and influences. You're not just somebody's boss, or anybody's anything. You're yourself. However, the chances are, there are at least four of you so let me introduce yourselves. The most visible &quot;you&quot; is what everybody else thinks of you, and there are as many opinions of you I want you to imagine that you plug into the world. You show up on the desktop of the world. That's the power of context. If you don't understand that bit, being yourself can be So of course it's important but one of the things I've noticed, and I'm terribly, I don't find myself tragically woman. I describe myself as a womanist, but I'm also a card-carrying feminist. There are very few things but one of them is something The need to be liked, or recognition, or for somebody I find more woman suffer and I think it's one When it comes to being yourself needing other people's approval, loving sombody else's opinion, and mistaking it for your own is one of the most debilitating things You will never, ever be perception-less, but it's important to be perception-free. One of the things that is going is to tune into the next circle This is your wish image. This is what you would like and it's not about being fake, It's about moving; it's about possibility; it's about potential; So, whilst there's a part of you this part of you is like your wishbone. This one is your adaptive personality, and even that's unique because nobody in the world has had the same experiences But this is the you that keeps moving, that keeps changing all the time. And it helps you avoid You know the people that say to you when they mean one year, 15 times? They literally repeat themselves, year, after year, after year. What I want you to think about your job is to be better and better at being who you already are. This is not a cosmetic exercise. You're already different. Your job is to figure out how, and then to be more of that. Now, there are certain times in your life that lend themselves to change, that make change quicker, deeper. I call them intervals of possibility. Now, they're not always but you know those times in your life when you come and you sense that the potential You meet a stranger in a bar; you have to decide Your boss comes to you What do you want, you want or do you want this job? And you know that if you make that change, the speed of your life will change. Unfortunately, some of these intervals In fact, most of them are catastrophic 'cause most of us would rather sleepwalk until something happens to wake us up. And what will happen is or you'll get sick, or you'll get fired. Or maybe it's something impersonal. Maybe 9/11 happens, or the Kashmiri earthquake happens, but something happens and makes you ask the question The problem is when it is you're vulnerable, you're weak. And my question is, why wouldn't you ask yourself from a position of health? When you're in a job, when you're loved: that's when the questions So the question on this one is, &quot;If you could be the woman And my tongue's nowhere near my cheek when I ask you that question. The thing that might stop you is the next circle, and that's what you think of you. So now you've got what you would like and this is what you think of you. And you have good days There's days where you wake up And other days you wake up and you can't even say your name. Even your cellphone feels too heavy. On the days when you wake up and you feel like the bee's knees, it's not even like you've got a reason. It's like free-floating joy in your body just looking for a target, and you know how it feels on those days You just think, &quot;Somebody give Quick, point me somewhere!&quot; And your hair's fabulous, everything works on those days. But the other days nothing works. Your legs don't work, The word thief comes Those are two extremes of your ego, and one of them and the other one Now your entire life, I don't care how old you are, your entire life, from birth up until now has been about building You need an ego to live If you didn't have an ego you'd be toast. But your challenge is to take the ego and pull it back, so that That's when it becomes useful, you've got to find the still point That's what I would call and it's the kind of state of mind that cannot be perfumed in any way by anything that happens outside you. This kind of confidence is like the confidence of the sky. Right now it's dark outside, but you know if you went up in a plane, even in the stormiest of days, the sky's brilliant blue underneath. When you look at the sky, and it's absolutely gorgeous, there's no question &quot;Ha, did you see my rainbow?&quot; Or when it's a terrible, bleak, you know, gray, gloomy day, that the sky's going to apologize. No, the sky just is, because the sky sees and the impermanence of the rainbows, and you have to develop that's as impervious to all the good shit as the sky is to the weather. We would also call this, we would call this feeling and one day last week and particularly, I got to work who worked with the amazing who got all those amazing results It was incredible to be in the same room The woman who runs UK Sport and she gave me a definition of humility that's as good as any I've ever found. She said, &quot;Humility is not humility is thinking about yourself less.&quot; And I remembered learning and probably no more than seven or eight, it was the woman with the squinty mouth She had no idea, my mother, what she was doing to me but when I grew up in Glasgow, particularly working-class, nobody had any money, so nobody could afford Everybody's social life so at the weekends, would show up at people's houses, and they would drink and all that kind of stuff, but everybody at some point And it was a riot, because these people and welders, and carpenters by daytime, but then they'd show up at nighttime and come and be Frank Sinatra, and Dean Martin, and Sarah Vaughan, and Billy Eckstine. They were all... in my house living in my house, and all the kids And so, I'm the oldest of four girls - my mother had four daughters. So did my father, interestingly enough. But we were brought up and we'd be wheeled out me with my guitar and we'd have to sing. We'd be literally positioned, You know, my father would say, and then we would sing, We were absolutely rubbish. One night my mother came up to get us she showed up and she said, Go down and give them a song.&quot; And this night I was just overcome. I said, &quot;I don't want to sing.&quot; She said, &quot;Why do you not want to sing?&quot; I said, &quot;I'm shy.&quot; She said, &quot;What're you shy for?&quot; I said, &quot;Well, everybody's and I'll never forget her face. She looked at me, she said, &quot;Caroline, (Laughter) You think anybody downstairs Your job's to go and make I said &quot;okay&quot;, and I picked up my guitar and I picked up my That advice has never left me. But what it has left me with is spectacular disregard and spectacular disregard In fact, since that day, I have never You're the center of mine, and that's a very different feeling. So last, the last you, and the opposite of least, is the ever-present unchanging you. This is the you that you've been and the you that you'll be I spend a lot of time in India, and in India you're raised that you're a spiritual being whereas we in the West and then if we get old enough we kind of get interested in spirit. But, if you've ever been you'll know that this is and it was actually a response by Gandhi to a question from a journalist. Gandhi was getting on a train and the journalist called after him, &quot;Gandhiji, Gandhiji, what's And Gandhi turned around and said, &quot;My life. My life's my message.&quot; And your life is your message, too. It might not be as big mine certainly isn't - but your life has to be your message. Otherwise, why are you here? It's not like you've got a spare. So when you think about your identity, when you think about when you think about you're not your thoughts, And you can't be your feelings, because otherwise, You're not what you have; you're not even who you love, There has to be something When you look at people all these judgments You know, this man here, or a black man, or young, or old, or Democrat, or Republican, nor a gay, or a straight. It really, really wouldn't have mattered because he knew why he was here. Yes, we can. So you see, he seemed to be a verb. Even when you're born without many of the attributes even when you're born in a way that may lead you to feel impotent, if you can tap into that voice, if you can tap into that inner voice that I've been talking about, you might just end up being, at 12 years old, to the National World Champion Swim Team. You might even end up at the age of 13 being the youngest Olympian You might even end up at 14 being the youngest person That's what happens when you dial in So if you can do this, not only will the speed not only will the substance but you will never feel superfluous again. (Applause) Thank you.