Math sure is easy to hate. It can seem but what if none of that were true? and accessible? Well, it can be. but also on how you choose to perceive it, and There's a famous essay called The Lockhart. I've covered it in a video before It advocates for teaching math the way we teach but from your teacher you learn techniques works. The essay talks about how students this and about playing with ideas. It's a very Practical instructions on how to make these ideas of play. Well, the same author, Measurement. Lockhart himself is a math and this book feels like the closest we Hank Green: You know, you've probably think that is a great place to like, we started from Measurement, I'd be really interested to see, like, how The book does its best to show off some of So in this video, I'm going to go through all the fuss is about. Is it the key to learn. A great teacher won't make math easy motivated. People can do hard things if In the introduction, Lockhart says of math that, one's imagination, intuition, and ingenuity. and this is an art book. Math has in a good way. Some problems have All of them are opportunities to poke the it behaves. Mathematical reality might an assortment of numbers or any kind of these things with a stick and gain a little Mathematical reality can feel a bit on these triangles when we draw lines from the the three lines meet at a single point? What solve this mystery by finding better sticks A microscope won't save me because problem. It's just my way to share it. because we are imagining perfect triangles physical world. Instead of a microscope, one The answer to our problem won't be a problems are explanations of why things mathematical arguments or proofs. None asking you to find a number. They Lockhart says that a proof is simply a story. and the plot is up to you. Let's take a look of the most beautiful and challenging a pentagon with five regular sides, and we ask There's many different ways you could plot out may find your favorite approach. These three lines all the diagonal. There's two more diagonals we get a neat looking arrangement with some It's not the only thing we could have we could have introduced that or none at all. In this arrangement, which are like bait to lure us further. Similar You can prove yourself why they are and has to do with there being sets of some angles will be equal. Apologies it's a bit wonky, and so some of the But thinking through the symmetry of things supposed to be equal. The purple and blue and the red one is a smaller version. is one of the diagonals that we want to It doesn't have to be a boring name. We can call it if we want. appears three times The smaller side of the blue triangle and the to make . And that first bit is just the same What if we set its value to be 1? because we don't have to do anything, but given because doing so will in general keep things little bit will be flower minus 1. We actually But can we go further? The red triangle can be by some factor. If this side is 1 and this side because 1 times is . So scaling the other So that's minus one multiplied by will So we've actually got a relationship now, which got this far with just shapes and geometry and we mathematical language. Is that language powerful The process of untangling this representation artistic technique dating back to the ancient called the difference of squares formula. then multiplying them together, like we have in This area would be 1, but there's no tool that split it up to tell us exactly what each everything changes. A tool exists called the a square from its area. So we would love And how would you try that? One way is to take off but it's a square missing a bite. These will actually be the average of the original them out. The average of two numbers is found In our case, that gives plus minus one, which gives minus a half. So minus a half squared is a bite, that missing bite is a square of its own. one side of the original rectangle lost and The length is how far each which is called the spread. and minus one minus a half. So the spread is one So now we have a new relationship. We used But by changing the rectangle into a square, we now have that minus a half squared minus Rearranging to have the numbers on one side, both sides. And we get that is equal to And this is actually the golden and it's a number that appears in nature in the between successive Fibonacci numbers. Spotting rearranged for the value of itself doesn't tell times minus one equals one is just as useful. numbers make themselves known to us in various that might not occur to us otherwise. The are a creative genius and remain a mystery to There are actually multiple ways to have that uses something called Ptolemy's Now, when I talk about the I'm not thinking about my explanation or my Instead, I'm talking about the process of a we just went through. I don't think that teacher. It's about the student. To change way students approach their own problems. To I've just shown you somebody else's art Here's a couple of problems from the book. the area of a regular pentagon? The book it doesn't give answers to any of the because there are no right answers But I know that it can also be helpful to see what either on the internet or by using something like people's problems is useful but the best thing your own. I believe the secret to learning Not just simple questions about technique, on for a while. And even better is that you are thinking about. That way when chance of being able to slot it into one of your Having multiple on the go is also important progress on one of them inevitably slows to a you might have a good idea on another. And it's they may follow you around for For me right now, I've been writing a fun little and having it as a side project has helped have paid attention to. By chance, I recently it's pretty complicated and if I wasn't writing But instead I became fascinated with how I Making YouTube videos is another way to come times I have some video ideas simmering away but I hope that by simmering them for long enough, Another thing, you have to let it take time have originally taken centuries for people to you will get better. After the geometry goes on to look at time and space. over time, either by letting them grow This turns out to be a fairly useful way to find calculus. On page 49, there's a quote I like. It useful. They do it because it's interesting. It math has to be applicable to jobs or careers or that can make math more boring because I like that Working through the problems in this book feels are committing to spending time in a world that distraction from the chaos of reality. So if own problems that you want to explore and to Thanks for watching this video and making it possible. A special shoutout to