Where should you be Dunkin' or 7-11? Let's talk about that. Good Mythical Morning. You know those mornings You sleep through your alarm, Your dog refuses to give you a Yeah, after all we've done for him. On those kind of mornings, you just don't have the time to make in perfectly brewed cup of coffee. So here's what you do. You stop to grab a quick But you got options. You can get in line at Dunkin or But which place is really It's time for Food Fued, Okay, boys, today is a very special day. It's the last Food Feud of the year. Which means at the end of the episode, we're going to crown the mythical a Food Feuds letterman's jacket and their choice of snack to stock The top four contenders We have Lisa and Silaine tied for first with 50 points, and Amy in fourth with 48 points. How are y'all doing? They hate each other. Look at them. I can't look at them. Look at them. Look at how angry they Can I just make an observation? I mean, I know women are smarter than men. but we got a lot of guys here. Guys, what's up? Where my boys at? What are you? We're guys. You should know us. What are you? Y'all. Y'all just lazy. You not checking your emails or something? Okay, before we get started I have a hankerin for some Yeah, here's a boy. You may have heard the saying breakfast but did you know that it was John Harvey Kellogg with the sole dried sugar cubes they call cereal? So was breakfast actually important generation upon generation of serial Cereal capitalism? Should you be spending your precious toast, sausage and a cappuccino and your fancy wedding registry that you honestly have just prefer the cash instead, or can you get your breakfast fast? And on the breakfast track, Somewhere that has been Keeping Or a place that has been taking the since the 1920s. Today, these two men sat before me are embarking to find the answer that has been The moment their heads hit where should you go for the day's Some sort of lock on it... Thanks, Josh. Thank you, Link. Okay, we're going to kick things On Rhett's side is the Dunkin' bacon, And on Link's side is the 7-11 What? Did it freeze? What in the world? Yours soft. I was just gonna eat yours. No, it's hard. It's as hard as a rock. All right, well, you know what? It's not morning here anymore. I'm gonna get to some soft parts. Oh, my goodness. All right, here we go. Hold on a second. I don't understand what happened. That's how they showed up. All right. Okay. This is. Okay, maybe this. Maybe they're supposed to be hard. I don't. We'll just assume they're Well. It's pretty crispy. I'm gonna try to give Dunkin' the benefit of the doubt. I mean, look what happened to the cheese I'd have to get it put in a rock it doesn't cut my innards. It actually doesn't taste that bad. It's just hard. It tastes like. Tastes like a microwave breakfast taco. Just because something gets hard doesn't Now this one here, man. And it looks like a nice So what? It's just funny the way Like everything's chopped together. I kinda wanna take a How does 7-11 do this? Do they assemble it there or is it just There's no way this is not People who work at 7-11 didn't You know what I'm saying? So both of these are very microwavish type vibes. I'll say that the consistency of this compared to, an actual big piece of egg and bacon. That is as hard as a rock. But this one has not only Monterey cheese, And that's why it gets So I like this one a little better than that one. I like it better, because this is so hard. But if I remove the hardness and I'm I actually prefer the Dunkin' but, I don't think either one I give this a 6. I'm completely unimpressed. I'm gonna give Dunkin' a 4. I'm revising my score. 5. It's bad. Revise it again. Give it a four. I like the taste. I do like the taste. I don't know. It's kind of grossing me out. I would be happy if I Three. I'm giving it a three. I'm going to give it a three as well. Let's just forget this round happened. Three, but keep the score. Next up, On Rhett's side, we have Dunkin's latte for $4.99 vanilla syrup for $5.09. And on Link's side, we have 7-11's latte for $2.99 and a So they do it with the vanilla Lot cheaper over here. Well, that's just the one that Let's start with the cold, shall we? We shall. Dink it. I don't ever really get cold brew iced. Not from. Not from here. With French vanilla syrup. Pretty tasty. Pretty strong. I mean, but that's okay. That's okay. I'll take it. But we need to compare it Let's go cold cold, then, hot hot. Lot of straw happening here. Why this much straw? You want to go that deep down Yeah, sometimes. Oh, man, that's going to go through. That's going to hit my brain. Well, because I wonder if you It is not good. It's not. It makes the Dunkin' What in the world? In 7-11 they left something to be desired. What did they do? Now, just a latte? Yeah. It's okay. What if we were just two friends who... lived in Manhattan and on our way to work? We never had become who we but we liked to do these And so we would stop at the Dunkin' We would sit next to each other Just like that. Like we did. And then we would make observations like, We should have done And how long did we have to do that Writing about it? Stephen King, we're waiting. Stevie, if you didn't know us and and you spent a few weeks on the same commute and you saw us, would you speak to us? Watch out, now. That's a little hotter. Yes, I would speak over the loudspeaker of the subway car. Oh, you would be a conductor. Now, my notes tell me that the 7-11 it is a phenomenon. The 7-11 coffee is so sweet, but it tastes so much I would never get this much It's not just a drink, though. It's a phenomenon. It's so much better. The latte from 7-11 is so as much better is than the iced coffee from 7-11. They completely cancel each other out. I'm actually going to Cause it's that good. When I give it a score of 7. And what are you going to give 7-11 if you want to start here? Six. You give 7-11 a 6 over here? All right. And I'm going to give Dunkin' a five. Whoa. I'm giving Dunkin' a six as well. Because I thought they completely Yep. I didn't do that. Did y'all anticipate any of that? No, not at all. None of you? No, we all were banking on Dunkin'. I know. Because it's coffee. 7-11 won in his mind. And you think that the Dunkin but I gotta tell you, It wasn't and already did tell you. We know you have mush more room in your pin collection Yep. They're two mushrooms that are us. You get it? Shop. November's pin of the month, hours only now at mythical.com. Well, that's not a lot of time. Okay. We're taking things up Moving on to donuts on Rhett's side, you have a glazed and a chocolate maple long john for $2.69. And on Link's side from 7-11, you have a glaze and a chocolate flavored bar for $2.39. So we have a Long John... over here and we just Same stuff, though. I want to do an apples to apples. Let's pull. I mean, That's what they do. You would think, Don't mention that. Pull. Pull. Pull. Hmm, that's better. I would say they're. I would say they're kind of the same. I don't think it's better. The glaze is way better. On the 7-11 donut. There's a lot more glaze. I will say that. Yeah. And it tastes better. All right, now let's taste the chocolate. I think they're pretty incomparable. How could that be? Chocolate gotta be good. It's good. This is a darker chocolate. Oh, gosh. I'm destroying it a little bit Now that's not as good. Too dry. the donut... The donut's super dry. The donuts bonk. Once again, they cancel each other out. So we're gonna use the Long John. It comes down to the Long John. Let's figure out who has a better donut. I mean, we're doing what we're doing. Cause it's happening. Pull. You didn't need. I could have done that. One time on the long John. All right. I was trying to be helpful. When a man's got a Long John, two guys can hold each side of it. That's good. I'm having to think about a wider experience of donuts here. You don't have to do I want to do that because I'm not gonna just sit just these three donuts that I don't It's still one of the But I haven't had 7-11. I haven't either. So do I need to compare it to what's that's gonna give 7-11 short shrift? It's not as good as a Dunkin' Long John The Dunkin is a very slight favorite. What I've Learned it's a softer donut. Is that 7-11 got some And if you go to Japan, you wouldn't believe all Yeah. Yeah. You can rent a car. You can take a nap in a spacious environment with a home theater. Have you been? Lando's just been telling me all about it. Oh, he might be lying. Yeah, he's full of lies. What 14 year old isn't? I'm not impressed with Dunkin' Donuts, 6. Dunkin' Donuts. I know what you're capable of, and this showing just didn't do it. But I'm still gonna give you a seven. All right, I'm gonna do that. 7-11. Five. 7-11. You've surprised me. I'm gonna give you a six. Huh? Okay. Silaine is doing some deep breathing. I think they probably all thought I got a 7-11 glazed on oak this morning, And so I picked 7-11. Really? It's surprisingly good. The glazed is better. The glazed is better. I'm sorry. It's not Krispy Kreme, though. Okay, it's time for a little brain freeze On Rhett's side is Dunkin's Coolatta for $4.89, and on Link's side is So Dunkin' is trying to And I love a good coolatta. Never had it. This is good. It's not too sweet, I don't. When's the last time you unironically How would you ironically order one? Just to, to be seen in, a hipster community? Yeah. As, like, part of a costume. I mean, I just don't drink this kind of. I've just never ordered it unironically, ironically, or onically. I don't like it. I don't like this kind of thing. Try the Big Gulp. Big Gulp's got a really good logo. I like that. That's a classic slushy taste. It's sweeter. The consistency of the ice is. It's like they shaved it and then they shaved it again. It's so fine. There's a magic to it that Dunkin is almost crushing their ice. And I would say that 7-11 twice as sweet. It's a different technology. Something about that aftertaste is very... Nostalgic S lush. Oh, here it comes. Put your hand on the back of your neck. It's a mild one. I can handle it. I can get through it. Just don't look at me. Put your hand on the back of your neck. I got through it. It was a mild one. I think you're supposed to put and pray to the ice God. It was a 3.9 on the rector scale. See, my thing is, I don't hate this. I don't hate this. I give it a six. I don't like it. I give it a four. Okay. This over here is clearly. Clearly classic for what it is. I feel like I don't want any more of it, to be honest with you. I feel like I had the experience. It's more carbonated, too. It's just got so. It's got more bite to it. It's got more flavor to it. It is sweeter. I could not drink the whole thing. And I appreciate the Eight. I don't like it that much. What did I give this? A four? Six. Okay. 7-11 coming on strong. Okay. It's anyone's game from the crew side of and it all comes down to this. Is it, though? We have everything Bagel On Rhett's side is a Dunkin' cream cheese and sausage, egg and cheese added for $7.85. And on Link's side is the 7-11 everything So it's cheaper. And 7-11 makes it like this, like, the sausage, egg, and cheese for Dunkin'. Okay. Boy, that everything bagel This is an attractive breakfast sandwich. Yeah, this is promising. And it's not petrified either. It's surprisingly easy to just straining. Very juicy with all that cream cheese. Yeah, I like that. It's got cream cheese. And the other cheese, That's pretty solid. I like it. Now, let's go over here, because this is. They put all this together. You don't need to alter anything. And it doesn't have a hole in the middle. Doesn't have a hole in it. Maybe that's a good thing. It's also pretty good. It's easier to eat because it's, smushed all into one thing. When you're eating at 7-11, they really do expect you to dash out and It's really hard to one hand this bagel. See, everything started coming out? These are both really solid. I mean, I would not have told you this is the but it. It is. It is. It is. I'm believing that the Something about the cohesive... grab and go-ness of it. I appreciate the form factor of this, but I think that the bagel on the It's a better bagel. I'm not gonna deny it. I'm gonna give it an 8. Because I just feel like I gotta I'm gonna give it a seven. And over here is where I'm 7... Okay, so we've kind of canceled but I'm gaining a lot of respect for 7-11. But let's see where we landed With. A final score of 59 to 58. Congratulations to 7-11. You did it. You're officially the best fast breakfast. And you have won the chance to Okay, and now for the moment that at least The crew tournament results... Tied for second place, we have Lauren and Lisa. And with one more point, our winner is. Silaine! Come on out there. Look at that. Initial. Here you go. Take it up... Now give us a twist. Give us a turn. Here we go. Food feuds. Is this. Wow, that's leather too. Boy, that is all full leather. 100% And then we're gonna. Are we gonna put your name over there? I think maybe not. Put an S. Yeah, we got an initial. All right, good. That's it. That's all you get. Okay, so what is your snack of choice to have After a lot of thinking, canned mocha lattes. So it's my coffee of choice in the morning. I promise everyone's gonna love it. Can we afford this? It's gonna be great. Well, but I do know how much they cost. Okay, so we're gonna. There's gonna be one every day. And it's for Silaine. You gonna have to fight over it. Wow. One point. Can you believe it? Silaine won by one point. And so did 7-11. Wow. Down to the wire. What's the world coming to? Thanks for subscribing You know what time it is? Hi, I'm Brooke and I'm Gia. We're from Pittsburgh, Decorated cookies in our first apartment. And now it's time to spin First apartment. Very mythical cookies. Click the top link to watch us build the And to find out where the Wheel There's a Fungus Among Us. November's Pin of the Month is