- This is a specialized And this is me in the middle in that cage, which as it happens, doesn't actually keep the sharks out. They're in the freaking cage. But to understand how I ended up in the middle of The Bahamas surrounded by a butt ton of sharks, we've gotta go back exactly one year. Because that's when I ran a if sharks smell a drop of For that experiment, I pumped out 15 drops of human pretty close to a bunch just weren't really that interested. So this busted the myth from the movies that sharks are these ruthless if they smell a drop of But those results made me would react differently to And if they did go crazy for fish blood, could I use that to put of a shark feeding frenzy? And so to satiate my curiosity, my friends at Discovery back to The Bahamas as part But this time, I wouldn't be alone. - What up, Robes? - Oh wow. Mark's jumping in on this? - What's up, y'all? - Look, last Shark Week, - Hmm? - I figure we'd have a little a little bit of fun with Dude Perfect, and a little bit of me. All right, y'all ready to do this? - We were born ready, sir. - All right. (palms smacking) Chop chop. Let's get to it, fellas. - We will not let you down. Looking forward to it. See ya later. - Yeah, I've got this idea for a build to just really get me in Last year- - I was in the water. - Rober. Rober. - Hmm? - That was me saying I'm - No, of course. - All right, see you guys later. Let's get to it. - Let's do this. - Looking forward to it. See ya. - And so in the direction of Shaq Diesel, it was time to head to The Bahamas. All that was left was to swab my nose to prove to the Bahamian government that I didn't have coronavirus. The only problem was my And this just made me really sad because not only was I gonna miss out on this epic adventure, but as far as I was concerned, I was basically just waiting to die. And I had to interact with my to the backyard using a Fat Gus would get within six feet of me. Now, I'm happy to say I and tested negative, is I missed my chance accepting any commercial 'cause we're number one baby. So I was once again incredibly Because while you on a public commercial flight, there were no rules against on a private jet. And since this was the first and last time I would ever have my own personal G6, I acted like I'd been here before, like the true professional I am. I mean, mostly. (bright upbeat music) Put Elon on hold and transfer to Oprah. (bright upbeat music) I should mention, flying across isn't the most ecologically So while I was in the air, I utilized this website You might have heard of it. To plant enough trees not only for my flight, but the next 100 flights (bright upbeat music) In the end, it's important you guys know I'm still super grounded and I didn't let the And so now that I was in The Bahamas, the first thing I did was check shark diving expert buddy Luke Tipple, because we need to figure out how to somehow get blood out of a fish. Oh. (giggles) - [Luke] Just like that. - This is how we do it? The first thought is like, (fish thuds) can you just freaking blend a fish? - Give it a shot. I'll be over here. - Dude, you've clearly There's a whole YouTube Ready? Oh! (blender whirring) Okay. I think if we add a little bit of water. Yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. (both groans) This looks like the number We tried a variety of other techniques and eventually started hitting our stride and the bucket started filling up. (bright upbeat music) If I couldn't smell this, (bright upbeat music) - The good thing about Mark but he is not making other people do it. - I respect that about me too. - Yeah. (bright upbeat music) I also learned this is what fish gills look like on the inside. They're like pages in a book which maximizes the oxygen So we've taken about 20 fish with a little bit of turned them into this. If I'm a shark, I'm like, Now that we had five gallons of mouthwatering fish blood smoothie, it was time to get some answers. We already know that sharks in the presence of a but would they go nuts in the presence of a little bit of fish blood? And as a firm believer it was time to test our Once we were far enough from land, Luke and I came up with a Basically we would have two One would have a five gallon bucket of our fish blood smoothie, and then another would have We would also have a third as a control to make sure the sharks weren't just interested in the surfboards. Then we would pump out the contents of each of the buckets and observe how many sharks Then, once we know which we'll use that tomorrow in the cage, just to create the most - Which sounds super fun to me. - 'Cause you're not in the cage. (both laughs) And so with the plan in place, all that was left to do was and get them out with the sharks. (bright upbeat music) One of the limitations to last year's test was that the boards might have So it's possible some of the sharks actually smelled the blood because they were just waiting So this time we basically in the middle of the fricking ocean super far away from the boat, so it wouldn't be a confounding variable. Oh, and I should also mention we ended up using cow's blood because it's really hard to legally find five And after talking with a they've shown experimentally essentially smells the same to sharks. So, it wouldn't affect the in place of human blood. So, now that all three we double checked to ensure to the ocean floor. Then I just had to start using our custom-built remote trigger, which is the exact moment I realized it must have got busted because it wasn't sending a signal. Which sucks because to run the pumps manually. Luckily, a trick I learned is you always build just in case. So we have it in the code is received after an will just automatically It's just a feature we so we just had to firmly cross our fingers and hope for the best. I'm hopeful. We've had to overcome a lot What's one more little challenge. And at exactly one hour, right on cue, the backup code kicked in and saved our whole experiment. With blood now officially in the water, we put the drone into the air (bright upbeat music) And things were pretty quiet but then we had our first hit Shark? - Shark, baby! We got a shark! Oh yeah, yeah. - But pretty soon thereafter, for the fish blood smoothie board. Oh my gosh. There's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, around the fish smoothie board. And then 10 minutes later, Here you can see the between the three boards. And while you're running an experiment and still collecting data, you really need to keep an open mind. But given what we were seeing, it was getting pretty And so after an hour, and went inside to officially using the drone footage. And it turns out the mammal blood board was approached eight times. The seawater control board was at zero. And the fish blood board had a whopping 134 Definitely seems like the fish smoothie is where it's at, right? - It was pretty obvious. - Massive blob of sharks. No sharks. - I think that's the go for tomorrow for maximum feeding frenzy. Now that we had a game plan for my feeding frenzy cage the next day, we headed back to shore and to our hotel to get some rest for what was to come. Oh and fun side note, if the only way to get to a vacation it really cuts down on the crowds. (bright upbeat music) We literally had this Well, almost to ourselves. There were like 40 cats who apparently must also fly private. We woke up bright and feeling refreshed and where Luke and I prepared of fish blood smoothie for me to burst open once I went down. It just seemed like a to get in the middle of a feeding frenzy, until this moment. (laughs dryly) Now that they're making me makes me reconsider my life choices. If something terrible happens, Shaq you gotta take care of my family because this is all your fault. - Yeah. Let's go. - And after several months of prep, unfortunately, it was It also just so happens, I might have forgot to I'm not looking under She might have been under the impression I was just doing another experiment with surfboards and pumps. Sorry, sweetie. Not only was I wearing 10 pounds of steel chainmail for protection, but my vest is also filled That means I sank pretty fast. But also that the buoyancy for giving me practice That's one small step for man. Because like many of you, I will definitely go to Again, just haven't mentioned Super Mario jump, here we go. (water sloshing) Let's do this baby! - [Luke] All right, you ready for the top? (gentle upbeat music) Okay Mark, the bait is (gentle upbeat music) (water sloshing) - Now that I have the fish smoothie bags and everyone was back at a safe distance, I decide to pop these stupid things. Okay. Here I go. Oh, this is crazy. What am I doing? (suspenseful music) Okay, the bait is deployed. Ah! I got to get this stuff outta here. Here they come. (Mark screams) Oh. Oh my God. Oh God, they're bumping the cage. (suspenseful music intensifies) Look at those teeth! That could have been my hand if I wasn't doing the T-Rex maneuver. They want to eat me real bad. Oh, now they're literally Oh gosh. Oh! His head's in the cage! What the crap! This is certifiably insane! Oh! The sharks were literally trying to eat me through the bottom of the cage. So, they left me no choice Yeah, get outta my cage! Get outta my cage! I'm gonna kill you Shaq! Get the heck out! Ayyyy. Awwww. Yo bro, get outta my cage, all right? They loved our blended concoction. We knew all along that would be when I exited the cage because they'd still be agitated and they'd be stoked to the soft chewy center. Okay, the blood kinda dissipated. The sharks have gone a little bit. - [Luke] Okay, we're - [Mark] So the plan was to distract them way off to and then I would get out so they wouldn't notice me. Dude, that was insane. Yeah, you're not so tough - [Luke] Okay Mark, go - Okay. (breathing noises) Oh crap. (contraption thuds loudly) That was loud. (water sloshing) Dude. Luke! Holy crap. I've gotta close this back up. (suspenseful music) Oh geez. Luke, I need help, man. Holy crap. Geez. - [Luke] Keep your arms in mate. These sharks aren't going away. I'm going to get you back to the surface. - [Mark] Okay. (screams) Oh my gosh. (water sloshing) - [Luke] Top side, top side. We're on our way out. - [Mark] I think somewhere to tell Shaq he can do his own stunts from now on. Hey! I'm alive! The main takeaway for is that sharks have been on this planet longer than the dinosaurs So, they've had 400 to develop these instincts for smelling fish blood. Humans and cows will be an So it makes sense that into their brains. And so with all my limbs intact and with my curiosity fully satiated, I will leave you with these profound words that in my defense might have As humans we're always the predator and not really ever the prey. But this gave me a sense of what it's like to be a tuna fish. (heavy drum beat) (playful upbeat music)