Now the list of tools I'm about to describe is not exhaustive, meaning it doesn't even to the total number of from the discussion about that I had with Dr. Andy But they are the major ones that are definitely worth knowing. And those include supplementing Now, omega-3 fatty acids are things like fatty fish certain forms of algae, et cetera. But most people do not get enough of so-called EPA form of omega-3s. And for that reason, I and many other people with a minimum of one gram per day, and in some cases as high of omega-3s in supplement form. So typically one would get by supplementing their nutrition, their diet that is, with fish oil capsules or liquid fish oil. There are many different sources of these that was discussed in an episode that I did with the Dr. Rhonda Patrick. I find that it's most cost efficient to get that one to two grams Despite what you might I don't have any relationship whatsoever to a liquid fish oil company. You just want to make sure that I like the ones that so that it offsets the taste of fish oil. And I'll take a tablespoon And if I'm traveling, and even if I'm not, I will And there are a variety of different sources of those as well. Getting sufficient amounts to be important for mood. Okay, so as a way to offset depression, but also for enhancing overall mood. That probably relates on neurotransmission, not just for neuromodulators but for all neurotransmission. And neurotransmission, of course, is essential for And the omega-3s have been implicated in reducing the inflammation response, cardiovascular health, et cetera. I realize that there is but when I look at the bulk of literature about the omega-3, it's very clear to me that getting one to two grams is the right thing for me to do. And many others find that as well. The second tool to enhance your of nutrition and Now again, creatine is not It's also found, of course, in foods, in particular red meat. However, the amount of red in order to get the amount of creatine, that one would start to see a real performance enhancing You'd be ingesting far too much that you wouldn't want that much of. And for that reason, I and many other people We now know there's no need in the old days, as it were. So old days, by the way, We were all told that We had to take high dose and then you could back Now it's very clear you can and that it really doesn't matter when you take that creatine. You could take it post-workout You could take it pre-workout. It really doesn't seem to matter. I happen to take it post-workout But again, you could Now, the point I want to one that's a bit different than the other discussions out there. I have no issue with the majority of what's discussed For instance, that creatine monohydrate is the most effective form. Fortunately, creatine monohydrate is also the least expensive form of creatine that's sold out there. I see no evidence whatsoever that the other forms of to creatine monohydrate. But what you'll usually hear is that taking five grams of is ideal for everybody. And that advice is by the scientific literature. If you are a larger person, so for instance, I weigh 100 kilograms. So that's about 220 pounds. Well, it turns out, if you look at the literature on creatine and athletic performance, and if you look at the literature on creatine and cognitive performance, because as some of you already know, creatine is a fuel, or the phosphocreatine for the brain as well. And if you look at the they almost always gauge to give an individual So you don't have to get But if you weigh, say, you can get away with and probably should be of creatine per day, which is what I do. Whereas if you weigh less than that, five grams or maybe even Now, I discussed this with Dr. Andy Galpin during that series, and one of the things since the closure of that series is to take more creatine per day. So now I'm taking 10, sometimes even as much as 15 Again, this is powdered My stomach tolerates it very well. But frankly, I don't or gastric distress from unless it's, you know, some which is exceedingly rare for me. So some people out there find that creatine really disrupts their gut and they need to take it with food, or they really need to slowly increase the amount of creatine that I find that I can put 10, even you know, whey protein shake or into some water with a just to make it taste You drink that, and I don't have any So you'll need to find what works for you. But the point here is if you don't just want to &quot;take creatine,&quot; you know, one scoop per day. You really want to adjust that you're ingesting And I would give you a of x grams of creatine per But believe it or not, no such specific recommendation in the scientific literature. At least I couldn't find it in a way that's consistent meaning you see a lot of variation. So what I'm talking about here is if you weigh 185 pounds or so, okay, plus or minus 5 pounds, out to about 250 pounds, 10 to 15 grams of creatine per day is probably more appropriate meaning it's going to be more effective for enhancing physical again, perhaps even cognitive And if you're somebody 180 pounds down to, say, 130 pounds, 5 grams of creatine per The point here is if again, not everyone has to take creatine. There's no law that says that Some people don't like it. I know some people fear it's We already talked about and the lack of data to support that idea. But I realize some people for whatever reason. But if you decide that taking adjust the total amount according to your body weight. The next supplementation-based tool for enhancing your Now, this very esoteric one that I learned about when he was a guest on this podcast, expert in nutrition, and, frankly, training as it and from Dr. Andy Galpin. Rhodiola rosea is a supplement that's gaining increasing attention because it is what's called It does not necessarily suppress cortisol. It does not increase cortisol. It's a cortisol modulator. And frankly the mechanism by which rhodiola rosea still under investigation. I hope to do an episode at least make it part of an episode because the hypothesized mechanism that's starting to emerge as it relates to neurons in the brain that control the stress like the adrenals that and that secrete cortisol. Regardless, there's a that has explored rhodiola and one's subjective perception of fatigue or output during of various kinds, both resistance training, as well as running and So I started taking rhodiola in response to conversations that I had, again, with Dr. Layne Norton And it's a supplement that I take before So I don't take it before a run, because frankly my run's or they're very brief, like a high-intensity and I find those to be even though they are very intense. I might take a rhodiola rosea supplement before doing a 30-minute But typically, I only take before any sort of high-intensity, resistance training session, in particular, my leg day, which falls on day two or the torso day, or the Again, here I'm referencing the way that I train across the week, and you can find that training protocol as a downloadable, completely zero-cost PDF if you like. But I realize other people are using different body parts splits and different combinations and endurance training. The reason I mentioned rhodiola that I realized that while some people might not they might not be supplementing creatine, there are many of you who are and you're looking for additional So again, the rhodiola into the category of Certainly get your nutrition get your sunlight, all before even thinking However, once you get into that can enhance fitness, rhodiola rosea does seem to support it in the context of high-intensity exercise. Now, I can't tell you whether or whether or not it's but my experience has been that I definitely notice that without feeling like I'm bringing myself to the brink of fatigue either during the exertion or afterwards. In other words, I feel like I can do more work and I feel as if I'm recovering from in particular across the In fact, if I had to cite one that I've experienced before very high-intensity workouts is that prior to taking it, I would often find that after the workout, having eaten a good meal, and I was tired. I have a real dip in energy. But now I notice I have a lot even after these very in the early part of the day. And frankly, I haven't about my supplementation or my nutrition, at least nothing major. So I personally am going to before these high-intensity workouts. So for me, that's about two However, if I forgot before a workout, I have no reason to think that that workout would go much worse. This is a supplement that is designed to sort of give you an edge, to be able to exert during your workouts, with less perceived exertion, The typical dosage of rhodiola rosea that you'll find in most supplements is 100 to 200 milligrams. And of course, anytime you're going to you would be wise to figure from that supplement. That's just logic, right? Why spend more money that you don't need more of if you could get away and it's just as effective, So I typically will take of rhodiola rosea about 10 to However, I've taken as on a consistent basis. And frankly, I don't really whether I take 100 milligrams before a workout. So lately I've just defaulted to taking 100 milligrams of rhodiola rosea before any high-intensity workout. [MUSIC PLAYING]