He is a true movement artist. The man in the M 545 X walking excavator is also used in places where other excavators have long since had to capitulate. Whether working on extremely steep slopes, in waters up to 2.50 meters deep or in deep ditches, with various attachments he can fell trees, mill away tree stumps, mulch undergrowth and undergrowth, remove water vegetation or drill fortifications into rock walls . He is an all-round genius, founded in the Swiss canton of St. Gallen, the headquarters of the company, which produces, among other things, Streitberger in various sizes. The largest and also the flagship is the M5 45X. It costs around EUR400,000, weighs 13.5 tons and has a 156 hp engine that produces hydraulic pressure of up to 420 bar . All four wheels are individually steerable and individually driven. The working space can extend to 8 meters and the maximum thrust is 9.5 tons. Conventional excavators need a counterweight at the back to prevent them from tipping over when lifting loads. Streitberger can do without this additional ballast. A light is not needed here because the forces generated by the work are transferred to the ground via the support. Another point is the telescopic arm. With a display option we have a range of over 8 meters. The idea of an approximately 20 ton conventional excavator corresponds. However, our excavator weighs around 13.5 tons. The walking excavator is also called a spider excavator. Because of his feet. Together with the telescopic boom, these make it an all-round genius in the field. Heavy machines are often afraid of water. Not the walking excavator. He is proving this today in Gundelfingen, Bavaria. There is a weir system on the Brenz river. Behind the weir there is a retention basin that is flooded when the Brenz floods. However, the entire complex has become overgrown. Dead wood everywhere in the water, the embankments overgrown and in front of the weir, mud and green growth that impair the flow of the water. A lot of work for the landscape conservation and environmental technician Michael Braune. He's supposed to bring order out of chaos in just one day with the help of his walking excavator. The first tool used is a large grapple saw. The excavator can use this to grasp and saw down trees. The tiltrotor on the telescopic boom ensures that the large grab saw can be rotated endlessly through 360 degrees and tilted in all directions. From solid ground you now go into the water. Michael Braune is not allowed to damage the bank embankment. Too much weight would destroy them. No problem for Streitberger . He supports himself with the boom on the bottom of the water basin. Then he lifts his front feet and pushes himself further towards the water. He puts his feet down there again. Michael Braune then turns the superstructure and supports himself with the boom above the embankment and goes down. He lifts the rear wheels, hoists himself further into the water and puts his back feet down there again. Done. Now the dead wood has to get out of the water first. Trees weighing up to three tons are no problem for Streitberger. To the next dead trees we go into slightly deeper water. That's of course a very reassuring feeling when you have an excavator where you know you can drive into water up to a depth of 2 meters. Especially with pools like this, you often don't know what's coming. The first side of the bank would now have been cleared. A truck will pick up the discarded wood later. The journey to the other side of the retention basin has its pitfalls. Suddenly nothing works anymore. We're stuck here, dug in. Probably a lot of swamp in one area, having to come back to solid ground every now and then. With the boom, Michael Braune pushes himself back onto passable ground and then takes a different route to the weir, to a tree that also has to go. For the next step, Michael Braune needs a different tool on the boom. To get it he has to go over a fence. Streitberger overcomes obstacles like this with ease. Now Michael Braune drives to the low loader that his colleague has parked here, and grabs the forestry mulcher. He can use it to remove bushes and undergrowth. First up is the overgrown area next to the retention basin. With windshield wiper-like movements, the excavator driver literally clears away the undergrowth. The forestry mulcher chops everything up so finely that only humus is left. This is called black mulching. Even branches and trees up to 20 centimeters thick are no problem for the mulcher. After an hour with the forestry mulcher, the area looks like it has been licked. The work becomes more complicated next to the weir on the embankment, which Michael Braune can only access from the water. The biggest difficulty is getting onto the embankment with the forestry mulcher. Here the climbing skills of the walking excavator are required again. Do we really have to take our hearts away and talk to the bombastic mountain scrapers? Another word for the two mountain peaks. On the rear feet, wedged into the ground, they ensure that the excavator does not slip back into the water. As soon as Michael Braune is no longer leaning on the boom, he is now free to work on the embankment. Half an hour later. Mulching finished. The undergrowth and bushes are gone, as is the dead wood. But that's only half the job for Michael Braune. Ruthi in Switzerland, the factory of Menzi, the manufacturer of the walking excavator. The flagship M5 45X is essentially the feet with wheels and mountain peaks. You sit on a turnstile on the chassis above. The middle section in which the engine is located and on which the driver's cab sits. The boom with handle, cylinder and telescopic arm are also mounted on the middle section . With the so-called scissors. One of the rear feet of the walking excavator is the wheel motor. The upper cylindrical component is already assembled. Now mechanic Josef Molnar turns it to the side so he can install the cylinder. First he threads the lubrication line through the installation opening and then inserts the cylinder, which weighs almost 30 kilograms. He now has to fix it to the housing with two bolts and secure the bolts with screws. After tightening the screws and installing the hydraulic lines, the cylinder rod can be extended using compressed air. The mechanic can now connect the steering cylinder rod to the wheel gear using a bolt and secure the bolt. This steering cylinder complete, like that. Now let's move, swing it out from this rod . The strut already around his. Gasoline comes later, but that requires hydraulic pressure. The next component is the 150 kilo mountain peak. The excavator needs this huge claw in steep terrain to support itself and prevent it from slipping. The mountain top can be extended and retracted using a hydraulic cylinder. The pre-assembly of the middle section, where, among other things, the engine and the hydraulic control will come later. There is a turnstile under the middle section of the walking excavator. This is the connection to the chassis with the running gear. The rotary motor is already installed. In the middle section that fitter Thomas Pendler is currently erecting for the attachment of the 200 kilo slewing ring. It consists of two rings. A roller bearing is installed in between. Thomas Pendler fixes the outer painted ring on the middle section. He then switches on the unit with which he can move the rotary motor. Now he has to align the slewing ring because, for production reasons, no slewing ring is exactly like the other. Thomas Commuter turns the inner ring to the mark where it is narrowest . Then he measures the distance between the teeth and the pinion of the motor. This distance must be between 0.1 and 0.4 millimeters. We are way beyond tolerance. Every now and then he closes the screw clamp in one place and uses it to pull the inner slewing ring a little closer to the pinion. 0.25 The problem is that if it is too close to the pinion, it starts to rattle, makes noises, and the pinion breaks and the teeth break off. That is the result. The fitter can now attach the outer ring to the middle section with 35 screws. For this he uses a preset torque wrench. Thomas Commuter now has to install the boom cylinder in another middle section . He raises and lowers the excavator arm. The cylinder is there for protection installed inside the middle section, not on the outside like other excavators, where it can be damaged . Back to the water retention basin next to the Brenz river in Gundelfingen, Bavaria. Here, environmental technician Michael Braune carries out flood protection measures. He has already removed dead wood with his walking excavator today and also removed undergrowth and bushes. Now he still has to remove tree stumps. To do this he uses a rootstock cutter. It is one of the strongest available on the market. And even this stump, which is around 80 centimeters thick, poses no problem for them. Michael Braune mills away centimeter by centimeter with swiping movements. Completed. The stump is gone, down to 30 centimeters below ground level. So, and here you can see that the machine cuts out really fine material that the rootstock can really rot completely. This means that we save the costs of disposing of the rootstocks and there is no longer any major logistical effort involved. Actually, Michael Braune should now go to the other side of the retention basin. But that will have to wait a moment. The tank is almost empty. The great thing about the machine is we have our fuel tank here. Almost 190 liters of diesel. Now, before we get in the water, I obviously don't want our diesel fuel to run out. Additional tanks have been installed, right and left. Of course they are worth their weight in gold for us . You're somewhere in the middle of the area, so of course we can't drive to a gas station. The 220 liters of diesel from the additional tanks are enough for an additional day and a half of work. Pumping the 110 liters from one of the undercarriage tanks into the upper one takes just two minutes. If other vehicles run out of diesel in rough terrain, Streitberger can also supply them with fuel from its additional tanks. The next task is to cut down the green growth in front of the weir in the Brenz. Michael Braune needs this basket for this. He has sharp knives so that he doesn't tear out the growth, but only shortens it. The large gaps in the grid allow fish to escape if they get into the basket. Like all of our Streitberger devices , our basket is equipped with a hydraulic system. You can see this in these little black connectors, the hydraulic connections. This clutch system saves a lot of time when working if you have to change tools often. I can connect the connectors directly to our head and then the device folds up. The black connectors slide in oil-tight. I take care of the whole thing and then the machine is ready to go. On the embankment next to the weir, Michael Braune begins to cut away the green growth in the Brenz. He has to make sure that he cuts away enough so that mud doesn't build up in front of the greens again. But it shouldn't be too short either, because then it would damage the roots of the aquatic plants. Ten minutes later, the excavator driver has to dock another tool, the so-called bucket. The mud that the spoon scoops out of the fire impairs the function of the weir as a flood valve. It can no longer close properly and is difficult to open in order to drain water into the retention basin if the Brenz is threatened with flooding. Now we have 345 cubic meters out, it says. Wehr wants it to be empty? Or that must now be guaranteed with the. I think the customer should be so happy. Now we basically drive back again, put our tools on the low loader and then it would be done. It only took one day to clear the entire area of dead wood and undergrowth in order to make the weir usable again. Without the walking excavator, the amount of machinery and personnel required would have been at least five times as high. Back to the people at the factory in the Swiss town of Ruthi. The chassis is currently being pre-assembled, one of the largest components of the M5 45X. The chassis is the undercarriage of the excavator. The swing feet are mounted between this and the feet with wheels . They each weigh around 160 kilos and are important for the mobility of the excavator. Fitter Adam Arslan now attaches it to the chassis; he positions the swing foot so that the fastening eyes are exactly under the locking opening of the chassis. He coats the bushing with grease and then inserts the downwardly tapering pivot pin. Now Adam Aslan has to fix the swing foot downwards. He uses a jack to do this. He uses this to press the fastening bolt into the socket. The bolt has a groove on one side. This is important for attachment. So I have now aligned the bolt so that there is a recess here that the pin can pass through here later. Through this hole here, like the pin, it is fixed with a screw. Then he gets to work on the oscillating cylinder. It has to connect in the middle so that it can later turn to the left or to the right, depending on the situation. Using compressed air, he extends the cylinder push rod to the mounting openings of the swing base and turns it into the correct position. He then connects the two components again with a bolt. The next step, mounting the feet on the chassis, Adam Aslan swings one of the front feet, which weighs 950 kilos, to the chassis. Before he can connect the two parts together, he has to thread the base's numerous hydraulic, electrical and lubrication lines through the supply opening in the chassis and mount them at the respective connections. Adam Aslan uses the indoor crane to lift the foot into the brackets and bring it into the correct position. Fits. The eyelets lie exactly on top of each other and Adam Aslan can attach the foot to them using a pivot bolt. The cylinder that Adam Aslan now attaches to the swing foot is used to raise and lower the foot. After installing the hydraulic lines, the cylinder rod can be extended to the holder on the base using air pressure. The last component is the push rod. It goes on the side of the chassis in the same place as the cylinder. Adam Aslan connects all three parts with a pivot bolt. The other end of the push rod goes to the so-called rotary knob on the foot. The meaning of this construction becomes clear at the closing ceremony. The function of the push rod is that the rotary knob simply remains in the same position while going up and going down. The pre-assembly of the working arm, which consists of two large parts , on the boom of the mountain, the stick, cylinder and the telescopic arm with the scissors. Various tools can be docked to these two parts when in use. The telescopic cylinder is already installed in the interior of the telescopic arm. The spoon, cylinder and scissors are also already assembled. Here you have the complete telescopic arm with a shape and cylinder with the scissors that ensures that the earth is excavated, picked up from the earth and not poured out from the earth. During pre-assembly, Thomas Commuter has to push the inner tube into the outer tube with a slide. There are Teflon-like panels on the interior. If the inner tube is halfway in, more plates need to be added. For lubrication, the fitter squeezes four kilos of grease between the outer and inner tubes. Pushing together is finished, Thomas Commuter now attaches the telescopic cylinder to the outer edge of the arm. The big wedding is coming up! Fitter Felicia lifts the middle section of the excavator onto the chassis. So that the slewing ring, which is located at the bottom of the middle part, comes into exactly the right position, Axel Felicia has to center the slewing ring holes on the bolts that he has attached as assembly aids. It's very important that I hit it exactly because it could happen that I press on the rotating part and we tip over. Not so well done. Now closes changed. Felicia connects a hydraulic unit to the rotary motor, with which it always moves the middle section to the next thread opening. He then places the screws into them and tightens them slightly. He uses 36 such screws to attach the center section's swivel ring to the chassis. The second round, in which he tightens the screws with a torque wrench, takes a similarly time-consuming process. Finally, the fitter fills 14 liters of grease into the lubrication tray. Wedding completed. A permanent construction site in the mountains in the Swiss ski and hiking area of Parsenn near Davos. A person in a walking excavator is deployed at an altitude of 2,300 meters to supply water . Nino Pluss digs trenches into the mountain to uncover water veins. A helicopter is currently in constant use at a site he excavated a week ago . He brings building materials from the valley. We put a concrete bar here for spring water. So that we can collect the water that comes out of the earth here . It then runs through the pipes down to the valley, to the Hohenweg middle station, and there it is used for drinking water, which you need just like in the valley. After completing the source connection, Nino Pluss will renaturate the area. That's why we did it about a year ago. You can hardly see anything here anymore. The only thing you can still see here is the fountain room. We can look back here. Now Nino Pluss is dedicating himself again to his current construction site. He has already dug 4 meters down and the gutter for water drainage is already in progress. Before he digs any further, he has to find out where most of the water comes from the mountain. He does this with two copper rods. If they cross each other, there is water underground. In a water vein they lie on top of each other. Yes, I still have to dig half a meter under here. Then it's very likely the next wire. Now I have to go down into the ditch again. I have to clean out the pipes again because the water at the spring is around half a meter deeper. To do this, Nino Pluss turns the excavator. He does this by supporting himself with the telescopic boom and rotating the undercarriage underneath him little by little until the mountain peaks face the ditch. The excavator driver places both feet very close together in the trench. Meanwhile, he supports the excavator with the telescopic boom. Now he has enough support in the ditch with the mountain peaks, he turns the superstructure, supports himself on the upper side and lifts the other wheels onto the edges of the ditch. Because most of the weight of the walking excavator, which already weighs only 13.5 tons, is now placed on the mountain tops in the trench, there is no risk of the edges of the trench collapsing during work. Nino Pluss can now continue to dredge the trench for the water drainage pipes. The extensive width of the working arm of more than eight meters benefits him . And that wouldn't be possible with a normal conventional excavator. The drainage is now deep enough and Nino Pluss continues in the source ditch . He still has to go down half a meter to uncover the water vein he found . He works with the spoon towards the excavator. There is danger in this steep presentation. I have to be careful not to dig into the tips of my work myself. May I consider a delicate matter. In order to continue excavating at the start of the trench, Nino Pluss has to move further back. To do this, he places his feet with the mountain peaks, one on the edge of the ditch, the other in it. After five minutes he uncovered the second main source. That almost doesn't matter because it's dangerous. If you just use. To be on the safe side, Nino Pluss does another inspection and takes a closer look at his liquid gold vein . Now you can see very, very, very beautifully how the water comes out of the mountain. Well, then in general we come to a wall, fall to the other side in the same way as before and then we pour the concrete here, put in the pipes and close the whole thing up again. And then it's done. Then we'll have next winter and Nino Pluss will celebrate with a little dance of joy. Ruthi in Switzerland, the factory of the Freiburg manufacturer Menzi. Here the employees now have to assemble the working arm. It consists of the boom, the stick, cylinder and the telescopic arm including scissors. The boom that Adam Arslan is now attaching to the middle section of the excavator weighs around 600 kilos. The motto is always slowly, carefully, because the part is very heavy. You can't hold all the weight either, or if it twists slightly or something like that, after a lot of crane work with just as much sensitivity, the boom sits in the right place. Adam Arslan can attach it to the middle section with a bolt, but he only pushes the bolt halfway in. He has to check whether everything fits. I'm looking now, whether I have too big a gap in between here. If I have a gap, then I have to deposit it here. So the window, I think I have to put something in there. What he needs is a spacer. This is because the boom must not have any sideways play in the holder. After inserting the spacer, the fitter can push the fastening bolt all the way through. Adam Arslan then connects the boom to the hydraulic cylinder that raises or lowers the working arm. The next component is the telescopic arm. It weighs around 370 kilos and allows the Streitberger a display width of 8.30 meters. Adam Arslan now has to attach it to the boom with bolts. There are two bolts on the bottom of the telescopic arm, one on each side. In order to insert the third bolt, Adam Arslan must lower the boom. The fitters later have to attach the handle cylinder to the upper bolt, which ensures that the telescopic arm can be swiveled up and down. The power that Streitberger needs to drive and use his tools is generated by a huge engine, a four-cylinder turbodiesel with a displacement of 4.1 liters and 154 hp. It produces a pressure of up to 420 bar for the drive and work steps. The monster that fitter Adam Arslan is now pushing into the walking excavator weighs around 600 kilos. Rubber buffers on the brackets minimize the vibrations that the turbodiesel transmits to the housing of the middle section. And they also protect the engine from excessive shocks when working and driving. Tighten the bracket screws and you're done. The fitters lay the last hydraulic and electrical lines on the working arm, then they attach the cylinder to the last important component. You can use this to swing the telescopic arm up or down. Gotze, Cilly Kaya and his colleagues assemble the cylinder base on the boom of the working arm. The other end of the cylinder. Attach the cylinder rod to the telescopic arm. There is another component on the cylinder base that has an extremely important function for occupational safety. We have a pipe burst safety valve here in case something happens, a pipe or something bursts or breaks that doesn't fall down. If we lift something. The driver's cab is the command center of the walking excavator. Fitter Cilly Kaya lays the wiring harness with over 40 connections. He threads it through a small gap under the dashboard panel. First he connects the switch board. The driver can use this to control all basic functions, including steering mode, direction of travel and preselection of engine speed and speed. The ground display shows the tank contents, speed, oil and coolant temperature in analogue form. The driver can read the status of all machine systems between the analog instruments in the middle. The seat has air suspension that protects the driver from violent shocks. He pushes the seat and floor mount into the cabin on a rail. The seat would be far too heavy to lift. The joysticks allow the driver to rotate the excavator and control the working arm. The left armrest has a safety function. If you fold it up, the excavator comes to a standstill. The pedals can be used to extend and retract the telescopic arm, select forward or reverse travel and regulate the hydraulic pressure for the implements. There is an optional fourth pedal for a winch. This is particularly important on steep slopes. Austria, the Kriegerhorn near Lech am Arlberg, at an altitude of around 2,000 meters, a Streitberger M5, 45X is in use here. The construction team's task is to widen a path on the mountainside, which is a ski slope in winter. To do this, estimates, also known as Farfalla systems, must be made below the path on the steep slope. Part of the first row of sections, which will be followed by a second row later, has already been assembled. It is dangerous work, especially for the excavator driver, because the slope has a gradient of 50 to 60 degrees, i.e. 120 to 170%. A crawler excavator prepares one of the Farfalla elements for lifting. The excavator driver goes down into the slope. It has monstrous chains on its wheels and supports itself with its claws and telescopic arm. But without backup Working here would still be far too risky. Dominik Berger attaches chains to the crawler excavator into which he hangs the hook of his winch. For Streitberger, the climbing artist, it's now all downhill. In addition to the previous estimates, the excavator has to clear space for another element. The crawler excavator shovels the earth and boulders that the excavator removes from the slope onto a tipper truck. Below, construction worker David Moosbrugger measures the level. It fits. The excavator now has to scrape the edge free so that the element has enough space towards the slope. Then Streitberger climbs back up the path to change the tools on the telescope. He no longer needs the spoon. Once at the top, Dominik Berger uses a drill mount as a new work attachment. He now has it fitted with a brush with a blue crown screwed onto it. The excavator driver operates the drilling carriage with a remote control. The walking excavator now has to use the carriage to drill a hole vertically into the rock, with centimeter precision, so that the new element can be attached there. The drill bit is now precisely aligned. Excavator driver Dominik Berger climbs down with his remote control. The drill has to eat into the rock 5 meters deep. First take a break. Because one boring bar alone is too short, a second one is required to achieve the required depth. After half an hour the depth of five meters is reached. A truck crane now lowers the element to the assembly site. David Moosbrugger and Dominik Bartsch maneuver it into the right place. On one side it connects to the base of the already assembled element , and David Moosbrugger also connects the two tongues together at the top. The excavator uses the carriage to drill the next anchor horizontally into the rock, twice as deep as the vertical foot anchor, i.e. a whopping 10 meters. At the top of the path, truck and excavator driver David Feuerstein is now mixing mortar. Anchor mortar, more precisely. A pump transports it down to the boreholes, where David Moosbrugger guides it into the anchor caves. It will take at least half an hour for the drill holes to be filled with mortar . Excavator driver Dominik Berger no longer needs to wait. Ruthi in Switzerland, the factory of the Menzi Muck company that produces Streitberger . The next production step is placing the driver's cab on the middle section, in which the engine and hydraulics are already installed. Mechanic Paul Spengler is faced with a tricky task, installing everything in just a small amount of space on the side. Above all, you have to be very careful here because there is far too little space. And that you can get to the top, for example at the cylinder. So that the cabin goes in exactly, otherwise the damage will happen very quickly. Paul Spengler places the cabin on the front brackets and fixes it to them. He then places the cab at the back on the locking points. Now that the cab is aligned, he can tighten the mounting screws at the front. There are no screw connections at the back , so you can fold the cabin forward to access the various components. The wheels for the Streitberger are available in different sizes, depending on the intended use. These are 60 centimeters wide and around one meter 20 high. Mechanic Paul Spengler places the wheel next to the foot. He hangs it on the hall crane and swings it towards the wheel so that the wheel motor of the foot moves into the rim opening, made up of screws with extra safety holders. This means that the disc that is in the rim simply wedges itself again to ensure that the screws no longer come loose. Paul Spengler has to screw on 16 screws per wheel, i.e. 64 in total, and then tighten them with the torque wrench. A real slog that lasts almost an hour. Filling the hydraulic oil through the connection on the working arm, the oil pressure that the diesel engine produces, is what the walking excavator needs both to drive and to work. The hydraulic oil tank that Paul Spengler is now filling holds 180 liters . Then he starts the walking excavator's engine for the first time. The The level is now falling rapidly because the tank contents are distributed throughout the hydraulic system. So the oil pump must continue to run until the total oil quantity of 350 liters is reached. Now mechanic Paul Spengler is testing the excavator's basic movement functions. Conclusion of the test: Everything is fine. A mountainside near Luvos in the Swiss canton of Graubunden. At an altitude of around 1,700 meters, a construction crew is replacing a water pipe with a walking excavator. It is intended to ensure that the water does not rush down the slope in an uncontrolled manner and wash earth and rubble towards the valley. But the current almost 50-year-old concrete tubs no longer fulfill this function. The old ones are already broken and are much too small. There's so much water coming down everywhere here that it needs bigger ones. Take the old ones out, put them on the side and then dispose of them. The danger of such work is that excavators put so much weight on the side walls of the trench that they collapse or slip. Thanks to the track width of up to six meters, this does not happen with the walking excavator. He can stand far enough away from the edge of the ditch. Even steeper lateral slopes are no problem for him because he can always stand horizontally with his individually movable feet. Another advantage for the driver. He can also work under the walking excavator and therefore does not have to change location as often. When he moves the walking excavator, he turns the telescopic boom backwards and uses it to pull himself uphill. If it were to drive up with its wheel drive, it would fill the edges of the ditch. After being moved, it can be anchored back into the ground using the mountain supports. This means that it does not slide forward or to the side when excavating. Most of the time I can move everything on either side that you wouldn't be able to do with a conventional excavator. The range here is also very, very good. Then you would have to be very sure with 20 tons that you would have the same range and, and, and. The terrain is just not suitable for that. A vacuum device is used to insert the 350 kilo concrete trays. This lifts objects weighing up to 500 kilos that have smooth surfaces. The lifter draws its power from a battery that the workers recharge every four hours. Into the next tub. It takes a while for the lifter to produce enough vacuum . The fact that it doesn't sit in the middle of the concrete is entirely intentional. It hangs a little at an angle, which makes it easier to move in the field. When it is lifted, the concrete trough already has the same inclination as the trench. This saves time and physical strength. The daily workload is done. Thanks to the walking excavator, it is an impressive 130 meters. Reason for a dance of joy today in the eastern Swiss canton of St. Gallen. The factory of the Freiburg manufacturer Menzi Muck. This M 545 X is now almost finished. Paul Spengler just has to attach a few covers. Firstly on the working arm and then on the driver's side of the excavator in front of the hydraulic oil tank. The fitter and a colleague then prepare the Streitberger for transport. First, the push-off foot, which is mounted on the telescopic boom during assembly, must be removed . The replacement for this is now the spoon, the excavator shovel. After four weeks of production, the excavator leaves the production hall. And the first obstacle. Another excavator is at the exit. This means moving for the first time to avoid a collision. Construction machinery mechanic Silvan Seitz is now driving on to loading. The excavator does not need access ramps. Instead, he is now celebrating his climbing premiere. He leans on the telescopic boom, lifts his front feet, places them on the low-loader and pushes himself forward. The driver then turns the upper structure, supports himself on the asphalt at the back with the excavator shovel and then hoists the rear wheels onto the loading area. Finally, the driver places the mountain peaks on the low-loader and finally the shovel. The excavator driver no longer has anything to do with securing the load. That's the truck driver's job. He fixes the Streitberger on the loading area with heavy chains all around him. Then the Streitberger goes on his first big trip, to the customer, for whom the all-round genius made in Switzerland costs around EUR400,000.