The existence of atoms has been proposed since ancient times. Around 2500 years ago, Greek philosopher Democritus questioned himself, "could an object be divided into smaller and smaller pieces forever?" He believed that So, there is a limit to the number of times an object could be divided. That indivisible single solid part was called 'atomos', so tiny that the human everything is made up of this indivisible matter different shapes and sizes. Differences in shape During the period of Democritus, an proposed the same concept: that into smaller parts after a certain matter comes in different varieties. He These earlier philosophical ideas were mere them experimentally. The words 'atomos' books in later years, however these ideas The atomic theory of matter was first proposed teacher John Dalton in 1808. He proposed that all with the smallest part being a solid sphere element is the same as every other atom there are gold atoms, and all gold atoms in that He also noted that the atoms of one element differ there are various types of atoms, with each type reactions, boiling points, or melting points. He briefly explained the law of conservation at atom level. In 1789, Antoine Lavoisier which states that mass is neither created nor if we add 8 grams of milk with 8 grams of coffee. Here, the mass remains the same, The same concept was explained by Dalton using destroyed. Since atoms cannot be destroyed, the Now, let's take two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen and for oxygen 15.999. So, when combined, of 18.01468. This weight is the same for all the atoms before the reaction must equal the Another important law that was easily explained law of definite proportions. This law states in a chemical reaction, they are always 1 gram of water always has 0.1 grams therefore the mass ratio of water is 1:9. This add 8 hydrogen atoms with 8 oxygen atoms, we will contains 2 hydrogen and 1 oxygen atoms. The the water molecule's fixed ratio by atom is With the help of Dalton's atomic theory in molecules' fixed composition ratios were found. solid, indivisible, and the final was followed for many years until one of the From the 1850's, scientists were studying cathode cathode rays, the experiment starts with a low are fixed inside the glass tube. Anodes and and cathode are connected with a high voltage side of the battery and the cathode is connected a complete electric circuit has a conductor terminal and positive terminals. But are metal plates used to make contact in Here we can see low pressure gasses between the When switching on the battery, a high cathode to the anode. From the cathode, a ray the tube in a straight line. This experiment who struggled to guess what these rays everyone was well aware that something was coming know what it actually was. So, they named But in 1897, British physicist J. J. Thompson that time, physicists were well aware and opposite charges attract each other. Thompson negative and positive plate within the path of the he noticed that the path of cathode rays He found out that the rays are that's why they attract to the positive plate particles were coming from the cathode, the named those particles as 'electrons'. With the he proposed an atomic model called 'the plum electrons embedded within a positively charged sea of positive charge. This is because and so electrons, which are negatively charged, charged electrons and positively charged Even though Thompson was the first physicists and chemists further In 1911, New Zealand born physicist, Ernest with gold foil and alpha particles. During alpha particles are produced. For now, it's because during the time of the experiment, of alpha particles. However, they were sure that Rutherford's experiment started with a very thin produces alpha particles, and a circular screen alpha particles struck the screen, a tiny flash We already know that gold foil is made Rutherford noticed that most of the gold foil without any deflection. A few very few particles deflected back With this experiment, he concluded that most why alpha particles easily pass through gold were deflected because the positive charge unlike in J. J. Thompson's atomic model. because the volume occupied by positively charged particles in an atom is very very small Here again, we need to consider that, because the charged alpha particle hits the positively charged Over years of experiments, Rutherford proposed particles and most of the mass of an atom is which he called the nucleus, with negatively claimed that those electrons revolve around circular path. This is similar to the planets are electrons. His atomic model But the real problem came with James his work on electromagnetism. According to his energy in the form of electromagnetic nucleus in a circular path. Circular motion is continuously changes its direction or velocity. it cannot be in constant motion. Therefore, As we already saw, according to Maxwell, an radiation. So,the electron is a charged particle, electromagnetic radiation. Within a fraction no atom can survive more than a trillionth no universe. Simply, Rutherford's atomic model In order to explain the stability of an Bohr's model of the atom comes with 4 postulates. atom. Even though an electron orbits in a it does not lose any energy because it moves in electrons cannot lose energy -- these are called nucleus is n=1, the second shell n=2, the third L, M, N, etc.. Electrons cannot occupy The number of electrons in these fixed orbits is can hold up to 2 electrons, second shell up to 8 next level shells can hold even more. Bohr derived of electrons that can hold in different shells the number of electrons that can be held in the formula. So, we get the answer: 32. It means We know that electrons orbit positively charged are they orbiting? This is where the second of orbit. He derived an equation to find the shell we will look at that equation in simple squared divided by z Angstrom. Here, n means shell many positively charged particles are present in in a hydrogen atom, there is only one positively hydrogen atom is 1. Angstrom is a unit to measure From this equation we can find at which distance of the first shell of a hydrogen atom, we simply atom is n=1, and atomic number is z=1. So, we radius of the hydrogen atom, it will be 2.11 the speed at which electrons orbit: velocity = radius of a shell, we can calculate the speed of atom, the electrons orbit at the electrons orbit the nucleus in a fixed And what about fixed energy? That is the Once he derived a formula for velocity the total energy of an electron by adding the So, the formula for the total energy divided by n squared ) electron volts. So, for has -13.6 electron volts, the second shell -3.4, the fifth shell -0.54, and so on. So, the Quantized means the first shell has energy or -13.5 as it is fixed. It will be the same for But his fourth postulate states that is that possible? To understand this, we need He said that when charged particles move, they This radiation is characterized by the Radiation is nothing but electromagnetic waves. to longer wavelengths. Regardless of travels at the same speed -- 300,000 km/s -- and Based on its wavelengths, radiation radio waves, microwaves, infrared, visible light, only a certain range, 380 to 740 nanometers As we already know, visible light has different light gives different colors. If we we can see the output of the color Each part of visible light's wavelengths has a spectrum. So, ordinary white light consists But the mystery continued for a long time. When doesn't come with a continuous spectrum. when white light enters hydrogen gas, the outcome green, blue, and violet. This means that remaining wavelengths. But which part Since the early decades, light has been known the photoelectric effect proved that light is also light is a wave but also expresses particle the debate of whether light is a wave or electromagnetic radiation acts like both waves and Now, we come to the Bohr model of hydrogen but when they gain energy, they jump What does that mean? How did Bohr explain that? As with the third postulate of Bohr's atomic orbit is quantized. Electrons in the first -13.6 electron volts, the second orbit -3.4, infinite number of orbits. At the "infinite" orbit The energy of an electron doesn't change when electrons gain energy, they move state orbit. These electrons gaining Since the energy of an electron is And when electromagnetic radiation or only red, green, blue and violet color First, we need to know that all ranges of levels of energy. Since an electron's energy energy. For example, if it gains 10.2 ev, Because the first orbit of a hydrogen when it gains +10.2 ev the energy of an This -3.4-electron volt is an energy state With this energy, an electron can only exist orbit. If it gains 13.06 electron volt energy, it However, these electrons are always trying to they release energy, photons, But how does a hydrogen atom only emit Now, consider the electron returning from the second orbit has energy of -3.4 electron it should release 10.2 electron volts. We with our equation, then we will get what kind of photon is this? A 122 nanometer of ultraviolet photons. This is not visible But there is also a hydrogen atom that as the hydrogen emission line spectrum. If the third orbit to the second orbit it emits photon with a 654 nanometer wavelength. It is a returning from the fourth to second orbit, it wavelengths which are greenish blue. From the which is deep blue. Sixth to second orbit, With its energy difference, we can calculate visible light photons emitted by hydrogen atoms. light line spectrum when electromagnetic It means that orbits are quantized, the electron is quantized, the position of an electron's orbit is quantized. This is the Bohr he couldn't explain atoms with more than one In 1917, protons were discovered by Ernest contain neutral particles which are responsible to prove this. However, his student discovered charged particle -- the neutron -- was discovered were discovered. An atom contains a nucleus, which electrons orbiting around the nucleus. Protons charge, and neutrons have no charge. The number of atom, the number of protons is equal to the number Let's take a hydrogen atom. It contains one proton neutron to it, nothing changes -- it is still a and we call this variant of hydrogen "deuterium". but still, it is hydrogen. These extra are hydrogen atoms, but with various masses. the chemical properties are still the same. But what about if we add extra an extra electron from somewhere will come different chemical properties and becomes it becomes a helium atom. If we add one more A basic carbon atom always has six protons, six the number of protons and neutrons, we get a with six protons and seven neutrons is called neutrons called carbon-14. From here we can have six protons. Of course, without Even though the number of neutrons doesn't If a uranium atom contains 92 protons and 143 very rare isotope which is highly unstable and it becomes uranium-238, but its lifetime is understand the structure and behavior of atoms. around the nucleus, but the dual behavior of questioned the Bohr model of the atom and so an In 1924, French physicist De Broglie proposed that like electromagnetic radiation, meaning both him, every object in motion has a wave character have wave behavior, but the wavelength is too particles are tiny and too small in mass, so In 1927, German physicist Warner Heisenberg that, it is impossible to determine exact velocity of an electron. For example, if and light means photons. But when a photon the energy of the electron. We already saw that in it moves into a different energy state. In position of the electron, but this will affect only applicable for the motion of microscopic Bohr's atomic model determined the exact the Heisenberg uncertainty principle is true, fixed path of electrons. So, according to the scientists introduced a new concept of Classical mechanics, based on Isaac Newton's laws all macroscopic objects, however it fails when and atoms. The classical mechanical model especially subatomic particles and the new science called quantum mechanics emerged Quantum mechanics was developed independently by Werner Heisenberg and Erwin Schrodinger in founded on complex mathematical explanations. We can measure the location of a particle, but that location? If an electron is a wave, as a single electron is spread out throughout out through an entire atom? We already wave nature but it depends on their mass. For wave behavior formula : Lambda = Planck's Here, Consider a baseball which travels 40 meters to find out the wave nature of a baseball, we we will get a wave nature of baseball that it is simply undetectable. But for an electron, have a mass of 9.1 * 10 ^ -31 kgs. Since the and it has only one electron, an electron So, according to the quantum model, in a waveform make a cloud shape called an electron can be anywhere. But at the time the exact location of that electron. While trying its wave nature collapses and becomes a Due to the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, it is position and velocity. Since electron velocity is to find its velocity and position at the same the exact location and speed of a subatomic the conclusion that, since we can't find its exact If we understand what 'probability' is, we can For example, lock your friend in a dark room room. Since it's dark, he can't see where the that he was standing near the circle, the next and each time you noted his location. you notice that most of the time he his average position is approximately It is similar to an electron's position us that when you measure the position observed at a particular distance from the orbit radius is 0.53 Angstroms. The Schrodinger an electron can be measured at 0.53 Angstroms, either below or above 0.53 Angstroms. It is not a fixed orbit as Bohr said. It's around the nucleus at the same time, because electron's exact location is impossible. But the an electron is to be a particular radius from the We can only know an electron's location it can be anywhere around the nucleus. This Even though we can't tell the it is believed to be the final atomic of nature and humans can't do anything with