As the Korean War roared, Lieutenant Peter cockpit of a Hawker Sea Fury, a propeller-driven the thundering jet engines of the Soviet MiG-15s. Fury and Firefly pilots fought against unfolded and the jets took the upper hand, bringing down one of the jets after expending The unique triumph etched the Hawker propeller-driven aircraft to ever The Rise of Fury and manufactured by Hawker Aircraft Limited during back to 1942 when Hawker Chief Designer Sydney Tempest fighter for Specification F.2/43. issued Specification N.7/43, which called for be merged into one single aircraft design. Typhoon and Tempest fighters to devise airframes. Development commenced in 1943. with excellent firepower and maneuverability Hawker had five flying prototypes by the end Rolls-Royce Griffon and Bristol Centaurus engines. Hawker was to produce some 200 land-based another 200 naval versions for the Nevertheless, the RAF canceled its it already had more than enough Spitfires and Nonetheless, the development of the Sea that featured a short arrester hook and in late February 1945. The aircraft was dubbed Sea Fury, and the with the Royal Navy Fleet Air Arm in early The Sea Fury had a length of 10 meters, a width of maximum take-off weight of around 5,700 kilograms. driving a five-bladed propeller that provided to reach speeds of up to 740 kilometers per hour an estimated range of 1,220 kilometers. homage to its name with four 20-millimeter 12 three-inch unguided aerial rockets Like its predecessor, the Tempest, the Sea Fury although simple, was further refined and Still, it was smaller, stronger, and faster due to such as the inclusion of radar, a four-channel and other subsystems that would later Besides the prototypes that employed different Force, several variants of the Hawker Sea These were primarily the F.10 and F.11 in developed for both the Royal Navy, the Royal and the Royal Netherlands Navy. the Sea Fury T.20, a two-seat training UK and Commonwealth Service Arm to receive the first batch of Sea Furies in rapid buildup of the Soviet Union's naval forces 778's Intensive Flying Development Unit. Development Squadron, followed later in the Hawker Sea Fury. The Royal Canadian Navy Squadron with the Sea Fury in late September Canadian naval aviators gladly welcomed the change narrow undercarriage, poor cockpit view of the The Sea Fury continued replacing aircraft more squadrons of the Fleet Air Arm including the FB.11 fighter-bomber variant. squadrons of the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve phased out by British jet-powered aircraft such as Still, the Sea Fury would continue to be training reserve pilots with the Sea In 1948, another Commonwealth country, Navy Fleet Air Arm with the aircraft the first RAN or Royal Australian Navy Sea Furies The RAN would receive more Sea Fury deliveries in with the spread of Communism. This led the RAN to While both squadrons were conducting training the RAN was advised that Sydney would be United Nations war effort in the fight The Sea Fury was finally off to test its combat the Korean peninsula. The Korean War abruptly broke out on June breaking through the 38th Parallel Thanks to the rapid response of the United Marine Corps, the South stood a chance The United Kingdom, as part of the UN, Korea with supplies and manpower, including its were painted with black and white invasion HMS Theseus, HMS Ocean, HMS Glory, and dispatched to the Korean Peninsula to provide Although the Sea Fury was originally its solid construction and payload capabilities With its four wing-mounted 20-millimeter British and Australian pilots soon realized and ground emplacements, such as machine The first Sea Furies to arrive in Korea were from HMS Theseus. Combat found the Fury pilots The crew did not rest for almost the entire were taking place on the air between the UN over 260 combat sorties in October alone. Furies sure brought chaos to the enemy lines, bound for exhausted garrisons attacked by the By the end of the month, Theseus' catapult be launched with assisted take-off Nonetheless, there was no rest for the valiant assist in pushing the enemy back to Korean Legacy North Koreans to their territory steadily but it was no easy feat. The North Koreans, were heavily armed. Soon, jet-powered Soviet air supremacy against the United Nations troops. hesitation. However, they were cautious, among piston-engined fighters to destroy Such feat was achieved by Sea Fury furious and intense dogfight with a North To disrupt the Communist retreats to the north, to nullify enemy air cover, railways to and anti-aircraft batteries to clear During 332 sorties, no British Sea Fury of the aircraft earned it a new role for intercepting aircraft across the peninsula The Australian Sea Fury pilots also earned arrival in October 1951, they conducted rid of enemy ground troops and emplacements. flag admirably against the hostile Communists. sortie was flown in January 1952. Besides Commonwealth forces, the Sea Fury also Burma, Iraq, and Pakistan. Although the the introduction of the Hawker Sea Hawk CIA-sponsored Bay of Pigs invasion of 1961. during the 1948 Arab-Israeli War. Over 30 were used sparingly due to the lack of service until the late 1960s when they were Although less than 900 Sea Furies were produced, and its allied forces, holding its own By all accounts, the Sea Fury combining the best capabilities of both the Hawker many aircraft that served in the Royal Navy. history, as less than half a dozen are on display