Performance of your application frequently depends on the database you select for you may need to choose the appropriate database In this video, we'll go through the enterprises. I'll provide use cases as well as examples of open-source Let's start with the relational database. 1970s. You can think of a relational database businesses organize, manage, and relate data. In is a table that stores information, represented tuples). Now, columns specify data types, and each those specific data types. For example, in the for the ID column and varchar for the name each table has a unique identifier for each row tables can be linked using a &quot;foreign key,&quot; which take a look at how the relational database a website and track every single action that add an item to the shopping cart, and things like have a customer table and an event table. Each we would store it in the event table and use a Also, we can use SQL to query our database. to get all the customers you have. Now, if meaning they have performed at least one action, video explaining all the different joins as most relational databases is ACID transactions. if they are a single operation. If at least one For example, consider a transfer of funds from one if there is enough money to transfer, then you if at least one step fails, you want to roll use a relational database for structured data you have rows and columns that clearly define data are MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, Microsoft SQL some cloud-managed databases available, such Now, traditional databases do not scale very of records, traditional databases can be slow. columnar databases have been developed. Let's you see the power of using a columnar database I'm going to use a spreadsheet populated let's see how a traditional database works. Before we have to read the data from left to right, and proceed from row to row, kind of like reading database to return all paying customers. Here it retrieving the Name and Tier on each pass of every and their associated Tiers. Now, servers do this several billion rows? You can start to see that columns could take a while. And this is where to redo the exercise one more time, but instead to give you columnar database rules. This means and you're only going to read the columns that I the same question: to return all paying customers. the data that isn't related to what we're looking we start with the next column, skipping the how does the computer know which Tier to The way it does this is by having the Columnar allowing it to quickly pair up the different comes in handy when you start reading the Name the Name values ended, in this case, row 10. This you've probably noticed how the columnar over. This is actually another advantage of a columnar databases can utilize algorithms that each columnar database system has highly performance enhancements. So, compared to does not actually read billions of rows of data. can be a very straightforward way of addressing to deal with.. They're not replacements for a powerful way of performing highly aggregated most popular open-source columnar databases that Now, both relational and columnar databases store anything. If your requirements change over perhaps change the data type of one of them. with thousands of products? Different products Managing thousands of attributes in relational database. This is an ideal use case for the with all its attributes in a single document. It speed. And if you change the attribute of what is a document database? Well, it's a type JSON-like documents. JSON is a data format that can use JSON documents in their code and save them semi-structured, and hierarchical nature of to evolve with the needs of applications. documents. JSON represents data in three pairs are recorded within curly braces. The key such as an integer, decimal, or boolean. For 2024}. Next is the array. An array is an ordered right (]) brackets. Items in the array are "grapes"]}. And finally, objects. An object is JSON documents allow developers to embed objects {&quot;country&quot;: &quot;USA&quot;, &quot;state&quot;: "Texas"}}. Now, describes a film dataset. You can see that the objects quite flexibly. You can even have an array databases allow you to create an unlimited-level up to you what schema you want to give to the operations that you can perform on a document entire documents stored in the database. Document allows developers to run these operations. database. Each document has a unique identifier or query language to read document data. You can also add indexes to the database to increase read documents flexibly. You can either rewrite the what are the advantages of document databases? of development. JSON documents map to objects--a When building applications, developers can from the code. This means they spend less time application development becomes more rapid and document-oriented database allows you to fields within the same collection. This can be or social media posts. However, some document to impose some restrictions on the structure. Document databases offer built-in distribution across multiple servers without impacting document databases provide fault tolerance and If you want to try it out, MongoDB is a great database available, easy to start with, has SDKs Have you ever seen a detective board in the connected by thumbtacks and yarn? Immediately, in all of those relationships. Imagine taking that that could query its data relationships. Well, databases by starting with relational databases. is the constraining nature of its relationships, However, these strict constraints often make it relationships. Imagine you had all the university imagine you wanted to know the relationship completely different universities. Well, at first didn't go to the same universities, they really professors, we can discover that they all shared let's zoom in and describe some of the traits which are essentially records. Connected to these direction and a property associated with it. So in professor. The relationship type is 'student_of.' they were taught. Now, querying this database vendors often have their own query language, working out. You need to be very careful with that don't actually mean anything. For example, students in our previous example ended up dropping professor had some kind of meaningful impact on but we have to be a little more skeptical databases are usually a mechanism for starting So, what we see is data science communities discovery of these relationships, and often is what gets bubbled up into One open source graph database Now, information comes in many forms. Some pictures, videos, and audio, while some is and graphs. On the other side, we have vector vectors. Each vector has a certain number of depending on the complexity of the data. Now, we data. We can encode all types of data into vectors This allows us to find similar assets by searching enable unique experiences, such as taking a similar images. You can also find documents that topic and sentiment. And find products that are and ratings. It just a few examples. You can Now, let's talk about a key-value database. It where a key serves as a unique identifier. ranging from simple objects to complex is a special type of key-value store when querying your document store, you can especially if the value is another JSON object. &quot;price&quot;: $10}}, then query book.price, and the databases always return the whole value, There are a few advantages of key-value databases. can scale horizontally and automatically bottlenecks at a single server. Then there's object-oriented paradigm, allowing developers objects. And Performance. Unlike relational to perform resource-intensive table Now let's talk about use cases. First is session management. A session-oriented a session when a user logs in and remains active You can use it for a shopping cart. An of orders per second during the holiday shopping You can also use it for a metadata store can act as an underlying storage And caching: You can use a key-value database If you need a reliable key-value database, uses etcd to store all its cluster data, And finally, let's talk about time series for time-stamped or time series data. Time series tracked, monitored, downsampled, and aggregated application performance monitoring, network data, and many other types of analytics data. because it enables fast data retrieval and is a data. One example of general-purpose metrics Prometheus to collect time series data from series database with additional features to Each database type has its specialty: Relational Columnar for analytics, Document Graph for complex relationships, Vector for AI and ML scenarios, and Using the right database type can be a can slow down your queries and be very expensive. and SQL joins, you can watch this video. Thank you