Do you want to improve your listening skills English speakers in any context? Well, that's English. My name is Jennifer, and today you're is a fun lesson. Now let's get started. Here I'm going to say a sentence. And I'm going to say it at a fast pace, the I'm going to use phrasal verbs, idioms and pronunciation. And you're going to test your three times, write down exactly what you hear explain exactly what I said, the expression OK. Our first listening test. Did you break break it to him? Did you get that one? I said, about the pronunciation changes. Did you? Did you? So I combine those sounds together ya? Did ya? Did you break it, Tim? Notice word. Tim. Tim. It almost sounded like Tim And that's because we frequently get rid of we connected to the word before. So it really to Tim. Tim, did you break it, Tim. Now what does this mean to break something when you share news or information with someone. You applied for a promotion, but you're not negative news. Did you break it to him that share this negative news with him? Did you remember to put what you hear in the comments. Cut it out? Would you? Did you get that one? I said cut it out, would Did ya? The same thing is happening here with sounds, would ya, ya, Would ya, Would ya? talk about cut it. Out. You'll notice we have T's in between between vowels, we change that to a a very all three as one. Cut it out, cut it out, The expression to cut something out means or irritating or unwanted. So let's say you're your kids are going crazy. They're screaming, behavior that is unwanted, frustrating, irritating, You can say to your kids, cut it out, would you hear in the comments. You got to kick You got to kick it up a notch. Did you get First, notice how I used gotta. This is a got two and it's pronounced as one. Gotta, You can also say you've gotta, you have got to just say you gotta, you gotta, you got about the expression to kick something up it's just encouraging you to perform better Harder. So let's say you were tasked with and your boss sees that you've only assembled that you need to work harder, you need to She can say you got to kick it up a notch. Our next listening exercise. Write what you Don't let him get to you. Don't let him get do with that one? I said don't let him get First, let's talk about pronunciation. Don't H off of him. I drop the sound and then I'm before. Let him. Let him, let him. Don't let Don't let them get to you now, I said you this to ya. Don't let them get to ya. Get ya? But I said you don't let them get to you. to you, it means that you become angry, annoyed, Of that person's behavior. But we can also angry when you're stuck in traffic, I can let the situation make you angry. Because the situation in any way. Don't let the traffic Criticism Get to you. Don't let it anger you, Exercise. I'll say it three times. Write what at? What are you looking at? What are you you looking at? So here we have a very simple sentence, but natural pronunciation changes. How I combine Sounds like one word. What are ya? What are So the R just becomes ur ur and I attach it are you. Now I think I said you, but you can commonly do that. So get comfortable with What are ya? But remember it sounds like one Here it's very common to take a word that and just end it on looking, looking, looking with the word that comes next because it's at. It sounds like not, not. And then I combined What are you looking at? So how did you do with those listening exercises? remember you were being Test on your ability ability to understand what my meaning is. didn't know the expression or the idiom. You But don't worry if this was difficult, because Study native speakers. The more you add these it will become. So now what I'm going to do I want you to imitate me and try to say it if you're in a private space, I want you to will then try this again when you're at home Out loud. Did you break it to him? Did you Cut it out. Would you Cut it out? Would you up a notch. You got to kick it up a notch. get to you. Don't let him get to you. Don't What are you looking at? What are you looking Now practice this again and again until you is close to mine. And if you enjoy studying about the Finally Fluent Academy. This is different native English speakers from TV, your listening skills of fast English and expressions to your speech use. Advance, grammatically correct speech. So in the comments below and once you join, you'll mean she can't make it? Did you hear what it? I said, what do you mean she can't make I said, what do you mean she can't make it? Notice how I said, what do you? What do you? mean? This is called connected speech, and But of course, this makes it difficult for most common connected phrases that you need you what do you? What do you mean? What are What do you want? How do you know she can't How do you? How do you? How do you know what What are you becomes what you what you what So make it your goal to learn these connected You need to know what do you, How do you, you going to get to the mall? How are you? are you? How are you? Gonna now, this is a reduction. We take 2 Gonna. These are informal. They're very casual, I gotta go. I'm sure you know this one Got a break. Gimme, Gimme. Give me a break. Give me. Sounds like Gimme. reduction. I don't know. I want to go to the and pay attention and keep adding more reductions be there at 5:00. We will be there at 5:00. We'll be there will, words and we form one word. The thing you are grammatically correct. You can use them although they do sound more casual, they are is. A hot day. I would say it's a hot day. It's is my friend. I would say she's my friend. Now, because of this, students might not get must learn contractions if you want to understand common It is, it's there is, there's I have Shouldn't, will not, won't. Start with these It will help you understand native speakers. beginning again. What do you mean you can't I'm sure you already understand this a lot speech. But did you also know I said make Make it Now. If you looked at each individual be thinking May, the month of May, April, This is linking. Linking is when we take a on the next word. We do this in English to pronunciation so we can speak without pauses. forces me to take a pause. Make it. So to get rid of that pause, I take that and Let's try another listening exercise. You a contraction. Should not. Becomes shouldn't. But again, there's that sound. So I take that K sound and I put it on the Cologne sounds a lot like men's perfume, which for men it's Cologne. So this can cause confusion meaning men's perfume. But this is part of Alone with linking. The best way to get comfortable So instead of listening to an entire 30 minute or on TV and pause and listen to that sentence with how those sounds are. Pronounced together and really get comfortable natural pace. Let's try a listening exercise. I got a lot of merch. Here I used a reduction. what is merch? Maybe you understood the sound. You understood. means. That's because native speakers, we This is very casual and informal, but it's So Merge is short for merchandise. If you most likely your coworkers will say merch That's a fab dress. Fab is short for fabulous. for veterinarian. Are we meeting at HQ? HQ is an acronym for Headquarters, which is But pretty much everyone calls it HQ. So when the shortened words and just make a list of to your speech. Let's try another listening cut it out. I used a reduction. Got to gotta. You gotta Now maybe you heard the what? And you're thinking she have to cut something out? But no, because this is an idiom. So to understand verbs, idioms and expressions because we use from Forbes magazine. Now everything I have or an expression. And they don't have literal cut. But that doesn't help you understand my message Now there are hundreds and hundreds of phrasal worry because I have many video tutorials to add 1 one a day, one phrasal verb idiom in one year. And by expanding your vocabulary Resal verbs, idioms and expressions. It will Here is how this lesson will work. I'll say down exactly what you hear. After. I'll explain English and I'll explain what the expression exercise? Get out of here. Get out of here. Get out of here. Did you talk about a common reduction outta out of Outta Get Outta Here, Get Outta Here. And your speech, that's fine. But you should understand of the time in spoken English. Outta Get Outta the words, but did you understand the expression? This might be a trick question because there for this expression. There's the more literal that I'm currently in. Being here. Get out Of here of the room I'm currently in. So I'm sister barges in and starts talking. Get out likely you're going to say it with a little And it's not a very polite expression. So don't say get out of here. You should say Because I need to film a video. Get out of shock or surprise at what someone said. So let's say my friend just told me she's the world, and she has lived in Chicago her I could say get out of here, get out of here. believe it. Get out of here, get out of here. Now with this expression, it will be lighter. it. Get out of here. There'll be more surprise depend on the overall context of the situation. that can be very helpful to decide our next Give me a break. Give me a break. Give me a break. Did you right? Did you hear that reduction? Give me. comfortable using reductions in your speech, speakers use the most of the time. Give me. Give me a break. What does this mean? express disbelief in what someone says. Let's an advertisement for a pill. That is supposed to help me lose 20 pounds to show my distrust or disbelief with this There's no way that's true. Give me a break. remember that tone. You'll want to add some sarcasm into this. your listening skills of fast English? Well Fluent Academy. This is my premium training on TV, movies, YouTube, and the news so you expressions, and learn advanced grammar as Personal coach. You can look in the description ready for another listening exercise? I'll sister will know. My sister will know. I said. Will my sister will know? Probably didn't hear it, but maybe based on be there. Because my sister no, doesn't make will know. You probably know that we form go. You'll go, he'll go. She'll go, it'll go, contractions, and they are grammatically correct. you want to understand native speakers, In Isn't contracted grammatically, but in spoken though grammatically this isn't done simply But remember, grammatically we only contract make sure you don't write my sister. Will as a contraction. But in spoken English I'll say it three times. You ought to call her. Did you get this one? You ought to call Oughtta. Otta ought to is a modal verb used to express but you can also use ought to You ought to will say otta the majority of the time. Now like one word caller. Collar like a dog collar. That's because we ur ur but we also combine it with the previous Collar. Again. Based on context, you'll understand. That I'm not saying collar like a dog collar. to collar. How about one more listening exercise? sheet Bale. I had an inkling sheet Bale. I this one? I had an inkling sheet Bale. She'd bail she would as a contraction. This bail. I had had can also be in a contraction verb. So if I turn this into the past perfect, I can say I'd gone because then had is the because it's the main verb, we don't turn bail. What does it mean she'd bail? Bail. that's used when someone doesn't. Do what they said they were going to do, and So let's say I made a plan with my friend then Saturday 7:00 o'clock. No friend. She she bailed on me again. She didn't do what she said she was going plans and arrangements. Now what an inkling. inkling is a slight indication, a slight hint, said made me think. She was going to bail. Maybe she didn't sound she's been talking about how tired she is. to say. An inkling. I had an inkling she'd exercises? Did you enjoy this lesson? Would If you would then put Yes, yes, yes in the more lessons just like this and you can get on how to speak English fluently and confidently. or look for the link in the description below. lesson? Right now I have an inkling that you'll