- [Jon] A man by the name of Rooker is leading a small group of travelers along route 30 in western Pennsylvania. They are walking west. They've been walking for many days, and in fact have traversed nearly the entire state of Pennsylvania on foot, a total of nearly 300 miles to this point. Many others have done this. A traveling attorney a time when he wouldn't have had to contend with car traffic. In more recent times, one lifelong walking a senatorial candidate and a small party made the But Rooker is no hobbyist, and has no prior experience He is not running for He is simply a 47-year-old man walking through extraordinary pain with blisters all over his feet. The vast majority of this that were not designed The speed limit is often with shoulders that are It would be considerably dangerous to walk even one mile along these This is no place for a person to be. Rooker is walking here on route 30 when a motorist attempts into the path of an It appears as though in the truck will need to swerve right into the shoulder He freezes. Thankfully, the trucker instead throws the brakes, And the man continues walking. Why? (dramatic expectant music) We're about to enjoy a baseball game between the two Pennsylvania teams, the Pittsburgh Pirates and Both teams are having a down year, but these Phillies are a They stick together, laugh together, wear the same pair of pants together. As for the Pirates? to introduce themselves way Right now, you're gonna that almost never happens - [Alex] At the outset of this clash of co-tenants of the that's certainly not with the start featuring as there can be in a baseball game: a walk drawn by budding Following a groundout that Andy Van Slyke drives him home. With the next four Pirates reaching base, all of a sudden Pittsburgh ending the evening of Phillies starter Larry McWilliams in the blink of an eye, while fans are still filing Even a pitching change as reliever Steve Ontiveros extending the streak of Finally, a bit of relief the pitcher spot in their Bob Walk hits a two-run single, extending the streak to seven, scoring output in any Still with just one down, their is set to bat once again. So With Bonds at the dish, the streak to eight, but he clobbers his third homer off these guys as the still with just one out. For those unfamiliar with Barry Bonds, he will go on to homer and has ever homered or walked, and today he has hit a before the Phillies have recorded their second out of the game. That comes soon as Jose Lind with his second groundout. Just means it's time for Andy when his grounder eludes who perhaps lacks his usual mobility while dealing with a of fouling a couple balls The procession continues a Gary Redus single that and a Jeff King walk before mercifully comes to a close, before Philadelphia's even Let's take stock of During this time, teams in an entire game only around five or six percent of the time, so needless to say, doing for all intents and purposes It's the most runs scored in any inning in MLB so far this season, and no prior team has ever and not cruised to victory. - [Jon] Well, looks like the Pirates have guaranteed themselves a win, barring something really weird happening. I sure hope nothing weird happens. Here is the Phillies' win probability, as calculated by Baseball-Reference. It updates at the end of You won't be surprised to learn that, after being blown up their chances of winning are Even that seems pretty high. Their percentages don't go you gotta figure this would So Alex and I set out in Major League Baseball history of a team scoring at least 10 runs And we're here to tell you, this is borderline impossible to research. Searching the entire history might be doable if you but run-of-the-mill dorks So I reached out to Katie is there any way you can possibly pull every instance of an MLB team scoring 10 or more runs Well, everybody please who got right back to us and (gentle bright electronic music) As you might imagine, was pretty spotty in the but we do have an almost of every game played since 1915. - [Alex] According to that data out of the more than MLB teams had combined to play so far, this is just the 28th at least 10 runs in the first inning. And unlike a few of the first in conjunction with a lead of 10 runs, since the Pirates are the they do indeed possess Now in the bottom half with Ready at second to bring to the plate All-Star Von Hayes, and he gets all of a 3-1 fastball, with his deep blast to right-center taking a 20 percent bite out Philly's chances of from about one percent to three percent. Down by eight entering the second inning of a game that's still pretty out of hand, the Phillies opt to rest the ailing Herr, which is the only real development that transpires over the Replacing him at second base is utility infielder Steve Jeltz. (woman singing in foreign language) - [Jon] Steve Jeltz. One in Major League Baseball history to have been born in Paris, France. He belonged to an American military family that later moved to the Paris of the Western hemisphere: There he wound up becoming on the KU baseball team. Which, admittedly, is not saying a lot, as Kansas I'd like to take this which is that Jeltz later went on to become a bounty hunter, as measured against the standard set by Major League Baseball hitters, Steve Jeltz is a really bad hitter. The Phillies called him up to because they were in desperate need of a reliable defensive shortstop. But as a position player, by what you're able to do at the plate. And ... alright, let's Steve Jeltz has 1,701 entering this moment. We'll run through 'em all, 491 groundouts, 290 217 flyouts, 214 walks, 51 double plays, 45 lineouts, 36 doubles, 25 reached on error, 17 9 fielder's choices, 6 sac flies, 3 ground rule 2 bunt flyouts ... 2 home runs. (bright airy music) - [Alex] After debuting Jeltz worked his way into becoming their everyday shortstop where for the first he was a mainstay in their prompted an August demotion to the minors. If we use total bases per to assess the level of damage one is able to inflict with their bat, we see he ended his partial 12 points lower than any other big leaguer who had at least as many The next year, Jeltz starting 132 games at shortstop for a healthy sample of 439 at-bats. He parlayed 'em into a 18 points lower than anyone and 133 points lower than 1987 actually saw his that was just regular low instead of, well, whatever it was before. But then we get to 1988, at our disposal to this point. And it's as though Jeltz is radioactive. He has formed his own spacious island where he can be bothered by residing over 20 points below anyone else who batted as much as he did. If we add up those four for a cumulative look compared who had at least 1,000 at that paints a crystal clear portrait of the kind of pop we can expect out of the bat of Steve Jeltz. For everyone else, the .300 For Steve Jeltz, he sinks But that's not all. He also hit If we look at every big leaguer, we see that Wally Backman of anyone who batted as much No one else hit fewer than five. As for Jeltz's homerless brethren, his 1,307 at bats amounted runner up Julio Cruz. - [Jon] I say this with all due respect, and as we'll soon get into, I think a good amount of Why is Steve Jeltz a full-time Nothing to do but start digging. Here is every player since 1960, around when advanced fielding to have made at least 2,000 and finished with a career which is pretty abysmally low. Also abysmal, I'm looking and I'm realizing that should say 2,000 plate appearances, not 3,000. That's my goof, I made this chart. It's always me who goofs I'm so stupid. Anyway, despite that, some of these 28 players can at least claim some kind of specialty. Quite a few were prolific, or at least notable, base stealers. So let's remove everyone leaving us with 17 guys. Next up, fielding. Here we're relying solely on which admittedly is a little but it does correctly identify guys like Rafael Belliard as terrific fielders. You can understand why a team would want a guy like him on the roster. Let's narrow it to guys who register below average in this fielding category. We are left with a Eight players throughout who are very bad hitters, and are below-average fielders. Their one commonality is that they're all utility infielders, guys who will give you the option of plugging them into a and will at least offer This is why they were for as long as they did, despite being bad at everything there are numbers for. This type of guy, as defined here, has gone completely extinct We haven't seen one in more than 30 years. And Steve Jeltz, who retired in (dramatic electronic music) At this point, finding bright spots in his statistical profile is but we can at least say that he was able to mitigate the impact of his catastrophic lifetime batting average of by being kind of okay at drawing walks. And that's what he does here, Bob Walk? More like Bob Walk. Moments later, Von Hayes knocks Jeltz home with his second consecutive home run. Thanks in part to Jeltz, the has now rocketed from a distant The rest of the third inning as does the top of the in the bottom half of the fourth inning, Randy Ready draws a walk, Look, we already know that It's plainly evident when you and look at the back. but the bio, the place expected to say nice things about you. Steve Jeltz really got clowned on the back of his own baseball card, which seems like something We get it. He sucks at hitting. But there is so much more to This is a totally Let's suppose it ranks the talent of every single American at at least the high school level. So of course, we're talking And at the very top you have the likes of, well, Barry Bonds. Toward the bottom, you have players who got to the high school level and just couldn't hit the curveball. And toward the very, very who only made the team in the first place because I could feel okay, but couldn't hit anything to The vast majority of this who never played past high school. Again, we're generalizing here, but around the 95th percentile, you start to find average independent-league players, It's not until you reach that you start finding players of ever making a Major League roster. And the ones who not only get there, but stay there for a while? about maybe the top 10 percent Steve Jeltz is about one Untold millions of players and couldn't make it within miles of him. Look at the whole of absolutely extraordinary ability. Of course, we don't see it that way. The unspoken deal, fair or not, is that once you find yourself your performance on the for the rest of us to consume. This is the bargain that allows this guy to criticize the ability of this guy. And of all the places on this enormous spectrum, that will land you the most criticism and the greatest disrespect. You're the least good And Philadelphia or anyone else, forget that about Jeltz. When the Phillies held a one columnist went on and on about how much he didn't want him there. In 2010, a good 20 years another saw a fan wearing a Jeltz jersey and was appalled that anyone with such bad numbers, that sometimes, for reasons you just like people. Sometimes they would actually make substantial critiques of that he was &quot;eminently uncoachable,&quot; although assertions like coming from the same writer as &quot;the mayor of the They called him a &quot;donkey.&quot; They It was as though they and saw things like as personal moral failings. Over the years, Jeltz heard a lot of noise from the city's fans as well. But throughout his time in He saw it as part of the deal, for the immense privilege of simply being a big-league ballplayer. All those sportswriters were that they failed to recognize a man who did every last thing Some in the building perceived It's hard to know exactly what he possibly could have but regardless, he made it a point to start carrying himself Most remarkably, Jeltz past his 26th birthday. Some sources list him from both the left and the probably out of a reasonable assumption that nobody would ever halfway through their careers. Not true! Jeltz was a natural righty. In the minors he'd briefly experimented with batting left-handed, but gave up after he injured himself But with his age-27 season ahead of him, and needing to keep himself and keep his job by any means necessary, he resolved to learn how to hit as a lefty in order to better match up The Phillies thought this and it felt like that after was disastrously bad. miraculously finding a left-handed swing he used for the rest of his career. Were his numbers still bad? Yeah, they were really bad. But all that hard work gave him the extra micrometer he needed to preserve a major league career that, by the end of it, he In the end, all those sportswriters trying to put him down Steve Jeltz had assembled in Major League Baseball. (soft ambient electronic music) And now, with his team down six and with Jeltz having hit over his 1,702 career plate appearances, he steps in to bat left-handed, and jacks an 0-2 - [Sportscaster] Gonna throw him. - [Sportscaster] Jeltz with Ball is gone, Jeltz with a two-run homer. The Pirate lead is now 10-6. - [Alex] So now Jeltz is up to three homers in 1,703 career plate from a side of the plate at the start of his big league career. Not only that, but home run number two, also accomplished as a lefty, and which served as the came just 31 plate appearances ago. It snapped MLB's longest against a team that hadn't and capped a plate appearance to simply lay down a bunt. That homer, which can only as one of the most stunning ever, by itself had established a within the aura of Steve Jeltz. Now he's just compounded it exponentially: after the first 1,671 career times he stepped into the batter's box, he was sitting on just one career homer. Then over the 32 that And while the last one this one flipped the turning it from dreary to competitive and sparking a jolt all - [Jon] Win probability is a formula. It is, by definition, unromantic. It does not see the ghosts that we see. It doesn't scare, even when it should. And as we've seen before, or magical night, this It simply doesn't see what's (woman singing in foreign language) According to whatever it can see, it adjusts the Phillies' chances of (bright expectant electronic music) - [Alex] Having been punched in the mouth by a trio of two-run homers that have cut their lead to four, the staggering Pirates do manage to mount a two-out rally in the top of the fifth sparked by a Jose Lind single, courtesy of a deep Andy Van Slyke drive into the right-center gap. But Van Slyke commits the cardinal sin of getting aggressive A pinpoint relay throw by Jeltz nails him to prevent any more damage. Nevertheless, Pittsburgh increasing their lead to five and their chances of winning The Phillies have a prime opportunity to get at least that leads off the bottom of but even in scoring their bats turn cold and After Greg Harris sits Philly threatens to make in the bottom of the sixth with a couple of walks Up to bat comes Steve Jeltz. (expectant electronic music) This time Jeltz steps into as he is now facing a different Bob, a left-handed Bob, on the mound. And Kipper's first pitch The second offering's a fastball, inside. Up 2-0, Jeltz is sitting dead red, expecting a fastball in the zone. And that is exactly what he gets. Jeltz turns to swing his body can possibly - [Sportscaster] A drive to left field, Bonds is back, to the warning track, to the wall, it's gone! (fans cheering) I don't even, I don't believe it. (lively expectant music) It's now 11-9. - [Alex] Steve Jeltz has just made this a two-run game, increasing from six percent all the way up to than a batter getting or Steph Curry draining In other words, something extremely real. The same man who, more than five years into his big league has now hit his second home Combined with the one he hit that means immediately nearly 1700 plate appearances Jeltz then turned around over his ensuing 33 plate appearances. It's almost inconceivable, by the fact that he was which is normally a recipe for disaster. In fact his hitting coach even warned him not to fall in love with the long ball, but he simply couldn't have Jeltz was in the midst of. And by throwing caution to the wind, the self-taught-midway-through-his-career has just become the first Phillie in the 107-year history from both sides of the (expectant electronic music) Now down just a couple runs, the Phillies do not relent. John Kruk continues his groove followed by the speedy Juan Samuel legging out an infield single That brings up Ricky Jordan, that finds itself a friendly travel path. Like Samuel's hit a minute earlier, it's fielded by Bucs and like a minute earlier, it's in vain. In to score comes Kruk, of control by the Pirates. This once was a 10-run demolition. We now have ourselves a one-run ballgame as it moves into the seventh inning with Philly possessing more than a one-in-hree likelihood of winning. 11-10 remains the score inning and a half, as we'll pick things up in the bottom of the eighth where, after John Kruk's Pirates pitcher Jeff Robinson clearly struggling a bit with his command. With Dickie Thon at the Robinson's first pitch shows he perhaps hasn't yet shaken those yips. Pitch number two? Ok he definitely hasn't shaken 'em. Wild pitch. Tie game. That 10-run deficit has officially been completely obliterated. And with two runners in scoring their win expectancy has At this point, our win probability chart may as well be predicting We all know where this is going. Pittsburgh manager Jim Leyland loading the bases for Darren Daulton. Daulton hits what appears before a bad hop at second sending the ball into center The Phillies have scratched and clawed from one of the worst opening to not just avoid embarrassment, not just make it competitive, not just tie it up, and but take a two-run lead. Now let's make it four. Curt Ford drives a 3-1 fastball where a diving Barry Bonds' as the ball scoots past him, sending those two baserunners home. Ford makes a gamble of his when he's thrown out to an inside-the-park home run. Finally, with the whatever supernatural force has left the building. 15-11 ends up being the final score, and since the margin must in order for a pitcher to record a save, this means that Phillies doesn't even get a save opportunity. That is how thoroughly the Pirates were blown off the board (dramatic energetic electronic music) - [Jon] On this night, the Pirates became what is believed to be the first team ever to score at least 10 and lose the game. In the decades that followed, with the 2006 Royals only to lose to Cleveland by two runs. But that game required extra whereas this one was wrapped up so neatly that the bottom of the And in winning by four runs, the Phillies didn't just They beat them convincingly. Hundreds of thousands of other have been played. None were like this one. (bright upbeat electronic music) Later that night, those who struggled to find the words to explain it. &quot;Maybe the moons were aligned You know, like the moons are always doing. The uh, two or more moons that we have. But I can't blame him. Man. Two fuckin' home runs I've never seen anything like this. I'm sorry if that's a I'm just some guy who wasn't there, and I'm trying to make And I think Barry Bonds, the who was in the building that night, could offer some more insight. Let's see what he has to say. &quot;Two fuckin' home runs I've never seen anything like this.&quot; Yeah, I know! That's word for word, so crazy. (upbeat lively electronic music) - [Alex] Bonds homered on about By the time Jeltz hung up his he'd hit a home run in about of his career at bats. We can see how each of bumped up his percentage with his two in this from fading away into total oblivion. A comparison between the greatest home run hitter of all time and one of the worst home is a little unfair, so let's find some more The average position player of Jeltz's era hit a home run in about far eclipsing Jeltz's figure So let's look at the who hit homers on about 0.42% of at-bats. These are guys who were virtually never even trying to hit home runs, and in fact weren't expected with their bat other And not even Jeltz's could push him over that line, underscoring just how unlikely His career came to a close at 0.29. A ball landing in the outfield bleachers off the bat of Steve Jeltz But two coming in that game, to be the engine of that - [Jon] So! Introducing the other main character of our story. (soft somber music) Jim Rooker pitched for 13 first with the Tigers, then After retiring in 1980, the Pirates' broadcast booth, Point being, between these two careers he has seen lots and lots To be precise, although he for every last one of that he has seen as many Supposing each game lasted on average, this means he has witnessed approximately one year of baseball. Let's now revisit an ancient time: the bottom of the first inning, when the Pirates led Of all those games he in which a team scored at least 10 runs in the whole game, period. Within that sample, of course, the team in question almost This is how many innings it took each of those teams to make it to 10 runs. As you can see, the vast majority of them needed at least six innings. pulled it off in as few as three innings. But Rooker has never before by even the second inning, In fact, a team scoring 10 runs in literally any single inning is something Rooker has in the third inning of game So it's now Rooker's duty to that will sufficiently of what's just happened in front of him. He has seen it all, and he and the good people tuning In the bottom of the first, as Randy Ready leads off with a double, Rooker demonstrates a lesson that all of us must not forget: never, ever propose a - [Jim] Well I'll tell - [Jon] Don't say it, no don't say it. Don't say it, don't say it. - [Jim] ...if we lose this game, - [Jon] Well, shit. (somber dramatic electronic music) Technically, Jim Rooker did not specify that he would walk home But everyone heard it, and that followed, no one As it became clear that no one was gonna let him off for him to perform this walk once the season ended in October. I've walked more or less of Philadelphia before, give Right up Broad Street, from all the way north to City Hall. And when I finished, I &quot;damn. That was a pretty long walk.&quot; (woman singing in foreign language) If you have wagered a walk so long that the totality of its route without also observing the you have stepped in it. Walking along interstate so the route plan for Rooker though that also is not a very good idea. That pitiful excuse for a That wasn't just an isolated stretch, that's just about the entire thing. And then, of course, there's the terrain. As Rooker watched Randy Ready round first and prepared to place his bet, I wonder whether he remembered that Pittsburgh and Philadelphia are separated by the Allegheny Mountains. There are four brutal rises in elevation by well over 1,000 feet. But Rooker does it, and he He suffers dozens of blisters on his feet thanks to a total lack of and also, thanks to a who had previously averaged one home run every 851 plate appearances. That places the odds of at about one in 724,000. Astronomically remote occurrences have a funny way of I mean, it was Jeltz's five RBI that put the Phillies over the top, but why did it have to be him? It should have been John or any other one of these guys who actually hit home Not this guy, not a guy who hit a home run roughly once per leap year. It feels like a message Speak carefully. Because the and they will hear you. (woman singing in foreign language)