[music playing] GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: at the former headquarters for project to investigate the and their apparent interests and possibly even advanced At the height of World engaged their top scientists to referred to as Wunderwaffe, Weapons that were so diabolical incredible, they of the war against the Allies. According to testimony one of these top secret projects or The Bell, and it was to create a time travel device and eventually maybe even But following the war, was ever found, only I'm determined to find this device actually existed. And if so, could it have been by ancient astronauts. Could there really be a link visitors and the Third Reich? My name is Giorgio Tsoukalos. I explore the world that and speculation, the What we've been taught is not the whole picture. But I'm convinced we are one step [music playing] During the Second World believed that the German technologically advanced boasting an arsenal that aircraft, and precision bombers. Adolf Hitler planned to use this forces and create an empire But after they were more than 1,600 were brought to as part of Operation Paper Clip. And there are some who believe brought secret had an extraterrestrial origin. I'm in Ludwikowice, Poland, of &quot;The Truth About or wonder weapons. In 1997, while working Igor was shown by a Polish intelligence a top secret Nazi and a mysterious weapon known Because Chronos in is also the name of there are some who believe the study of time might have been part of We are turning about to enter the valley in was sort of a Nazi equivalent GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Igor is the Henge, which is believed laboratory and the headquarters So this entire valley And for what purpose I mean, what-- what was Under this valley, that bankrupted before the war for-- for their purposes it's something the size of a GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Interesting. OK. IGOR WITKOWSKI: Yeah, it's here. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Wow. I mean-- I mean, I'm I mean, I-- I don't even So this is what they're It looks as if it's And I mean, it's a very So what can you IGOR WITKOWSKI: It on the aerial photographs So it certainly has before the end of the war. Mhm. IGOR WITKOWSKI: And was dedicated to research And this is one of And do you think to do with them building the There is one clue about it. The entire valley was sealed and this structure stands in rings. The security rings consisted Guarding rooms, bunkers, gates, lines of trenches, which because this place was never GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Interesting. According to Igor, is honeycombed with and subterranean dedicated to the development So this here is ground And looking around, there's some would require a lot of energy. And one has to wonder, The SS general built here an enormous And this power plant here, of coal per day, was used to GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Leading was Nazi scientist Hans Kammler. Some claim that Kammler was in the SS and masterminded of cutting-edge projects Some have suggested that to test the Glocke, and that attached to the so that the bell-shaped craft But the Henge is nothing of tunnels and chambers the place where many believe was constructed. This is very creepy It's [inaudible],, According to Igor, Nazi were forced to participate here at the Henge. This is the guard room. There was a machine down here. These halls were for GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Wow. I mean, this is crazy. IGOR WITKOWSKI: Yep. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: experiments were but it has been documented suffered nerve damage, where the skin was coming as though they had been exposed So do you think that a-- a type of a for an anti-gravity machine The Germans were using a a high-energy vortex of the outside world. And it is causing an GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: According after the war, that German scientists with anti-gravity technologies a type of vortex engine The idea was that spin in a gyroscopic manner and create lift, in much the same way many modern Are you aware of any blueprints of this Wunderwaffe, the way the-- the way it might Somewhere here. Yes. You see, it's something And it is portrayed here as a system. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: A embedded in something that Could such a device And if it did, could it You know, the first thing is that they named this And Vril is to power in ancient So why would anyone use this? It's this very obscure What can you tell me about why used in this context, here? What they have discovered from electromagnetic forces. Vril, in this case, seems to be of the force that According to Igor, at the end of the war, along Kammler. And there are those who that both escaped [music playing] I'm at Castle Ksiaz in a former development Hitler's top secret weapons, or wonder weapons. Author and researcher Igor here to show me authentic Nazi documentation some people believe could machine. Igor, do you think that sometimes referred was a type of flying craft? It was a combination of some of mass destruction. It seems that The Bell was system of a flying craft, But we don't know the GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: It that the Nazis had an almost and study ancient and artifacts which they They were also fascinated of the forbidden or Although much of this was lost at the end was thought to be taken by and may have served for many of the advanced systems in use today. IGOR WITKOWSKI: The very was based on scientific They were open also to the from the ancient past of other intelligences This all seems highly It was such an advanced project carried out And I have a very which is signed by the that it was engaging at the end of the war. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: The way Igor of the numerous accounts texts of the Vimana, airships and change direction seemingly defying The ancient Sanskrit describes an earthly arrival by curiously resemble Today, most identify the stories of the But in India, some Hindus Is it possible that the Nazis an alien technology thousands of years ago? And if so, where did they get In his 1993 book, &quot;Secret in the 20th Century,&quot; wrote that a UFO crashed in 1936, three years before According to his account, took possession of and carried it away to their at Wewelsburg Castle. There it is believed that Nazi to reverse engineer technology As I said goodbye stop thinking about the idea seen of the Nazi bell reminded but also of stupas, an that Buddhists believe After leaving Poland, I to meet with my good friend the founding father known as the ancient So do you think that are responsible why we have in this particular shape? ERICH VON DANIKEN: You see, We saw some Vimanas which so later, we made The-- the cultures in the may have been brilliant, understand the technology. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: The stupa and is believed to have been mounds in which seated in an upright position Later, the stupa was thought And over the centuries, became refined with the elaborate designs. You know, some people have itself, or, you know, that described in the past, might of-- of time travel. Do you think that such [exhales] Nothing Nothing is impossible. I would not exclude Because who knows what Exactly. So I'm in the Swiss Alps, Daniken about Die Glocke, to see if he thinks whether developing a time travel and Buddhist designs, designs inspired by ancient You see, the stupa is a-- the shape which you in the old Indian epic. There, small vehicles, had the shape of a stupa. Since that time, people because stupas had to do and with heaven. There are numerous accounts that describe Vimanas and of the gods. And they were described of gleaming metal with amazing with powerful weapons that could Some were even described to Now, while mainstream scholars in divine and symbolic terms, suggests that this is rooted and that they were extraterrestrial craft. You see, for example, [non-english] in Indonesia. It's a gigantic temple. And it's just composed of stupas. Now, these stupas are not empty. In every stupa, inside And what is the He's using his hands, you see, Because according the stupa is the small you reach the big vehicle. The big vehicle is The small vehicle and goes again, but So you have to And do you remember, Giorgio, of Palenque, Mexico. And there, this is sitting on this manipulating some If you turn it a little, you as young Buddha And you see, when you it doesn't matter if the By young, I mean maybe it was Or it is an old temple, the It doesn't matter what. On top of every today, you have a Vimana is again the flying But it was not mythology, And sometimes the Vimana has What do you say to that the ancient Indian epics of fantasy? This is all garbage. It was real. It was reality. The Vimanas always came from Today we would say You know, there are that some of the Nazi scientists texts. Do you think that's Yeah, that's true. That's true. We know from some diaries that they studied and they were influenced. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Erich then with me about one of the met in person concerning the You see, Wernher von Braun Saturn V to the moon. He was a student of Hermann Oberth is what we They were studying Hindu and-- Because when he had the chance to speak And I asked him Did you work at some kind of He said, yes, we did work, but If we would have finished it, Well, thank you very much of these questions. And, you know, I'm I will go next in but this was Thank you very much, Thank you, Giorgio. You can come to my archives. It's endless. It will never end. All the links and It all comes together. Absolutely. It's always fascinating And speaking with him made wasn't only designed to be a but perhaps was also designed Because he kept on saying reported seeing stupa-shaped But was the mysterious as Die Glocke really And if so, could it reach necessary to enable it GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: dreamed of traveling through In 1905, Albert Einstein proved achievable, based on his Since then, scientists to develop a time machine and backwards in time. And some propose that the is by creating an artificial Even NASA is developing warp allow us to exceed the speed travel into the future. And now I'm back in the I still have some questions and there's no one better than Stanton Friedman, So I'm really looking forward minds in ufology today. Stanton. Such a great time How are you? Just fine. It's been a while. So thank you very much for and to answer some Not at all. I actually went to Poland because allegedly, the bell-shaped weapon and which they were able to Clearly something went There's no question. The German technology And before the Second were ahead of the United States What is your opinion or the reality of time travel? Well, there are areas as a matter of fact. As you get close to the speed How much? Well, it depends on GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: In of relativity, time dilation being affected by the laws of in gravity and velocity. This phenomenon may by comparing an with another one in space. Even though both clocks function will run slower due to by the forces of gravity. So I wanted to know, since possible, if the Nazi scientists during World War II. Could you surmise that this bell shape, or form, is conducive Whether it has anything to do I like the symmetry of it. Because I expect anything If Hitler's guys to build a time machine or or some entirely they would have used I cannot believe that Hitler What if they couldn't complete and it just so happened to I've seen no signs of that. However, I finally got 156 pages documents. You can read one Everything else is whited out. The CIA, yeah, the of blacked out documents. Some of them have six some eight words you can read. And people say, Well, there is a cover-up. It's very hard to say Well, Stanton, this I've learned a lot, and has been invaluable. So thank you very much. - My pleasure. I've learned something too. --how all of this goes. Good. Right. I'm in Southern California, Frisbee, a retired and we're about to tests on a bell-shaped object. I want to find out whether or is suitable for flight, don't know if Die to be some kind of spacecraft. Giorgio, welcome to the NASA This is awesome. So this is where the Absolutely. I've been all over the that the Nazis built this Glocke, or The Bell, and that to do with a time travel device, In order to do something you're going to need very large configurations in order of general relativity come You touched upon found very interesting. Because yes, it is conceivable but the energy would be so vast that of our available is it correct that we don't to actually fire up the engine? To make something like this amount of mass to So if we somehow had an enormous we could warp space in just and the way you need to do warp drives, wormholes, and I love it. In this investigation, when I were working on a that some have proposed might or something like that, my What do you think? Well, first of all, Germany mechanics. So intellectually, they horsepower to actually come of something like this. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: The idea is very exciting to me. And the concept that not only through space, is even more incredible. But was the mysterious as Die Glocke really And if so, could it have reached necessary to enable it That is what I Giorgio, I'd like to Hello. Good to meet you. How are you? Welcome to the Wind This is great. Yeah. So this is it. Yeah. Today we're going to measure GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Now, of drag is not an issue. But a craft that's also would need to be Let's fire her up. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: I'm meeting Dr. Bob Frisbee. I've asked him to test a tunnel to determine if suitable for flight. If we can prove that the object capable of reaching necessary for space travel, that the German Die Glocke of time travel. Let's fire her up. [buzzer] [whirring] And then when we you can see the drag Where do we see the air speed? Right here. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Aha. As Dr. Wu increases the air a drag sensor the object is in terms of CHIVEY WU: Yeah, we're almost GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: OK. So I think that's-- we have more than And so now we can Yep. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: When Dr. Wu the bell-shaped design I expected that it would because it doesn't look ship or the sleek, aerodynamic flying machines. So what does this mean? How efficient is this shape? It's a comparison with other GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: indicated that the bell shape as a sphere. I'm surprised how the stupa actually is. Even though it looks like it it's better than I mean, that is That is surprising, for sure. If the tests prove that appearances In May of 2014, an called SpaceX unveiled version designed for travel And this ultramodern bears a striking similarity Dr. Frisbee, thank you some of my questions. And those wind tunnel This is a way of as to what can be going on around us. Those are the only questions something where people have in the end, is an adventure. I now know that the is aerodynamically sound. But what I still don't know was ever constructed. To find out the answer, Pennsylvania, the site of a a mysterious bell-shaped object. On December 9, 1965, streaking across the sky of people as it flew and Pennsylvania. Several hundred people saw it into a deep ravine. These witnesses also reported on the scene, placed the and quickly took it away. To this day, the military has took place. My first stop is to meet with who is an expert in the This is one of the photos This is where we to be a pattern of tree damage. These were actually all OK. OK. Now, as you went down and form a trajectory, found the fact that as it knock-- tops trees out. Some trees were broken Right. Clearly there was And there were Well, the newspaper accounts The story made So it was picked up by but it was also picked up by This was from our local GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Look at that. Unidentified flying object STAN GORDON: Army Interesting. OK. In your investigations, did whether or not there were any Because in the Roswell hear how they and that one of those So is there anything similar There have been very suggest the possibility that been inside the object. Mhm. What do you personally think Well, but I can tell you, It ranges from being a very to some type of and to, in fact, a time machine. A time machine? Is it at all possible that and the UFO that crashed are one and the same? And if so, what happened to it? And could there be an I'm in Kecksburg, Pennsylvania, Gordon, about to look at a that allegedly According to reports, it looks Glocke, and I can't wait So this is it, huh? STAN GORDON: That's correct. Yes. Wow. Let's go take a I mean, this is Is this-- I'm telling Is this a-- an exact replica STAN GORDON: Well, of the object that reportedly GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: looks almost identical to seen of the so-called sort of blowing my mind. So what can you tell me to the eyewitness reports in right here? OK. Well, according to eyewitnesses and were standing only several they estimate that this about 10 to 12 feet, and about 8 to 10 And the popular term here is right? That's correct. Well, one eyewitness said took liquid metal and poured There's no rivets. There's no seams. There's no weld marks. There's no fuselage, And on that raised up caught his attention and others that were raised and looked more like I'm going to just take some-- some pictures for my archives. This has a perfect acorn shape. So can you actually take STAN GORDON: I can take a lot of the activity Sounds great. All right. So let's go to the OK. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: I know but did a time machine built by really crash land here I mean, it's highly that this is what happened. But just the possibility and I can't wait to see the area So this was the general area. Right. It's-- it's deep inside So you're telling In this general, right. OK. Let me see if I can-- and so from what Well, the object came in went out towards the mountains, Then the object turned towards Kecksburg, went and made another turn, into the water ravine. So multiple turns. Yes. I mean, this would indicate a flat-out crash, but maybe to land safely. Well, this object, apparently, it had made It crashed through the woods. It knocked down trees. And then it ended up down That's interesting. I would love to go to see if we maybe can spot some Maybe they still exist. So in this place, that there used to be in some sort of a pattern where Well, we had found what of trajectory. We had found some in the same direction. Other trees with the This is quite fascinating. After visiting the site of I'm fascinated by the eyewitness to be an acorn-shaped to the designs for Die after the war. Is it possible that the developing toward the were based on ancient And was their plan to construct possible by reverse engineering Two facts are certain. Dr. Hans Kammler, the man in project, disappeared And in 1965, thousands of described as looking almost like changed direction like someone Although a connection has not yet been proven, we will achieve some that will allow us to travel not also through time, [whoosh] [clunk] According to Igor, at the end of the war, along Kammler. And there are those who that both escaped Some people have suggested itself might have had the Do you think that such Do you think that such [exhales] Nothing The young Buddha to manipulate some control. You have exactly the same in a stupa, the flying machine. reported seeing stupa-shaped But was the mysterious as Die Glocke really And if so, could it reach necessary to enable it What is the feasibility Well, we know it works. Germany invented relativity. Intellectually, they had Let's fire her up. Did you come across any there were any people ROBERT FRISBEE: There suggest that someone or inside the object. [music playing]