[DX intro] [DX] When I'm asked what my favorite movie is, my immediate response is always... my immediate response is always... [Star Wars theme plays] I can't come up with a work that greater embodies To me, Star Wars is the best of storytelling: a tale of oppression, rebellion, friendship It's a generational story, which is why it could be told through its latest iteration, of course, I'm here today to talk about the Star Wars to competently retell this story and tell one of its own, how a foolish approach to creating and how this approach robbed Star Wars of its space fantasy and turned it into just another science fiction franchise. This is... Star Wars: Star Wars: A Critique of the Sequels. The first step to understanding is breaking down their lack of planning. Unlike the original trilogy, where George Lucas took the first act and used that as the basis for A the sequels had practically no direction movie to movie. [Mark Hamill] I think he has great reservations. Who knows? We'll have to wait and see. [Rian Johnson] Snoke is the leader of the First Order. He's like the Emperor in the original trilogy. [Daisy Ridley] There's something about There's something about her [DX] What's more, they also seem between the two filmmakers who worked It was this absence of direction to flesh out the disappearance of Luke Skywalker, something we'll talk about in great detail later. For now, listen to how clear it is to figure out something as crucial as Luke's backstory. [Johnson] The first thing I had to do why is Luke on this island? I knew, because it's Luke Skywalker, I knew the answer couldn't be cowardice. I knew the answer had to be something and I knew it had to be something [DX] The importance of this is simple: if you don't know where you're going, The Last Jedi and The Rise of Skywalker are both meaning that every problem Before we get to talking about specifics however, The people who worked on these films that were just a given in the Star Wars universe. Their part in telling the story was because they were considered intrinsic to its identity. [J.J. Abrams] And so, we went backwards to go forwards. We, um, embraced everything that we This whole location of Maz's, of course, as this, Starkiller Base, mirrors the Death Star. These were the kind of locations We looked at it like a western, or a fairy tale. What are the elements that you're going to We wanted to give it these sort of fundamental, these locations in which we can set [DX] This is the root of the sequel trilogy's problems. Because it doesn't exist in a vacuum, its attempts to mirror the themes of the original These inconsistencies then splinter off and lead to With this in mind, we're going and the first example of this, The First Order. The First Order, which is apparently only a part is a box necessary to tick in makes no sense at all. With the Emperor dead and the Empire in ruins, one would think that another dark side force user taking but The Force Awakens doesn't care. The First Order just exists, and some would say that's fine because the but the two aren't really comparable. The premise of the first work of any franchise It cannot contradict anything previously established because The Empire ruled in A New Hope because and as importantly, its existence as the ruling or even anything established in the rest of the film. George Lucas himself understood that when things can't just exist because you want them to; they revolve around the original Here's Lucas talking about the creation of the prequels. [George Lucas] When I wrote the original screenplay, so I knew where they came from. And since I was starting this whole thing in Episode IV, I had to know kinda where all these characters came I had the outline, so I kinda knew how the dots connected, but then there's a whole story that has to fit around that. You have to turn that into, you [DX] The Force Awakens is not the first Star Wars film; therefore, its premise is beholden to the narrative So when you see that the First Order is the question that arises is... the question that arises is... how? The prequels showed us the time before the Empire They proved that Darth Sidious did not he had a very well thought out plan that culminated with The First Order is so nonsensical, however, that even if the prequels hadn't created how much time and effort it it still runs into the problem of the Empire Granted, The Force Awakens but that's one of the reasons Supreme Leader Snoke looks old enough to and given his strength with the Force, the idea is convenient at best. Beyond that, like I said, the First Order is Where did they find all these resources? How did they build anything under the New Republic? How did they get bigger than the In a deleted scene from this film, Leia has to send to take action on the First Order. [Leia] I need you to go see the Senate right away. Tell them I insist the Republic [DX] The First Order that builds a is not the unquestionable power in the galaxy? Forget how they built this, forget how insane the New Republic has to be convinced that clearly kills anyone they want, whenever they want? The implausibility of the First Order kneecaps When your antagonists are cartoon levels of powerful it completely trivializes the struggles of your heroes - all because there isn't a more creative way to The First Order is only one of many instances from the original trilogy because it how to properly reinvent it for a fresh take. It should come as no shock that The Force from the same place of creative bankruptcy. [Abrams] The character of Kylo Ren because he sort of embodied what this movie was. It was a new story, a new personality, But because he was the villain, it meant So we embraced Vader, we made our bad guy aware of made him the son of Leia Organa and Han Solo. [DX] Kylo Ren is deceptively problematic. He's the only character who benefits though the story of The Force Awakens There's nothing wrong with Ben Solo being a troubled given the history of his family. His emulation of Vader can even be considered natural; we all resemble our influences What The Force Awakens didn't a fundamentally different character than yet Kylo still occupies the same role. Kylo's repeated failures in this movie do but his incompetence as a villain open the door The opposite end on the spectrum of Rey is fine until the film gets overly gratuitous. The idea of a lifelong scavenger not but it also gives Rey autonomy. Her resourcefulness, ability to are not outside of the realm of believability. I think these traits alone would have given Rey is also a full blown linguist, and she's not only strong with This is the problem with Rey and what creates Rey can't faithfully represent the themes that Any similarities between them end at the that her triumph becomes an expectation. Rey accomplishes more in one film than Luke did in two, with no feasible explanation besides her There's nothing explaining how she's able to how she knows of mind tricks and how to execute them, and the biggest one of all... This is why The Force Awakens making its villain still Rey's strength is enabled by the movie allowing If your hero is constantly besting your villain, By not making its main villain a seasoned veteran given her lack of training, The Force Awakens gets away with having an On a side note, Anakin's lightsaber is as they never, through the course of three films, This is especially egregious, ...and then cut it from the film. [Abrams] In fact, in the original script, and landing in the ground, and a hand taking it - and you used to have this entire backstory where we and how it ended up finally in the hands of Maz Kanata. All of that became backstory and, in fact, [DX] Back to Rey, the critiques of her of the rate of her achievements, that conflict The only logical explanation the film but their identities are, of course, Even midi-chlorians would have been better for the sake of creating mystery. Almost all of the problems The Force Awakens exist because it desperately wants to be A New Hope, but it doesn't care how its new Nothing demonstrates The Force and how to convey its themes The second act of A New Hope its third act ended with the destruction of the Death Star. It's important that these two events were separate that the tension of one didn't steal from the other. But more importantly, it put the characters Luke fulfilled his dream of becoming a pilot, and Han Solo proved that he Obi-Wan's death was an integral Luke was a small town boy who Once Obi-Wan was gone, there He's left to face his greatest challenge alone... except he wasn't, because he had friends. Because of Obi-Wan's death, Luke became his own man, which wouldn't have been possible if Obi-Wan fighting Vader and Luke taking on the Death Star The Force Awakens combines the end of the second and while it would be unfair to say that it it is fair to say that it's not nearly as effective Playing the mentor is Han Solo. If Finn was the main character of the movie, Han helps Finn navigate the world outside the First Order. After Finn defects, he's dubious, perhaps even cowardly, which is why it's great that he finally by taking on Kylo Ren after he kills Han. Kylo, on the other hand, has struggled and by killing his father, he finally does. So, what's the problem? You have two characters who are exactly the that the movie needed to be new but The problem, obviously, is And as all this is happening, the Resistance is So we know that no one is in immediate they will kill Rey, Finn and Chewbacca. Poe Dameron is unfairly caught in the middle of all this. It's not his character that's the Poe doesn't achieve anything we don't He's clearly an exceptional The entire battle at Starkiller Base plays second because Poe is already a complete character. There's nothing of particular interest which means that there's considerably less investment In A New Hope, the characters that and the ones that didn't were on the sidelines, but this would have been difficult when one of the characters that should have It's this mistake and making Han Solo the While Han verifies that everything he isn't a Jedi himself, which greatly to the point where an entirely new character That means that Han's death isn't in the same way that Obi-Wan's was to Luke's. Luke didn't forgo his computer targeting he accepted the Force because which had much more impact than What does Rey really gain from her fight with Kylo? What does she conquer in doing this? Finn faces his fears, Kylo kills And how does she interact with it by fighting Kylo? The only thing Rey seems to worry about but that isn't really addressed and she was already resolute in returning BB-8 She fears being alone, as evidenced but if the end of the film is meant to solve that, In the context of the third act, Rey feels like a The Force Awakens laid a poor Every interesting and well executed idea it had was to depict some of the early themes of Star Wars. By going about the creation of they established key details that future films The biggest of these we haven't even talked about, &quot;Luke Skywalker has vanished.&quot; This single sentence crippled the sequel All I've critiqued up to this point is and while The Force Awakens is certainly to blame for basing it's The Last Jedi that ruins the trilogy For a film that questions the past as much as The Last Jedi, it's a such an obliviously derivative film that is another tedious examination of comparisons. In my critique of the 2017 live I coined the term &quot;greatest hits films&quot;, which are movies that take the most and paste them into theirs without any The Last Jedi is undoubtedly a greatest hits film, and for all the flack The Force Awakens justifiably The Last Jedi is a terrible amalgamation of Revenge of But this is only a part of why it fails. The Last Jedi had countless opportunities to And while it's not the fault of the film for it still makes almost every single one of those amplifying them, or by betraying its characters. You see the first glimpse of this in the film's opening. I said that in The Force Awakens, the First In The Last Jedi, the First Order is In The Last Jedi, the First Order is All of these movies suffer from bigger is better, where more of an element that with no regard for its implications or effects on the story. Here is Snoke's Mega Star Destroyer, the Supremacy, in comparison to any spacecraft [Johnson] So he needed a huge, huge ship. [DX] This is... ridiculous. Any tension that the First Order when there is seemingly no end to their strength. The last movie didn't explain how any of so the struggles of the characters are always asking why any of this is happening. Instead of giving an explanation, and that translates to Snoke as well. In The Force Awakens, Snoke as proven by his ability to sway Kylo Ren to the dark side - but he is also visibly frail and obviously disabled. It's unclear how J.J. Abrams was going but Rian Johnson clearly had different plans because [Ben Morris] Rian said to me very early I want him to be a character that the other characters Rian eventually came to me and, quite [Stephen Aplin] What Rian felt was that he actually He felt like his deformity was too debilitating. [Morris] Rian and I sat down and we've we came up with the idea to open his chest up. [Aplin] And we also scaled him up in the [DX] By grounding Snoke and making him a the film creates the perception that Each time it idiotically shows him using his abilities, it only serves to create further because we know you can't become a master Because of how nonchalantly the film presents Snoke's power, the film raises the expectation of an explanation With that said, Snoke's appearance marks his interaction with Kylo Ren. Kylo needed to move on from Vader's identity. It serves its purpose in The Force Awakens, but to keep this aspect of the character around when they've By chastising Ren for his failure and Snoke pushes Kylo to discard his ties to him. The destruction of the helmet is not only in character, but also the only intelligent way but also the only intelligent way The rest of the film either does not understand in order to deconstruct and critique Luke's isolation, Rey's training and Snoke's The issue is the same as it was in The Force Awakens: you cannot put new characters into because the context will never match. In the case of The Last Jedi, that because they were forced in order to match Luke Skywalker is the Yoda of this film. The Last Jedi's desecration of Luke stems directly from a [Yoda] Into exile I must go. Failed, I have. [DX] At the end of Revenge of the Sith, Yoda failed not only to stop Sidious If anyone should have been critical of the So why isn't he in The Empire Strikes Back? While George Lucas likely did not think that far Yoda's reasoning is still clear in both The His exile to Dagobah is not out Because he failed to destroy Sidious, he to defeat Vader and The Emperor. He and Obi-Wan agree that they Yoda clearly feels great lament for the fallen Jedi, but it doesn't preclude him from his duty, nor And why would it? The Jedi aren't responsible for the actions Yes, the Jedi failed, but if the Jedi didn't exist, The reason Yoda goes into exile is because he can't If he stayed in the open, he surely would The Last Jedi not understanding the because it then projects this misconception in this case projecting what it thinks Yoda should This is not Luke Skywalker; this is Yoda if your interpretation of Yoda is [Yoda] The greatest teacher, failure is. [DX] From there, it's easy to see why Luke's with the Luke Skywalker we see in the original trilogy. Luke's actions make a lot more sense to have knowledge and almost as if it's what the filmmaker thinks Luke, in this film, is nothing but that doesn't fully understand what it's critiquing. Even the dialogue is reductive and almost fourth [Luke] You don't need Luke Skywalker. - [Rey] Did you... hear a word I just said? I'm gonna walk out with a laser sword [DX] Luke was the one character who always believed, from manually landing the shot into to saving Han and Leia from Vader, and To even have him doubt his ability to bring Ben Solo back but to actually ignite his saber against him is when the character wouldn't Another side note here, but it's important to talk about Snoke presumably never met Ben There's little chance someone this formidable and therefore have been killed or The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi actually he can turn someone to the This implies that Snoke is far stronger than Palpatine, who spent over a decade gaining the Palpatine also had it easier because Ben Solo didn't This trilogy wanted its own Vader and Emperor but couldn't even be bothered to Back to Luke: can heroes fail? Of course they can. Luke loses to Vader, Yoda loses to Sidious, but these failures are the result of pursuing In both those situations, the characters but in The Last Jedi, Luke's failure is at Another relevant question is: can heroes change their minds? Absolutely, yes. In a series impacted so heavily it'd be disingenuous to say that characters can't change; but what happens to Luke isn't change. Luke Skywalker, who saw what the Empire did to the galaxy, who saw what the dark side did to his father, would not abandon his sister and let it all happen again. Rey is more Luke than Luke is in this film, which says a lot because of how badly Luke's character If you examine Luke's arc through the original After becoming a Rebel hero, he's eventually Then he goes to Dagobah and behaves His impatience and fear lead him to rush his training Losing his hand and Vader's revelation In Return of the Jedi, he learns from this and He doesn't fall for the Emperor's The trilogy ends with a character who The Last Jedi takes several elements of this arc for Rey, but it doesn't work because it and it doesn't seem to get that characters need to They also need to have personal failures in the first place. If we chart Rey's arc after she defeats Kylo Ren, her lowest point comes in her disappointment that Whoever this is definitely and her vision in the mirror cave only I think this, by itself, is great. The issue is that Rey has A situation that shows why she needs training so while yes, Rey is confused and in pain, she doesn't need Luke in the same way Luke needed Yoda. That means that Rey's disobedience Rey's telling off of Luke and because she realizes that she doesn't need this Rey leaving the island thinking that the way the same mentality Rey turning herself in is a copy of the scene meaning that for Rey, her moment where she Instead, Rey is only validated that there And then, with Kylo and... the magic of editing, they defeat seven elite Praetorian guards together, By so greatly ruining Luke's character in this film, it gives Rey moral authority which absolves Couple this with her insane unexplained power and While the film has the right idea by that her parents are dead and Vader's reveal to Luke was the worst likewise, Kylo's confirmation of what Rey says The key difference is that Vader is an infinitely How would Kylo, who met Rey three or four Even the interrogation scene in The Force Awakens He says they're in a ditch on Jakku, but in Rey's Force vision, someone Maz also tells Rey her parents aren't coming back. So were those her parents? And if they were, how do they end up on That three or four days part is also In the span of a few days, Rey goes to taking on elite guards and later lifting all these rocks. Why does the Resistance even need Luke? Give Rey a week and she'll be stronger than him. Oh, and if you forgot, Rey's nothing explains this at all. The only thing Rey was wrong about was Kylo's true intent, though no one but Luke suffers any consequence for due to how the film was structured. As long as the Resistance was going to be cornered on and since there was no real plan after the only way Luke could have His death can't really be blamed on anyone but himself, which is why, while visually stunning, it has little impact. Luke's parting line is also patronizing and contrary [Luke] See you around, kid. [DX] The Last Jedi, admittedly, he was already self-exiled in The Force Awakens. [Han Solo] Luke felt responsible. He just... walked away from everything. [DX] But it did have a choice What this movie does with Finn and Poe is baffling, but before we get to that, I'd like to talk about This isn't complicated; if you are thrown into space, you will die. A character returning from an impossible and a genuinely shocking moment. Leia using the Force feels more like a get but not actually pull the trigger Not that Leia can't use the Force, that's great, but using it in such a ridiculous manner creates The movie doesn't even have the sense to reveal As for the rest of the characters, Poe Dameron He is flat out wrong on every call he makes, from taking on the Dreadnought to hinging his hopes on Finn. The former results in the death of every The idea with Poe was to have him grow from hero to leader. Commendable, because following but just making mistakes doesn't translate to growth, especially if the character never Taking on the Dreadnought was pointless to begin with, and destroying the Dreadnought Poe also states that the Dreadnought is a fleet killer, but the grand Republic fleet was This measly fleet is the only Resistance by any of the Star Destroyers accompanying the Dreadnought. The destruction of the Dreadnought Poe not being informed about Amilyn On one hand, this lunatic doesn't so Holdo giving him a reason to mutiny by revealing On the other, by not telling him, Holdo gave because he was going to do what Poe is neither entirely right nor wrong on this matter, which complicates any lessons Holdo's plan is terrible, and only that addresses a problem Poe At the end of the film, Poe finally but the film could have arrived there with any number of By the way, here's this. [Johnson] He's gonna win, he's gonna have but at a cost that, in terms of [DX] Poe already had that moment Why would he need it again? And why is Poe the only character of This film's priorities were all over the place, I don't think The Last Jedi cared about Finn, at all. Its story is organized in a way you could take him out of the movie and nothing changes. This is an issue that can be traced back to the end of but The Last Jedi shares the blame There's nothing for Finn to do under these circumstances, Finn was too important to be left out of the film, but also not important enough to go If The Last Jedi was smart, it'd and revealed Leia's Force powers as a way to Instead, Finn's personality is reset, and any prior despite having his potential mentor right in front of him. Ignoring how questionable it is that Finn is up what's more eyebrow-raising is that he's a coward again. I thought him fighting Kylo marked the end It's hard to say with any certainty since no time passes between these two events, but it's very strange to go from a scene where he puts to bailing on the people that saved his life. Rose is right; Finn is selfish for this. At the first sign of trouble, he's out of here. There's no reason a scene like this that I suspect it's here solely to introduce Rose, Rose is the personification of one of the There's countless times in this film where they're talking directly to the audience. [Kylo Ren] They're (Rey's parents) dead. You have no place in this story. You come from nothing. You're nothing. [DX] Finn and Rose on Canto Bight Rose doesn't tell Finn, a child soldier, anything he didn't already know about the war machine. That's because her statements aren't meant her statements were meant for us. Her entire character is, similar to Luke, a commentary, but it falls flat because it's the The film actually does a much better job in its opening sequence. Finn and Rose also don't work together Setting aside the fact that they don't even bring their plan relies on turning off so the Resistance can't be Once the tracker is disabled, the Resistance before anyone notices it's off. The issue is... how are they supposed to get off the in six minutes' time? They didn't even plan for this until they were on the ship. [Rose] Got time to figure out how we get back to the fleet? [Finn] I know where the nearest escape pods are. They get caught because the idea or at the very least not notice that these Then they're both saved from execution by which only happens because So... they win despite losing, which makes everything they did... which makes everything they did... pointless. Finn doesn't even get to beat Finn says he is Rebel scum, which but this is something we already The Last Jedi is the one that puts this into question proving that everything Finn does from is a waste of time. Finn's suicide run on Crait is another mind-boggling moment, as it once again implies that the and/or that the Resistance can do anything to them. If the First Order wants to get into the base on Crait, something tells me that just destroying This is a problem caused by the The First Order just had their flagship split in half and nearly all of the Star Destroyers but they can still deploy all of Why would destroying this cannon To say Finn is wasted in this film What the previous film promised was taken from him, and he was relegated to a minimal role and foolish at worst. The Last Jedi was a disaster. It ruined the trilogy with its widespread character In order to deconstruct something, you need to It has to be presented before it's so you understand what's being picked apart. The Last Jedi's obsession with challenging what because it never argues for those ideas in good faith and comes to its conclusions based You can't have a cohesive trilogy when everything established in the first and After the release of The Last Jedi, the how is a third film going to work? The conclusion to the sequels was going to its universe shrunk, and the It's difficult to say whether any film could have but what we finally got was worse The Rise of Skywalker is the least Of all the ways that the sequels betray Star Wars, mutating its space fantasy into generic I stress generic here because there's a difference between These films are the latter, Star Wars is not a series that has Any attempts to demystify its intangible elements because they over explain, contradict, and that helped create investment in its characters. Star Wars' greatest success is how relatable a story it is, despite it taking place &quot;a long There's a part of us in Star Wars. The fantasy in the story breaks down aspects that we better understand under the lens of entertainment. This is why Star Wars is as Its themes don't stop resonating when you grow up, you just see them differently the Science fiction is antithetical to Star Wars the science and technology of Star Wars also doesn't conflate its and exaggerate their importance to tell its story. While it could be argued that the prequels moved with the introduction of midi-chlorians it's the sequels that definitely push Because they don't have a coherent or mapped story, the sequels have to rely on Lightsabers, ships, and the Force have The sequels are less about the characters and more It's literally in the title. The Force Awakens, which places heavy This is junk science fiction, the kind that cherry picks cool science to make up for a lack of substance. The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi are both guilty of this, but at least they still try to hearken to flesh out and realize their characters. The Rise of Skywalker... The Rise of Skywalker... gives up. There is no relatable story being told here. There is no story being told... There is no story being told... period. The Rise of Skywalker is nothing but a collection that destroys the nuance of the franchise and [Poe Dameron] We've decoded the intel from Somehow Palpatine returned. ?????????? [DX] The Rise of Skywalker is a do-over, a complete repossession of the story by J.J. Abrams. This kills the film, because the story it's trying to tell is just as rancid as the one it &quot;The dead speak!&quot; is the only evidence The Last Jedi killing off Snoke and this film's writes it into a corner where the only &quot;Somehow Palpatine returned&quot; is almost self-aware, with the line explicitly saying &quot;we don't know how As it turns out, the Emperor has actually been in and is responsible for everything in There's numerous questions but I've narrowed them down to the most important. 1. How does Palpatine survive exploding 2. If Palpatine actually did die, how 3. If Palpatine is able to clone himself why doesn't he just pick up where he 4. If Palpatine is able to clone himself why does he create Snoke? 5. If Palpatine is able to create beings why doesn't he transfer himself to that 6. Does Snoke have autonomy? If so, why? 7. If Palpatine made Snoke, but his plan why is Snoke hellbent on killing her? 8. Who did Palpatine have relations 9. If Rey's father is really a clone, 10. If Rey's father is a clone of why can Snoke? 11. If Rey's father was created on Exegol, how did he leave? I've gotten a bit ahead of myself, but you get the point. The return of the Emperor is undoubtedly and equally dumb are the attempts to justify it. [Chris Terrio] The idea came up of, well, Within about thirty seconds of discussing because we knew that this has always [DX] No, that's not what Star Wars is about at all. Reducing Star Wars to a story about two bloodlines as told through the adventures of the characters. Bringing back Palpatine doesn't even serve the purpose because his addition to the story is He is now just evil man as opposed to Centering itself around the By forcing the story to both retcon and it breaks every character. The last we saw of Kylo Ren, killed Snoke and became Supreme Leader. In this movie, he rebuilds his mask after he becomes a pawn to another after he becomes a pawn to another are revealed to be more powerful than the First Order. We've already gone over how strong The First their power is absolute. The Rise of Skywalker nerfs the First Order to make it seems like they need all of which is in direct contradiction and its opening crawl that says: and its opening crawl that says: This takes Kylo several steps back as a character. He switches between a carbon and an exposition megaphone only needed when the More on Kylo later. Palpatine's reemergence naturally draws the attention on a wild goose chase that lead to Rey's origins. Because all of this is about her, Poe has no real purpose and it reduces Finn to emotional support for Rey. [Finn] REY! [DX] Rey is unbearable in this film. The start of the movie shows her running a training course, but it's too little too late for this to excuse She's not going on missions with but why she even needs it is a mystery None of this matters anyways because the search for that this simple training course couldn't possibly explain. Let's talk about the Force Dyad. In The Last Jedi, the force conversations between and have two characters in distant The issue isn't cheating, Force ghosts but the difference is that one form and the other moves the plot forward The conversations were explained by Snoke saying In The Rise of Skywalker, there is no Snoke, so the conversations are explained by a that has always existed. This means that Snoke was lying for unknown reasons, and that Rey is so powerful she's half of a Force occurrence that is only seen once every few generations. The Dyad is just a cheap excuse to give Rey limitless power and to have Kylo's intentions to kill The Force conversations are no longer just conversations, they are dimensional teleportation. Force healing is basically time manipulation. Neither ability resembles the Force; in fact, Rey has more in common with Force healing specifically creates a Why does Qui-Gon Jinn die? Obi-Wan should have just healed him using the Force. Rey does the exact same to Unfortunately, Obi-Wan did not run the Facetiousness aside, the exploitation of the is even more reason you can't invest in any of them. The Force is again used as a get out of jail free card instead of a test of a character's It's just a power all of these superheroes have but the scene where Rey and Kylo use it to fight exposes another critical flaw with the movie. [zapping, explosions] [DX] There was something to be gained from this scene. It's the only shocking part of the movie. Yes, Rey's use of Sith lightning but for the first time, we see her make a mistake. Even if accidentally, she lets her powers Except it doesn't. Chewbacca is alive in the very next scene because The Rise of Skywalker Chewbacca's death, C-3PO's memory wipe, Kylo being stabbed, the destruction of Kijimi, etc. It's impossible to care about the movie when The lack of payoffs, the retcons, the Force abilities... they all say the same thing. Nothing means anything. The story the film wants to tell isn't properly set up, so it has to make up its own rules as it Just look at Kylo Ren's &quot;redemption.&quot; Who is this? Star Wars has or at least had a very specific set This is not a Force ghost because Han Solo was not a Jedi. So, this is a hallucination and an example of how much than it does about being Star Wars. Kylo's redemption is not earned, he doesn't do anything that redeems him Kylo is only redeemed because he's finished feeding that she's the granddaughter of Emperor Palpatine. This is the height of the film's cluelessness. Rey being the granddaughter of the Emperor means nothing. We're well past the point where It does nothing for her character because every one that could cloud her judgment and lead her to the dark side. The foreshadowing in this film in as it implies Rey will become a It's difficult to not make light of The Palpatine reveal could have worked of abandoned woman looking for purpose. It could have been haunting for her to is a genocidal tyrant who also killed her parents. The reason it isn't and this doesn't work, besides the obvious ways in which is because Rey's fears are Rey is not alone; she is surrounded by friends she None of the dark side temptation The idea that Rey will end up all alone or on the Why would she fall to the dark side? What great suffering has she brought upon herself? Her only mistake is mended almost instantly. She has the power to control life and death, which is what Anakin fell to There is no reason for this character to be tempted by the dark side, except for the movie wanting It wants a character who can do anything that they could turn at any given moment. Rey's conversation with Luke about her lineage is also This conversation could have been Anakin gave into the dark side, yet Luke didn't. Luke wasn't defined by the actions of his but this is never mentioned. Luke just tells her she has to face the Speaking of Luke, The Rise of Skywalker without breaking the rules of the universe. Admittedly, seeing Luke again and put a huge smile on my face. This is the only time in three films But if Luke can grab a lightsaber is he still a ghost? This is an important question Everything comes to a head on Exegol, Bigger is better strikes again with the and begs the question of why the bad guys are Much like Palpatine's reappearance, the Final and it's clear no thought was put into any of them. We just talked about how Rey turning so her confrontation with the He tries turning her using the same tactic he but it doesn't make sense in this context. [Palpatine] The only family you have here... [Palpatine] The only family you have here... is me. [DX] The entirety of the film plays with the idea because he's her only family, making her turn inevitable - but he tempts her by saying that her So which is it? Why would she care that the Emperor is is that the family she actually cares about is in danger? If you apply the same logic to Return of the Jedi, Luke would be more concerned about ending And that's the problem: Rey's Luke's conflict was fear about the fate of others. Once Ben Solo arrives to help Rey, The Knights of Ren are... a joke. They have no coherent origin story They're destroyed like goofs, and Rey They all have blasters and none of them can Once Rey and Ben stand together, but there is simply no logic in He's been pulling the strings all along Now, his inability to do the same with Rey is but you'd think he would know once The most obvious explanation is that it's a measure to keep the story from If Palpatine always knew they shared the Dyad, it makes the previous films pointless since he to steal their life force and remake himself. The Emperor's power, once he does steal and yet another instance of the film Yes, this is insane, but the film could have partially explained by emphasizing that Exegol is the Sith home world. It'd have made this a bit easier to despite being able to interact with the world around them, the Force ghosts of past Jedi don't It's not a stretch that their power would Unfortunately, the film chooses to not which is a shame. There's also the issue of this but I think the prequels are also to blame for this. They made becoming a Force instead of something more thematically intangible. Rey hearing their voices is This scene's inclusion of prequel actors and voice actors You can even hear Alec Guinness's Obi-Wan in there. It doesn't mean much for the story, however. We know Rey isn't really alone and that the only reason she's the underdog in this situation Her defeating Palpatine makes him an He learned nothing from the last time this happened to him. A death so unsatisfying is to be Rey's own death is actually just a Kylo Ren was, from start to finish, a Darth Vader clone. He dies after his redemption because Anakin did first. But let's compare the level of Anakin's dying wish was to see and not the eyes of the monster he became. This isn't a reward as much as it is an His disfigured state is a cautionary tale There's none of that with Ben. First of all, he doesn't even beat the Emperor, Rey does. He then uses his super powers to revive her and gets What is this if it isn't a reward? How does this even make sense? [Rey] You're a monster. [gunshot] [Rey] Murderous snake. [Rey grunts] [DX] Anakin's death was used as the final and Ben's is used so Rey... and Ben's is used so Rey... has a love interest? This isn't even the last time the In the final scene of the film, Rey takes and buries them in Luke's old home. Why would Anakin want his saber buried in a place he hated? He was a slave on Tatooine. His mother was tortured and died there. Luke obviously hated it there too. Of all the planets to bury the the movie chose Tatooine because always favored the familiar over what was actually logical. The sequel trilogy ends with Rey which would have been a perfect ending... if any of it was actually earned. [DX] The Star Wars sequels are terrible. They're barely a trilogy. They're tangentially related films and all of them missed the point. Star Wars is not about the Force It's not about lightsabers or battle ships. It's not about aliens and droids. Star Wars is about life. It's about coming of age. It's about trust, deception, love, fear, and everything else that we experience from The sequels thought that Star Wars and became a story about those tools, costing them their fantasy and something that could have been easily understood what they were making sequels There is no magic secret to making good Star Wars films. What they need to be is clear Are they good storytellers? The answer as it pertains to the sequels... The answer as it pertains to the sequels... is no. And instead of going down as a triumphant return, the legacy of the sequels... the legacy of the sequels... will be failure. [DX] Hey guys, I hope you enjoyed the video. I'd now like to give a very big thank during this production of this video. If you'd like to support the content, you where you'll be featured in the next video's credits. A very big thank you goes out to: [patron names shown on screen] :) [patron names shown on screen] not happening anytime soon omegalul [patron names shown on screen] Thank you for supporting the content, and thank you for supporting the vision.