Its Christmas, 1963 and this is the cruise She is one of the smartest and most luxurious Aboard her are 646 carefree passengers who've away the hours playing deck games in the sun night. They're all excited for Christmas and the Islands is the perfect way to ring in 1964. Lakonia is one of the happiest ships afloat Greek Line; but few aboard could even conceive just a few short hours because this will be service career. It's early in the morning and the Southampton with activity. Moored on one side of the wharf is the stately is the cruise ship Lakonia. Soon passengers will be filing up the gangway anticipated holiday. Lakonia wasn't built as a cruise ship though; with the construction and launch of a pair of unforgettable names; the Johan van Oldenbarnevelt Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, or JVO, was built ship, the "Marnix van Sint Aldegonde" The pair were of decent size, about 609 feet tons. Netherlands Line was a passenger transport East Indies, modern-day Indonesia, and Europe liners built up to that point. The pair had a successful career through the and the Marnix both became troop transports, week in 1941. JVO could now carry over 4,000 troops and to the European and Pacific theaters without so lucky and she was sunk by German aircraft After the war, JVO carried troops again during by the 1950s she was returned to passenger Through the rest of the decade the ship served immigrants to new lives in Australia. It was a far cry from her glamorous pre-war a rude interruption to even this humble service; oceans in a mere matter of hours where ocean Almost overnight the passenger trade largely to eek out a profit enticing passengers not not one of them and the old JVO was put up This is where fate intervened and instead and destined for a new and exciting career. See, by the 1960s cruising had become more class and workers from Europe could afford previously have been unthinkable. Cruise lines began popping up all over the for the purpose, they capitalised on the glut in the wake of the jet plane's newfound The JVO was an attractive option for prospective When it was launched, the ship represented on the Far East service. The interiors were carefully designed by artist Zijl and since the ship was intended as a colony, the materials on board were chosen regions. Tropical timber and marble were heavily utilised, of the rooms. On board was an indoor-outdoor pool, one of glass roof. The ship's seven passenger decks were crammed libraries, smoking rooms; all clad in ornate gorgeous in a unique Dutch style. Amidships was the cavernous, 2-deck high Statesman ornately paneled walls and four ornate chandeliers. Of similar grand scale was the stunning social intended for on-board musical performances, The JVO didn't last long on the market; by newcomer cruise operator Greek Line in Arkadia. That ship had been a spartan former immigrant van Oldenbarnevelt was different; the ship in one. Its elaborate interiors, richly carved wood, passenger comforts and amenities would be In March 1963 the ship was sold for an undisclosed The old JVO docked in Genoa, Italy, for overhaul that would see her emerge as a luxury cruise Her funnels received the cheerful Greek Line Picked out in gold on the ship's bow was by a suitable moniker and one was chosen from In April 1963 the gleaming ship steamed out Southampton England. She was Greek line's pride and joy; they On December 19, 1963, Lakonia steamed out crew on board. For months since her introduction in April Mediterranean ports like Lisbon, Vigo, Tangiers ship was operated out of England and a firm This cruise, her 18th for Greek Line, would dreary British winter over Christmas, heading stay on Christmas Eve and finally, Las Palmas. It was marketed by Greek Line as a once-in-a-lifetime read "Here is a holiday you will remember In command was 53 year old Mathios Zarbis, fifteen years, formerly of the Arkadia. From the bridge he must have looked down with at 20,000 tons. On December 13, less than a week before sailing, authorities and her crew had been put through ship passed with flying colours and she was of Seaworthiness. Lakonia was considered absolutely up to date compartments and the double bottom to prevent as an array of 24 lifeboats providing places capacity of passengers and crew. Conditions ahead were clear and bright and many, many times before. Disaster and danger must have been the furthest the crew. They'd had a full cruise season to get comfortable comfortably. The few hundred crew was a multinational mix Belgians, French and Chinese. On the first day at sea Captain Zarbis ordered passenger Chris Smallbone gave the first small and recalled that he was the only passenger station. The crew also made no effort at guiding the having just turned on the siren and showing Smallbone took off his life jacket, maybe enjoy his holiday. Lakonia's Cruise Director was George Herbert, was extremely popular and cultivated a bit His duty was to ensure the fare-payers were his work cut out for him - but it could have probably because of the holiday season - this after all. He oversaw the satisfaction of all 646 passengers, the cold. Aboard were three honeymooning couples, schoolboys of five London taxi cab drivers on a well-earned Those first few days spent aboard were idyllic with the vast ship and its dazzling array Down on the Upper Deck, the old JVO's hair a task headed up by hairdresser and salon Kaye had approached Greek Line for the concessionary he'd set up shop and pay them for the 'real Kaye was trying something new, bringing the Lakonia would be his first foray into the passengers who wanted to look their best for Another extremely popular gathering place Lounge at the very stern of the ship; on JVO it in glass and filled it with light wicker and watch the ocean pass by astern. Cruise Director George Herbert organised games, them occupied if watching the ocean and relaxing apropriately festive and on December 22nd the Tropical Tramps' Ball. It was a happy and relaxing time at sea, and was not well. Beneath that fresh coat of thick white paint those first days at sea, circuits shorted electrical systems. These irritating issues had plagued the ship The ship had an automatic fire alarm system equipment and an illuminator panel in the originated. Lakonia and its happy complement sailed off their last. At 11pm on December 22nd, three days before miles or 400 kilometers west of Gibraltar. The Tropical Tramps' Ball was in full swing was judging passenger costumes. Herbert, the cruise director, announced the and applause and Zarbis entertained a party But then there came the smell of smoke; faint Passengers dismissed it as cigar smoke and Up on the bridge all was quiet and normal; But then the fire alarm indicator panel lit had been detected on the ship's main deck At about the same time two stewards were walking smoke pouring out from underneath the locked Wondering what was happening within they opened completely consumed by fire and with a roar, began consuming the timber-clad walls and The two men grabbed fire extinguishers and further but it was already too late. Smoke filled the hallway and the fire was One of the stewards rushed to inform the ship's behind, fighting the blaze. The Salon had been closed for the night so noticing; directly above the flashpoint, just of joyful attendees of the Tropical Tramps' Lakonia's purser, Bogetti, was just preparing the stewards burst in and reported the fire. Bogetti sprung into action and rushed to gather they charged towards the flames but they too The simple fact is that the fire had been men could do was try to slow its spread for out through hallways and corridors on the elegant and peaceful but already the fire Suddenly the general fire alarm sounded, activated but instead of blaring throughout the ship sounded more like the bell you'd use to For the hundreds of people directly above alarm went totally unnoticed, drowned out In the ship's theater, just aft of the Statesman night screening of Call me Bwana with Bob started ringing. The audience thought it was part of the movie they began to nervously chat and look around Then came the dreaded, ominous smell of smoke. They didn't know it yet, but beneath their main passenger corridor on the Upper Deck. Confused, they began to slowly file out to Throughout the ship, in lounges and corridors, smell smoke; there was no panic, just curiosity was happening. The only problem is they didn't know either. Incredibly, neither did the ship's Captain. Forward in the Statesman Lounge, Captain Zarbis that there was a serious situation at hand; the passengers in Cruise Director Herbert's He strained to listen for the fire alarm and to the bridge and attempted to send out a was working; the fire had disabled it entirely. It was 11:30pm and at the Tropical Tramps The same beautiful, elaborately carved tropical the vessel was now providing fuel to a fire The countdown to safely evacuate the burning half an hour ago. Zarbis ordered the radio officer to send out The radio operator of the Argentine vessel shift when an urgent message crackled through enough to send a shiver down any crewman's Immediate Assistance Please." He got the ship's position and raced to Meanwhile on Lakonia the fire could no longer Smoke was now pouring into the ballroom and serious blaze. At this point, the only official left in the who only knew as much as the other passengers Figuring that the ship was on fire and realising to their own devices, Herbert took it upon guide the people inside towards the lifeboats. Throughout the ship crew and passengers now to seep through ventilation ducts and corridors. The fire was burning in Lakonia's center, in their bunks would have been cut off from The varnished timber; the ornate panels, the all of it was incinerated and burned white-hot Time was running out and Cruise Director Herbert he could at the boats and began to see their But here there were fresh problems; the nice Line had actually concealed bad rot and corrosion of it the original machinery which had been At the demonstrative lifeboat drill given only five boats had been launched; now, in boats were stuck up on their davits, unable actions. The boats that could move began to be filled whom had simply stepped out of their cabins Now, in the dead of night and in their pyjamas and swung out over the side of the ship. Englishman Arthur Edson and his business partner to celebrate 25 years of successful co-ownership turned to horror and the two now had to see supreme but somehow the two men got their Arthur said that "We got everyone safely I jumped and managed to land on the boat. Les didn't jump. The sailors yelled and pushed the lifeboat clinging to the side of the ship. He pulled himself back up. Next to him Boat 22 was having trouble being I yelled at him; "Not 22, Les! Not 22!" I have not seen him since. Just then, lifeboat number 22 tipped over into the sea. They screamed "Help me! Help me!" A young padre was trying to grab as many as But as we rowed away we could still hear those It was awful." Down on the passenger decks a few brave crew or elderly passengers needing assistance and and thought they were looting, but may were since the lockers on-deck were rusted shut. At the lifeboats, Herbert did a fine job of who were lowering the boats had to work hard some boats smashed hard into the side of the broke free of their chains and spilled all or setting them adrift into the blackness. Some of the boats with davits that did function beautiful fresh white paint. Hundreds of passengers watching on were frozen between burning up in an inferno or drowning. Chris Smallbone was one of them, and although the calm and fill the boats, Smallbone and seek refuge on the ship. By 12am the Lakonia had developed a list to lowering; for dozens still inside the ship fire; they screamed out for help from their A few Lakonia crewmen tied ropes around their the passengers from their cabins. A second distress call was sent by the radio aware of the situation and en route but hours were on their own. At 12:22 Lakonia's radio operator sent another Please immediate assistance. Please help." But then there was silence; the radio operator surge toward his station. He made it off the ship in one of the last The lifeboats, all that could be launched, of the 24 total boats could be launched at By now the fire had spread throughout the the base of Lakonia's funnels and light Aboard Lakonia, a few hundred passengers and their feet. Many of those left behind on Lakonia were they rushed aft to the perceived safety of away from the choking smoke. Cruise Director Herbert stayed with them and wasn't a huge deal of panic because nobody There was obviously a fire but word had somehow had come to get out or burn alive. Ladders and knotted ropes were hurriedly strung the space which had once been a delightful turned into a scene of panic and horror as the open windows and over the ships' side. They were four storeys up in the air and below much. Some lost their footing or their nerves and side of the ship or breaking their necks in Lieutenant Colonel John Wilkinson and his jump first. Mrs Wilkinson didn't want to jump but her we've got to jump." So he led the way and jumped first; she followed he was gone. She could hear him calling but she lost him Mrs Susan Redfern stood with her husband and she'd retrieved it from her luggage earlier "Here you are love, Merry Christmas" she cufflinks. The pair scrambled down a ladder followed who had been a winner at the Tropical Tramps into the ocean; father and daughter clung Many people went into the water from the Agora rising and pitching in the waves sucked them weight of the ship down on their heads, killing 27 year old Chris Smallbone scurried down took to the ocean, swimming together with in the waves. They watched as their ship glowed in the night of the disaster; from stem to stern the Lakonia the sky. There were explosions throughout the ship collapsed as the steel failed through the Lakonia was a smoking, drifting inferno; nobody many were set adrift in the ocean. Survivors in the lifeboats looked on in horror It must have seemed like an eternity that in the night but then finally a light was Rescue had finally come. Lakonia's distress calls had certainly not Salta had made full speed for the Lakonia's at last at 3:30am, four hours after the first Salta quickly put its own lifeboats into the scale of the rescue operation became apparent; across the ocean floating in their lifejackets. Lakonia's lifeboats made their way for Salta plucking individuals from the ocean. A half hour later while this was underway arrived followed closely behind by the Belgian Salta collected nearly 500 people from the work too. Within hours there were a half dozen ships back and forth searching for people in the The curious passengers of the rescue ships at the blackened hulk of Lakonia which was It wasn't just ships that picked up the Air Force base in Madrid. Somewhere off the coast of Madeira 33 year of his C-54 Skymaster, scanning the ocean He burst through cloud cover and there was in his previous 4,000 hours of flying. He later said; "I spotted the glow of the There were bodies floating in the water, dead There were others in lifejackets, waving and The thing that touched me the most was seeing ocean. She was wearing a life jacket and as we flew We dropped a 20-man life raft right next to Spencer and his crew stayed on station to anybody that waved from the sea. They flew like this for some 12 hours. By daybreak the drama wasn't yet completely on getting too close because one of Lakonia's ship's 500 tons of fuel oil could explode They watched helpless as the ship blazed away up into the air. Eventually the crew of the Charlesville got their own safety, set out towards Lakonia survivors. Some had been spotted by the circling aircraft, ship with any hand-hold they could get, be The crew of Charlesville stepped aboard and scrambling up the side of the ship on ladders consumed by fire. They made an incredible discovery; Captain ship and they found him pacing the deck; he Lakonia. Chris Smallbone had spent almost three hours the waves by a lifeboat and he survived; but The water was cold and four hours in the ocean It is estimated that more than half of the or the cold after drifting in the ocean. Through the morning and into the early afternoon and liferafts and one of the rescue ships In the end, about 75 survivors were rescued For the aircrews though it was a tough sight. One of Captain Don Spencer's crewmen recalled; made for a man. She was dead and I felt sick. Next minute, somebody started waving to us The living and the dead were very close together." Another remembered; "You could feel the the open door of the aircraft and I saw that Later in the afternoon, about 3pm, Montcalm Number of survivors is now 722. Please all ships vicinity give immediate assistance... need all possible assistance. Many bodies in the water." 19 year old Ken Fritz was on Spencer's plane my mind that this was once a happy ship. I pictured all those people wearing fancy for the sun. Now there she was, a burning hulk and people In all some 128 people died that night when were pulled out of the water by a brilliant ships and RAF and US Air Force personnel. Now the Lakonia sat drifting out of control By Christmas day the fire was out and all While the survivors were taken by the rescue Lakonia under tow and salvage the hull. Dutch and Norweigan tugs arrived on scene slow journey to Gibraltar began; but the sea Days later, on December 29th the tow lines onto her side. The charred hulk of the once-happy ship capsized