Professor Paul Bloom: proper, Introduction to about the brain. I want to lead off the class Prize winning biologist, described as &quot;The Astonishing And The Astonishing Hypothesis As he writes, that: sorrows, your memories and your personal identity and free will behavior of a vast assembly of molecules. have phrased it, neurons.&quot; astonishing. and I don't actually expect It's an open question whether class comes to an end, you believe it now. Most people, Most people are dualists. different doctrine. found in every religion and in throughout history. for instance. well-known defender of dualism Descartes, asked a question, machines, And he answered, &quot;no.&quot; machines. machines&quot; and said animals, robots, but people are There's a duality of people. we possess physical material what we are is not physical. possess physical bodies, that reside in physical bodies, bodies. because the claim is, there are two separate things; there's our immaterial minds. arguments for dualism. observations of a human action. sophisticated time, These were not electrical They were robots powered by So, Descartes would walk around French Royal Gardens were set up Disneyland. would operate according to water certain panel, a sword. a bathing beauty would cover And Descartes said, certain ways to certain actions things and, &quot;our bodies work that way too. knee, your leg will jump out. But Descartes said that can't humans do that no machine could Humans are not limited to Rather, humans are capable of spontaneous things. for instance, language can be reflexive. And I say, &quot;I am fine. But sometimes I could say what &quot;How are you?&quot; I can just choose. Descartes argued, choice. The second argument is, this was the method. method of doubt. the question, And he said, but honestly, I believe I live in a rich fooled.&quot; &quot;I believe I have had friends tricked. for instance, has deluded me into thinking I real.&quot; the modern version of this is The idea of The Matrix is Cartesian--Descartes' worries Maybe everything you're now but rather is the product of creature. could doubt he has a body. sometimes believe they have they're of different sizes and Descartes said, Crazy people don't think don't think I'm crazy doesn't How do I know,&quot; Descartes said, But there is one thing, that he cannot doubt, doubt that he is himself That would be self-refuting. method of doubt to say there's having a body that's always And he used this argument as a as a way to support the idea separate. &quot;I knew that I was a substance, which is to think, there is no need of any place material thing. the soul by which I am, from body.&quot; common sense and I want to nature of this in a few ways. enmeshed in our language. talking about things that we own - my arm, my car - but we also extend We talk about owning our brains from them. intuitions about personal And what this means is that somebody can be the same person radical and profound changes. fictional. understanding a movie where teenager and wakes up as as an older person. &quot;Oh, that's a documentary. but at the same time nobody, no child ever leaves and says, confused.&quot; We can also follow stories transformations as when a man of a child. views around--People around this as to whether reincarnation but we can imagine it. and then reemerging in another This is not Hollywood invention. of the last century begins with &quot;As Gregor Samsa woke one he found himself transformed in And again, Kafka invites us to a cockroach and we can. Hundreds of years before the Homer described the fate of the transformed by a witch into Actually, that's not quite She didn't turn them into pigs. She stuck them in the bodies of They had the head and voice and their minds remained unchanged there weeping. the fate of again finding creatures and, this is because you are separate from the body that you We allow for the notion that This is a mainstay of some classic movie, and Lily Tomlin - highly But many people think this sort One analysis of multiple have many people inside a single control. personality disorder towards the out things are a good deal more but still my point isn't about think about it. have more than one person inside This shows up in a different where many belief systems allow behavior, irrational behavior, has taken over their bodies. world, all religions and most times, the destruction of their bodies. to the fate of the body. going to--sorry--the fate of the Some cultures have you going to Others have you occupying Still, others have you world. that what you are is separable carry around. carry around can be destroyed These views are particularly In one survey done in Chicago a people were asked their what would happen to them when Most people in the sample were Christians said, Heaven.&quot; Now, Judaism is actually a story about the afterlife. identified themselves as Jewish to Heaven. having any religion at all--said Still, when these people were they would die, &quot;I'm going to go to Heaven.&quot; A lot rests on it but, the scientific consensus now is There is no &quot;you&quot; separable or In particular, from your brain. scientists and psychologists and &quot;the mind is what the brain The mind reflects the workings computation reflects the working Now, why would you hold such an Why would you reject dualism in Well, a few reasons. always had its problems. it's a profoundly unscientific We want to know as curious language, what we find and what's the basis for mental And dualism simply says, it's part of the ether,&quot; and More specifically, struggle to explain how a immaterial soul. How could this connection be After all, Descartes knew full connection. If you bang your toe or stub If you drink alcohol it affects but he could only wave his thing in the world could connect Descartes, when he was alive, concluding that physical objects He was reasonable enough in as he did, that there's no way ever play a game of chess capacity is beyond the capacity you have to apply--you have to immaterial soul but now we call an existence proof. complicated and interesting We know, for instance, We know machines can manipulate We know machines have limited mathematical and logical to recognize things, computations, possible that we are such So you can no longer say, &quot;Look. that&quot; because we know physical opens up the possibility that in particular, Finally, there is strong involved in mental life. dualist view that said that what what we think and what we want the physical world, fact that the brain seems to elaborate ways to our mental Now, this has been known for a Philosophers and psychologists getting smacked in the head faculties; could make you deranged; and alcohol can affect how you But what's new is we can now in effects of mental life. profound loss of mental shown correspondingly in her Studies using imaging PET, and fMRI, of the brain are active during For instance, words, hearing words, words can correspond to of your brain is active. if we put you in an fMRI doing in real time, patterns in your brain we can about music or thinking about To some extent we can tell dilemma versus something else. we are is the workings of our but it is extremely difficult Now, so what you have is--the of mental life including choice and morality are the So, you would expect that when at the brain; you'd see - I don't know - tubes and blinding lights and And actually though, It looks like an old meat loaf. of the head. that's just because it's out of Inside the head it's bright red It doesn't even taste good. eaten brain? It's good with cream sauce but sauce. &quot;How can something like this And you have to have some There's another argument a lot less subtle than the ones which is &quot;That thing love and consciousness? What I want to do, neuroscience is, to try to explain how the brain rise to thought, take a first stab at this we'll continue to discuss about different aspects of What I want to do though now is So, what I want to do is start interesting part of the brain and bigger - talk about how the neurons, thought, combine to other mental subparts of the brain and So, one of the discoveries of unit of the brain appears to be The neuron is a specific sort major parts, as you could see Neurons actually look quite this is a typical one. these little tentacles here. from other neurons. either excitatory, likelihood the neuron will fire, lower the likelihood that the The cell body sums it up and arithmetically. pluses, the inhibitory ones are And then if you get a certain the neuron will fire and it the thing to the right. the dendrites and, feet long. your spinal cord to your big toe It is so shocking the lights go Surrounded--Surrounding--To that would have led Descartes to Koleen. myelin sheath, insulation. quicker. neurons. about one thousand billion of connected to around thousands, other neurons. complicated computing device. There are sensory neurons, world so as you see me, there are neurons firing from your brain. If you decide to raise your telling the muscles what to do. which connect the two. the interneurons do the They make the connection It used to be believed, would--when I taught this course on--that neurons do not grow You never get them back. There are parts of the brain in One interesting thing about gun. It's all or nothing. gun really hard and really fast, harder than if you just squeezed Now, this seems to be strange. nothing when sensation is very If somebody next to you pushed pushing--you'd be able to notice It's not either pushing or not You can--Degrees of pushing, degrees of brightness. although neurons are all or intensity. intensity is the number of the more neurons the more Another way to increase firing. The first one is the number of The second one is the frequency more intense if it's &quot;bang, bang, bang&quot; then &quot;bang, ways through which neurons Now, neurons are connected and used to be thought they were computer, connect wires to each other, connect them. case. relate to one another chemically Between any neurons, and the dendrite of another, The gap could be about one wide. this gap is known as a when a neuron fires, shooting through the gap. neurotransmitters and they So, neurons communicate to one These--Again, other neuron (excitatory) bring or inhibit the other neuron Now, neurotransmitters become psychopharmacology, the recreational sort, neurotransmitters and so you examples. could fiddle with and correspondingly two sorts There are agonists. increases the effect of either by making more the cleanup of or in some cases by faking a by mimicking its effects. that slow down the amount of either because they destroy it hard to create more. dendrite of the neuron and they that the neurotransmitters can't And it's through these clever your mental life. So, for instance, and Curare is an antagonist. antagonist. affecting muscle fibers. paralyzes you because your motor your arm to stand, It doesn't work. leg to move. The motor neurons are because the way you breathe is you then die. Alcohol is inhibitory. people. you may be thinking, On the contrary, lose my inhibitions and become a I become more aggressive and more beautiful. inhibitory?&quot; the inhibitory parts of your So, you have parts of your you now, largely in the frontal Keep your pants on. Don't use bad words.&quot; shuts down those parts of the If you take enough alcohol, the excitatory parts of your floor and pass out. amount of arousal. they increase the amount of a neurotransmitter that's arousal. drugs like &quot;speed&quot; and &quot;coke.&quot; serotonin. psychology and depression we'll neurotransmitter disorders are like depression. depression - is that there's known as serotonin. prevalent and so in some extent Parkinson's disease is a motor control and loss of motor And one factor in Parkinson's neurotransmitter known as The drug L-DOPA increases the is something to alleviate, the symptoms of Parkinson's. they're clustered together and to one another. give rise to creatures who could and think? it used to be believed that the computer, like that, but we know this It can't be true because brain is better than a computer. the brain is highly resistant If you have a laptop and I me and I take the pliers and anywhere, but the brain is actually more You can take a lot of brain mental functioning. there's some sort of damage that allows different parts of parts are damaged. brain is extremely fast. and electricity but your brain extremely slow. create such a fast computer with And you can't. a personal computer, recognize a face but, extremely quickly. the brain wired up? unlike manys, computers, the brain works massively parallel distributed There's a whole lot of research some of which takes place and in engineering departments departments, computer can do the same things And one way people do this is they try to construct massively aspects of reasoning. computational network. kind of looks to some extent this is often known as neural And people who study this often network modeling to try to build after brains. this has been a huge and people are trying to wire up things from components that look up together as neurons are. this is that this is a very to do it yet. can recognize faces or level of a two-year-old human. can do just about anything way. in part, because the human extraordinarily more complicated neural network. diagram - you're not parts of the visual cortex, this is it's extraordinarily So, the brain is a complicated Now, so, we've talked a little blocks of the brain - neurons. neurons can communicate to one then, turned to how neurons are Now let's talk a little bit brain. don't actually need your brain The study of what you don't drawn upon this weird actually done in France a lot people and when--After they psychologists would rush to the sort of just test out reflexes It's kind of gruesome but we don't need your brain for. newborn sucking, from pain. if your head is gone. done without a brain. brain. I need a volunteer. This will not involve any Could you stand up just--Okay. to stay away. This is--If you'll hold out Excellent. 5th edition. Perfect. you very much. and this hand went back up. instinctive, brain. everything. Well, some things that your low-level internal structures. subcortical structures because They're underneath the cortex. what we have here is a diagram The way to read this diagram is I am facing this way. here and then you could see the So, this is the front over here. Some key parts are illustrated The medulla, is responsible for heart rate It's very deep within the brain could--you are likely to die. for body balance and muscular And to give you, complexity of these systems, approximately 30 billion The hypothalamus is responsible hunger, thirst, And here is the same brain Now, all of these parts of the them are implicated in processes but where the action Isn't this beautiful? and the outer layer is all Do you ever wonder why your That's because it's all If you took out somebody's it would be two feet square, rug. neat stuff takes place. so no offense to fish but mental life. little bit about it--of it--and have a real lot. our brain, about, And the cortex can be broken up There is the--And, profile forward. easy to remember. the parietal lobe, and the temporal lobe. return to is--this is half the This is, in fact, On the other half, everything's duplicated with differences. weird finding about these lobes maps. There is a cartoon which experiment by some physiologists brain opened up and started brain. while fully conscious because organs to it. dog--When they zapped part of up. Penfield at McGill University people. surgery. thing just on--I don't know how He started zapping it and The person--Parts of their body More than that, the brain, people would claim to And he zapped other parts of people would claim to hear and other parts of the brain, experience touch. other research, maps in the brain of the body. part of the brain, of the sort up on the left and that you could see on the right what's what by opening up the parts and those parts would body shown in the diagram there. these maps. topographical and what this the--two parts are close they'll be close together on So, your tongue is closer to in the body; and the somatosensory cortex. size of the body part not correspond to the size of Rather, what determines the to which either they have motor control. sensory organs, focused along your tongue, and an enormous amount on your even--doesn't even make it on although your shoulder might be there's not much going on. of a person, what their body is somatosensory cortex, That's your sensory body. Now, so, you have these maps in realize is--And these maps are but the things to realize is goes on in your brain but less contains these maps or The rest is involved in thought and so on. the proportion as you go from humans--less and less of it is is more and more to other So, how do we figure out what Well, there's all sorts of Typically, these are recent and PET scan and fMRI which, show parts of your brain at If you want to know which part language, you could put somebody exposed to language or do a something and then see what Another way to explore what the happens to people when very bad And these bad things could through tumors, through injury. neuropsychologists don't like Neuropsychologists love when helmets because through their insights into how the brain And the logic is if you find if you find somebody with right here and that person can't there's some reason to believe related to face recognition. damage and the study of--we can different parts of the brain do. damages--brain damage that apraxia. apraxia is it's not paralysis. do simple movements just fine movements. wave goodbye or light a There is agnosia and agnosia is because the person could still Their eyes are intact but is they lose the ability to Sometimes this is described as And so, they may get visual recognize objects. lose the ability to recognize There are disorders of sensory Again, it's not paralysis, but due to certain parts of brain, for instance, side of your body or a left side And these cases are so some chunk to a class in the them. like aphasia. by Paul Broca in 1861. part of his brain and can only &quot;tan,&quot; &quot;tan, tan, tan, gone. language such as receptive speak very fluently but the they can't understand anybody Other disorders that we'll acquired psychopathy, brain, frontal lobes, right from wrong. talking about neurons, how neurons are wired up, what the different parts do. the two halves of the brain and &quot;How many minds do you have?&quot; brain--If you took the brain out it would look pretty not. between the right hemisphere and How many people here are How many people here are How many people here are sort ambidextrous, bit of left&quot; people? Those of you who are which comprises about nine out have language in your left And, in fact, right-handed people for the most what I'll talk about now. left-handed are more Some of you have language in some in your left hemisphere, It's complicated. things are duplicated. your brain, the other half can things are more prevalent and brain than the other. film clip from &quot;Scientific differences between the but before doing that, introductory facts. So, typically, Again, this is a right-handed right-handed - language on the right. is important when we think about the crossover is that everything goes to the right side of your everything in the right visual the brain, and similarly, So, your right hemisphere body. the right side of the body. the two halves are connected. web called the corpus callosum. because the movie illustration This illustrates certain themes the Gray book, of different parts of different some in the left hemisphere, But it also serves as a useful which is a nice illustration as incredibly unusual, brain bisected so his left hemisphere don't communicate such people, can provide us with some do things. is a theme we'll return to This is generally the general wanted to provide, I'll be talking about later on might later on make reference to the cortex or the left have the background to about. real class with a bit of psychologists know and don't So, the idea behind a lot of lot of neuroscience and treat the mind as an information as an elaborate computer. problems like recognizing faces logic. figure out how, these problems and then we go on &quot;How could this program be brain?&quot; people much as we'd study a something. one I'm very enthusiastic about sometimes called the &quot;hard this involves subjective What's it like? My computer can recognize It can do math. the same way that I do it but my in the same sense. illustrations. Trek&quot; episode. I think a starship's about to And that's my older kid, And so the question is, give rise to consciousness and And this is a deep puzzle. and philosophers think they've more skeptical. to go before we can answer question. &quot;How it is that anything so consciousness comes about as a tissue, appearance of the Djinn...&quot; - Aladdin rubs his lamp.&quot; fleshy lump of gray, to these feelings. we'll end the class on is I am and I'll be presenting what you can call a mechanistic I'm not going to be talking how wonderful it is and how Rather, I'm going to be trying I'm going to be trying to ourselves including questions why do we love our children, love, and so on. of project in the end to be You might worry about how this, values. when we deal with one another we think in terms of free will If we're driving and you cut me It reflects badly on you. your own, you're--you deserve You did something wonderful. with the conception in which all neurochemical physical It might also be hard to mesh a intrinsic value of people. it might be hard to mesh the with the idea that people have Faced with this tension, You might choose to reject the mind. You may choose to embrace the brain is responsible for promise of a scientific Alternatively, scientific worldview and reject And there are some philosophers that, who claim that free will value and intrinsic value are they're pre-scientific notions science or you could try to You could try to figure out how the mind with these humanist preserve. we're going to return to Okay.