- These semi-circles in the but they have the power to and bring back lost ecosystems. The Maasai community is with amazing results, We wanted to find out how it works and went into the heart of Kenya to help return life to a landscape that was thought to be lost. We are Planet Wild, welcome to Mission 20. Did you know that 60% of all It may just look like dirt, but soil is one of the most of healthy ecosystems, recycling nutrients, storing and keeping the planet cool by stashing away 80% But right now the world's One third of it is already degraded and scientists estimate this number could rise to 90% by Luckily, one of the is surprisingly simple. We sent Trishala from Planet Wild to a Maasai community in Kenya to learn about a genius way in a place where it's most needed. (adventurous music) - Southeastern Kenya has some of the most incredible (adventurous music) This area, just a few kilometres is known as the Land of the Giants. It's home to large herds of and serves as a critical It's here that members of the Maasai tribe and their ancestors have acted for hundreds of years, raising cattle in harmony with and preserving the ecosystem. The landscape here is but with rising temperatures, droughts are now getting and rains are becoming less reliable. Huge portions of land are where they dry up so much that they lose the even when there is rain. A vicious cycle. It may be a bit counterintuitive, but hot dry soil like this is really, really bad at soaking up water. That's because the top forms What's more, if the soil microbes die, wax like substances build up, causing the soil to become hydrophobic, meaning that it actively repels water. (thunder rumbling) You can get a sense of just by measuring how long it takes for a single glass of These cracks in the landscape show when rain has washed over it instead of being absorbed into the ground. And when this happens, it and what little vegetation is left. The Maasai, whose livelihoods have recognised the need to and it all starts with water. (villager speaking in foreign language) - As the water dries up, so does their primary source of income. Cattle can't be kept, and people leave. the Maasai way of life, and custodianship over So if we want to restore the land, we need to restore the soil's ability to absorb and retain water. And we are meeting with the people who have perfected a genius Just Dig It has been for the last 15 years. As an international organisation, they are working closely with to help them reclaim their lost land. - It all starts with a It's designed to control Globally, farmers have been to help grow crops, but conservationists have to re-green entire ecosystems. And the best part, you don't meaning this method can be (tool thuds) - Okay, I'm an absolute novice when it comes to building a bund, but I do know it's more So I asked Fridah from Just (upbeat music) Fridah is the landscape She works closely with the community to coordinate restoration which are all locally Here's how you do it Step one. (upbeat music) - Step two. - [Trishala] We use a string and a level to identify the natural slope of the land. Then position the bunds with the mound at the Each bund is then shaped along leading to its iconic shape. - We love calling them Earth smiles because when you see them from above, they are just like smiles - But first, some sweat is needed. And that brings us to step three. Dig! (upbeat music) Can we take a break now? And we're done! - [Fridah] You're not done! - To kickstart the recovery process, we're adding some native grass seeds and temporarily covering to protect from curious wildlife. (branch thuds) Ah! Very thorny. (chuckles) Now we're done. (crew cheering) (Trishala laughs) Even as a novice digger, I was able to complete one Earth smile in just about one hour. It's tiring, but fast and effective. It's incredible to think about how in just a few months A tiny plot of restored biodiversity. Now we just have to (upbeat music) - And that is where We partnered with Just Dig It to provide the funding covering a 100 hectares that will retain 2 billion litres of water over the next 20 years. The funding pays for two years covering project management, and long-term monitoring, as well as all the equipment - The energy level here is amazing. We're more than 100 diggers and energised to be here. It's incredible to imagine there'll be thousands of bunds. - Once the digging and seeding is done, a beautiful chain reaction happens. Rain collects inside thousands of slopes, allowing the dry soil to slowly Seeds sprout and drive their roots deep into the hardened earth, breaking it up bit by bit and restoring its original sponginess. Meanwhile, myriads of life providing the nutrients for aboveground vegetation to spread, which then protects the land from erosion and provides shade that and increases humidity. Within just four years, the soil and the ecosystem The transformation is so amazing that we can even see it from space, - But the most mind-blowing is that they have the potential During photosynthesis plants which provides a cooling effect. Other particles also get released and on a large enough that their bunds could and increase rain. So right now, bunds are helping landscapes to adapt to less water, but in the future, they may improve climatic Just under a year ago, this but now the soil is teeming and up to 40,000 different microorganisms. - When we came here, the and now it has improved and we hope for a 70% in the next season. - Grasses, native perennials, have all started to come back. - As the grass grows, the So many happy animals in - And one happy Fridah too. - [Trishala] And of course, that benefits, but the community too. - The Maasai communities for bund restoration, and are adopting these very simple techniques through living in harmony with their land and also through sustainable - It still amazes me to see when we apply the right tools and methods. But the one thing that I have learned through 20 re-wilding missions so far is that for any problem we're facing, there is a solution somewhere. We founded Planet Wild to highlight and support the best of them. If you're wondering how you consider joining Planet Wild as a backer with a QR code over here, or by clicking the link Or by asking your employer to pay for it. That's right, because we're now offering a team membership as well. So if you think your boss would love that, or if you are the boss yourself, click the second link and help us make this (bright music)