Eating disorders, creepy countdown clocks, the Olsen Twins were two of the their lives became much more In 1987, when they were just 9 months TV stars by playing Michelle Tanner on laws regarding the amount of time children the role throughout the entire run of the one of the standout characters on the sitcom, as &quot;You got it, dude!&quot; When the series ended in 1995, the Olsen appearing in the short-lived series &quot;Two of like &quot;Billboard Dad.&quot; While speaking Mary-Kate didn't have fond memories of her acting quote, &quot;little monkey performers&quot; for &quot;I look at old photos of me, and I don't feel connected to them at all... I would One of the most disturbing aspects of certain of child actors. It gets even creepier when online celebrities turning 18 -- the legal age of with at least seven countdown These websites, along with questions from didn't sit well with the twins. While Ashley spoke about being upset when status of her virginity in an interview &quot;I got really angry and defensive. I was asking a sixteen-year-old that &quot;That'd be so creepy.&quot; In addition to this, Ashley was when photos of the underage pair &quot;My worst nightmare. I was crying hysterically.&quot; Spencer Pratt attended the same high school as the as his starring role on the reality series &quot;The this didn't stop him from making extra Mary-Kate to the tabloids. As Pratt told Mary-Kate drinking at a high school party and A year later, Mary-Kate appeared on the discussed Pratt's temper in high school with star used to storm off the soccer field &quot;He does not have a good temper.&quot; Pratt reacted angrily to Mary-Kate's was &quot;the less cute twin.&quot; Years later, telling the same publication that he In 2004, Mary-Kate entered a treatment facility People magazine, her family and friends so her parents finally staged an intervention. issued a statement at the time, that said: &quot;This is a challenge that Mary-Kate has made a decision to face. This is In her 2010 interview with Marie Claire, Mary-Kate talked about her stay &quot;I think it's really important to be able at a really young age that if you don't It isn't unusual for celebrities to find there's still a clearly defined line believed the National Enquirer crossed that &quot;Ashley Olsen Caught in a Drug Scandal.&quot; She subsequently sued the outlet for Ashley alleged that the outlet caused damage to she used drugs. Later in the year, the Enquirer In its statement, the Enquirer explained ex-boyfriend Scott Sartiano's legal issues, &quot;The National Enquirer wants to make clear to it did not intend to accuse Ms. Olsen In the mid-2000s, the Olsen twins enrolled of Individualized Study. While attending the Stavros Niarchos III, the son of a Greek shipping Drama struck, however, when Niarchos time. Upon learning the news, Mary-Kate was to W Magazine. She subsequently dropped the affair was too much for the naturally she was pressed about why she wanted to &quot;I think we can all guess.&quot; As far as Hilton goes, in the same interview, Mary-Kate mentioned that while they had once been When Heath Ledger died suddenly in Mary-Kate was one of the first people the masseuse who discovered Ledger's body, phone and reached the &quot;Full House&quot; actor. private security over to the room to investigate. she phoned Mary-Kate again to The nature of the relationship between speculated. According to People magazine's but did enjoy hanging out together. Since drugs officials wanted to question Mary-Kate that Mary-Kate declined to talk unless Michael C. Miller issued a statement &quot;We have provided the government facts in the chronology of events and the fact that Ms. Olsen does not know In 2015, news broke that Ashley had Lyme disease. joint pain, headaches, and tiredness. Lyme disease early on, but the longer it's left untreated, According to some reports, Ashley was so the illness made her feel sick for long periods of time. It also affected her work as &quot;When she does come to work, she she's often moody. Ashley's having In 2015, Mary-Kate married French however, the couple had split up. According to after Sarkozy canceled the lease to their home. Mary-Kate a deadline to remove her belongings from Even though the situation was less than ideal, Us Weekly reported that Mary-Kate which ensured all of her business interests In January 2022, Bob Saget died suddenly for playing Danny Tanner on &quot;Full House,&quot; Mary-Kate and Ashley, as they had a close &quot;They are really friends of mine. It's a gift.&quot; Saget's friend, comedian Gilbert Gottfried, of the twins and kept in touch with them said that Saget treated them as Along with many of their &quot;Full House&quot; memorial service. They also released a &quot;Bob was the most loving, compassionate that he is no longer with us but know that he will continue to be by our side to guide As Mary-Kate and Ashley have gotten older, they've started pursuing their own &quot;We have two different bodies. Two different Yet, these changes in their adult lives may have the sisters' relationship especially after Ashley gave According to the outlet's source, Mary-Kate finds sister is now a mother, since the two were much Mary-Kate blames Ashley's husband, Louis Eisner, &quot;It makes sense that she'd the one putting his foot down and The source also claimed that deterioration of her relationship with If you or anyone you know needs help is available. Visit the Substance Abuse website or contact SAMHSA's National