Why did you put squid here! You're in my space! Urine your space? It feels like a morning drama You can't wait for others to be done It gives off a bit of a military vibe Do you guys share the bathroom like that in the morning? It's exciting, it's exciting What are you doing over there, manager? We're like our uncles! You're cooking again - No, the hair color's different - Isn't it Eunhyuk? Okay, finished making gan-jjajang! - Just a bit of starch water He's slightly shorter than Kyuhyun - Ryeowook! And Kyuhyun is watching behind him? - Come on Wasn't Kyuhyun always in charge of the kitchen? But it's actually Ryeowook who is the original one - Really? He's a real cook Since we're shooting a music video tomorrow, we'll only have a dish Wow, seriously... Our accommodation is so clean! Let's drain the blood and cook braised beef ribs Who are you talking to right now? - Drain a little more of the blood and sugar Who are you talking to? - Ryeowook Who are you talking to? I mean, there's a camera This isn't a show where we talk to ourselves Ryeowook is full of spirit too - Right Adding sugar will drain the blood faster - Okay I'm sure you know something basic like this, right? Yeah... When are the members coming? - What? - He's zoning out again Who wears a bucket hat on bed? - What's with the hat? It wasn't him! - Eunhyuk just got in - Who is it? Are you here? Donghae! - Mr. Donghae! - What are you doing? - What are you doing in another person's room? What? Leave! Let's go together Then, let's go out together - We have something to do I'm getting kind of excited Why? The family is here The family The [Omniscient Interfering View] family I called with the scriptwriter and she called me family That makes us a family - It was nice, huh? No, hey! We're family - We gotta take it together - We take it since we're family - It's an actual family That's what you gotta do, huh? What should you do when you're with your family? Gotta prepare a meal I mean, introduce yourself I knew they would do it Kyuhyun doesn't like something like this He doesn't like it because it makes the viewers frown I was a little bummed because we didn't do this Eunhyuk is funnier than you expect him to be We look forward to our shooting today They're saying hi again? - Yeah, I can tell why people frown - It's too much I've been saying on and on that this isn't how we roll It's the camera jackpot We're actually a family It's like a treasure hunt - He's uncomfortable I'm guessing it's D&amp;E D&amp;E it is What? Was that Kyuhyun? Wait, you guys didn't even know you were in the same place? I mean, it's big... Kyu! We've been together for so long Ryeowook? It's been such a long time! - You like it, huh? - It does feel like a holiday where the family members gather Kyuhyun, you should say hello Come on! Kyuhyun hates this the most Even I don't do this 3, 2, 1 I told you that we don't do that in this show! It's &quot;Eunhyuk's Hello&quot; segment Under this drawer, They didn't edit them out though Hey! Look for a pot for me Here it is What? What? That's scary Every time you hear a loud noise, you always look at me I'm just worried What's this? Do you do a headspin with this? It's supposed to be the veggie-washing bowl, right? - That's the veggie-washing... - A headspin with this I told you I need to wash the veggies with that! Nah, we're throwing a house party Look, the viewers will feel displeased! It's plastic - Aren't you a baseball player? I'm telling you it's plastic - I'll hold your legs - Give me your legs Give it to me - Ouch, my head Let go Imagine how painful that would be It hurts so much This is one of the diseases people catch in [OIV] People tend to go overboard a little They keep making a scene I don't think this will be aired I don't think so The viewers will frown at this - At least I pulled it off! Just gotta wash it You gotta wash this I was going to wash it, the dishes are on me It's about to get fun Will we see Leeteuk? - What? Teuk? I smell Leeteuk! That smell What's this? There he is! - What? Haha But why are you carrying a camera? I was shooting something - His hair in the back seems much longer now There he is A loud person visited - Who is this? - An actor - Can I use this? What are you doing? What's with the hair? Why? I guess you didn't see me! - What's wrong with you? I can tell Ryeowook is cooking Bu Pad Pong Karee What's the other menu? - Braised ribs Really? Ryeowook cooks health food without any artificial seasoning He cooks food without artificial seasoning - Wow, he's cooking that in such a healthy way - He's good Ryeowook is the best chef in the team - He's even blending kiwi - Right What's with this? A tomato? You use a knife like this too? It's what Mr. Paik gave me Really? Kyuhyun cooks novel fusion dishes It's no joke I want that! - It's &quot;Junghwa Jeyukmyeon&quot; This is really good! It's full of premium sauces too What will you cook? There's a lot that you like Aren't these dishes so low-quality? Let's see Wait, is Leeteuk also... - I think he joined them - Hey! Are there ingredients that I can make jjamppong with? Chili pepper powder, soy sauce, seafood There's also a measuring cup An accurate measurement with a perfect recipe! Leeteuk, I would say... He's like the textbook of cooking Seems like the way all three of them cooks is different A fairy Following the program As expected from EBS - It's a cooking competition They're all different! This is fun - Seafood Wood ear mushroom! Next, bok choy Bok choy! Ryeowook, the oil is burning What do you mean? Your food is burning Nah, the temperature is key for deep-fried dishes This won't do! 180deg to 200degC is not a good idea! So noisy! The oil is burning! Stop! Don't you have an apron? Do you have gloves? Bro, get out - Get out! Guys, you shouldn't be cooking like this! - Look! They're cooking just fine only acceptable when you're dropping the batter - Right now... - Avocado oil Bro, no avocados! He's only nagging with a rice paddle in his hand! - Stop! - I'm telling you it works! - It's burning! Look! - Look, it burned! Look! No, it burned! Why is this so fun? - It burned! Please be quiet - Take him somewhere We're having an important competition No, that's not it - Siwon is like a Hollywood actor doesn't say a lot yet he stands out so much He's so handsome - Wait Look at this! Look, it's cooking perfectly Looks good! Do we have chili pepper powder? - Yeah - He's only looking for ingredients Please take him! The food looks so good Hey, you should clean as you cook... So annoying! Take him please! It feels like a house party So loud I'm getting so stressed out Why did he leave this here? It does keep you a little dizzy, yes You should clean as you do it, come on... It's all your dishes! These are all mine? He's like his mother So noisy I'm getting stressed out Yongseon's really good at making stir-fried rice - I'll enjoy your food for sure What is he doing? Is he only making the sound? Oh, I thought he's actually dicing everything He's like an actual singer We get to see a lot of the old vibes again He actually cooks! - He learned a lot on EBS! Because it's hard to use the Chinese knife Would you mind bringing me the camera? This one? Okay Let me be in it - I'll make it your fan cam Guys, I'll be making seafood jjamppong today What's this? - You see, cooking is very holy Yet the manager is shooting all of this Hey, squid I told you that's not how this show works! I don't know anything about [Omniscient Interfering View] MBC won't cast me... Wait, were you banned from MBC? What? Haha I heard you've been banned for being so noisy I was almost there This is what the producer hates the most Leaving something like this in front of the camera Right! He knows what's up It's how people roll these days The production team always comes first to me I love you, production team Love the production team Is there anything I can help with? - General Manager - This is fun Sir, would you mind taking off your coat? - He should take his coat off when he's inside Hey, why did you top squid on my food? Top urine on where? Choi Siwon is hilarious haha It has that morning drama vibes It's squid, not urine - Squid - It's fine That's a must This team plays by the book Like this, so it can be in the camera His arm must hurt He grinds pepper that hard? Ryeowook What's with both of you guys? - There's a camera over there too There needs to be a cover A cover? It does feel good now that it's crowded It's like everyone gathered to celebrate father's 80th birthday - Kind of like that It reminds me of the old dorm Unit #702 How much? Just a little He cooked Bu Pad Pong Karee? - Bu Pad Pong Karee - Amazing - There's no need to order delivery Looks good - Tomato curry? He cooked it very nicely! Looks good - What's the Measurement Boy cooking? - Seafood jjamppong Thanks for the meal! - Looks good! - It's amazing how they cooked all that He's pretty good I like this Junghwa Jeyukmyeon! - So good Looks good Ryeowook, did you cook the ribs? Yeah, try what I cooked Let's try this instead, who cooked this? - Ryeowook! Everyone likes my food What's that? This? Junghwa Jeyukmyeon - Looks good! How is it? - It's good - Looks good Looks good People aren't eating Leeteuk's food! Why? You should really try it! You'll be surprised This is good Right? This is good Junghwa Jeyukmyeon and braised ribs are popular Jjamppong... All the other dishes are getting finished That's really good though Siwon, please try this just once - Just once Just once! - No! Everyone's not eating since you guys are filming tomorrow? Is it what you're supposed to do the day before shooting for music video? Does your face get puffy? - Yeah - The soup is getting boiled down I should have cooked something else It has become stir-fried jjamppong Ryeowook, it's nice and tender Is it? That's fortunate Let me have some meat Here too - I blended kiwi and onion for my ribs Isn't it tough? Tough? Hey, your teeth are the issue He's attacking others because no one loves his food He's eating it by himself Welcome to &quot;SJ Noodles&quot; Jjamppong, huh? - Yum! But Ryeowook's food definitely has that classic home-cooked meal vibes Does it? Kyuhyun is fusion, like a contemporary fusion dish Kyu has that fusion vibe - As for Leeteuk cooking strong-tasting food It's like a ready-made dish Why isn't Yesung coming? This is actually a hard time for Yesung He loves eating food - Is he on a diet whenever he's scheduled for shootings like the album jacket, music video, etc He doesn't eat at all to the point we're worried about him Yeah, and it's as long as close to the entire year - Really? That's amazing He's here - Hey, the members made this - Eat this Please, just once! Don't eat anything else - Just once! for over a month This isn't carbs! It's soup No - He's so skinny Seeing how he refrains from eating... Yesung, you're honestly amazing How can you watch what you eat throughout the year? Amazing He eats rice under 5 times a year, wait I mean, dinner - Dinner? Is that true? What's with his look? - Really? Fruits? - I love fruits What? - We had strawberries? What? - What? I thought you aren't eating! I thought you aren't eating! That'll be your dinner, stop! - No carbs! You can't eat strawberries when you quit eating carbs! Hey, no! No strawberries! No! No Come on Just one shouldn't hurt, come on - Let him eat - You can't eat at all You've been keeping it up for over a month! You can't ruin it Just one, come on Ryeowook, congrats - Huh? - What? - Ryeowook, congrats! He shot an ad Congratulations! - How can someone shoot an ad with that? Congratulations Ryeowook, but you know that &quot;I'm confident&quot; You do realize it's me who shared that story first on [Radio Star], remember? - Right, it was when I wasn't on it Hey, I mentioned it on [Radio Star] - What are you saying? - Really? Has anyone argued with Siwon? - Ryeowook and Siwon did once It's Yesung So, he loved high-fiving so much - He high-fived so many times so Ryeowook got annoyed &quot;Quit high-fiving! You really gotta high-five every time you meet someone?&quot; I remember asking him, &quot;Are you sure you can cut ties with me?&quot; - What did he say? &quot;I'm confident! I'm confident&quot; He asked if he argued with anyone else, so I said &quot;Siwon and Ryeowook did&quot; - I said that! Argue right now! - How about a legit argument session? Do you think he'll be my match if I get serious? He knows he'll lose as well I hope Yesung eats too! He looks lethargic Not sure if it'll work, but can I try one more time? Let's go, Kyuhyun! This time, it's when we went to China in 2008! You know you gotta pay to use water in China - and electricity - You don't pay for it later? At the hotel? At home? And we had to go for a promotional activity outside the capital city but our credit card was close to the limit - Right - So we couldn't use water or the electricity - Really? And I'm not sure who, but pooed in the bathroom Oh my gosh and left the lodging and we went for the activity - We came back in 3 days and it became a fossil... - I know who did it - But if we reveal it... Wait, should this be kept hidden? - Is he here? Or not? Maybe they brought it up since he's not here He's here - So, it's one of us - Is it one of you two? Wasn't it you? I thought it was Ryeowook until now Was it Ryeowook? &quot;I can take a dump&quot; Was it Ryeowook? You shouldn't have said that! Right, I remember! What's with him? It was hidden until now! I can take a dump! Ryeowook - No, no Ryeowook is the culprit! Ryeowook... Wait, there's one more about Ryeowook! - Come on - Is it related to the previous...? - Think about how many memories they share It was when we just debuted! - Right, it was not long ago since he joined I was just listening to music by myself in the room And Ryeowook happened to come in and I, all of a sudden, smelled something like fart - Is this about being smelly? I looked at Ryeowook Then he went, &quot;Is it you?&quot; I mean, there's only two of us I can fart! Look, there's two of us and I didn't fart - I'm confident at getting the wrong person! Wait, will he get a laxative ad at this rate? - Ryeowook! Should we clean up the plates? Sure Rock, paper, scissors! - Classic reality shows did a lot of Rock, paper, scissors Lose if you don't display! Rock, paper, scissors! Rock, paper, scissors! - Yesung didn't even eat No way! I didn't even eat Please, make Yesung do it Lose if you don't display, Rock, paper, scissors! Rock, paper, scissors! Yesung shouldn't have joined Siwon I noticed you volunteer all the time everywhere else yet... you are! You seem so happy because you don't have to clean up - He volunteers, right? Yeah, he does a lot of volunteering So happy! - But here... So happy! - Let's do it 5:22 AM Hello! I ordered on the phone earlier... - You ordered on the phone? Yes, yes, yes, 13 of them It's not easy to count 13 of them He even has to count to check if it's the right number of them I'm sorry, bro - So this is the dorm? Wonwoo You have to wake up We'll leave at 6:30 AM He's someone else! He's our other manager - We have three! - They have their own roles Coups! DK! He's waking them all up There's a lot to do He'll have to be on standby really early to do this - To wake them up too Mingyu, Woozi - We're on level 6 and 8 We live in two houses - In levels 6 and 9? - Seungkwan Jun, Dino You're up Vernon Jeonghan The8 - It must be [Show! Music Core] day Who is that? - Oh no! This is trouble! Oh no! This is trouble! - What's this? Who is it? - What? - Kim Soo-yong? - Bro, did you just wake me up? - The manager LOL - The manager LOL - He was our manager! Is he your manager? We get on 3 different cars, according to our units That's how it works... He's distributing breakfast to the 3 cars - We eat breakfast as we leave in the car If you wait for someone to finish for this, - you won't have enough time Do you use the bathroom together in the morning? That's how you get the best sleep - It feels really good to sleep there - It's pretty much a war It's pretty much a war If you don't move strategically, you could end up with a loophole somewhere Hello - We get to see all the members - Dry rehearsal will be at 8 AM - Name? Mingyu Wonwoo Seungkwan What am I going to wear over it? Woozi He has a nametag left Wait, members....! We need a head count One! One! One! Where's two? - Missing from two LOL Is that why you can't move on to number three? Go from number three - Three Five! - Six - Eight - Who is ten? Number 10 is missing - Numbers 2 and 10 are missing - Numbers 2 and 10 aren't here - Oh, DK and Jeonghan Number 13, the end! Number 2 is here - Number 2 He's here, DK is here I've selected about 3 options - Okay First is Thai food - Thai food? I don't like Thai food Second is the Korean snack bar style lunch Snack bar style lunch Ad the third one is leaf wraps with rice - Leaf wraps with rice! Oh, leaf wraps with rice? - Leaf wraps with rice! Leaf wraps with rice! I have a slightly different opinion Let's hear it! Leaf wraps with rice taste good - But Thai food does too Then Thai food and leaf wraps with rice, half and half? Oh... no..... Wow, I can constantly hear people talking - Leaf wraps with rice! - Leaf wraps with rice! Or shall we order a bit of Thai food - on the side? Alright, then I'll order leaf wraps with rice We've unified our decisions - Let's eat Thai food tomorrow Wow, I'm really looking forward to leaf wraps with rice I haven't had leaf wraps with rice in such a long time Wow, leaf wraps with rice, that's such a great choice! Please order from a great restaurant Okay, will do First - Not all members can sit on the sofa So we lay down mats And the members rest on the mats - Leaf wraps with rice! It looks like a camp Isn't this a dry sauna facility? Or a school camp...? If you talk from now, you're an idiot! Nap, nap Nap time Don't you want to eat bibimmyeon*? Bibimmyeon - Bibimmyeon? I'm going grocery shopping later, so if there's anything you want to eat, let me know, and I'll buy it Nationwide... Nationwide Bibimmyeon... Nationwide Bibimmyeon? The bibimmyeon loved nationwide! While out shopping, you can grab some food and necessities too So let's think about the necessities we need first He's like a host But seriously, is it okay if we use the body wash on the 8th floor? - Toothpaste! We don't have toothpaste And cotton pads! - Hand soap - Snacks, something simple How about fruits? - Fruits! - Body wash? And also with fruits... With the Nationwide Bibimmyeon, let's also eat meat We have to wrap meat in lettuce Wait, wait How about we just buy an entire supermarket? My brain... my head feels like it's going to explode He's writing it down Let's buy what you want to eat and enjoy together... - Got it - This should be enough, right? - Thank you When you go shopping, do you have any tips as a manager? Since there are so many members, and the necessities run out quickly when bought, - Once you go to the market, buy those things in bulk It's better to buy entire boxes and keep them in stock Seems like just the food costs so much, but how much is it? Just ordering a lunch box for one meal can cost almost 300,000 won But if you end up eating that for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, It can easily exceed 1 million won This is how people live Yeah It's like a little brother's room Whose room is that? Oh, it's Shownu! It looks like he washed his hair right before bed last night What's that? Oh my - He did it on purpose! He's showing his obliques from the morning It's like a movie He still has the abs He's stretching Wow, he does a lot of self-care Okay Okay! What is he okay with all of a sudden? Being naked is default here Oh, Joohoney He's doing push-ups as soon as he gets up - I'm trying my best to make it my routine - Yea, I'm trying! They have been working out a lot since the shoot for the photos and music video - for their comeback What is that? Does he invest in stocks? What do you have? Your agency's? I was taking a look at what I was interested in I can't show you what I bought Shownu! What do you want to have? For meal? Yeah You said you have a great appetite earlier, right? Food comes first before stock What shall we have? Meat and... He's getting the table first, haha I was thinking of yeolmu bibimbap* yesterday Okay! Put soybean paste in yeolmu bibimbap Aw, I love it And have it together with meat I see Hey, jokbal is here Do you have beef and jokbal at the same time for the breakfast? He said he's going to have something light earlier! - Jokbal's here Your hair looks cool like it's styled Just like he's right back from the salon He's having it first anyway He's just having it Add the fried egg and it's ready Joohoney seems to be a good cook What is this? This is mulhoe Is it leftover? Yes I can't believe you're having cold raw fish soup for breakfast You've got so many kinds of food for breakfast That's true We eat a lot on our day off - You need to eat to release the stress - That's a lot Honey, let's eat! - Who's the honey? It's Hyungwon Hyungwon's so pretty He's got a beautiful morning face Honey! Honey Honey, it was full of grilling sounds and smells outside But you didn't wake up Honey? - Honey, honey You call each other just like them, right? Exactly It kind of looks a bit like moms in the morning It's good Have a bite Shownu eats really well He's eating so clean It's protein There's not much meat on the bone - Huh? It's like [The Yellow Sea] Grabbing one for each The meat on the bone tastes different That's right, it's really good I'm so amazed that this is their breakfast We separated members into two houses One for the members who are easily awakened One for the members who snore The members who snore are Shownu, Joohoney, and Hyungwon - Oh, that's how it goes And the members who don't snore are Kihyun, Minhyuk, and I.M There is a long table here at least, hahaha It smells really good They all look so good even in the morning Kihyun is the cook here! What would they have? They are having high-quality... - It's high-quality meat They are having steak Wow, they are having meat for breakfast It's not like breakfast They are having something they might have for dinner What are they watching? News! Flying car Oh, I saw it - Isn't it cool? Quantum mechanics comes out here That's right - Einstein said it was not possible But the light energy is the molecule They are so scholastic The interests are totally different The snoring club and the non-snoring club are totally different Are they watching the news again? - USA presidential election Who do you think will win? - I think Trump will win again But Biden has a higher approval rate Idol bands should not talk about political things He said idol bands should not talk about political things, hahaha Idol bands should stand neutral It's the USA, so it's okay They are watching television, too They are... [Show! Music Core] was celebrating their 700th episode That's right - They are from our agency Yeah, WJSN I know it's my fault this time They are so different, they are watching [Show! Music Core] Isn't this the corps barracks? Deok-jun, put your hands on your rib number 2 Number 2, it's cute And move your leg like this with your big toe Hmph! Hmph! Okay? Hmph, Hmph So easy Looks cool He has to bite it Hmph! Hmph! - What is their manager doing there? Cute Hmph! Hmph! Are we not done yet? - Why are we so big? We're just like uncles! Are you sure you can do it? Of course Is it 9 Innings? I don't know Deok-jun is so good They really eat everything! They don't care how others do Oh, foul! - The defense is the major Honey, shall I go first? Of course, honey! Have it first Aw, you were amazing - Oh, it was easy Honey! Honey! - Honey It's good, honey! I didn't even have a bite He couldn't even have a bite... He mixed it all, hahaha I couldn't even have a bite before going in Honey, it's your turn When can they eat that? hahaha They can't Honey, the noodles get mushy This is it I think this is not right Make the liner higher, we've already got 2 points It's a double play Please eat Let's eat - Please Have a bite quickly He hit it Honey, I want to eat this Cat - Cute - There's three? Jinwoo! He's watching a drama - Skin care as expected... Is that Minho? He's got swag even in the morning The sausage flowers bloomed There's no way this isn't delicious It's nice to divide the work like this at your dorm - Reasonably at that time - What's up? It's unique Because he's crafty, he set up a separate workspace - The desk itself is different - Oh, this! - Did Minho make this? - Are you drawing directly on the T-shirt? - It's just not fun if you just wear it, you know? &quot;I'll take care of it&quot; Okay Minho and Jinwoo are polar opposites Minho is quite active Even on days with no appointments, he draws in the workspace and goes to the studio But for Jinwoo, on days without schedules, he watches TV... He doesn't move and just stays at home - Jinwoo keeps watching dramas He's like my mom, you know? It's Mom! Mom Jinwoo! How can the two be so different? - It's hard to believe it's the same space Okay! - It looks much cooler when cut It changed like that again - Jinwoo It's done Oh, that's so cute! - Look while I'm passing by and you... Try saying, &quot;Who are you?&quot; - Who are you? Well... I'm the manager I am the... - manager! Pretty, what's this? &quot;I'll take care of it&quot; - It's pretty! It really is! Here I come... Is this your wardrobe? I really love clothes It seems like you're going somewhere far Jinwoo is really being genuine - Hey Jinwoo, I'll be back! He turned off the lights! He's moving! - He's taking the elevator! Here he goes What's going on? Goodbye Where is it? - Is this a home? Jinwoo's house? Cute! I'm here Seunghoon, Seungyoon! They're living right above them Even when the owners aren't home, they just come and go together The reason is... There's a massage chair in that dorm It's really nice It's not just any massage chair; it's an incredibly good one He probably went there because of that There's nothing else there Ah, my back It hurts... - He's moving a bit! Tor took a dump The dog pooped to make a funny moment - The dog planned it out All 6 of you together - live in such a good place! Where is this?! - You work for a good company Hapjeong-dong! You'll be able to see the traffic on the Gangbyeon North road The structure is interesting The house is really clean! Look at that You must have had to compete for the rooms Is it Yohan? He's cute with the glasses - He looks good with the glasses Is there someone in there? - A member LOL - Thin body? LOL What's this? We share a room together... Yongha He looks like the actor, Jang Hyuk! Why did you wake up so early? In the morning you should watch TV... Right, we're the type to watch the news in the morning I'm gonna have some coffee Do you know what drip coffee is? What's that? Do you not know what it is? You are impossible! He's totally bragging How am I impossible? You don't even know what drip coffee is? Who's that? - Shh! He's handsome as well Is he still sleeping...? Until when? Is there someone in there? It's like a blackout curtain Yohan's gonna make some coffee Do you have to drop it from that high? - I thought that was the way... He looks good with a cup of coffee - What's this? - Was that your first time? You don't drink coffee well, do you? As you can see... Yohan is Yohan is not good at drinking bitter beverage... - Baby He brags like this sometimes - Cute! Are you adding more water? He needs a lot of water - A lot of water It's like barley tea You should just drink warm water Jang Daehyeon...! - All the pajamas are so cute Why are they being so quiet...? Is today a day to show off? Who's in there? Huh? Their manager?! - It's their manager - We're living together! You've never tried it before - I drink drip coffee every single day! It's my daily routine... - Bring it here - Reading a book... - This guy is insane He's reading a book - Suddenly reading a book Isn't he holding it upside down? It's too scripted He's working on the puzzle Yongha said that... He would finish it after our second album This is our third one now It stays the same It's difficult actually Let's eat - I'm hungry There is some bulgogi in the fridge - Bulgogi? Okay, let's make some food while we enjoy some music I'll make soy bean stew I'll really make it Looks good already! - Manager - Add some soy sauce and mix Soy sauce rice? Raw eggs? How do you do it? - Cook the eggs on one side The start didn't seem good - but the end is amazing I'm starting with bulgogi - Bulgogi! Even enoki mushrooms It's amazing! What's that? - What is he doing? Is he cooking some kind of stew? - Soy bean stew? My soy bean stew is good! It's going everywhere! That must be your first time, you are bragging! - It's going everywhere! Soy bean stew smells great! - Isn't it unbelievable? Capsaicin He's happy It needs to be boiled completely That's right, it's not ready yet What's that? Too much MSG! It only looks a lot as I span it around... - Does it make any difference...? It's boiling now!! I'm proud of it I'm so proud - Soy bean stew is good when it's cooked a lot - It should go over a little bit Hey, I want a lot of rice - Yohan's rice Looks tasty - Who eats rice like that? It looks delicious! - A lot of rice The manager is great! It looks like it's from a famous restaurant! - The manager is really good at cooking - Well done! - The cucumber kimchi looks good - Really! They all look handsome The soy bean stew is really good Hongbin actually made this and brought it in He doesn't know how he looks on camera He looks like he's from the drama, The Slave Hunters Where do we go after this? Today's Children's Day! - My younger siblings are coming... - Are they in Seoul? Yohan's family does Taekwondo Yohan's two brothers So cute! are going to athletic schools One is in the first year of high school The other is in the second year of middle school Daehyeon visited them last time and was shocked Even though the whole family does Taekwondo... how could all of them including mom, dad and brothers walk around while kicking? Really?! If you visit a couple times more, then you'll get beaten up Is there anyone who has sore body? I have shoulder pain I get swollen a lot these days Hongbin knows a lot of folk remedies! Last time! When I was in the set and I had a huge sty Can you guess what he did? He brought some jujubes! - Does it actually work? - Did it work? And! The sty... just stayed there! You just feel like it will work Do you know any other remedies? Something we can do now Brush your teeth with lemon? - To whiten your teeth? I want to do that! - I've heard that it will brighten teeth Lemon? What if the acid from lemon melts your teeth....? You know how expensive it is to go to dentist? It looks like desserts - Should I just rub it? Brush with it? I can tell their age, they do anything if they are curious - What is this... What's wrong with him! Yongha, I feel bad!! Wait a bit - Yongha... Still Jang Hyuk! KBS* should pay him a lot Everyone's rubbing it, but him The effect is perfect He keeps lemon in his mouth He must be good at eating sour food! How can you endure it? That's impossible It's sour It's all fine He's only a human It doesn't look messy though He's clean Let's tidy up together then! - Let's tidy Thanks for the food! - What's this now? - Moon Byeol! Two, three! We are WEi, hello, we are WEi! Personally - I love your tone of voice when you rap Your voice is cooler! He looks very different from before The racoon detective from the movie [Tazza: The High Rollers] I just need to get some money He's good One, two, three - No! We need to say goodbye to WEi now! Let's say goodbye together - Two, three Moon Byeol, bye! Let me do it again It must not be boring as you are all together Yeah, that's right It must not feel empty He's good The sound... The sound LOL He found his talent! That's his voice Did you use your voice? I really thought it was from the instrument! - He fooled us - You should've done this earlier with Moon Byeol! Don't do anything with your face, just do this - It's so funny! I was surprised It was unbelievable I was like 'wow!' It doesn't make any sense! How can an eye... Do it again This is the first time anyone doing this I can spot it now Hey! It doesn't look awkward at all Well done! - He'll always bring this from now on! He's here Let's eat! It has bacon in it! What's that? Is it squid ink? What's this? Squid ink rose The color... - Here! There are noodles as well How is it? It tastes like pasta tteokbokki It looks so tasty This is amazing Hey, since we have to go out in the early morning make sure that you sleep soon! - Okay! - Bye!