(horn blaring) - Hi, everyone. It's Enes here. And welcome to another episode. This week, we're in New York City and about to tour this located at the iconic Designed by the world Hiroshi Sugimoto, this full floor residence paired with Japanese aesthetics and gets phenomenal views of Central Park and the whole city. This residence is currently being marketed as an off-market listing for $135 million. I wanna thank the listing agents, Noel Berk and Elizabeth Mercedes Berk for giving us the honor to and share our experience with all of you. And now, let's begin our tour. (dramatic music) Here we are at the private We have two elevators dark plastered walls, mixed with charcoal, giving you that nice contrast. And right behind me, we have setting the mood for that we're gonna see in a bit. Now, little bit of We got five bedrooms, five and 8,055 square feet of interior space. And as always, you can about the property and the property link down in the description of this video. Now, the private landing where we have the entry foyer. On my right hand side, we have the first hallway that we're gonna see in a bit. Now, the first thing I wanna talk about in this space are these floors. What I'm standing on right now brought from Kyoto, Japan. And I love the installation here with these big grout lines and it leads us to this walkway with a 400 year old cedar platform that takes us to that unique room that we're gonna see in a bit. Right on top, you have that was hand-sliced in a cedar frame, which is super unique. Plaster walls. And the other side of this hallway, it takes us to a coat closet, which then leads us to the salon. This is without a doubt, one of the most impressive it's all open, gets a We got beautiful cedar floors throughout. And of course, you see throughout the room that we're The first thing I wanna right in the center, And right on each side, we have bonsai trees that which is amazing, giving this space a life and Right in the center, we have this Komatsu stone with river rocks around it. And we're gonna see this later in the video as well. Right next to the planter, beautiful 400 year old cedar table with a zinc leg that of this table design. Sits 12 people. And I love the curvature that it has. In fact, they carried out to these chairs, which looks phenomenal. All the furniture in this for this space and it comes with the So I wanted to mention that. Now going this way, we have And right in front of me, we have the amazing views of the city. This room gets south And from this angle, we get insane views of the Chrysler Building, all the where we can see the which is phenomenal. We're on 79th floors. Honestly, it doesn't get much better. Now on the west side, we can see the Billionaires' like 111 West 57th, Central Again, views are phenomenal. Now, this space flows to this side where we have this bar brass base complimented with beautiful Corian countertops. And they use the same material as well as the side of the cabinetry here, same brass base actually continues in. You can see it as a where they have the outlets. We have a small fridge here. Your sink design. Overall, a great bar setup Now, before we leave this room, there's actually one more which are these cedar shutters. Now, we're gonna see these And they are built out of cedar And to reinforce the frame they actually have acrylic back panels. That way, these shutters stays rigid and it diffuses the light Also, the way these shutters work, they're pretty straightforward. You can either have them halfway up where you see the city views. You can have them halfway or you can have one That way, you can fully block out the sun that comes into this unit. Now, before leaving here, there's actually one more I love how these shutter of this window opening. That way, you don't have any sun or light seeping through the edges. Now, following here, we have an additional seating area within the salon, all open. Again, nice, comfortable seating section. I love this circular light design that they have it seamlessly And right next to that, they actually have a art piece what they have created Overall, salon is a great place. And this opening right here with this custom pocket door Now this room is very unique and something we've never seen before. The lead designer and the Hiroshi Sugimoto was initially hired to design the tearoom alone. But then later, once the they fell in love with it and they ended up hiring him That's why we're gonna see stone details, and the Japanese aesthetics throughout this unit. Now this room has this with tatami mats. Right in the center, we have an electric boiler And on the right-hand side, we have this art niche with clay walls. But more importantly, you have this beautiful 10 by 10 opening facing the best views. And I don't know you can but you can actually look see Hudson River. Again, every part of this Also, I got to mention that Hiroshi puts throughout the units. We have one right here, a rock sitting in a concrete with a seamless transition. And every time we see these transitions, you can actually see the We're gonna see that and other parts of the unit as well. Now, this is the hallway connecting you from the You have another sliding pocket door here, opening up to the primary bedroom hallway that we're gonna see later in the video. Now, I wanna take everybody Again, this space is all open, amazing views. And I wanna mention something, some of you may be wondering Now, in Japanese culture, And we kind of wanted to follow and take our shoes, wear these slippers, which are really comfortable Now, let's show this, Mikey. We have a hallway here and the other wing of the apartment, which we're gonna see in a bit. And I wanna take everybody because we have another opening up to the kitchen. Beautiful chestnut flooring throughout. We have the island right in the center. Behind me, you have this espresso And following the base cabinets here, we have the first sink and Now, I like the contrast here with the lighter tones and these hand-hammered And we're gonna see more on And I wanna bring everybody's attention to the island for a second. Number one, we have these throughout the unit, which is a very exquisite that I wanna mention. Front and the sides of these, these base cabinets are that we saw at the bar design. This is where we have the second sink, second Miele dishwasher. And of course, from here, amazing views. Literally, the whole city Now, right behind me, we have this Multani custom This piece looks stunning and it compliments this kitchen so well. I love the knobs and the And since this piece is so big, they actually had to They couldn't bring it as a one piece, which is kind of crazy to think. But again, looking at We have the griddle in the center. Your cooktops on each side. And right above it, we have this hand-hammered Again, going with the color Now I just realized I forgot to mention this is They have it also here with on this side for easier cleaning. And following this kitchen, it leads us to the other side where we have more of these two built in ovens, warming This is your freezer, fridge, and we have another fridge on this side. And I got to mention this detail. Right on top, you can actually which gives it a nice industrial So I had to mention that. Right behind me, we have Again, clad with the same aluminum panels. Over here, we have an informal dining area with a beautiful table because it sits right in front of this amazing 10 by 10 opening where you see the south exposure views. Again, views from this I feel like we're gonna throughout the unit. Now, let's get a close up here because I wanna mention this detail. Every room in New York City and they tucked it nicely below here. So I wanted to point that out. And over there, we have where you can appreciate the views and just enjoy your meal here. Great kitchen. Now, I wanna get out of the And while I do that, I that's very important about this unit. Throughout this unit, we Now, Shikkui is a traditional and a lot of natural aggregates, which is why it's actually for the unit or anywhere It actually sucks the VOC So it's good for your health. It looks phenomenal. In fact, they brought to install the plaster which is just astonishing to think about. Now, we're in the secondary hallway here with beautiful handmade ceramic tiles. And following this hallway, we actually have two powder The same hallway leads us to the salon that we toured earlier. And this sliding pocket doors opens up to the first powder room. We have a Hinoki Cypress that looks stunning as a with a stainless steel Towada tough stone that we're in this unit in a bit. Overall, great powder room. I gotta mention, I mean, this - [Mikey] Yeah, it's really nice. I love these little wood slabs - The precision millwork in It really is. Now, I wanna bring everybody back. This is where we have pretty much the same finishes. And going back, we have the family room but I got to talk about We have this large stone handpicked by Hiroshi himself and is surrounded with that has been acid washed. And if you follow this it also serves as a reveal I mean, these are details in my life before. Hiroshi did a phenomenal job, and we wanna make sure we or at least gonna try. Now, right behind me, we have this sliding to the family room, warm soothing tones, light We have this seating section on this side that looks really comfortable. And on the other side, we have the TV mounted on And talking about built-ins, we have more on the I love these horizontal shelfs, broken by these vertical steel panels that gives this shelving We have LED lighting down below. And focusing on top, we have this beautiful with the curved ceilings. Again, warming up the space. Now, since we are at the again, views are phenomenal. Sorry for mentioning them all the time, but I got to talk about them. When I'm facing south, you can see both Hudson River And over here, since we're again, East River is down below us. This is phenomenal. This is your family room where Now, there's one more I got to talk about this carpet design that resembles Zen garden because Hiroshi, the architect of this floating inner garden. The reason he calls it that and wood tones and the way And if you look closely to the details, you can actually see these, reveals throughout acoustic And over the last 12 months, we've been in a couple and I've got to say without a doubt, this is one of the most quiet apartments we've ever We're at 79th floor right now. And it is super quiet It doesn't even feel like you're Now, we're back at the hallway. This door opens up to the laundry room. And continuing our tour, we have this sliding glass door. By the way, let's take a quick look. I love the acrylic panel and the brass trim detail That precision cut. And this door opens up for this apartment. We got beautiful natural light coming in, chestnut hardwood floors, another window opening Bed set up here. Even the bed frames are built I love the LED lighting right behind it. It has some open shelving on each side where you actually have outlets that are nicely tucked into the cabinetry. We have a desk set up And Mikey, we've gonna show this detail. We have this built-in wall here. By the way, I love the And if you look closely they have the outlets nicely Beautiful. Now, this sliding door opens because this room shares a But the bathroom itself is super spacious. We have dual vanity set Right on top, you have the and I love how they left this with LED lighting that draws the attention towards the vanity. Towada tough stone throughout. And they carried out the into the walk-in shower. Let's take a quick look. Very spacious. We have the chrome fixtures here. Good size walk-in shower. Right next door, we have the water closet. And I wanna bring everybody's attention back to this section. Another beautiful 10 by 10 opening here with a freestanding tub, tub filler. It's hard to not talk about because every room we go into, this is what you're looking at. I feel like you will never in this residence because and enjoy the views. Now, that's it for the bathroom. And I wanna take everybody because this is where we Pretty much the same You have your built-in desk set up here. And right across from that, you have your built-in bed open shelving on each side. More built-ins here. And another window Now, we have the walk-in And coming back to the hallway, we got one more room to see here. And it starts right here. As soon as you walk in, we This is the most spacious out We have the bed set up on this side. Again, light and bright, built-in desk. And this one is facing And you have your money shot right here, which is Central Park. I mean, you can literally lakes within, Upper West You have the Park Avenue These views are breathtaking. And again, the whole and inviting feel to it. Now, I wanna take everybody to check out the bathroom for this room. Towada tough stone again throughout. Freestanding tub, tub filler. You have a walk-in shower here. Water closet is right behind This is phenomenal. These bathrooms are so understated. And focusing here, we have the vanity here with some floating shelving, LED lighting. Great bathroom. Now, I wanna take everybody back. We got one more room to see. And coming back to the hallway, this is where we have the fourth bedroom. Very spacious. Currently used as a music studio. Has a walk-in closet. And around the corner, we have a full bathroom for this room. And going back to the hallway, Mikey, stay right there, I got to show this detail. We have this sleek door for the primary bedroom. And continuing our tour, we have the primary bedroom right at the end of this hallway. But first, I wanna take This bedroom comes with two bathrooms, and the first one starts right here. It goes straight into the walk-in closet or the dressing room. But first, I wanna cover the bathroom. It's starts right here. We have the sliding glass doors with beautiful brass hardware. And it's on that track system. Once you pull one side or close one side, the other side kind of It's all clad with brass on the inside, and it takes you straight Super spacious. Same Towada tough stone that They also used it We have cypress wood paneling as well as the ceiling It is dropped down a little which makes the room feel and inviting. Focusing on this side, we have the cypress vanity design here that I think looks stunning. We have the deep sink here and you can actually see the with the screen detail so clean and elegant. And beautiful Dornbracht Your mirror design here with LED lighting. And focusing back, we got this open, amazing walk in shower here. The stone that we saw at Komatsu stone, they have as kind of like a back gives it a nice texture And right above me, you have this massive rain head surrounded by this steel paneling, And I'm sure it makes showering Now, last thing. With this window opening, we have a nice brass panel right on top, tying in the brass details. And of course, look at these views. I mean, the fact that this and these are the views I don't know if there are in New York City that you can say, or you can have an where Central Park and Upper This is phenomenal. Now, let's go back to the Check out the second one. And this one also starts just like the other side. Everything is beautifully paneled in. We have a lot of these brass as well as the tracks on the back. We have subtle LED lighting So it kind of softens up the We have the safe here. Mirror design behind me. Overall, very exquisitely or the dressing rooms. Now, I wanna take We have another vanity deep sink, just like the other side. We have the mirror right above. And focusing on this side, same old paving stones they brought it also here making it feel like you're at a garden, you're in somewhere in Japan. I love the texture here, how this section is little bit more raised than the rest of the And over here, we have this that looks stunning, looks so earthy and just And facing the same views. Phenomenal bathroom. Right behind me, we have a Rain head above, chrome fixtures. And over here, we have the water closet and some open shelving. Now, Mikey, before we leave, Look how beautifully to the stone. I just feel like I keep throughout the apartment. Now, I wanna take everybody back to the primary bedroom Of course, we have This is the pocket door that opens up straight to the tearoom. And this pocket door opens up Now, this room is phenomenal. You get north and west facing views. The whole city is down below you. I mean, this is incredible. This is your primary bedroom suite. And looking on this side, we have the best facing views, Billionaires' Row right in front of you. You have all these tall Hudson river. And on this side, of course, we have the iconic Central It's phenomenal. Now, I wanna talk about a We have the built-in bed set up here, a king sized bed, beautiful wood tones. And I love the flooring So this is chestnut flooring with this hand scooped texture, which looks kind of interesting. But when you walk on it barefoot, it's almost like massaging your feet because you have all these And I know we talked about this, but we haven't showed it yet. I wanna cover these shades. So I'm gonna hit both panels now. We currently have two of so you can actually now but yet, you can keep the sky all open or natural light coming into your bedroom. By the way, behind these shades, we also have an automatic curtain so you can fully black But I wanted to show to once you have these shades down. Now, let's put them back This primary bedroom gets Again, 10 by 10. The whole city is below you. We have more built-ins on this side with a desk set up, acrylic legs, brass open shelving. And the last part of this primary bedroom is this amazing seating and you'll look at these 432 Park Avenue is an engineering marvel. And one of the tallest in the Western Hemisphere, located in the heart is its greatest city. The view atop 432 Park Avenue is immense, covering the entirety of half of New Jersey and 50 Floating this high above Manhattan, you can't even hear the cars, It's like living in the clouds and watching the world from above. 432 Park Avenue is also that features a 75 foot and many more amenities. To live here is to truly of metropolitan, luxury and style. Throughout the day, we enjoy the views and the sense of peace that But to get to watch the sunset on the city is something truly special. (gentle upbeat music) And that's it for the tour. What an amazing residence at 432 Park Avenue. Unit is phenomenal. 1,000 feet above the ground. And throughout the day, we that this property gets. Also, I wanna congratulate for doing something and executing it flawlessly with their materials and designs. I also wanna thank the listing agents, Noel Berk and Elizabeth Mercedes Berk for trusting us and giving us the honor to tour this phenomenal property, And as always, you can find more information and the property link down in Lastly, if you enjoyed the tour, just make sure to give us a And we'll see you guys next week. (gentle upbeat music)