Iran - a mysterious land. A secret and exotic Persian culture, rich in the ancient traditions A country of magnificent monuments, modern cities Home to a surprising wilderness, of wild habitats that look European [bear growls, boar squeal] Iran is a crossroads for animals making it a unique refuge This is the story of a journey into to reveal wild animals and wild places Benny Rebel was born in Iran. He left his native country and is now a renowned and conservationist in Germany. Benny is returning to Iran to rediscover the country His aim is to explore, document and raise the profile With the help of technology, of unusual and rare creatures. For the next six weeks, Benny will explore He's traveling with a wildlife filmmaker [they speak Farsi] From the capital, Tehran, they will travel For Benny, this is a journey I would like to take some photographs to show the people which treasure to mobilize them to protect They will need to be self-sufficient on Iran still has little tourism and more than half the country But it does have 19 national parks This vast wilderness used to be home both now extinct. Benny's dream is to find First stop is Haftad Qoleh National Park, It's a good start. Benny has spotted As a child, Benny used to climb here and can remember some of the rough If he is careful and quiet, he should be able to get Small rodents and reptiles Perfect food for hungry owls. This skink actually had a lucky escape. It only sacrificed its tail to the owls. A natural break allows it to drop off, The lost part of the tail The young owls have retreated The owls are young and very confident, and Benny quickly gets to work [camera clicks] [camera clicks] The young owls are just starting that give them their name. There are eight different species and there is ample food for them all. [camera clicks] [camera clicks] These small rodents look like hamsters, They are busy gathering leaves and grasses and then store in their burrows This can be dangerous work. Kestrels are on the prowl. [kestrel calls] Their camouflage and knowledge puts the pikas at an advantage. The rocky terrain in the south of Few animals can live in this The spur-thighed tortoise that has lived here for centuries. Its leathery skin and hard shell and the many thorny plants. Benny knows that the tortoise and positions himself accordingly. [camera clicks] These blooms and leaves are a soft treat, high in moisture that the tortoise It's hard to imagine that, this arid landscape is transformed [camera clicks] This rocky land was once [man sings a traditional Persian song] Old stone tablets inscribed 300 years ago by order of the Persian emperors The eloquent poems of these mighty rulers tell of a once rich diversity The old kings have found but, unfortunately, The old wildlife of this place is nearly Increased agriculture have led to a decline in large animals. But smaller creatures, like These cold-blooded lizards and can tolerate temperatures They are solar-powered and bask But Benny is still keen to find some of the larger and rarer Somewhere out there Animals like these Persian ibex These nimble-footed creatures and they are perfectly adapted Benny needs to be well-camouflaged Both males and females have impressive to determine their place within the herd. Traditionally, ibex have a symbol of strength, elegance and beauty. Once shot for their fur, meat and horns, and in the national parks their numbers [camera clicks] [crickets chirping] But urban concentrations are growing Isfahan is an ancient city that in the It has grown from a modest oasis dwelling to become the third largest city in Iran The ancient Mogul emperors were well known and still today The city square is one a reminder of the wilderness outside. Old and new seem to blend together but the ancient ways The Imam Mosque is a masterpiece and a sacred place for the Persian people. Birds are a sign of good luck and people maintain Persian Highflyer pigeons are bred and endurance flying. Just after dawn, the pigeon breeders out of the cages For Benny, this is a trip when he used to raise Although gambling is illegal in Iran, high bets are placed on the birds. Cars and even homes are at stake. The aim is to have as many pigeons for a set period of time. The winner is the breeder with The tumbling display and has earned them the other name, Each one of these birds is valued It's worth catching any strays. This man has spotted so he quickly puts He hopes that his flock will tempt He was right. Attracted by the offer of food, And amongst them is the new pigeon. The pigeon thief quickly puts Now it is his property. The freshly acquired pigeon until it has been well-integrated Its wings are tied with string Pigeon stealing is common in Iran, so this breeder safeguards his property In the meantime, the true owners that one of their prize pigeons It's a painful loss. Not all missing birds are stolen. Some fly so high that they can't [camera clicks] [camera clicks] Benny takes a few last pictures but it's time to track down [camera clicks] In the far south of the country, lies the Bamu National Park. It's home to the sand fox and the elusive leopard Tourists are not common here, He'll have to be lucky to spot big cats, but with expert help he can find Benny has been joined by who knows exactly This arid, rocky terrain [they speak Farsi] During the day, the animals are likely Benny wants to raise the profile of He hopes to find a snake that Another large boulder. The snake specialist lifts it carefully [they speak Farsi] This isn't an earthworm, This miniature snake isn't a youngster. At 30 centimeters, it's a fully grown It isn't poisonous, and is strong enough Snakes big and small and most locals believe that only But Benny and Ali are delighted a real ambassador for snake kind. Nature reserves are They are home to over 70 species, of which less than half are venomous. One of them is the curiously named [hissing] Two meters long and with poison fangs, Pikas are always on the lookout and neighbors warn each other Snakes are one of their main enemies. But today will not be The peace and quiet Benny has a plan. He is assembling the parts that can carry a small onboard camera. There have been some engineers in Germany and actually these is unique, So you can't buy it as it is anywhere. So it's like my child. Flying this octocopter requires A special pair of glasses allows Benny [beeping] This is the helicopter's to see whether its fragile navigation [whirring] This delicate, bizarre-looking machine looks like an alien spaceship The helicopter has passed the flying test but it may have noise issues! A praying mantis seems to be one that is undisturbed by the commotion. It carries on with the business of Tonight will be peaceful, Dawn the next day and the ants are already The tiny creatures assiduously carry Benny has been busy too. He is hoping to get close to some the mouflon, or wild sheep. There isn't much cover and little The vigilant animals have already spotted The males keep a safe distance. One animal is particularly nosey. It was probably once a domestic animal that has now joined the wild herd. The spectators seem ready for take-off! In other parts of the world, some unusual animal pictures But will it work here? [whirring] The only shots he manages are of the nosey animal [camera clicks] The strange machine makes The octocopter lands and Benny has Time to pack up. Benny is disappointed, To use the octocopter in Iran because in Iran there is always windy and the animals are very shy Benny and his companion are not They're off to the hot This is where they have the best chance But they have a long journey Bamu National Park wasn't always Old gravestones reveal that people The inhabitants of this area because they couldn't find enough All the large prey was Large mammals were and many, like the tiger, But today, paramilitary troops are Iran's national parks are guarded that are dedicated to the task. The areas these men need to patrol but their presence is making a difference. [speaks Farsi to radio operator] [radio operator answers in Farsi] They use confiscated motorbikes and pay for petrol Less and less poachers This network of trained that rare and endangered animals have [they speak Farsi] Antelope and other ungulates and some illegal hunting still occurs. But now there is a growing conservation Not least because of the efforts of men who will even risk their lives Hunting is a long-standing and Historical carvings and mosaics depicting the mass slaughter But for 3,000 years, more peaceful havens, Places to study and seek inspiration. The word &quot;paradise&quot; is derived and is used to describe a man-made The elegant gardens are inspiration for modern Flowerbeds are cared for and they are mini-havens The gardens are also used for The multiple fruits of the wild mulberry because they are juicy and sweet. They are known as Shahtoot, These tasty treats are eagerly collected They are a welcome addition to the menu Some are taken home The colorful Persian gardens Beyond the lush cities, vast sand dunes spread across southern Iran The wind creates dramatic sculptures And the desert heat creates [wind blusters] But nothing compares with the strength of [wind roars] The southern parts of Iran The animals living here A crested lark has found one of the few Others are quick to join. [insects buzzing] Hornets drink their fill. And butterflies put out to probe for salt in the moist soil. The waterhole is alive with activity. A wasp fashions perfect balls In the parched landscape, that attract all sorts of animals, This is where Benny It looks like a fresh leopard track. This is very exciting news, so he decides to stake out the pool to He sets up a camera trap Animals visiting the pool at night A final test to check and Benny retreats to wait. In the cooler temperatures of the night, many animals venture [frog croaks] Night-time sounds fill the air. [frog croaks] The phantom-like shape and glowing eyes A porcupine takes a leisurely drink. Sadly, no sign of the leopard The journey must go on and Benny and Hamid now move into the eastern part of Iran to an area that was [camel grumbles] These vast stone deserts are home Their ancestors came and played an important role Huge caravans of these sturdy camels bringing Islam from the Arabic world Today, the camels are no longer used This desolate area is also and he is protecting a strange It looks like the entrance that is full of treasure Deeper into the cave treasure that looks How did these objects A huge accumulation of bones confirms that the cave has been used and they have been An extraordinary behavior The bones however are an important record and wild mouflon The mouflon are characteristic animals They are the ancestors they interbreed readily with each other. Their curved headgear has always In the past, their magnificent horns The mouflon live in large herds that The females give birth often to two young and they are well protected This is a secure life in a herd that is and every mountain range in Iran with slightly different horns. Benny would like to photograph But the herd are alert and ready One bold animal allows Benny to approach. It is a promising photographic model. It is certainly not camera shy and Benny manages to capture [camera clicks] Benny is ready to end this photo-shoot Wildlife and the Persian culture and the ancient monuments of Iran Fifty kilometers to the north-east lies the ruins This is Persepolis, Lions and bulls symbolized These animals represented These ruins are still alive with wildlife and have been a constant place of shelter Let us hope that the creatures survive as long again. Today, Benny is taking a break He is visiting a ranger station. He has heard about an orphan mouflon It may be his chance to get The young mouflon is only It was chased by poachers, The broken limb is now bound up. Little Bita was saved by rangers Now they hope to raise the young sheep a domestic goat. [they speak Farsi] Benny is enchanted The male goat watches as the orphan The young animal immediately tries It's a good start. The young mouflon is likely to survive and The ranger keeps Bita busy, so she'll have It is hard to believe that living space might be an issue. But the more fertile areas The arid grasslands of Iran for grazing their domestic animals. The large herds of goats and sheep and leave little for wild animals. The competition for food and water particularly during the hot summer months. Animals and people desperately [goat bells ringing] This precious natural resource and it has to be shared too. The cold, clear water into a network of underground tunnels that for a thousand years On its subterranean journey, and emerges again as refreshing as when Water plays a significant role It's a sign of life, Elegant pelicans decorate The large birds have had but they are fed daily. The relationship between is a close and ancient one, These towers are decorative, This is a pigeon tower, over 20 meters This astounding architectural maze can house more than 10,000 pigeons. It's filled with a honeycomb The arched patterns were to prevent snakes The tower's design ensures without soiling any birds sitting below. The pigeon guano and used as fertilizer on the fields. Today, artificial fertilizers have taken The remaining towers are still preserved for tourists and visitors. Whilst thousands of such towers were there were other constructions, which were Islamic mosques are but because pigeons are held the birds are permitted [man sings a Persian prayer] According to the Holy Koran, it's a Muslim's duty to respect all life The religious philosophy that all living is also underpinned by It encourages a respect of nature some protection of Iran's natural world. Benny's mission is to If he can raise awareness of Iran's unique He has a tip-off that a chinkara gazelle and the cheetah, The Asiatic cheetah is now Once widespread across the continent, Its prey, like these chinkaras, have been heavily decimated by hunters This herd have spotted the cheetah, Benny is in luck. By the time he arrives, the cheetah The hare had little hope of outrunning For Benny, this is Capturing images of one of the world's will be critical [camera clicks] Iran has lost most of its big cats. Lions and tigers are now extinct. Benny is determined that the cheetah Benny savors the last magical moments of This has fired his determination to discover Iran's many and to protect them. Benny has been tracking a big cat with a world population The Asiatic cheetah. This male has just brought down a hare. Last night, Benny had his first magical and he has returned to try With a full stomach the cheetah [cheetah growls, camera clicks] He knows it's important to read but the cheetah shows no aggression. Benny tries to signal to the cat and the cheetah appears [camera clicks] Benny closes the distance This is as near as he dares to go, but it's perfect for Benny. [camera clicks] Powerful images of cheetah play an important role Animals feature in the stories of old and are often used to symbolize The Persian culture is still greatly This is the Tomb of Hafez, a revered 14th-century poet and one [man sings traditional song] Even today, the people and use them as proverbs and sayings. [woman reads aloud] The lyrical prose brings Hafez's vivid stories provide many with But there are less conventional ways to Benny is persuaded to discover his fate. He is told that his journey That's great news for Benny! His journey takes him named after a fifth-century ruler [kestrel calls] Today, this area is a protected reserve that is home to a pair of kestrels. The birds are wary. They are still hunted in Iran and their nests raided for eggs [kestrel calls] Falconry is a big sport there and Benny has found another It's an immature Eurasian black vulture. The scruffy scavenger and Benny decides to try out his The two cameras side by side when the two pictures are merged. 3D photography is much more complicated especially if you take photographs And some of the animals are afraid because most predators So they think it's a predator. So it's better to talk to the animals so they are relaxed also So it's much more complicated [kestrel calls] Oblivious to the photo-shoot below, the kestrels continue to hunt catching small prey like lizards. Protected by the rangers, Benny has arranged to meet the rangers Persian tradition requires Benny has brought along one of his The 3D pictures have the desired effect. The rangers are impressed. [they speak Farsi] Benny has taken many of his photographs where wildlife is far more abundant Sadly, lions disappeared from Iran Today, more than 20 percent Benny is impressed and they are in awe of his dedication The meeting has gone well. and help him photograph At the height of summer, are arid and parched. It is a harsh climate with extreme heat and no more than 300mm of rain a year. The few remaining pools of water Benny and the ranger prepare More adapted to these extreme conditions [motorbike engine splutters] [engine starts] And another special and rare is just a rickety motorbike ride away. It hides deep within the vast landscape and it can spot people Thanks to the rangers, the last remaining animals of this have been saved It's an onager, or Persian wild ass. The horses are highly nervous. [camera clicks] But waiting patiently pays off in the end. The animals gradually come nearer. [camera clicks] The onager is now only found in Iran. These horses were once a favorite and their population plummeted Thankfully, their numbers and today there are an estimated 400. It's a privilege to catch a glimpse The onager is the fastest horse and can run at 70 kilometers per hour They are hardy creatures The ranger continues Just a dozen men guard the 4,000 They have little equipment or resources, but are passionately committed In the heart of the desert, is another of Iran's natural treasures. The country's oldest tree, It's over 25 meters high, with a trunk This tree is so important that it has who checks it on a daily basis Benny lays his hands on what This natural monument has witnessed [they speak Farsi] In ancient Persian culture, the cypress is known as the &quot;Tree of Life&quot;. And still today, for both people and wild creatures. A planted hedge protects the roots With luck, this living monument for another thousand years. In contrast, the deserts and arid But even here, small communities of people [goat bells ringing] The Qashqai nomads travel with Goats are their most precious possessions. Every evening, all the family members [goats bleating] Benny documents No one knows how long these The Qashqai nomads now only spend In winter, they prefer Their traditional lifestyle is changing and modern city influences [camera clicks] But many things are still done Goat's milk is churned by hand Milk is a lifeline and these people The products made can be stored for months with valuable food during lean times. Benny is fascinated In Iran, the nomads are still treated and there is little interest Back in the tents, the family heads This seems to be a good vintage. The Qashqai have used this hostile habitat The little that grows here is just and their nomadic lifestyle prevents Benny is moving on. He is going Here, there is a perfect observation an abandoned camel caravan stop The lodge is around 200 years old and has been renovated Elsewhere, many such buildings of no use to man The mud and stone walls For Benny and Hamid, the derelict lodge Iran's national parks and wildlife refuges don't yet offer This is basic, no-frills camping But the view is worth it. And a small pool right in front of The scenery is spectacular. A photographer's paradise - clear sunsets It might be a cool night but it will be peaceful. Early the next morning, Within the dark shadows he is invisible to the animals outside and there is plenty of space and shade. Now, all he has to do is wait. [Benny] It's really luxury to be here. I've seen other places where mosquitoes So, this is a very good place But the animals here are less numerous Benny has photographed in African parks. Wildlife photography in Iran At last, there is activity at They are Persian gazelles. Large herds of these elegant animals But mass slaughter over generations Today, it's unusual to come across But Benny is lucky and two young males [camera clicks] Conservation efforts are under way to [camera clicks] It is reassuring to see so many youngsters and a group that are confident, [camera clicks] Gazelles play a major role Their gracefulness and elegance and has inspired many a romantic poem. [camera clicks] Benny is distracted by a splash European rollers. In Iran, these insect-eaters [camera clicks] They are panting to cool down They are nesting in cavities [camera clicks] The gazelles have come down They are particularly cautious. A venomous viper. Although they are not after the gazelles, The snake is over a meter long [snake hisses] Beyond the pool, the dry grassland This habitat attracts smaller and more An army of migratory locusts Large swarms of these insatiable insects and travel en mass to ravage Swarms can contain millions, and they will strip a field But in small numbers, they are no trouble and for Benny they are a simply Locusts and grasshoppers are but they too have their predators. Bizarre but perfectly camouflaged forms have evolved to blend into Tehran, the capital of Iran. The name means &quot;warm place&quot; This city of eight million inhabitants and rugged mountains. The green parks provide relief In many parks and markets the old is still alive today and these colorful [birdsong] Throughout Iran, these little birds bring For the birds, it's a very different life, Tehran is the pulsating It's the cultural The city's population is growing daily. The hustle and bustle of city life leaves many with a yearning And some find it [birds twittering] Those who can afford to, create [bees buzzing] Hassan Solemani is a businessman With over a dozen hives, the businessman spends much The smoke calms the bees, allowing him to open the hive Beekeeping has a long tradition in Iran. The Islamic Koran specifically mentions It describes how they eat and that from their bodies with healing properties to man. The liquid gold produced by the bees Hassan's family use the thick honey [they speak Farsi] Also the mosques are surrounded by [call to prayer] According to the Koran, all men must treat Before Islam was introduced to Iran, religion had a more fiery relationship Gods and dragons inhabited volcanoes, At 5,600 meters, it is the highest peak marking the border and the wet northern regions of Iran. The Alborz Mountains are covered in deciduous woodlands It is home to Iran's oldest [wild boars squealing] Wild boar noisily root around They are the ancestors The sows with young are nervous. Benny takes care to keep some trees A mother with young A large male takes stock of Benny. Will it come to a showdown? Benny tries to remain calm. Wild boar do well in Iran. Eating pigs is forbidden under Islamic law and many Muslims Increasingly, the fearless pigs raiding the fields and orchards. It's causing a growing conflict [boars squeal, camera clicks] With their natural predators such as wild boar populations are on the increase. But there is one predator that will still take one of the young The brown bear. The Alborz Mountains still hold up and most other animals The Persian brown bears are bigger But like their cousins, their forest falling victim to illegal logging. The safety of the national park Iran's ancient forests remained It was from here that the forests gradually spread northwards The green mountainsides that gratefully soak up Here, the mountain ranges of northern Iran Water is a precious resource in Not surprisingly, these secluded, The lush green vegetation and fresh air are a welcome change This is the wettest region of Iran, creating a prehistoric Garden of Eden. There are a few places like this in Iran, so many travel from afar to relax and enjoy the fruits and seeds There is plenty of space for Brown bears avoid the visitors to the less accessible parts They are naturally solitary creatures and only socialize to mate. No one is quite sure how many but what is certain is that upon the preservation The forests of Golestan National Park No other park is as lush and rich, the green trees and clear streams in Allah's Garden of Eden. The animals here have learned But the visitors have learnt too. [motorbike engine starts] They leave the park and allow peace [birds twittering] Now, Benny has the chance He gets out his hiding place. His plan is to try Benny is looking for a particular He needs to settle quickly It's a Caspian red deer, and it's spotted Benny! [camera clicks] [camera clicks] They were once hunted for their antlers Today, the remaining populations and only found in pristine forests [camera clicks] Caspian red deer are larger than Nothing is wasted in nature. Deer droppings are quickly found that shape them into small balls There seems to be a dispute [camera clicks] The adult deer, with their massive but their fawns make easy prey The Persian leopard. Their main prey are young Although leopards pairs will sometimes remain together Persian leopards are and they are lighter in color Hunted for their beautiful spotted coats, Iran's forests and mountains They contain an estimated 800 leopards. Benny has now built up that prove the richness This is all useful material for protecting Iran's wildlife. I'm a wildlife photographer, to show some problems or some issues So it's much better to make for the environmental protection issues with videos than with photographs. In Golestan, human and animal living space Benny notices that wild boar The pigs are searching for scraps of food And their young are quickly learning Benny knows that this could and the animals in the future. Benny also notices other problems [rattling] A new motorway is being built the middle of Golestan National Park - As a result, the river has to be contained It's hard to foresee what effect Sadly, the demands of modern civilization take priority over the needs As you see, there is a wound and it's a genetic problem because the animals can't have the contact with the animals so there is a wall between them. Benny hopes that by he can alert the government of Iran [camera clicks] The last leg of Benny's journey to the far north of the country, This is the largest body of inland water even bigger than The wrecks of rusting old fishing boats Still today, fishermen's houses but men like Korban Sharifi can [Korban] Salaam-Alaikum! [they speak Farsi] He guards the temporary village and most of his companions have left. [they speak Farsi] He tells Benny how much he likes The huts are built on stilts. Extreme storms with waves so the houses need to be elevated. The harsh climate here Close to the fishing village, A jackal is searching for an easy meal The jackal is a reminder of the past when Less than a hundred years ago, preying on wild pig and deer They were hunted to extinction, but there are now plans to reintroduce Benny knows that this fertile delta for a few last photos Water buffalo - [camera clicks] They are closely related to the endangered Although these are domestic animals, the sturdy beasts are allowed to roam They cope better with the humid climate [buffalo grunts] The grassland as well benefits [bird chattering] Buffalos are valuable providing meat, milk and leather, whilst their dung is used as fertilizer. The calm lagoons of the Caspian Sea Greater flamingos come to feed [camera clicks] They're the largest but also They stir up the mud with their feet to filter small shrimps and algae The flamingos come here [camera clicks] The shores of the Caspian Sea are an The water depth and the salinity are perfect for the algae Pigments from these tiny creatures If conditions change these huge flocks Benny is nearing the end He has travelled yet seen only a fraction of this vast He has seen deserts, all precious resources in an arid country. He has come face to face to share these habitats. By the shores of the Caspian Sea, Benny takes time to evaluate on his return visit to his native country. He has captured some stunning and is encouraged and the affection of the people He has also written a report, which he plans to send to His mission is to add his voice trying to save Iran's [Benny] They try to do some, uh, projects for saving nature, And I hope that I can keep contact to conserve what is left Iran. Benny is hopeful for the future Iran's secret wilderness is a mosaic It is a country where to create an almost impossibly existing side by side. It is like nowhere else on Earth. A little-known world even before it is discovered.