-Just three men with beards Three equally handsome men. -Yes. Thank you. -We're all exactly the same. Here's how this works. In front of us are two envelopes One confession is true. Once you read your confession, the other two players have They have to guess if you've Chris, you will go first. Which envelope should he open? -Let's go with one. -What is your story? Okay. -My first job was [ Laughter ] -For your first -- -First job, yeah. -I was 14 at the time. -And was it just cleaning out or was there other aspects -It was repairing them as well, -You repaired breast pumps [ Laughter ] Any pump, you know, like a rubber belt, -Do you know that? Oh, was this for -Yeah, no, like -- you'd have -- like, pharmacies -They would rent them out? Because you don't need them -No. So they'd come back So I'd have a toothbrush -- [ Buzzer ] I'd clean the dry milk off. -Dry milk? I did not think I'd hear [ Laughter ] -This is very interesting. -That was it? -45 seconds, we did it. -I think it's real. -You think his first job -If not, he's a psychopath -- If he made that up. -Were you saying, like, his dad had animals and stuff -But it's human breast milk. -But I think it's inspired by -That's very smart. -And then change it to a lie. -You're good at this. He took almost the truth and -I'm going to say you lie. -Did you lie? -It was the truth. [ Laughter and applause ] -Why did you -- -Where were you? Where were you? -So, it was, like, It's a company that makes fridges and ovens And I literally They would rent them out. The machines would come back, a little spray and wipe. And dried milk -- -One question. -Do the women who used now know that Chris Hemsworth [ Laughter ] -Here we go. This is my turn. -And can you buy them on eBay? Which one? -Well, which one -- We did one for me, right? -Are you going to go into Dolph Lundgren once saved me -I mean, it's so ridiculous that but which means -Yeah, okay. So, how long ago -I'd say, early 2000s. 2002? It was before I was -How many coyotes? -I don't really know, but it was definitely -So how did he save you? -You're saying Dolph Lundgren saved you -Yes. Yes. -No, not coyote -- coyotes. I was leaving a party, -What did he do? -He said, [ Laughter ] -He said, &quot;Hey, Jimmy, quick, or something like that. -So he knew who you were? -So you guys were -No, I didn't know -It seems true, right? -It seems true. Actually, hang on. Whoa, whoa. [ Laughter ] You're lying! -No, why would I do that, -I feel like it's true because and he's, like, trying to make but it's really the truth. He said, &quot;Ah, let's say 2002.&quot; -I looked deep within his soul. Deep within -- -You're right. It's a lie. -How cool would that be? For a second, did you think? -Yeah, for a second I did, We played another game where That game. And there's something -I was proud, like I felt I won. -Okay, all right, here we go. -I'm going to say -- what do we What do you think, Chris? -I don't know. I do want to say We're just hanging out, -Three dudes. -All equally handsome, yeah. -Just fun. Number one. -Yeah. -Fun. Um... -All right, -I once tried to murder someone [ Laughter ] -Hang on, hang on. -This is gonna air [ Laughter ] -I didn't say I was successful. -What year was this? -I was maybe around -So you -- When you say murder, That's you like out to get -I was the aggressor. -No, I liked this person. -Why did you -I don't know. -What do you mean, -How did you try to murder her? [ Laughter ] -Just because, -Well, so, I was sleepwalking, I wasn't allowed to and this person [ Buzzer ] -Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. -I want more than 45 -- [ Laughter ] -Something happened at the end it was, &quot;Oh, I did it And then you said -Oh, that's very interesting. Now he's smirking, almost thinking that we're both Because now he's doing -Look at me. He thinks he won. [ Laughter ] I'm gonna say... -I think it's true. You tried to murder someone -That is correct. [ Laughter and applause ] -I can never look at you What are you talking about? -Oh, my God. -And I had little 10-year-old [ Laughter ] But I wasn't allowed to And I was staying at her house, &quot;It's fine. I'll show you one. What's the worst And then I tried to murder her. [ Laughter ] -In your sleep, though, -In my sleep. And they woke me up and I don't but I remember being like -- [ Laughter ] -&quot;Do you know what you tried to Guys, I'm glad we got to Thank you so much for playing. Chris Hemsworth.