Transcriber: Nadine Hennig I'd like for you all We're going to go back to 1932. So my mother went and she told me about going up the stairs. I'm taking a little break to the right There were flowers. She was little, And the dearly departed was there, between, well, he wasn't that big, How many of you have seen Yes, if you're of a certain age, perhaps. We did have a few hands raised. Fabulous. We've taken death out of the home, we stopped learning about dying And we stopped learning or what to do [when] we get scared. And when we get scared of something, So we have in this country... We don't talk about death I'm a death educator and that makes me a little crazy. So we're going to talk I want to start by telling you My mother opted to go on hospice in 2005 and she and I had I said to her one afternoon, &quot;Mom, you may have some visitors You may have angels or family members. I don't know who's going to show up Will you tell me if somebody comes?&quot; And she's walking down the hall and she said, &quot;It depends on who it is.&quot; (Laughter) OK, I have no idea what that means. Four months later, in the living room at her house, and I was watching her track something, I said, &quot;Mom, what do you see?&quot; She said, &quot;Daddy Charlie, grandmother, mother and daddy, She has a beautiful smile in her face. I said, &quot;Where are they?&quot; &quot;Walking up the road from the farmhouse.&quot; My brother Jim He had died some 13 years beforehand I had had a dream that he was sitting in a chair, So I said, &quot;Mom, where's Jim?&quot; &quot;Oh, he's been right here.&quot; The night she died, my mom was reaching up and I didn't know then that until I began my research. And here's some other things I learned. For six centuries, anecdotal accounts and a little bit of research and tactile experiences Most often people are met Their purpose seems to be with the death experience. And most often People see angels. People see religious entities So you may see the Buddha, or Yama, the Hindu god of death. People see landscapes. People hear music. Kids have kid-friendly visions. There's a story about a hospice... There was a pediatric hospital And the story went that there was He was complaining to the nurse the noisy boys in the corner. The nurse looked over, She said, &quot;Who's there?&quot; And he named off three names of three kids who had been These experiences happen all religion, all cultures, all ages. They happen to people who are blind, Some researchers say, this is These are purely hallucinations. These are embedded memories Others say, this is proof Neither side can prove their hypothesis, it doesn't matter - sorry it doesn't matter why they happen, In my research, I talked with people who are at the bedside One wife said to me, she was talking &quot;Do you ever see anybody or hear anybody?&quot; She said in her estimation, He had had a little bit He was doing a sudoku puzzle, and he said, &quot;Yeah, there is a soldier that comes and stands by my bed Can't you just see him And there's a dog that comes in And he went on to describe that had been their's Witnesses in my research talked about and they knew they didn't need So when Mrs Harrison walked in she was a little perplexed, He was terrified to die. He had been horribly abused as a child, terrified to die, afraid his family Instead, on the scene came Mrs Harrison said, she went with it. She said, &quot;I really didn't know And Jimmy stayed with. Mr Harrison and kept him company and helped his transition Witnesses talked about how that were happening were signs even when experts said They saw the signs, between hallucinations and visions. So hallucinations, for them, and were frightening, which did have a context, When I work with families &quot;Your person may see things you can't see, they may hear things you can't [hear], they may reach up to the sky, they may talk in metaphors even though they're bed bound, or they need their map, or they need to get to the stadium. They've got to get somewhere. When Mom said - just before he said, &quot;Daddy, the train's here. For that mom and for these visions, these deathbed phenomena, When we educate families and we educate the patient about And, my goodness, we need I had the opportunity to work Butch which was 94, and he decided he needed to go in hospice. He was ready. I got a text one afternoon that the visions had started His daughter talked about And this is the language she used for him versus over here, talking to the daughter And he was often in the other room. So one afternoon - I forgot to say: Butch was a pretty famous rugby player, So one afternoon, in the other room, Now his family had also come. His parents had come, But there was the rugby team. The rugby team had come in Came down, stayed with him, And then the rugby team left. And Butch was ticked because and he couldn't get up to where they were. Another day he was ticked off and he was ready to go, Another day, he held out his hand, &quot;I've got these machine parts. This is a very common There is some bigger whole picture, and they've got to make sure it's whole. He's got these parts in his hand. She went and got a Ziploc. Let me tell you why I love that - people reach for medication And they miss an opportunity They miss an opportunity to meet She didn't miss it. Is any of this real? I say &quot;Yes.&quot; Yes, it's real, because it's real I don't know how to measure those things that are beyond our ordinary I'm a researcher. I don't know I know what it feels like. And I know I feel great that my mom didn't leave and the boy got to go on that train and Butch had his buddies When I meet people at parties think how much fun that is. Me, and the sex girl, and the bacteria guy can all go together to the party. (Laughter) So we I meet them, and this happens. It is, &quot;That's really nice. And I never see them again. (Laughter) Or something happens &quot;Let me tell you a story. I've been scared to tell anybody because I didn't want anybody And I say, &quot;My goodness. Please tell me your story.&quot; It's these stories, yours and mine, and hope and calm as we help and as it is our own time to go. So if you have had a witness experience would you raise your hand? Ok, I would like for you, to tell somebody about that. The more we tell our stories, the more And it's really important. Steve Jobs said six words before he died. October 5th, 2011, he died. &quot;I want to invite you to engage in as I leave you today, were Steve Jobs' last words, &quot;Oh, wow. Oh, wow. Oh, wow!&quot; Thank you. (Applause)