In just the USA. Over 150 million people That's almost And in even poorer countries lack of transportation A year ago, when we found out drinking water in Kenya, we distributed to water deliverymen who used to push their heavily ten miles around the city With their new bikes, they are now able to do which leads to significantly You have made work easier. And after seeing the profound we went to our partners to see if they Seeing how they sponsored 13 of I don't think you'll be shocked that they donated $600,000 We then asked you guys that was in need of life And after receiving of amazing people in need. We were so excited to start This e-bike That will help me and my husband We're kicking off this massive giveaway where Darren will give away This is Maria, a single mother for 14 hours a day to send the little pay children in Guatemala, who she hasn't seen in years. I have been here for a long time. It's been 5 years now. And on top of her she still has to walk just to get to This is the first of that we're going to be And because this is we're going to surprise Maria Okay, Let's go surprise her. We got you a present. Maria told us she has left to feed poor kids So on top of the $5,000, with an additional so that she can help her With this new bike, get to and from work not being able or to get to school or to get to your It exacerbates the problems and it keeps them trapped in the circumstances Now, if you we still have It's going to get crazy. No way! Yes, it is here. It looks so good. I went super far. Thank you guys so much. Now, it was time to meet Conrad. Every single day, just to get to work and back. I'm the type of person you know, 80 hours a week, transportation is hard for me I want to own my own business And with me being able it would be easier to get to that goal Conrad's Story is just need for transportation. Oh Wow! This bike 3 hours Because now I I'll be slowly moving forward I can't believe I'm we still have 400 more to go. Thanks! Look at this bike. So sick. Thank you, MrBeast Thank you so much. Thank you very much. You have no idea It's so smooth. Thanks! Thank you. Thank you, this means so much to me. We then met two incredible women from who have dedicated to support thousands of refugees with the necessities They've left their culture. They've left their families. And we see them probably of their lives. And despite their best efforts, makes it incredibly difficult integrate into society. They rely on get to the places Reliable transportation of so many of these refugees. So we decided to donate to the refugee center. These bikes will enable get to their jobs, integrating We've made it pretty far, but we still have 200 which, mind And I'm not really sure for free, shoutout Let's keep helping people. Look at the box It's here. Thanks Beast Philanthropy! Thank you MrBeast. Thank you. I drove it through And it did great! You guys have actually I just want to say thank you. I can go anywhere Thank you, MrBeast. Thank you, MrBeast. Thank you, MrBeast. And this will help me a ton. I appreciate it. I want to thank you And now it was time This is Reginald. He has lived for 12 years, My daughters are my inspiration. If you keep doing good, good things And although he is making a positive impact he still has every day to the nearest bus If I would have it would be a blessing and staying active with myself. And I want to be active A reliable form of transport to spend more time What? Wow! Thank you so much. Thank you so much. The extraordinarily generous has enabled us to unleash something as simple Lectric eBikes time and time asks for very little and just helps us help And in this video, they gave us If you ever were curious likes helping people you shouldn't have to wonder If there ever was a brand Also subscribe Please don't make me cry.