It's human nature - Men are in crisis. Mansplaining, manspreading, Woody Allen, Dave Nevaro, we've got a lot of issues guys. Thankfully I'm here to help. Now why am I qualified, popular podcast, a and I've dealt with every I've got erectile I'm Theo Vonn and So this weeks episode And I got a call from Calila, who is a girlfriend of named Bobby Lire or Bob Li. And some of you and he hasn't really exhibited So first things first, I - He's the absolute I don't see a but there are some barriers Namely, my step dad. My step dad's a little and he has some concerns. - Say if I were a and you're not here. And I show up, 'cause and I got everything I got the gloves, you know I got time to kill, you know I'm unemployed. And I'm here watching and I see Bobby, what's What am I gonna see him doing? - 16 hours of video game play with the occasional of masterbatory activities. - Jesus christ. I know when I see somebody that needs to - Right. - And for me it just just wants to play - He's a man baby. - He's a man baby. - When I first moved in here, I would walk out to the balcony and I would always get this Then I see this massive So I asked him, - His natural urine isn't it. - His natural urine. - That's an easy one. - He says it's a Korean thing, I don't buy it. - Yeah I don't buy that either I've watched a lot of I've never seen And I used to pee in my and the cats would show up and they started peeing how her mom knew I So it's you know to get caught up in that. - Let me give you an example - Okay. - Six people in the I asked Bobby hey no gadgets, so he didn't know what So naturally his hands - Oh wow. - During dinner. - Crotch too or just - Mostly breasts. - Did he witness some of it. - He witnessed all of it. - Jesus dude. That makes my fucking neck hurt. - That 70th birthday fiasco out of everyone's memory. - Right. - So I want to have a I want a re do. - Yes I got a good idea. If you don't mind take him aside for a little bit and see if we can't Crack into that that's going on behind his eyes. And see what we can create. - Please. - Okay. Look I can relate. Bobby has extra urine around You know I've done a I've got two bags of body One of them is mine. But I know that The mission now was that he needs to change as well. - [Theo] I hear him, I hear him. Stand up straight. - Hey honey. - Sup Bob. He has nothing crazy. - What's deal? What is this? - Uh just hanging out man, - Yeah I am home I'm here. - Yeah you weren't home. - Okay. - What's going on man - hey - good to see you bro - What's going on. - Yeah you look good. - What is this? - Just like a little, kind of like an intervention, but nobody's here but us. - Intervention? like 15 years so I'm good. - It's not about She's good, nobody's pregnant. Let's go outside. - What - Yeah bro we're not I mean some people are - You're not gonna - About 80 feet it looks like. - Dude, dude, just call you're going to do this. - My bad. - What do you mean your bad? Is this like just call me. - I'm saying I feel bad now. - Yeah but there's a crew - Well Calila, first of all Okay I'm not trying - She called you? - She said something to She called. - Weird. - She said straight up. - Everything's fine. - Well that's not exactly - Yeah but how did she frame it? - I'll say it. Bobby masturbates different places, - And. - Dude there's people Neighbors man. That could be - Yeah I'm also - Is that a school. - Oh can I just say this though - Yeah. Say it. - I just defend myself alright. In society we make these - Okay. - Right. But these rules - Yeah, in high school You know in People shitting off the pissing in front of people. There's 60 people - Alright. - So I'm just saying We go to this thing And then we go to another And we see if you It's her step dad! She's already down - I gotta go places - She's already down to - Next time though, you call me and you tell me because it's fucking bullshit. - Okay is your phone - No it's not on. - Because of my southern roots I know that manners And what Babbabear is a little bit of them manoirs. So I took little Bobby with some high society types. You ready? - Yeah. - Alright, sayonara. - Say hello everyone oh we're going in for a hug. Okay I actually went for want to be rude, but we're - You don't like ethnic storm. - No it has nothing I'm an all inclusive person. - I just went in a - You went in like we- a little too We are all here to actually - I know all the - Well I'm here to teach don't know that you don't know. - Like if I lived in - No this is actually real life skills. These are everyday courtesy's And anyone should know. For both your personal and - Alright. - Alright that's- we're No that's not happening. Anytime you meet someone, you need to know You want to have one which is about 18 inches We are not going to flap We're going to pretend either side of our waist. And we are going conducting an orchestra. - This is ridiculous, I've never - Okay here we go, here we go. - It's absolute ludicy. - Here we go, stop, stop, stop. - I made all these to take a moment to and to listen to somebody else, and to actually display a - Chew and swallow, - And I was just bool. - And honestly he - I swear to god I but it was quiet. (kids squealing) - Okay this is so not a - In America we are - Oh here in America, - Yeah well. - Thank you so much, how to eat in America. - I am not teasing him. - Look I think our last can properly know otherwise I don't even this tomorrow dude. - Yeah you're not placing - You want me to do a toast. Hear hear. - Hear hear. - I would like to salut. - Excuse me I have to interrupt. You open with the lines, I would like to propose a toast. Hear hear is at the Let's try it again. - Bobby. - You're laughing, but - This is the worst I've ever had in my life. - How does that make me feel. - That's your problem. - No I think you're great. - That makes me feel so badly. (laughter) I'm going to cry. - Now he's laughing. - It's not funny guys. So things hadn't gone well, the big dinner had arrived Bobby was gonna need - That was weird. - Okay hello. - How you doing/ - You alright. - Yeah I feel fine. - You don't always - I know because - Before we start, I to have dinner because that we had together - When we go out to groping her in - Can I say something. - No just wait a second, - Okay. - When you do this, - Okay that's good, - Good evening guys, I'll be your waiter - What's your name? - Chuckie. - Hey Chuckie. - Nice to see you, just the - Mm hmm, - Awesome, welcome have anybody told you - Not yet. - No you're the - Excellent tonight we - Yeah that's it? - That's it. - Yeah that's gonna be it. - And what's on it? - The duck comes natural, it comes in its - What kind of sauce is it? - I can ask the - Well you should know - I'm new here sir. - Okay. Alright thank you very much. - Thanks man. - I know it's, I'm just gonna. 'cause my girlfriend's Okay. - Suck it in, suck I need your belly Okay there we go. Oh god. - Bobby. I knew that Bobby so I slipped him an ear piece. Bobby, time for the toast. - Time for the toast. Hear, hear. Calila, Roger, Both of you, I am grateful to Calila you are my native - I'm not Native American. - You look like Pocahontas And that's what- you know - I don't. - Let me start over. Calila, I just want because I spend a lot of You are my angel. - Come here, give me your face. - You are special to me. And I am so happy to - Thank you sweetie - And I am grateful to Roger, because just like amazing women when he sees them. Even though you're dating You know what I mean. I love you. Hear hear. - Cheers. - Everyone says hear hear. - Hear hear. - Everyone in the - What I learned is you have to take You have to step and you have to do it. You have to do the work. And did Bobby do I don't think he did, but - Cheers - And hopefully, you show - I did it. - And sometime you feel And maybe next week we will But thank you guys for I'm Theo Vonn, and