Do you have any small stresses in your life? Today's video is a story about eliminating those little stresses in your home one by one. When I come home, I take off my shoes and go to the living room first. There is no key storage in our house, and it has been like this for a while. I finally found a keyhole that I like and will install it. It's only installed with a thin pin so it's safe for renters. There are many other mounting options such as screws and double-sided adhesive tape. Isn't this wooden round part very cute? I will also put a key ring on my keys. This time I will install two home keys and a car key. The magnets stick together so it feels good. The design is of course cute, but I like the pleasant sound when taking it off and putting it on. Do you leave your bag on the floor when you get home? I had to lift it up every time I vacuumed. If I left even one bag on the floor, all sorts of stuff would gather and quickly clutter up the room. I bought an item at MUJI that allows me to bags in a floating manner. It is a simple construction but seems to hold them securely. Fit the pins along the guide. This product is also a rentable item. The item also came with an item to push the pin in! It was very refreshing to have things off the floor. Vacuuming can be done without stress. I am very satisfied with the interior appearance of the room because it is under the desk. It looks good ! Next is the shoe closet. I was stressed that when I took out my shoes, the sheets would move with them. I'm going to try the magic tape that a viewer told me about. It's enough to put it on all four corners. It does not move at all! The shoes are dragged out and do not move at all. Even if they get dirty, they can be worn with a broom without stress. A little idea, but a big change for me: Our bathroom faucet cannot be moved. I had to scoop and pour the water by hand if I wanted to run it all over the place. That's when I found this revolutionary item! Remove the shower head and gasket that came with it and install a new one. Two water flow modes can now be switched. Swiveling is also possible freely through 360deg. By the way, it is also expected to save about 30% of water I put it in the bathroom this time, but it can be used for the kitchen faucet as well. It is a little tricky to install, but if it leaks, just wrap the tape that comes with it around the area and it will solve the problem. This is one less petty stress . Fine care items are hard to find. I want to store them where I can get to them quickly if possible because I use them frequently. Decided to utilize dead space behind doors. Attach magnets bought at Seria. It is now very easy to use and put away. I decided to keep the ear buds that don't stick with magnets in the space above. Frequently used hair elastics stand in the same place. The back side of the door that holds the contact solution could also be used. Contact case storage and eyeglass hooks installed. Improvements to makeup items that are difficult to remove. Use cushion stickers. Usually used as a cushioning material per door, but it can be used in many ways. Stick highlights that roll easily are secured with cushion seals on both sides. Small eyeshadows that slide off easily use cushion stickers to stop them from sliding off. Smooth and stress-free removal! Shelves that move together when cosmetics are removed are also secured with cushion seals. This acrylic case is fixed in the same way. The makeup flow line in the busy morning hours is now smooth. Small changes, but if we eliminate them one by one, a more comfortable life awaits us. It was a little inconvenient to take out a laundry net or clothespins because of many actions. Just moving the position of the basket with the laundry net in it a little makes the action easier. It can now be taken out by simply opening the door on one side. Paulownia box in the bedroom. When I tried to put something in it with one hand, I had a hard time taking it out. I will try to install a brass knob. Here's what the finished product looks like: Mark where you want to put the handle. After drilling the holes, thread the screws and attach the handles. I have tried attaching them with a glue gun and adhesive tape, but they came right off due to the nature of the wood. If you screw it firmly in place, it will be secure. Felt stickers should be placed on the bottom to improve sliding. If you put it on the front side, it will be visible, so just two places on the back is enough. This paulownia box contains my husband's personal grooming items and will be much easier to remove in the future . My eye pillow and pillow mist are also in the way. I can take them out smoothly with one hand! Comfortable! When my husband sprayed his jacket, he found it a bit of a hassle to get it all the way out of the closet in the back. Often left out on top of the cabinet because it was a hassle to put away. We decided to solve this problem with magnetic hooks. Smooth flow after hanging suits. This way, there will be no more leaving them behind. It was so easy to use that we decided to adopt it in the kitchen as well. I often left my clothes temporarily on the doorknob after spraying. It was inconvenient because it looked cluttered and the door would not close. Door hangers can solve such problems! The adhesive surface to the door has a protective sticker so there is no need to worry about damaging the door. I also use it as a temporary storage for hats and once-worn clothes. When not in use, it can be folded for compact storage. The door also closes. How do you store top and bottom sets of pajamas, set-ups, etc.? With the connecting hooks, you can take them out in one action. Easy to use! Until now, the action was to take the jacket and then the pants, Now you can take out two at the same time with one action. Bulky parts can be shifted up and down to hold more than usual. Frequently used drawers in the kitchen are a bit cumbersome to remove because things are stacked on top of each other. A desk divider stand from Seria is used to solve this problem. I fixed the divider trays with magic tape to prevent them from moving. Now all I have to do is put it in the divider. Now you can take it out smoothly! The ceramic cutlery container is cute, but I was a little concerned about the sound of it hitting the bottom. I decided to reuse an IKEA cork coaster that I hadn't used much. Cut to size for the bottom. Sound is much reduced. The same measures should be taken for the larger one. The stainless steel ladle, which was my biggest concern, seems to be fine. This is one more petit stress relieved. Do you ever need a quick wipe in the kitchen? When you want to wipe up dripping condiments, a special kitchen tissue comes in handy. Until now, I had to go to the living room every time to get them, which was a bit of a hassle. This tissue case is attached with a magnet. I like the way it looks, stylish and not too lived-in. It can hold a thin box of tissues or soft packs. The garbage receptacles that come with the kitchen are easily soggy, and washing the fine mesh is a hassle. So I decided to change to this ring. It's easy to replace because you just attach the net directly. In addition, if you put rolled up aluminum foil in the drain, the metal ion effect will prevent sliminess. We have also replaced the drains in our bathroom and washroom with easy to wash ones. I like stainless steel because it is durable and can be washed with ease. Especially the attached drain in the bathroom is really hard to wash and gets moldy quickly. If you use stainless steel, it will look nicer, and if debris builds up, a quick removal with a tissue will solve the problem. Are you always looking for the charging cable next to your bed . With this cable holder, you don't have to look for the cable anymore. They adhere sturdily, but they also peel off cleanly when removed, so they are safe even for renters. If you choose a weak adhesive, it will be conversely stressful, so I recommend this product that adheres firmly! I used to put felt on the legs of my chairs to prevent scratching, but it bothered me because it shifted every time. I would feel safer if they were the type that could be worn completely around the legs. Before putting them on, soak them in 80deg water to soften them. You can see the difference in the sense of security when you put them on! Now you can pull a chair without any worries. It is so smooth that the chair seems to have become lighter without my mind. Plum season has come again this year. Ume syrup will be made without fail this year. Many of the plums seem to be damaged by hail this year. Still, it is thanks to the farmers that I can make plum syrup like this again this year. I usually make it with just plums and glacial sugar, but this year I decided to add lemon as well. Plums are carefully wiped dry with a cloth. If large storage jars are difficult to sterilize by boiling, wipe with alcohol. Alternate layers of icing sugar, plums and lemons. It looks fresh and has the atmosphere of early summer. Keep in a cool place. Plums that have been left to ripen after buying were fully ripe. This year I will try making pickled plums for the first time. Fully ripe plums are softer and more delicate than green plums and need to be handled more carefully. The golden color glistens and is very beautiful. Since this is my first time, I make it with 10% salt for 1 kg of plums. White liquor at 25 cc. Rub the whole bag and mix the salt and white liquor thoroughly. Close tightly with air. Here are the plums after 3 days. Dried plums are now much higher in ume vinegar. Ume syrup is also going well. If you turn the jar every day so that the dissolved syrup is distributed throughout, it will be ready faster. Dried plums are now 10 days old. At this point I will add red shiso to make red pickled plums. Wash 200 g red shiso thoroughly and drain. Weigh out 20% of the salt to be added to the red shiso. First sprinkle half of the salt and rub to release the lye. The bulk that was plentiful is reduced and it becomes soft. The lye that comes out is discarded, and the remaining salt is added and further salt rubbed in. Add about 2 ladlefuls of plum vinegar to the salt-rubbed shiso. The color of the shiso gradually returns as the ume vinegar is added. Return shiso to ziplock. After completing this step, we wait for the end of the rainy season and dry them in the sun on a sunny day for three days. Ume syrup is ready. If the plums are left on, they will become astringent, so only the syrup is transferred to another jar. Cellarmate's one-push convenience bottles are very easy to use because they do not drip when pouring. The extra is for tasting. I usually make it with water, but since I'm going to go through the trouble, this year I'm going to make it with soda water. This year's plum syrup has a more refreshing flavor due to the lemon in it, which I prefer. So, how was this week's vlog? I hope everyone's petty stresses in their homes have been relieved and they are now more comfortable .