Built in 1964 by Anchorage Shipyard of Warren, was of Dyer 40, Fiberglass hull design. Originally named; Double Dolphin... The 38 under owner; Whaling City Dredge &amp; Dock Corporation with Whaling planning to install their own According to the NTSB: for two additional vessels, requesting that finish, and quality to the Double Dolphin.&quot; The 2 sister vessels; Sea Horse and Sea Lyon, in seating layout and canopy appearance. type tops that, at least in these photos, metal side railings. Whaling installed the Double Dolphin's canopy, style top with thicker tubing than that of panels. The vessels primarily seeing use in and around the Thames River. 3 had seen a mix of fresh and salt water, In 1979, all three vessels were sold to Shoreline on Lake George. They would add the same Metal Sea Lyon, also re-naming all three; -The Sea Horse became De Champlain -And the Double Dolphin would become the &quot;Ethan The small company would then expand their river cruise style vessel, &quot;Horicon&quot;, in 1988. its 200 passenger capacity, began to take and onboard-events. In 1989, Ethan Allen received another canopy looking metal frame and canvas replaced with top and hinged plexiglass windows that fold ceiling when not in use. I've always wanted these stories to continue what sort of justice, compensation or in general, Which is why maritime and catastrophic injury to do just that... stay tuned til later in partnership, a preview of his follow up to From the NTSB: &quot;Because Shoreline Cruises intended to operate York State waters, the vessels no longer fell subject to state oversight.&quot; De Champlain would receive a similar wood would follow in '91. It appears, to me at least... all 4 vessels green lettering and the thicker, wooden canopy scheme. Making the smaller craft more similar If you look up the Dyer Hull Design though, or pleasure vessels. So when used as tour deck with seating arranged to maximize space. It was around 2004, Shoreline Cruises added cruiser named the Adirondac. Even larger than had a capacity of 400 and become a flagship The 3 dyer vessels remained available for and smaller group events. By 2005, Tour Boat Ethan Allen was; -Still the same length and width at 38 feet -And with its park bench style seating affixed a maximum of 48 passengers. ...the De Champlain also boasting 48 total Even after modifications. And while Algonquin's original coast guard a duplicate of the other two... showing 48 around 2004 makes multiple references to Algonquin The Algonquin's canopy and seating arragement this point. match the fleet but clearly different in its A slight difference I noticed from the Ethen had this &quot;sunroof&quot; style transparent plexiglass Allen, did not. From the NTSB: public vessel, a category of powered vessels or freight for commercial purposes solely Because of them falling under state oversight Factors we will cover later in this video... From Shoreline Cruises website circa 2005; &quot;Enjoy a personalized one hour narrated cruise These boats travel closest to and cover more 1 hour cruise boat on the lake. and magnificent beauty of tranquil bays, secluded the way...&quot; Sunday October 2nd 2005, it was a beautiful, lower 70s... water temperatures a chilly 68 From the NTSB Report; in the 26 years that the Ethan Allen had operated had made 14,000 trips and had never experienced The typical route for sightseeing along the on a north/northeasterly course to end up In the 1-hour long tour, vessels turned back and returned southward toward the Lake George the water. Arriving by tour buses from Michigan, a group tour... were a few days into their journey The entire trip package was arranged by &quot;Shoreline similar in name but not related to Shoreline The Lake George portion saw Shoreline's Ethan one hour each... for their normal sightseeing This would be one of the last big days on Tour. These private bookings ensure that only your operator. The first Tour Bus had arrived around 1:15 Allen would be first to embark. The vessel reportedly uneventful. According to the NTSB However; &quot;Members of the seniors group began to embark opening near the stern. In anticipation of western shore, passengers began filling the side of the Ethan Allen. to 10 people had boarded when the boat began shouted out that someone had to sit on the The vessel operator also advised passengers As people filled the starboard benches, the said that those boarding filled in where sitting large people in our group.&quot; She added that; the boat when everyone was seated.&quot; The vessel operator extended an invitation stated; &quot;they declined to board because they Another woman said that while standing in to port... stating; get on. I told the others that I wasn't going.&quot; With 47 Passengers and the one operator at at 2:30pm with 48 souls aboard. The vessel's hinged plexiglass windows, opened of the way, would remain open since the weather From the NTSB; &quot;The passengers described the conditions for the lake waters 'calm'.&quot; The only chop typically experienced in lake other boats. Wake Meaning; &quot;A track of waves caused by a vessel or object &quot;ripple effect&quot; but on a larger scale, can also on how calm the water is it disturbs. distance the wake can travel. Like throwing a rock into a quiet pond, versus Stability needs for vessels on these waters when compared to those on the high seas... In this instance, it was common procedure the bow toward the oncoming waves and minimize for the past decades of shoreline's operation The Ethan Allen, departing at 2:30pm, had without incident. At around 2:54pm, approaching Cramer Point... of the bay to proceed around the point... created a wake close enough to concern the to starboard even harder, to meet the waves Witness testimony conflicts but the primary high... first made contact at the Ethan Allen's of the vessel, raising it up noticably and sharp maneuver to starboard, combined with list to port which the vessel was not recovering the starboard side began to tumble over helplessly From the NTSB Quote; &quot;...falling onto the passengers seated on The vessel continued to roll over, and several Both the operator and the survivors estimated The accident occurred about 2:54pm. The Ethan Allen remained afloat upside down the conditions inside the Ethan Allen after confusion.' - 'crawling over' one another. One woman said light; 'People were pulling on my legs to Survivors said that they never had time to that if people had donned lifejackets, more only way for those trapped in the vessel to open windows, which were now below water. One passenger told investigators that she but was able to swim under it to escape the clung to the overturned vessel on the surface. Several recreational boats were in the vicinity. and immediately proceeded to the site to render cushions to the survivors and rescuing them. phones to report the accident. After several and then sank to the bottom of the lake, eventually of water.&quot; Important to note also, was the water temperature, According to the US Coast Guard; &quot;Cold shock can occur in water colder than Healthy individuals may succumb to cold shock while those with underlying cardiac disease arrest or ventricular fibrillation or, uncoordinated Several Recreational Boaters who had witnessed assistance in any way they could. As the incident unfolded, 2 ambulances had helped victims to them. -Lake George parks commission dispatched 3 about 3:02pm with 3 rescue vehicles and 2 engines were setup an incident command post. for triage and EMS personnel began prioritizing to them. 21 units, arriving by 3:06pm established at Green Harbour Beach about a -15 More local ambulances had been dispatched A local, shore based dive school had witnessed but needed a ride to get as close to the scene to haul the group of 5 divers out there by On scene 2 of them immediately dove down to the chaos, reports are a bit vague on whether a; vessel the bottom Searching amongst the personal belongings extracting them from their trapped positions Over a period of about 24 minutes they performed searched through floating debris to verify up what personal belongings they could. The divers didn't have their own boat though them to continue operations, for their own Diving operations were then turned over to found one more victim trapped in the stern Of the 48 people onboard; injury -3 were seriously injured and... It was nearly unthinkable, especially to the on Lake George. Initially, the investigation The NTSB launched a 6 person investigative that they were present for the salvage operation, at a nearby hangar. Ethan Allen was examined thoroughly, down Functionality, Propulsion, Watertight Integrity including the operator. Eventually *RULED OUT* as primary or secondary -Weather Conditions -Hull Structure, Steering and Propulsion &amp; However, witness testimony and out-of-the-water so many answers... the question of stability From the NTSB Report; &quot;To obtain a preliminary determination of have been factors in the capsizing, the Safety de Champlain. (Or, SIMPLIFIED STABILITY PROOF TEST) Like the Ethan Allen, the de Champlain and boat design and built for the same owner. of the Coast Guard, which certificated each to two required crewmembers. they came under the jurisdiction of New York. the same load restrictions (48 passengers based on the Certificates of Inpsection or After surveying the de Champlain and the Ethan were similar enough in design and construction results from a stability test. The assessment Coast Guard's Stability Test criteria... which require for a public vessel like the Ethan The de Champlain, being so similar to the investigators could get to testing the stability vessel itself since it was already compromised, or Simplified Stability Proof Test would involve of the incident vessel, on the de Champlain to replicate a load condition for 48 passengers. These barrels placed along the centerline affected freeboard first... then moving on &quot;The Heeling Moment... can be caused by wind, of passengers on one side, by towing, or by during operations at sea.&quot; In testing this, investigators would empty side deck and begin refilling them. However, when the vessel reached the exterior freeboard already nearing dangerous levels. This appears to have caught investigators ...and they quickly cut the test short as the vessel. From the NTSB Report; &quot;Because the de Champlain failed the stability on a protected route, the Safety Board had the Ethan Allen for the carriage of 48 passengers. the 40-year history of the Ethan Allen, the modified by the addition of various types had not been done to determine the effects Further studies against Ethan Allen &amp; experimentation -The weight of each canopy caused the vessel buoyancy canopy in general, reduced the... ability such as wind, waves, and passenger movement combined with that of the vessel itself, so area and corresponding wind heeling moment the required stability criteria. This testing and analysis determined that with the wooden canopy could carry only 14 of 140 pounds per passenger. In addition, investigators would uncover that, add to this lack of stability and reserve framing would have as well. From the NTSB; &quot;The Safety Board found no evidence to indicate after adding a metal frame canopy to the vessel under Coast Guard jurisdiction. At the time, alterations and modifications did not specifically Before this accident, state laws did not address contained vague language about assessments to be modified. If a stability assessment had been conducted after the canopy installations and for Shoreline Cruises to reduce the passenger From survivor interviews and its review of that the average weight of the Ethan Allen's 178 pounds, significantly more than the per to verify the allowable number of passengers of the number of passengers permitted by the of the people on board the Ethan Allen resulted when it capsized. The Safety Board stability study, which used 140 pounds per passenger, determined that have been allowed for the Ethan Allen was 2,000 pounds. carried 48 persons (1 crewmember and 47 passengers) than 8,000 pounds total weight, about four Now, it simply cannot be overstated, that And the NTSB did not take a strong stance &quot;The attempt of the Ethan Allen operator to wake before the capsizing was a normal reaction to be effective.&quot; -End Quote It's likely safe to assume that *HAD* the these maneuvers wouldn't have caused such wouldn't have been within the operator's purview vessel's capacity plates, even if they were There were a couple exceptions though; First was drug and alcohol testing of the &quot;At the time of the accident, New York State testing of mariners as a matter of course; a passenger was seriously or fatally injured, attorney could request a state superior court a court order, if he or she believed this In this case, local and state officials did blood and urine samples, although he offered capsizing. On October 4, 2006 (2 days later) the NTSB be accomplished, and the operator voluntarily He told Safety Board investigators that he the evening of the accident but no alcohol to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in Okalahoma City, for testing. The CAMI report illegal drugs.&quot; And... &quot;The Urine analysis indicated the presence But this amount of delay, in a toxicology The second issue, being much confusion regarding or not. From the NTSB; &quot;In this case, the vessel operator said that Allen departed the dock at 2:30. All survivors a safety briefing; however, they admitted the boat was docked.&quot; -End Quote And With the lifejackets stowed in such a to access, with the speed at which the incident time for the passengers... it's unclear how anyway. In addition, as stated earlier, investigators quote; &quot;if people had donned lifejackets, more fatalities those trapped in the vessel to escape was which were now below water. initially was blocked by a Plexiglass window vessel.&quot; Presumably, at least one of the windows had closed position. The NTSB's investigation into this matter 2 weeks later. From The NTSB's Probable Cause; &quot;The National Transportation Safety Board capsizing of the Ethan Allen was the vessel's forces of a passing wave or waves, a sharp of passengers to the port side of the vessel. it carried 48 persons where postaccident stability been permitted to carry only 14 persons. Contributing to reassess the vessel's stability after it requirement to do so.&quot; And Number 7 from the NTSB's findings; &quot;The addition, and subsequent modification, characteristics.&quot; Now, this was in contrast to part of what and probable cause, stating; &quot;The vessel that became the Ethan Allen arrived rating that was based on incomplete stability not pass established safe passenger loading carry. have been determined to have *increased* overall capacity, but not to the established rating inspection.&quot; This whole report comes being that it's drafted in a very similar to what investigators found. As always, links for this video if you'd like to check it out. From the NTSB's Recommendations; To the U.S. Coast Guard: Guard standards for and assessment of stability To New York State: in the investigation of the Ethan Allen accident... -Technical guidance to vessel owners on inspection -Stability assessments and criteria -Drug and alcohol testing, manning, and safety Discontinue the use of capacity plate data boating standards for determining passenger than six passengers and adopt the Coast Guard Somewhat similar and reinforcing the NTSB's Was from the March 6, 2004 incident... &quot;...the capsizing of the pontoon-style small The Safety Board identified that the Coast used to assess the stability of vessels operating risk for vessels carrying near the maximum As a result, the NTSB made similar recommendations Also, important to point out is that the Ethan the broker sites, the posting's main photo in NTSB custody... just bizarre... talk about But That's the way we've always done it! In to keep it short this time, no promises... that, behind the scenes, &quot;That's the way we've occasionally if not, quite often. It's in our nature to take the path of least feel like anything that even remotely questions... at times, feel threatening... because it involves sometimes it involves a new perspective on of stubborness for decades... in extreme cases, It's not always malicious, I'd contend its our routines. Many of us humans like doing When I teach workplace safety in the classroom, is for those attending to check egos at the practices or procedures that don't have any &quot;But that's the way we've always done it.&quot; things are in people's faces... it's more, co-workers they'd never expected to interact Like getting frustrated when driving in traffic by, versus having the opportunity to get to building environment... would we use the same we do when pointing out &quot;that idiot who should safety of our climate controlled box??? When we challenge ourselves to think critically, defense mechanisms and overall group think. You may sometimes be the odd person out when that's okay. Oftentimes safety IS that philisophical &amp; look the coolest doing it! Versus never A poignant memorial for the Ethan Allen tragedy Association building and stands prominently In Memoriam... A major part of why these videos don't have is able to continue the way it has, is because And shoutout to those top tier Patreon Supporters; Alex S Andrew M Christian T Manuel M Nathan M P Rush Trayson &amp; And Don't forget, Your Safety Matters.