Transcriber: Zion Kim Great to be back on the TEDx stage. No, I think a good theme for, at least, seems to be life in a complex world. And yet, all of us, speakers, are really embedded It's just a big red circle. I think my theory to keep us from checking to see They're probably holograms or something. But a lot has happened For one thing, I've gone through puberty (Laughter) gotten some degrees and certifications, I've learned a lot, and Singularity University was really one of the defining moments I switched from computer science I sort of got this strong sense that the next big thing and what I want to share with you is kind of how that sense I was at this big conference, one of the biggest is called Society for Neuroscience. Tens of thousands of researchers pack into in the country that can handle There's a huge, huge array but at the evenings, groups of a dozen or so and you get to have real discussions. One of those discussions was about ambitious things were saying, &quot;Let's go after an entire organism, That's what I'm planning to do. And one of the people at the table was this old-school neuroscientist was what he called himself - He had this sort of historical note, for those of us who would seek He said, &quot;You know, John Von Neumann arguably the greatest 'The brain does not use mathematics. There is something And so you should be humble, and do not attempt this sort of research.&quot; And so I decided ... You know, John Von Neumann Back when I was a computer scientist, from what he was doing and so, I decided to go and check out the source And it's this adorable book, and it was written in 1957 when knowledge about that to claim some connection I think it's really impressive And the relevant quote, amazingly enough - here's what he actually said, &quot;The outward forms of our mathematics from the point of view of evaluating what the mathematical language truly used The above remarks prove that whatever that system is, from what we consciously as mathematics,&quot; and there, that is the end. There's nothing after this, (Laughter) John Von Neumann actually got bone cancer and it is unfinished. That is where he left it, and that trail, I think, is ripe So, I want to explain why seems to be not quite up to the task. One of those mottoes that we have is &quot;the hard stuff is easy, You know, if you want to play a good game but if you want to do for a robot to do that, We managed to do it pretty easily. What's going on is there's you as you're moving it towards your mouth, but also, inside your brain and some kind of concept and that has an effect but your thinking ahead appear. And so, it's almost like it's almost like what's happening because your're thinking ahead, you think, &quot;Well, what's about to happen Oh, I'd better stop now.&quot; This something from the future so it's almost like your brain saying, &quot;No, don't do that. And this is really hard to model, we always take to &quot;Well, time instant one, two, three, four- and you can sort of imagine it but it's ... we can do these things if you have a thermostat. You want to anticipate what's going on when you turn on the heater that the temperature is going to dip down. And there's some wind outside, how fast temperature is going to dip down, but it's pretty easy; you call your set point you turn the heater on, and when you go sufficiently far above it, and you can analyze this It's trying to keep it; you can just look at this line and say, I can understand what's going on.&quot; But in a biological network, it's not that you're trying you're trying to keep it near some multi-dimensional, And there are spike trains, and everything is connected You don't have these nice labels you just get lots of data, It sort of seems like there's an analogy to this other, very complicated that it took a while to figure out namely the motions of celestial bodies. For a while, they were just the Sun, and you could get by - click - with what I call We have circles within circles, and you spin them out enough, and, of course, And you see where the things move: here's the planets that follow And after a while, we got the idea that maybe planets should just go and maybe they go around the Sun, I mean, then, you still ... but you still use some corrections - And whenever you start to see in another scientific field &quot;Uh-oh! lt looks like and they say, &quot;Well, OK. Maybe this isn't really We've definitely gotten for there's a lots of epicycles. Try to take a physical neural network and sample ten of them and make a guess It's basically like looking without seeing most of the planets, or, in particular, the closer analogy And that's what really gave Galileo It's not just that things It's not just geometry, There's calculus. And it really spawned there is numbers, and there's geometry and then there's calculus and it gets you computing volumes and basically, all of the things rely on that. What I am anticipating, but it's a big stage, when we study the brain and really understand we're going to find out in retrospect that we've invented a new kind of math, and as inconceivable; if you would ask John Napier, who invented the logarithm if there would be a completely that would dominate everything he probably would have said no. So it seems a little silly in advance, and historically, we've seen - when things start and at the same time, you're getting more and more accurate ways there is something very profound And what's going on in neuroscience we're starting to get tools that can look into all of the neurons and it's kind of a standard thing to do - to take a brain, then you slice it up, and you try and figure There's definitely things but you're not going which are what power the computation. You can't probe a dead brain and expected it to respond and test your theory But we are now getting the technology where you don't have to do You can actually probe living brains You know, I used to think, when I was very young, that something special what happened, that the air there would heat up a lot, and then I learned more about lasers, &quot;OK, I guess lasers but then, when you learn you realize that something special if two photons arrive on molecular excitation timescales. And so, if you have fancy-enough lasers, and you can do it inside of a brain and you can put molecules into that brain when you fire We are living in the future, my friends! (Laughter) And you can also read what's going on because you can put fluorescent reporters into the brain and so when you fire if the neuron is already active, and it will light up, It's like Richard Feynman said All of these fundamental can eventually be addressed And we're getting to that point, it takes a lot of technology It took a very powerful telescope and understand that there were that it wasn't just about circles, but it was about two things And I think we're just starting if you will, on inner space that we can look in and see the profound principles So this is that book, The last page is still unwritten, but there is a pen there, so it's exciting times and I hope you will follow it Thank you. (Applause)