This video is supported by Brilliant. This is Baikonur, Kazakhstan on a cold winter's most expensive and impressive engineering project of the International Space Station being launched and the Russians grew the ISS to be the size of it's had a constant presence of humans, living and an incredible engineering achievement, but the so closely is almost even more incredible. be coming to an end. Russia has announced that Before we go into how this will affect the Dmitry Rogozin. This man was the head of the but he's more well known for his humorous tweets. part of the space station and crash it he also covered up all of the international So obviously the Russian space program has been recently, Dmitry was fired and replaced by a man for a matter of weeks, he announced the big news and starting its own space station. But according All joking aside, this isn't actually all that and as the tech on board gets even older, it will reasons that Russia wants to leave is that they performing experiments. Since it's so expensive that things get updated. The main computers on the than the original PlayStation. But it's not as In order for computer components to work well This is a lengthy process that involves years of them from the intense radiation that hits the ISS a laptop is ready to survive in space, and Of course, NASA also sends regular laptops fail. In fact, there are over 100 laptops on there being some kind of dungeon with piles Either way, the ISS is old and if Russia wants to them do it. But it's not so easy. After all, it's member plays its role in keeping it running. The power and most of its communications too. This various thrusters that are used to steer the space thrusters need to carry out is re-boosting the there are still tiny traces of atmosphere at lower its orbit. Because of this, the station single day. If nothing was done about this, the eventually burning up in the atmosphere. The way on the Russian segment about once a month to This process can be seen in this video where as the thrusters are firing. In reality, we're astronauts. If Russia took away its segment, the altitude or avoiding debris impacts. It would the ISS, since it wouldn't have the control to Another possible scenario is that the Russians leave it for the Americans to use, essentially for the astronauts, since there are only them is in the Russian segment. Even if Russia they will need to work with the US to Each module has layers of internal and external and they weren't designed to be disassembled. So huge logistical challenge. Without being connected no power, so the idea of sailing off and using already has plans to launch its own space station to space stations, in fact - most space stations the current state of the Russian space program, brand new space station up and running by then. Their new space station named 'Ross' is The plan is to operate it mostly without humans, few months to help out with experiments feature autonomous robots that hover around the Overall, this space station should be lightyears more efficient, cost effective and maintenance we will have 3 space stations orbiting Earth. No that is pretty cool. And with some ambitious plans have space stations around the Moon and Mars Russia's threat to leave the ISS is no more than ground, it's clear that the goal is to continue beyond 2024. And so, despite the age of the space boundaries of science and helping us to further Another great way to learn about the world is that helps you learn everything STEM related effective way to learn stuff, since it problems and truly understand them. Using Brilliant takes complex topics and explains If you have any interest in things like space, has you covered. Brilliant has a wide range you a deep understanding of how and why things I highly recommend checking out the new course looks at the math and science behind black holes about how they actually work. To get started click the link in the description. The first 200 of you will also get 20% off Brilliant's annual Premium subscription. Thank you very much for watching and I'll see you in the next video.