well in just a minute I'm going to take you into sure you knew elevation nights is coming your we're coming your way February 25th yep Pennsylvania get ready Toronto woo Detroit to be awesome Hartford Connecticut nework the dates are February 25th through March our whole team is coming Holly's going right now get your tickets they're going fast Anybody online watching this remember when you man. If you wanted a sermon online, online. You had to call up and order news. You don't have to wait six weeks. Come on, Ballantyne. Help me welcome our missed it. We're celebrating the end holidays. We're just getting ready to give we end our year with a year-end offering, You say, &quot;Well, I don't live in Charlotte.&quot; I don't have much to give.&quot; You don't have a part of it. Our culmination Sunday is on you to pray and ask God how he would have you to be a part is just to keep coming to here for you whether you give anything to this They don't tell you that at the gym. &quot;You can ever give anything or not.&quot; When was the last &quot;Whether you ever give anything or not, we'll is like that. I want to say something who are generous in this church, and they and they're consistent. I thank God for Trust me. When I step up to this pulpit, I'm there's an army of people in this church and who are committed to his purpose. So, we want giving if you've never done that or to give above Okay. Now that I got all the preliminary out Lord has given me to say to you today. I not because it's controversial but just because I wanted to be very sure I had from God Last night when I went to bed I thought I had the right passage of Scripture, but the Lord and I didn't know how that was yet, know if you were here a few weeks ago Then I preached a follow-up message about how God is a master of taking those things in or wouldn't have chosen to experience, but God does. God is a master of improv, so it doesn't take him by surprise. It's a So, we had God Can Use This Too and to be a little bit in that same flow look at your neighbor and give them Father, I thank you for your Word. we get better. Now, if we just consider But if we bow before it like you're a great ever give. Thank you for bringing us whatever state they're in, whatever you've got the hard part. We believe We're going to study in Mark, chapter sandwiched between two other stories, and it's &quot;What's a made-up story that's not fiction?&quot; true story. He used these things called parables could keep it simple. I've heard people say that. They say Jesus would teach a lot of times just so let me make it surface-level.&quot; It's actually stories so people who were on the outside they could just apply an external law and be more He wanted you to have to dig for it so you use it how you wanted to, but you actually to explain it to you or you don't get it. So, the teachings of Jesus and be transformed. In the relationship with Jesus... Not in a physical today, but through the Holy Spirit whom he sent it. So, you have to wonder, when people say be a disciple where Jesus could have taught you physically in his presence,&quot; would it really When I read about the disciples following Jesus, really hard because of what I just told you. on the surface, and then you have to be the I don't mean to slow the class down, but One of those situations was in Mark, chapter There are three parables or stories about so it's like a parable sandwich Jesus them to understand what the kingdom of God is so it's the meat in the middle of the sandwich, &quot;He also said, 'This is what the kingdom of God and day, whether he sleeps or gets up, the seed All by itself the soil produces grain--first the the head. As soon as the grain is ripe, he puts The schedule God has for your life and for his first verse. We have a new thing. We want to try said&quot; in verse 26, circle the word also, and then like,&quot; circle the word like. Good. That was cool. He's trying to explain something this was an original term with Jesus. This wasn't when I said earlier in the announcements... I didn't Some of you were like, &quot;Is that a thing? Is are making a comeback in the vintage market, But if you've never seen one or you didn't one but don't know how it works, you're of God was not even a thing. They knew the kingdom of God. They knew the law of Moses, Jesus is trying to take something they haven't they have no context. It's difficult to understand I guess I would say it's difficult to know what Jesus did not start existing when &quot;In the beginning was the Word, and the Word the Word of God was made flesh and dwelt among but Jesus existed before he So, now you have Jesus, who has speaking to people who are moving through like to wait for the promise of God, to to know that some parts of the promise of God Some of the things that are wrong with us on &quot;But here on this earth, how do I get them seen what I saw?&quot; Jesus was with God so he knows what sinlessness is. Jesus was so he knows what healing is. Jesus was with God the world was existing, so the things which are So, when the Word of God shows up in human flesh, you can see and the one you can't see, and he is second grade. Jesus Christ has to speak in similes because you never saw it. It's kind of like...&quot; He One he tells is that seeds fall in different some get scorched, and some grow. &quot;Which one He's saying, &quot;I'm teaching, and my teaching is after the one I read you... I told you it's sandwich is about a small seed called a mustard but it becomes the biggest That kind of reminds me of our church. It didn't God does, does. Nothing God starts starts any in the womb or a dream in your heart or freedom It always starts small, but it doesn't we see in this parable a partnership. We have a I like that word scatter better, because it gets it for any of it to work. Some of y'all just The first girl who rejects you, you and now you want to join the monastery scattered... I mean, that's how a lot of us and I don't know which one is going to work. many side hustles and back hustles and forward You have to feel for Jesus and the disciples, trying to teach them about something they've never for which they have no frame of reference. I it down to a level they can understand. To introduce you to something foreign, he speaks of something familiar. &quot;The kingdom of come from where he comes from; they come from he has his. You think he's going to come down to in flesh. But he wants you to know, &quot;I came down You're not staying down here in this. You're you. You're not staying down here in your down here in your daddy's way of thinking. years that you wasted. You're not staying You're not commanding anybody but yourself. &quot;Bless bless his holy name.&quot; Come up and praise if you've never lived with it. Okay. Example. other day. It wasn't a heated argument. He After about three or four times back and forth... but it was something factual. It wasn't an the truth: online. After about two or three times he looked it up. I don't remember who was right. I said, &quot;Look it up.&quot; He looked it up, and to him what it was like to have a time it was so much better, because when they couldn't was the most confident about it who would win. Here's really what I told him about because you have never experienced a time Somebody might go home and look it up in throwback Sunday. This is turning into a We're getting old fashioned today. today. It's good for Paul and Silas. It's &quot;I can't tell you really what it was like, people are like if you haven't lived it. I'm For all of you who talk about pastors really bad, come be one. Come be one for 28 day. Come be would say the same about you. I don't preach never pretend like your life isn't harder I don't do that because I don't He's relatable. He sees me in my struggle. my sin. He doesn't stand up there and and brings me up with him, and I am It's hard to know what mental illness is like abandonment issues are like if you don't have They learned to. It was a survival instinct I thank God for Jesus teaching me about the seed I know it's hard, and I don't know what your comparing different degrees of hardness. whether it's hospital visits you're making, whether it's racism you're battling, whether it's your own stupid stories We all come to this place to know that so high, but he came down and did He's not so high that he doesn't see how hard it I think sometimes), &quot;Is it as hard for everybody dealing with the same level of distraction, end up ordering a dress? And I'm a man. What He's high and holy, but he's humble and meek today that he knows how hard it is for you. because you smile. I love him because he sees parable of the seed. &quot;This is what the kingdom Now, in this parable, it's kind of hard for because not only do we not know what cassette cents a gallon... I was telling Graham &quot;What was it like?&quot; I was like, &quot;It was There was no caller ID, so it was kind of But he never lived it, so I was trying to tell he knows what it's like because he he knows what it's like because he he knows what it's like because he hurt. When we he hungered. When we're exhausted and weary, God could not do that without a body. He in power to get you to him. This is the and this is why I love to preach about him and us to get with this because he is preaching Can I preach a little bit about how to deal when we just go into a bakery to get bread? Jesus teaches his disciples, &quot;This is what they saw every day. &quot;Oh, yeah. I've seen I've seen wheat milled, turned into flour, water and turned into bread. I've seen Let me ask a question. How many all of you are in the advanced class, and the get to this level. We only understand We want it fast. I want to have faith, and I want it fast. I want to have a breakthrough, and I want it fast. But we are not coming So, I thought we would celebrate the man Jesus didn't give him a name. He says, &quot;Like a man but we applaud him and celebrate him because I admire people who don't have Look. You don't have to post your workout. If you people who show up and sow and show up and sow trying to cast that demon out of your kid right I celebrate sowers. Let's celebrate every sower, every giver, everybody who makes it possible, everybody who sows. Then, of course, Let's do it like a sandwich. In verse 26 it Then in verse 29 it says, &quot;As soon as the because the harvest has come.&quot; In both of who is willing to work. He's willing to work having in your life. You have to work for You know, how remedial could I be? thinking the star of this story was the kind of a metaphor. Maybe what Jesus means... it. I'm like, &quot;Maybe Jesus is Since he's talking about the end of the age that he's going to bring in the harvest in. I thought we should talk this morning about I told you I went to bed, and I thought it say to you about the value of sowing, and I It's important to have discipline. It's It's important for you to make an effort. places. I'm not discounting any of that, star. That challenges us, because I think how good we were. We think people ought to We think people ought to promote us because place. Don't get me wrong. But it is not the &quot;Jesus.&quot; Okay. Yeah, I mean, but did you notice there was not a There was a process by which a seed became grain, to use that to teach you something. Just mean he's not there. Just because you can't God is working in this situation in your life See, if Jesus is using the that doesn't make sense. I'll prove it to you. &quot;Night and day, whether he sleeps or gets up, know how.&quot; &quot;He does not know how.&quot; You will So, this cannot be that the sower represents this is not a parable about &quot;Hey, God has develop them,&quot; because it says, &quot;He does not we're not talking about God here. So, I came &quot;I've been sowing, I've been weeping, this? You tell me he's here, but it's still not over the things you say he died to save &quot;This is what the kingdom of God is like. &quot;...on the ground. Night and day, The second evidence that it can't be God: he slumbers. So, this can't be God we're talking over you even as you sleep. God works the night with you in the most hard emotional place. So it Then I realized the star of the text is not the who sows the seed. Watch this in verse 28. off of somebody's life when I say it. Verse 28: by itself the soil produces grain.&quot; Wait. We think, &quot;I've got to do this. I've got and now we have no lining in our stomach, don't want to hear us complain anymore, because they don't have our answers anyway, There are situations in your life right now going to be...how hard it is going to be in this going to be for me to make it through this period me to go into this meeting next week; how hard (if I can't deal with them now, how am I going it is going to be for me to go through another After you get done telling him how hard it's going to do the hard part. Everybody in the text has a The reaper has a job to reap, and you should reap. Both of those things are important, but did you that happened in the passage happened whether the because all by itself the soil produces grain. the soil produces grain.&quot; Yes, it needs a seed to pull from, but other way. I am trying to say that the main part. Stop bringing that main acting like God is going to lead you to him. He's not going to do that. When you get to Even if your part feels hard right I want you to think about all the hard stuff God thinking about. This helps me to realize my heart is beating. It's said that (I looked it up, Graham. You used to not be able It's sending all that blood all through my it's true. It was on the Internet. It said there breaths I will take today that will basically There are 300 million tiny little sacks when you say, &quot;It's God's breath in my lungs,&quot; where the good stuff is getting taken in and God is doing all that. I've I've heard about the lungs, filling our about the tiny little sacks where all the gets processed and gets sent back out to the because God is so good we take him for and we're like, &quot;Oh, that's going to The possibilities that you would be born in even be here today with the opportunities you you have... God has already done that. So what's If God has already done a miracle in didn't see in my body yesterday, that that I didn't even know was happening yesterday, If God did that for me then, bring on this one the hard part. We get so anxious when the Devil Yet we, like the disciples, forget the I wish y'all had three hours today. chapter 8, the disciples were and they were stressed out because (look Jesus had already multiplied to feed 5,000 men, because no matter how many hard situations God they had in him. They got focused on the next and when you focus too much on the The irony of this... Verse 14: &quot;The disciples had they had with them in the boat. 'Be careful,' of the Pharisees and that of Herod.' They 'It is because we have no bread.'&quot; Yeah, is the Bread of Life? Who's in the boat? So what I'm trying to say that your sowing is not the most of God. I know you didn't get some things right. don't understand. I don't either. I know it's thing in the boat is not what they forgot; their discussion, Jesus asked them: 'Why are you Do you still not see or understand? Are your and ears but fail to hear? And don't you for the five thousand, how many basketfuls replied. 'And when I broke the seven loaves a math lesson. &quot;'...how many basketfuls of 'Seven.' He said to them, 'Do you still...?'&quot; This is what he wants to say to you Do you still not know?&quot; We don't, because that scary for a seed to be in the soil. It is scary go through a messy divorce. It is scary when they is scary when you don't have your next step that the place in the passage where the most If the seed stays in the sower's hand, it in the ground... It goes down seed, but it comes &quot;I'm coming up different.&quot; That's how you'll I went in when I come out. I won't be like kingdom of God is like. A man scatters seed...&quot; which is sustenance, but in order for the I want to talk to you for one &quot;I didn't read any bread in Mark, chapter the bread. He's talking to them about seed, of what is possible, and he's painting it they get it. The seed can't stay in your hand &quot;Let go.&quot; Let go of your need to control Let go of your need to have data make more than you check in with graphs. I'm it will always be this, but if it gets in the going to be my new life verse...until next The soil represents God. The soil represents &quot;In lets me know that when the seed went out of sight, Everything in your life has to go through If it never gets planted, it never becomes grain. If it never becomes grain, it will never be bread. meant to be. So, before it can be bread, it has because you just get it from the bakery. &quot;They're so patient. They're so Well, before they became bread, They were buried. They went through that changed something, that broke through this place in your life because he's pulling to bring forth bread. It's going to be bread. It's It's going to be bread for your children. It's buried right now, but it's going to but it's going to be bread. It doesn't &quot;I can't even see anything happening in my life. who feels disappointed, I want you to know that Now, I'm not a farmer, but when he said, &quot;All &quot;Wow! As much as the sower did, kept working.&quot; That's like God conscious of it, he's working. While As a matter of fact, go back to verse know how.&quot; Now go ahead and get it out &quot;I don't know how.&quot; Certain processes I don't I thought about when we record an album at we sing the songs, we record the songs, when are those songs coming out that we can record it on Friday and it can be on your How many of you have ever heard J. Mix sing in church. I'm going to fact-check it shows up on his computer as files. When oh my soul!&quot; And it's so fun. &quot;Praise the Lord, oh my soul! Everybody jump!&quot; By the time y'all On his computer will go over 100 Pro Tools of y'all singing and clapping and them and in a place nobody sees called a studio... (J. this illustration, but don't get a big head. In a place nobody sees, he has to do even heard of so that by the time it gets he has to go through... You don't even know this de-breath them. Not &quot;deep breath.&quot; Not like yoga. on the mic... You don't want to hear &quot;Let everything that has breath,&quot; but not and don't even get me started on how they have to when y'all try to clap but you don't have any music out in the world with no rhythm. I They will literally have to move in and remove instruments because, you know, &quot;We changed that in there, and wouldn't it sound good if that.&quot; What a prophetic name to be called &quot;J. Mix.&quot; And he sends it off to be mixed, by the time it is That's why it takes so long. &quot;Hey, drop we do what we have to do with it. If we do if we do what we have to do with it the world it will be a sound that will That is what this parable is saying to me. The where God takes the claps out, because sometimes your rhythm. The soil is the studio where God has start panting after his presence in the soil. So, I come with a prophetic declaration you are not the star of this story. God That custody thing you have going with your going to know me as their dad if I don't have He will make sure, if you stay planted, that that child, and if there's somebody else he God will do the hard part. But it is scary can't control. This is the part you can't are so tempted to put your death grip on Before it can become bread, it has to be buried. which means it can only be what's inside of it. I want to liberate you. You don't have to fulfill not start with a seed of grain and turn into You don't have to produce anything God didn't You don't have to look 23 when you're 47. You I'm preaching to myself right now. These gray Whatever is in you will be produced until it before it is bread, it has to be buried. God is not insignificant in your life. Nothing about this Nothing about this has him nervous. Nothing about it must be buried, but watch this: before it's coming up out of the soil was already in the Praise him for 20 seconds! Who did that hit just hit you. Let's review. A sower sowed a seed. It went down as a seed. It came up as a stalk. place. I wonder, is that what you needed to hear, What is the dark place? It's the place is in you so that when he brings it for it to be. I come against the spirit of That seed was not responsible to produce God has already done the hard part. Jesus hard for you to receive the forgiveness, to give it to you. It's so hard for us to walk passage is trying to say? That God the Father He is the seed who went into the earth he became the Bread of Life. He was already bread, but for us to receive him... If you have spiritual I am telling you that you have to go through some but I'm here to also tell you that what you need be bread, and it was bread when it was buried. You by him. You say, &quot;But I'm broken.&quot; So was the You say, &quot;But I'm hurting.&quot; So was Jesus. the seed. You keep sowing and you'll part. I thought about my relationship with for me to be in relationship with him How many feel that way, that God has the hard he still wants you. He signed up for all and he put a purpose inside of you. I want to pray because what the text gave me, for your life The principle is that everything in your gift is under development. Your intellect under development. All of that stuff you think is It was already bread when it went into the ground. I think about Jesus. He came to earth. parables. He taught them many times through So when it came time for the Passover them. Look at what Matthew 26:26 says about hard part. &quot;While they were eating, Jesus he broke it and gave it to his disciples, Shortly after that he died. it was symbolic of how his body would be was the seed? The seed breaks when it's on the cross. But notice what he said to them. He has done the hard part. he's got it. &quot;How shall he who died to him give us all things?&quot; When the seed is bow your head and close your eyes. The Maybe in your living room, maybe in maybe in your car, maybe in your workout, maybe church on the fourth row, God has you in the you. It's easy for him. He's God. But it's hard It's okay to be like the man in the passage, to job; it's God's part. I declare in the name working through your life, that God is giving that God is giving you everything you need You, like a mustard seed, might start out if you faint not. &quot;Let us not become weary in if we faint not.&quot; I declare over your life ground. You are hidden under the shadow of planted in the garden of the Lord. You are an Now let me pray for your children you're They're going to bring forth things too. going to go through a process too. You just You keep praising while God is doing stuff keeps producing. There's somebody here today You've never really done this thing. You've You've never really surrendered it. You keep to work your way to God. You keep going up It's time to let grace take over. So right I'm going to lead you in a prayer. You can but the God we pray it to is supernatural. you up. If you want to put your life Heavenly Father, I am a and I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son make Jesus the Lord of my life. I believe he to give me life. I receive this new life. On the count of three, shoot your two, three. We celebrate your resurrection That's awesome. Yeah, man. Come on. Let's do hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus