This video is brought to you by MUBI, a curated from around the globe. Try MUBI free for 30 days at mubi.com/cinematyler. Stanley Kubrick: "Ending a war film has If you don't kill the character, find out just a mechanical problem of how do you end I mean some stories end them by him being that's it." Matter of fact, I never felt so good in my How 'bout a cigarette? The intense final act of Full Metal Jacket of Private Pyle, but the sequence where the theme of the two stories together and remains, Now, I'm not going to try and convince you than the first. I've never met anyone who thought that. Just listen to what legendary director Billy Cameron Crowe. He said, "The first half of Full Metal Jacket was Where the guy sits on the toilet and blows Terrific. Then he lost himself with the girl guerrilla. The second half, down a little. It's still a wonderful picture. You know, if he does a thing, he really does But this is ... this is a career to discuss. Every picture, he trumps the trump. These are all pictures any director would be proud to be associated with, much less make" (Crowe 24). Pyle's story is brilliant for it's simplicity The Vietnam half gets more complex, but I of the Bootcamp half. We see the meticulous orderly machine try to further the interests of the country they In the Vietnam half, this order is pitted And by the end, a squad of Marines trained be wiped out by a twelve-year-old girl. But let's take a look at how this sequence In this video, I'll take you through the and the stories behind its making. Like why this part took a full month to film, to the climactic moment, and one of the most This is Making Film... What, are we lost? Joker, shut the fuck up. When we leave the Marine Corps Recruit Depot up Joker's story in Vietnam, he is already a photographer named Rafterman. The story takes Joker and Rafterman to Phu of Joker's from basic training named Cowboy. The story then takes Joker, Rafterman, and ones being: Cowboy, Eightball, Doc Jay, Donlon, T.H.E. Rock, Animal Mother, and the squad-leader, where Crazy Earl is killed by a booby-trap Soon after, Cowboy has the squad rest against We'll call this the beginning of the sniper This scene at the wall was one of the most They spent a full month filming at this low One of the main issues they had filming this Vietnam, but as we learned in my video on film in England, and this scene was shot during It was so cold that you could see the actors' So, to solve the problem, Kubrick first had have the actors put ice cubes in their mouths make steam (FMJ Diary). If you've seen my old video on the locations place during a particularly hot summer in know that Sidney Lumet used this same method. However, when Matthew Modine tried to say they came out "all garbled" (FMJ Diary). They had to try something different. A few days later, they put "gas-flame heaters front of the actors, but they were too noisy Ok, we're changing direction. We're heading over that way. Eightball's gonna go over there and see So, the following day, they got "hundreds the heaters could be positioned far enough up their sound and the hot air would just This seemed to do the trick, but with Kubrick take, the hot air began to take a toll on Modine said that he had to breathe shallow ended up losing their voices causing things And still, you can occasionally see the steam look hard enough. Cinematographer Douglas Milsome notes Kubrick's composition is very stylized. The way he places people is just amazing. You'll never find a Kubrick setup where is either from the waist up or full length. Every one of his movies has that look; very Things are placed exactly right every time. I use that style a lot even when I'm not of thing that I like myself. The use of extreme wide-angle lenses is distinctive, manipulate the action. We used a lot of wide angles to compose interesting on the same shots, and then Stanley would Cowboy sends Eightball toward the buildings At this point, the production had gone "way contracts were ending (FMJ Diary). In each contract, there was an "extension for extending their contract. I should know, sir. I've always been here. But Dorian Harewood-who played Eightball-wanted he took a "pay-cut" to be in Full Metal the movie, he would be making more money if Angeles (FMJ Diary). Kubrick was shocked. Modine said that he remembers Kubrick stumbling on his face and then he turned and said, "I'm For a second, Modine thought that Kubrick (Filmworker Q&amp;A). Kubrick decided to have Eightball get killed Now, this is by far the most insane thing Kubrick made sure that the rest of Harewood's him laying in the freezing cold winter dirt charges taped to little blood bags-over Modine said, "You could see Stanley wearing Vietnam khakis. It was freezing cold and snowing in London, would say, 'Nah, we have to do it again. Put more bullet hits on him.' And they were full loads full of exploding Kubrick's right-hand-man, Leon Vitali, said Kubrick's caravan and Kubrick showed him and asked, "what does 'in perpetuity' He told Kubrick that it meant "forever," Harlan's office 90-minutes away to confirm Vitali had just come from there to get to call, he wanted him to drive out there. When Vitali got back, Harewood was still laying Kubrick saw Vitali walking over and, in the Vitali asking what Harlan said (Filmworker Vitali replied that it meant 'forever' say that or are you saying he said it?" (Filmworker Q&amp;A). Vitali said, "why would I 'say' he said a [c-word]" (Filmworker Q&amp;A). The whole crew gasped, but Vitali just laughed Harewood almost didn't take on the role script hadn't yet been written when it was a miniseries that was cast before it was written His agent said, "What are you, crazy? There are actors who would pay to fly over to be with Kubrick" (Sun Sentinel). Harewood said that he was glad that Kubrick Go easy, bros. Doc Jay, the medic, goes in to help Eightball Kubrick uses his trademark zoom here. Vincent D'Onofrio: "And he just cranks It's so barebones, so raw, you know, and it's kind of an anxious thing." Kubrick bought two Doug Fries high-speed cameras in slow motion (AC 76). These were adapted from "standard" Mitchell still-camera lenses and were set to film at Another reason it took so long to shoot the they shot up the place, it took [quote] "two or three days to reset all of the bullet hits" (FMJ Making). Vincent D'Onofrio, who was on-set during someone saying that Kubrick wanted it to look Murph, we're in some deep shit. I got two men down. What's the story on that fuckin' tank, The voice of Murph over the radio was played Sorry Cowboy, no luck so far with the tank. Will advise, over. You can hear his distinct Bronx accent. Cowboy orders the men to move out and Animal Doc Jay and Eightball behind. C'mon, you guys! We gotta go bring them back! Let's go get them, let's do it! Stand down, Mother, that's a direct order! What's kind of funny is that Animal Mother in real life, Adam Baldwin really respected and personality and he looked up to him as They shot this many times with the Steadicam. The giant gun also took giant blanks and it running full-speed over the uneven ground Stanley Kubrick: "Looked like something, Vivian Kubrick: "Yeah." Nodoz, Stutton, Donlon, Rock, you come with Rest of you all stay put and cover our ass. Remember when Leon Vitali got back to the checking with the legal department? Kubrick told him that he came up with a solution wall and into the next part of the movie (Filmworker He pulled out a piece of paper with two lines Joker says, I'm going with you. And Rafterman says, I'm coming too. Kubrick said, "How do you like that?" The entire Vietnam half of the movie was filmed In his Full Metal Jacket Diary, Matthew Modine setting up the production to feel like a war He wondered if Kubrick set up situations-like at the wall-to [quote] "mold his actors Author David Hughes shares this theory saying, 'when is this going to end?' The more like the guys in Vietnam they become. None of this is lost on Stanley. He knows what he's doing. A very very clever crafter of actors' psyches" Perhaps the most famous instance of this is feedback to make Shelly Duvall tired and anxious blurs fiction and reality. You can argue the morality behind this, but of the performances in Kubrick's movies. Vincent D'Onofrio: "I remember the day They were all just so thrilled that they finally where the sniper is. They were just all so thrilled, and then it In 1985, when this was filmed, the Steadicam used very often (Commentary). The Steadicam allowed for a smooth motion Kubrick used a Steadicam operated by its inventor, great smooth shots of Danny riding his Big For Full Metal Jacket, Kubrick used it to Marines as they move from point to point, Wait, who the hell is that guy? Hm. Anyway. Getting these kinds of shots wouldn't have uneven gravel and debris. For the Steadicam shots, cinematographer Douglas high-speed lenses (AC 76). The men meet up with Animal Mother, but Cowboy bullet while he uses the radio. Gene Siskel: "And then when I see a sniper push in, I feel--for the first time--people I think visually this is the strongest movie Roger Ebert: "I--first of all, I didn't for a few specific shots that were really But secondly, let's talk about that very The others come up behind and we can clearly Then when you get to that reverse shot and I mean, when I saw that push I was so disappointed This whole sequence is taken right out of War Two war movies of guys running out there shooting at them. Gene Siskel: "I have never felt a kill in Ever, in any Vietnam film. Roger Ebert: "Not in Apocalypse Now? Not in The Deer Hunter? Not in Platoon?" Gene Siskel: "Not like that." Roger Ebert: "Well in that case you're have kills like that every night in black about midnight." Gene Siskel: "But they don't have movies Roger Ebert: "Oh I disagree, and I disagree Gene Siskel: "Well, that's just one scene, It's full of great scenes." I think what's interesting here about Ebert movies is that he seems to be ignoring the Joker often does an impression of John Wayne- Don't listen to any of Payback's bullshit Wayne. And let's not forget that John Wayne never There is the big advertisement for the John The parallel between these "cowboys and Is that you, John Wayne? Is this me? Hey, start the camera, this is Vietnam: The Yeah, Joker can be John Wayne and I'll be But who'll be the Indians? Hey, we'll let the gooks play the Indians! Not to mention that the person getting shot And the original ending in the screenplay back to Joker as a child pretending to die about this more later. Kubrick has used cinematic references to great This moment of Cowboy getting shot was particularly Cowboy get shot in slow motion and Arliss that a squib was about to go off (FMJ Diary). Modine wrote that they watched the playback For these long zoom shots, they used the Nikon Milsome said, "We used Nikon lenses to a for their extremely sharp definition and clarity, The focal lengths could go from 5mm all the went up to 1200mm and could double to 2400mm Milsome continues saying, "I wanted the what the idea was. I did that by making the subject come to me, There's an intermediate distance where lenses focal length you can get too close or too We were aiming for the middle distance where us to remain slightly more divorced from the This part of the movie was all filmed at Magic sun is setting and creates a soft warm glow Milsome was shooting with a wide open aperture, Even though there was a decent amount of natural they added some light to the actors' faces Stanley Kubrick: "Look at this Doug, how To me it looks great." Milsome said, "We primarily used Lowells up so they had a very directional beam that We introduced flame red into the color of The men leave Cowboy's body and head to They filmed the sniper nest scene in June where films like Superman, and later Batman, were filmed (ITV). Kubrick told Modine that the scene should up being more than three weeks (FMJ Diary). Modine said that the set was extremely hot and the actors were constantly getting dizzy At one point the ceiling almost caught fire so that the set could cool down (FMJ Diary). Kubrick played Ennio Morricone music on the the music (FMJ Diary). Joker manages to sneak up behind the sniper, fires. The bullet hits in the pillar Joker was hiding ears were ringing even hours after filming We finally see the face of the sniper who it's a shock. Screenwriter and friend of Kubrick, Jay Cocks, two times-once when Private Pyle kills himself a 12-year-old girl (Commentary). This climactic moment was shot in slow motion, effect where the light from the fire appears In an interview, Milsome talked about how He said, "We had an idea that if you use cameras, you can muck around with the shutter So, what you're doing when you're photographing you're pulling and also the tail-end of So you're getting flames coming off one So it's surrounding the one principle frame, the fire creeping in from all aspects of the In a separate interview, he continues this as it's moving, which is what gives it that Normally, the film stops when the shutter slightly out of sync - maybe 25% - but lasting that much longer in the shot" (AC About a decade later, cinematographer Janusz Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan to ask how Kaminski would use the shutter-speed effect Omaha Beach to make the action look more crisp You can also see the fire effect just a bit during the Tet Offensive. The sniper was played by Ngoc Le, whose name Joker in this shot for some reason (Paul Rust). Leon Vitali worked with Le on how to act in Vitali, himself, had played Lord Bullingdon play a small, but memorable role in Eyes Wide He quit acting after Barry Lyndon and devoted everything as his most trusted assistant. Vitali had previously been tasked with coaching On Full Metal Jacket, among the endless tasks, Lee Ermey on Hartman's dialogue and worked the film's most powerful moment. Modine thought that Le hadn't been on a The crew rigged her up with squibs and told arms in this position so they don't cover In his Full Metal Jacket Diary, Modine wrote, was good. He congratulates the girl, but she is scared. [...] She smiles but leaves immediately after Kubrick asked her up to his editing room to and left (FMJ Diary). Kubrick wanted to try another take, but after just the one take (FMJ Diary). In an interview Modine said, "There was a time when I was thinking about And I thought, "What is it that big movie try to find something that each of those people Well, they're all wonderfully photogenic, And now, what is the movie that made each And as I was going through it, I found out kind of had in common--which the exception In the movie that made them into a big, big So when I got to Full Metal Jacket and I was I thought, "If I'm going to take this really want to do. I want to splash blood onto the audience, life; that there's ... nothing great about What's interesting is that, in the shot name behind him, he says this: I wanted to be the first kid on my block to And she ultimately becomes Joker's first In his essay for Stanley Kubrick: New Perspectives, finally see from Joker's point-of-view (Seesslen). Matthew Modine: "That last close-up--I 'What did you do to the close-up? Did you do something optically? Did you slow it down? Did you do something...?' He goes, 'No man, that's all you.'" There is a recording of Kubrick talking about which I'm going to play now. You'll hear some strange noises-these was cut out. Kubrick: "There is an interesting irony, Marines to be really cold, you know, pounded rifle is only a tool, it's a hard heart And yet of course, in the end, this little men in the most merciless way and tried to be trained at Parris Island to do this. She's a killer and they're killers. You're left to think about the real motivation of it, and the motivation they have to have, to be trained into them, and which in the as it is" (A Voix Nue). This scene was longer and had some serious Similar to the video on Private Pyle's death, bonus video on Patreon. This way I don't have to censor anything the gore effects that were going to be used The actual ending of the movie was originally Mouse Hellscape ending we see in the final During the production of Full Metal Jacket, his trailer, drink very strong African coffee, Modine: "And then he said, 'Let's have Is that there can't be any bad ideas? You know, if we're talking about something 'Yeah... or we could do this.' He says, 'That way, it'll keep things So don't ever say something is stupid or It was a huge deal to be invited to talk with star, was often in there. Kubrick had written an ending in the script, Kubrick told co-screenwriter Michael Herr, be so powerful, so moving...We've seen it The ending would show Joker dying intercut a "toy rifle" (FMJ Diary). Kubrick wrote into the script: Joker, the 8 year old, clutches his chest His image will slow down until we hold on Capa's famous civil war photograph of a is forever suspended in mid-fall by the camera. However, as the production was going on, Kubrick In what has become a running theme in these of Kubrick was in how he would entertain and have about the movie. And he, as the director, would simply add-in wouldn't work. This allowed Kubrick to harness the power one of these people is a potential audience I often wonder what it would be like if a discussion about their movie before they release that they had never thought of. So, Kubrick would constantly ask Modine about One day, after Modine was particularly annoyed name-Bowman, Kubrick summoned Modine to When Modine arrived, he found that Kubrick and Kevyn Major Howard (Pinewood Dialogue). Harewood: "At one point, he got all the his motorhome and he says, 'You know, I'm You guys have any ideas?' We all look at each other like, 'Stanley Baldwin: "I remember there was a day he That was what was cool about Stanley, too, 'Let's try that, see how it works.' He was walking around going, 'Here, Adam. What do you think of this song? It's 'My Way.'' 'Who does it?' 'That's Sid Vicious from the Sex Pistols.' 'Oh, it's cool.' 'I'm thinking of ending the movie with I was like, 'Oh, that would be great!' (Commentary). Kubrick said to Modine, "You know, Matthew, now what you think of the end of the film, alternative ending. Now, I just asked these three guys, and they Arliss' idea was that it turned out that and he wakes up next to Joker in an army hospital Adam's idea was that, back in the United some clothes to the dry cleaner where he hears "Semper Fi" and turns around to see Animal Mother (Pinewood Dialogue). By the time Kevyn was telling his idea, Modine the words Kevyn was saying. Modine turned to Kubrick and said, Modine: "'Well, Stanley, I guess you could Then you'd realize how stupid they are. Then we'd re-shoot them, like we have with I couldn't believe that had come out of I was trying immediately to grab the words Modine had broken Kubrick's number one rule: Afterward, Kubrick kept calling Modine a "[c-word]" There was an idea to end with the soldiers theme song, but the new idea going forward that Joker survived the war but committed Later, Modine was angry during shooting. Kubrick asked if he had been thinking about He hadn't been thinking about it at all, "You wanna know what I think should happen, He should live. He should spend the rest of his life thinking He should have to spend the rest of his life in the latrine. He should have to spend the rest of his life friend died in his arms" (FMJ Diary). Modine: "'And then he should have to stand He should live. He should live, and have to spend the rest because that's the real horror of war: to And Stanley's eyes got really black, and--that that we all know--he started looking at me said, 'That's the end of the film'" (Pinewood Dialogue). Kubrick: "By the way, something you might sing, in America, the Mickey Mouse Club was The idea of that was simply to suggest the many years ago, were singing that song, you I realize people in England didn't know They thought it was just a song. That was a very powerful and important bit What is this Mickey Mouse shit!? In order to shoot these final moments, a one-thousand-foot-long Cinematographer Douglas Milsome said, "The with a tank filled with 3000 gallons of burning the big fires that glowed in the background. The calor burns very red-yellow and the Dantes of color. Together, they produced a strong red glow Stanley Kubrick: "Ok." "Alright let's go. Take the coats off." They shot this in December of 1985. Two "large fuel tankers" were positioned to shoot, so Modine suggested using the smoke Kubrick liked the idea and told the crew to They used a Louma crane extended "twenty used to get the closer shots of Joker, Rafterman, actors walk closer to the track (AC 84). Next to the camera on the track, was one Brute feet away (AC 84). Kubrick: "And he says when he looks at the it's better to be alive.' If you're looking for, you know, a statement as good as any." I want to take a moment to thank this episode's MUBI is a curated streaming service tailor-made MUBI features a line-up of great films, hand-picked on a guided journey through the best that every single day. What's really cool is how MUBI curates their specific sub-genres. It's like having your own personal film Check out Akira Kurosawa's 1985 epic, Ran Ran is based on Shakespear's King Lear and divides his kingdom among his three sons. And let's just say they don't get along. And then there's The Brother's Bloom directed If you enjoyed Knives Out, you'll like The an eccentric heiress into an elaborate scheme Or check out Los Angeles Plays Itself, a documentary Los Angeles has been mythologized through All of this and much much more are available Try MUBI free for 30 days at MUBI dot com slash CinemaTyler for a whole month of great Patreon at the $5 level and get extended access And head on over to Patreon to watch the bonus scene could have been. It's available right now for one dollar my next video goes up. Thanks for watching!