I'm considered as colored So, I have to go through this gate. This is for non-whites and that is for whites. Apartheid eventually ends at the end, it becomes like this a museum. Apartheid. Look at this city in South Africa White people live in this neighborhood and black people live in this neighborhood they're separated throughout the whole city of Cape Town. You can clearly see the difference in the standard of living. It seems like white people live in California with the most luxurious sites but black people live in the worst areas. It's not just in this neighborhood or in this city it's in the whole country. The lines you're seeing on the map are where white people live it's where the best, most luxurious places are where there are jobs and they're by the sea. and black people, are away from the city and they're isolated from the city's rich even though the citizens fought Apartheid. racial segregation for more than 40 years. and before that the occupation by Britain and Netherlands. till 1994 Nelson Mandela was elected and became the president of the country and Apartheid ended with him. However how is the country still divided till now?! This is the prison that Nelson Mandela was imprisoned in in an Island near Cape Town. Today, we're in Johannesburg South Africa's largest city and its financial, industrial and economic center. This is the city of Johannesburg dubbed the city of gold. The richest city in Africa A long story of a conflict that revolves around the color of the skin and the story of gold there. And the arrival of the Dutch to Cape of Good Hope and international trade. this is the city the word Apartheid came from here from the republic of South Africa. from a local language and it means division, isolation and racial segregation. The term Apartheid you've heard it a lot before, right? it is the essence of racial segregation. This is in South Africa they're supporting Palestine everywhere. There's deep sadness in their eyes about Palestine though South Africa is the farthest point in southern Africa. We're in Johannesburg, South Africa There's a conference here a campaign called the Global Campaign to Return to Palestine at the same time Nelson Mandela's family is here. "Who's name is Nelson Mandela" The term Apartheid exists in South Africa where else have you heard it? What other country applies Apartheid? The Zionist entity that supported Apartheid in South Africa and it's implementing the same system since it's establishment against the Palestinians on the occupied Palestine with the racial segregation wall barbed wires and electronic gates and hundreds of checkpoints Judaization, confiscation of lands building settlements and arbitrary arrest and physical extermination all of this exists in our world now! in the West Bank of occupied Palestine. So, this is South Africa we came to film here to show it as an example how they fought, held out and resisted to beat Apartheid. This is a prison in Johannesburg it used to be for black people a few steps from it a prison for whites. This is for blacks and colored the one next to it is for whites who are treated better, of course. The pencil test was set to determine Even in prisons what they can or cannot eat. Nelson Mandela was imprisoned here before taking him to Cape Town to Robben Island. They say that every prisoner here didn't do anything except wanting freedom they only demanded their freedom. they call them what does it remind you of? Apartheid was an official system from the government, by law and it was applied through punishments by security and police. meaning a system applied by the police a system of the government, Apartheid. Until Apartheid ended in South Africa. These cards also have your name and race allowing you to enter certain places and forbid you from others. Written here is Do you see this armored vehicle in the back? During the days of Apartheid they used it to assault villages attacking and killing people and arresting them. Made by Mercedes Germany was part of Apartheid. What does it remind you of? This was Nelson Mandela's house in this neighborhood a single picture of a kid was enough to cause change it shook the world then. Can you imagine that one picture affected the whole world then but we see images like this almost every day now did the world stop being affected and stopped feeling? or is it because we're seeing them daily they became normal? They put a picture like this in the middle of the street Do we have to start putting up pictures like this? for all our martyrs? should that happen? We had to go to South Africa's most beautiful city The city of Cape Town with its magical beaches. Where's there's Cape of Good Hope. Cape of Good Hope we're at the farthest point in Africa. Down south, the area of Cape of Good Hope. All ships used to pass from here Can you imagine? The Dutch came here and white people settled here, and the reason is all of the world trade passed from here until the Suez canal came and completely cut it off. What we know in this universe is a only a drop and what we don't know is an ocean. Check out the clouds up here. They were happy for the existence of this passage way as it helped them avoid the land route that was a dangerous route to Europe. In the streets of Cape Town, in the Muslims neighborhood all the houses are colored which is a symbol of freedom and equality here in the middle of Cape Town. Look at what they drew. Check out the drawings they did nobody can tell them anything. Okay, how did Apartheid end? And from Cape Town about a half an our away on boat you'll reach an Island where the prison of Nelson Mandela is located. This Island used to be a prison all political prisoners were put here. And Nelson Mandela was here for 27 years. They say this was his prison cell. He was imprisoned here for 27 years then he got out and became the president! Can you imagine? a paradise but you're locked up inside. What does this city remind you of? We're all looking forward to the day that soon will come, and we'll say Free at last! Then they will nod their heads toward you and say, &quot;When is that?&quot; "Say, Perhaps it will be soon" Quran 17:51.