SANDRA GUO: When we were this feature, we literally the situation, walking and colleagues and snatching the And there are that we learn from and then we try to act in a lab setting. SPEAKER: Welcome to the where we meet the people who you love. Here's your host, Rachid Finge. RACHID FINGE: We just launched It's called Theft Detection if someone snatches your phone. To learn more, we're talking manager on the platform SPEAKER: This is the RACHID FINGE: Sandra, have you And did that make some sort SANDRA GUO: I have And I'm not sure it could have been-- or did I misplace it. I never quite know for sure. And when it happened, It was like, oh, And usually I go through the This also goes back to the was available. And I go through it. And in the most recent And I was able to locate And then I heard about the more in cities like London made me very worried that if would I do? RACHID FINGE: So hopefully for our fellow Android users. But let's start You're a product manager. You work on platform and most recently phone theft launched and also for our fellow Pixel users. But let's rewind the You've been with which is an amazing tenure. Have you always been while you were at Google? SANDRA GUO: No, I haven't But I have always I actually studied when I was in college. Then I interned on the So I joined the data And I worked in cloud in privacy and most recently So my entire career has been and privacy. RACHID FINGE: So there is some let's say, traditional into which I guess you could now in a way? SANDRA GUO: Yes, exactly. It makes it quite to think about my the daily lives of the It's not theoretical. It's not cyber. It's not remote. It's actually physical and the data that it holds. RACHID FINGE: So let's start I imagine if you're to prevent issues when you're probably going some sort of statistics on What are the kind of SANDRA GUO: The When we started we initially heard And the numbers was every hour, close were robbed or stolen. And this number was in 2021. And it was only getting RACHID FINGE: So if I were for example, for a thief to the thief would need maybe or it would need the ability or a fingerprint. So let's talk about Theft What kind of in mind where it against a thief being able SANDRA GUO: Yeah, I think that we have is if set up PIN or decent quality if it's properly configured, it However, the exploit that we is more targeting So I give you a that we've pieced together In a metropolitan a user is walking around And he's like, let me see, I want to go look at it. And walking around with a And the attacker on a grab the phone from the user's The phone is in Now what do you do? And with access to the attacker can get into all He can go in there to and then from there, RACHID FINGE: Exactly. Because when I'm I'm using navigation and they would just swipe And then all the apps are-- they can make a phone call. They could open my inbox. All these things SANDRA GUO: Exactly. So what we heard is that when in unlocked state that the is try to do things like to try to keep the phone from Up until this point, as it stays unlocked. And then the attacker would And now he has time to exploit And he may even be able to setting. Then, even if the user get to a or wipe the phone, the And then from there, the go to the photo albums photos of credit cards and I have all of my passports in my Identity theft, steal see what's saved password manager, and go into all to buy stuff. Well, you heard like and deliver to addresses order food delivery, RACHID FINGE: Really? SANDRA GUO: Yeah, it showcases that's available once a RACHID FINGE: So let's now because in Android, called Theft Detection Lock. How does Theft Detection SANDRA GUO: Yeah, to help the user to lock down too far from exploiting So how fast is fast? We realize that if we make it Even if the phone is if we're able to detect that, And we know that lock When that happens, the So that's why we looked to try to detect when a device And that's Theft Detection We talked with our at Android, that same team detection, fall detection. We brainstormed ideas. They're like, yeah, that we can analyze to model snatched away from the user. And then we use AI to automate accurate to say like, here And this is the behavior of And we use AI to build And then we use that to predict to happen and whether RACHID FINGE: So are you looking at to understand what SANDRA GUO: We start with to try to detect the a phone is snatched away. And then there are that we use to confirm the or was it just someone clicking or drop a phone on the ground? RACHID FINGE: So let I'm walking on the streets. I'm using Navigation. Someone rips the And then we have AI looking on my phone to see if that that phone out of my hand. Maybe they're It would detect that and And it will, as a preventative And then you also had to that, I guess, pretty scenario because, as you most of the time, people will-- maybe someone's dancing and And people will turn So you have to SANDRA GUO: There That is because usually when it fires, even and I will say that would be false we live in a terrible, But I just want to caveat that. But because it's usually, it corresponds to a It shouldn't be The user may not even notice lock and unlock their devices So we try to introduce friction. We try to introduce friction RACHID FINGE: So when I was putting my SANDRA GUO: This If a phone drop on It shouldn't be a big deal. RACHID FINGE: Yeah, because you And I think it's how Android can during theft, and So that's recovery options So could we walk through Maybe start with What kind of protections in place for Android users? SANDRA GUO: Before theft, we The best way to prevent the incentive of theft so worthwhile to steal a phone. And how do we do that? We already have this feature What it does is if someone the proper credential of the already set up on the device, If it cannot be reset, it cannot going to buy a phone with So that's the first step. We cut down the incentive. And once a theft scenario me actually walk you through I was telling you that this got his phone snatched. And immediately at that is able to react, to lock itself or try to that just occurred? If it did, let me lock myself. That is automatic. But what if the in a very nonconventional way It may not fire. So the user still to make sure the And when that happens, We have Find My The user can log in to lock your device, wipe your So those are solutions But when we research why in a theft scenario, discovered that, first of And also, many users don't They only have a phone. Now they have to go borrow a a family, maybe a And you borrow the device. And now you have to enter your into the Find My Device portal. That's where the friction is. Without the assistance many users can't recall their off the back of their head when that they just got robbed and And usually it And they may have to go in order to get back All of this is before they're the fact their device to lock their device down. It takes too long before And that's where You go to android.com/lock. And all you have to do is number, maybe a simple if you choose to set one up. But those are information that's to remember and input. And you just click on Secure. You can do this within go missing to remotely and will buy you time to explore so you can log into Find more advanced remediation. I want to stress that Find the recommended place for users any advanced remediation But Remote Lock to react quickly to lock down on with more because time is essence here. So where are we in The phone is taken. Theft Detection Lock may The user run to a bartender, in the android.com/lock, Now he can go maybe locate, certain the device is gone. Another one of the is the Offline Device Lock. So what that does based on a typical that we've learned they get a hold of they actually take it offline. User get to Remote Lock, they're not able because the phone is offline. And now the thief in the world to explore So that's why we created RACHID FINGE: Is that SANDRA GUO: It is. It's part of the So the idea here detect when a becomes offline for a And when that happens, It introduces a to limit the amount of time offline, the time has to explore its to authenticate again. RACHID FINGE: I imagine now thinking, oh, is maybe not worth because it's going to lock and grab it when I'm SANDRA GUO: Exactly. And an Android The main goal for building is to make it so difficult to take advantage that the thieves leave it alone. RACHID FINGE: Now, Sandra, going there is one question I've and it's this, how do you test-- or in Google language, And how do you train that SANDRA GUO: Android building when we dogfood this feature. [LAUGHTER] We actually literally when we were developing we literally have colleagues walking with unlocked phone and and snatching the And there are that we learned from And then we try to act in a lab setting. RACHID FINGE: You might like, hey, does anyone have for testing? SANDRA GUO: Oh, There's mopeds. There's just good There's quite a number of So we're in the like, let's try this outside. Let's go outside for this. And then we open it up within the company. And we turn on-- on by default for everybody at one point to see whether whether the user can live And we have lots of in the team that give us many valuable complaints that And then after that, we also in the real world in Brazil. Over the summer, we to all users in Brazil, Google And the features were available We got like real-world test by that concern about theft and tried this feature. And we got positive And we got very positive And we're able to really like in the wild, how with these features, and what interact with this feature, and make and that we made to the rest of the world. RACHID FINGE: Well, those are in Android. Just, Sandra, quickly, anyone features in their hands, where SANDRA GUO: Yes, it's You go to Settings, and all three features are RACHID FINGE: you so much for introducing on the Made by Google Podcast. And let the world know, among them, better not because it is SANDRA GUO: That's correct. Thank you, Rachid. RACHID FINGE: Thank you, Sandra. SPEAKER: Thank you for listening Don't miss out on new episodes. Subscribe now wherever to be the first to listen.