About two years ago, to turn cotton balls into edible At first, this idea but I knew that it This is because cotton, even though it is technically entirely sugar. The only problem is that all this sugar, is trapped in something called cellulose. As cellulose, it acts and we can use it to make things At its core, though, it's all just sugar. What I dreamed of doing back into sugar I didn't just want to make and I specifically wanted I wanted to make literal cotton candy. To get started, was figure out how to even do it. I had to come up with a way to break down and my first idea was to use an enzyme. This was because I had already used where I turned toilet paper and it had worked really well. For that one, and I was able which is also entirely cellulose. This gave me a solution of sugar, and then I distilled it to make The whole process ended up and I figured The only issue was that the enzyme and it was mixed Both of these were sugars, so none of it turned into alcohol and they didn't at all However, for this one, I couldn't have It would be almost impossible and it would just be a huge mess. I had to find somewhere and the easiest and cheapest source It was pretty easy to go on, but actually getting what I wanted The first and biggest problem was that I never knew if it was actually I always asked but it never seemed fully believable. Also, the Canadian government and holding them for months. This one by far had to be Customs had apparently torn it open and repackaged it by just It was also brown, immediately told me and I could tell there was sugar in it It took months, but I eventually and it, of course, It was an off-white but still pure powder, and it didn't seem to have When I tried it on the cotton, though, I think the enzyme itself and the cotton was just really stubborn. I knew that it would be a bit harder but I didn't expect it I was never really able to do it, and after trying for a while, About a year later, though, and I decided to attempt I read every single book, article, and I slowly put something together. My biggest challenge was that I didn't want to have or weird chemicals, and I wanted it I also ideally wanted the sugar or at the very least, not poison me. After about a week, I ended up coming up Instead of using enzyme to break down and the process seemed I decided to just jump right into it and I picked up I went with the large ones and it looked like a lot, Now, the next main ingredient was some 98% concentrated sulfuric acid. For all this cotton, I calculated and I poured it directly This almost immediately caused and when it was all added, What I was doing here and bringing the concentration I also used ice to do this and the whole solution was now probably If I'd used regular water instead of ice, it probably would have which wouldn't have been ideal. But anyway, when it looked I turned off the stirring and I let it cool down About 30 minutes later, it was good to go, It was now time to add the cotton I then poked it around a bit, and it almost immediately In general, and I thought that it was interesting It only took a minute and I felt that I was ready I carefully loaded in a small handful, and it looked like it At first, this was a bit concerning because this was only a small fraction With just a bit of poking around it slowly disappeared into the acid. I then continued adding and I was honestly a bit worried that it wasn't going Now, as far as I know, there was no major reaction going on here, I wasn't able to find much info about it, was probably just interacting It was forming a complex which normally help the fibers This was causing them to separate It really didn't seem but I was able to fit the whole bag. Now, at this point, but to fully dissolve the cotton, I dropped it and I let it sit there for 30 minutes. When it was done, it looked like and I pulled it out of the bath. I then poured it into 456 milliliters This diluted the acid even more, and it brought it down I then washed out the beaker to make sure and I added a thermometer. I now had to keep this at 85 C, and even though it didn't look it was the most important step. In the other one, but here, The long cellulose fibers and they were breaking the bonds This type of reaction and they were breaking it down I had to keep it and in that time, When it was done, and I poured all of this This one was surrounded with ice but it was still going to take a while. In the meantime, I prepared I went and got some which is basically just chalk. I would be using this but I couldn't I had to make it into a slurry, and based on my calculations, I measured that out I then stirred it around and after a few minutes, When everything eventually cooled down I started adding the goopy chalk. It reacted almost immediately and it was releasing a lot of CO2 gas. This was all being generated and the acid itself The only problem was that I had or else it would bubble out of the beaker. This was a very slow process and it was going okay This happened because the calcium sulfate was practically insoluble in water To fix this, I occasionally added and it seemed to help. I also added some more water to the chalk, At some point, it really started looking and it was a bit scary That would have been and it would have tasted absolutely awful. But anyway, I was eventually and when I tested the pH, What I had now was hopefully a mixture and the next step was to filter it. I poured in as much but it wasn't even close I was only able to add and I was going to have After loading up as much as I could, I turned on the vacuum This was all being drained and I was getting When the stuff in the filter looked dry, I then mixed it around that might have been stuck This was then all pulled through Now, I had to deal so I washed the filter and I added everything It was all just barely able to fit, Just like before, I pulled it all through In the flask below, I was left This was all hopefully but up until now, I had no idea To figure this out, though, and I just had to use This is normally used and I was a bit worried that it would tell me However, it actually gave me It told me that there was and that there was The only problem side products, and leftover acid. What I had to do next To do this, I figured the easiest way was to use something called At first, this might sound but it's actually super simple to use. It's also commonly used so it's pretty cheap I got all my resin from Amazon, and all I did was put it Now to clean the dirty sugar solution, As it passed over the resin, and this included things The sugar itself, though, and it shouldn't have been affected by it. It even got rid of some of the color, and after just one run, I then swapped out and I passed it all through again. I was doing this just to really make sure that I pulled out When it was done, and at this point, Besides the obvious orange color, there should have been However, the main issue now was that there was still and I had to get rid of most of it. After pouring it all into this large dish, This is normally meant and it's basically I then ran it which ended up taking about 35 hours. After that, I took it out It was just slightly over 400 mils, and now that it was more concentrated, It was also slightly acidic This unfortunately meant that I had This time, though, that I made from a water bottle. This one had a valve at the bottom so everything wouldn't pass I also included along with the resin, which I was hoping would help After everything was added, and then I let it sit there. I wasn't sure how long I had to leave it, and based on almost nothing, I decided that five hours Over that time, and it did get noticeably lighter. When it hit the five-hour mark, I opened the valve I washed everything and it was now hopefully cleaner. The only thing that I didn't like To fix this, I tried pouring it through but I don't think In any case, and it no longer had a weird smell. It basically just smelled like water The only issue was that there was still so I put it back into the dehydrator. I then ran it until it looked When I felt that it was done, and I put it This one was made of silicone, and if I had made any sugar, After that, I put it back in and I ran it until it looked like When it eventually looked like I was really hoping to see but that, of course, wasn't the case. Only this part in the corner I thought that maybe it was just having so I covered it and I put it When I took it out, I thought However, it wasn't. It was all goopy but I was still happy. Even though it wasn't nice and crunchy, the texture more or less There weren't very many other things that would be sticky and gooey like this. I wasn't exactly sure but I figured it was probably There was still some water and unfortunately, I had to get it out. If I tried putting this it would be an absolute mess. To dry it, which is just an upside-down tray I then scraped off all the sugar, which totally stuck to the silicone, I slowly turned up the heating and I brought it up to just above I let it bubble like this for a while, and after several minutes, I still wasn't done, though, I knew that it still wouldn't work This was because using pure glucose I had no idea why, but it only seemed to work when the glucose I slowly raised the temperature and I brought it up to 185 C. Under this high heat, which actually meant This was basically the exact opposite and I was rebuilding them It would still be edible, though, and it would never go back My only issue here was that I had and I was also really afraid I ended up letting it go which took about an hour. I then pulled it off the hot plate and I waited for it After half an hour, and for a second, When I poked at it, though, it was completely solid, I was pretty happy and it was a lot more sugar than I needed. It was also a lot more especially after my failures However, the yield was technically crappy, In theory, I probably should This meant that I had lost and I honestly have no idea where it went. I'm thinking that a lot of it might have or in all the calcium sulfate. Or maybe, in general, Either way, I never expected and 20 grams was more than enough. I was also honestly still amazed that I Even though I had done this all myself, I still thought that this used One thing, though, was that I still I mean, I had tested it but I felt that there was Up until now, and I was really anxious to try it. If there was anything else in there, it would probably taste and I was honestly Okay, so I guess I'll just It tastes pretty good. It's just caramelized sugar. That's it. That's my whole review. Done. Okay, so it was actually and it didn't even But anyway, I guess it was now time To do this, I figured that all I needed and I bought one from Amazon. Now, in theory, based on the instructions, all I had to do was wait for it to heat up I waited for about 5 or 10 minutes, and I nervously took out I then dropped some in, I was really hoping to see but that didn't happen. All it did was shoot out When I saw this, and I wasn't sure why it failed. It just shot it all out. It just shot it out as liquid sugar. It just... Based on my small tests, But then again, Cut. It didn't work. That's what I feared. I ended up trying it a few more times, At first, I had no idea but I started thinking was just too low. If that were the case, it might just be having a hard time This machine was designed for table sugar but glucose melts around 146 C, I was hoping that this would have but I guess I didn't caramelize it enough. I think it just has I scraped off all the sugar and I put it back I then heated it up again to about 200 C. I had no idea how long and again, Over 20 minutes, it darkened a bit more, and when I eventually felt I then let it cool down like before, and I broke it I was now ready to try again, In theory, the caramelization but I was a bit scared There was only one way and I dropped I then turned it on, In the meantime, I got ready It was a little awkward, but I found that reaching over the camera I was half-expecting it to almost but that didn't seem to be happening. In fact, it didn't seem Taking a lot longer. I kept waiting, and I was a bit worried But then there was suddenly I then quickly used the stick, and I tried collecting it, The first thing that I noticed, though, was that it looked a lot thicker I mean, it was all yellow and the machine but it was still pretty exciting. When it eventually looked like it wasn't Oh my God! Okay, so apparently it had worked. Even though it was probably the saddest and most pathetic I was still really happy with it. I also really wanted It tastes like regular cotton candy, It's not bad, but it's also not good. The only major issue with it, like industrial-grade cotton candy Even though it was able to solidify, In just a few minutes, and it had gotten a lot harder. All the work, all of my work to get this. Before it completely died, though, I broke off a piece of it In my opinion, and the cotton candy just looked But anyway, in the end, I guess I was successful at turning I mean, it wasn't and the quality wasn't exactly the best, but it was still and I'm really happy For now, though, I think I'm done and I'm going to focus like turning Now is when I would but I've decided Instead, I want to take the time to announce that I'm finally The first shirt is the original design and there have been The other one is a new design, and personally, Right now, these shirts will only and I'm not sure if If you want to pick one up there's a link in the description. My goal in general with this and to not rely on sponsorships anymore, but I guess I'll have As usual, a big thanks goes out Everyone who supports me at least 24 hours You'll also get access that I had to take down. If you support me you'll get your name