Hi there, Mike Rankin coming to you as Creative Sessions. Thanks for joining me. how to take a layout that was built in Publisher, make some changes and then started I'll just say a little bit about editor in chief at CreativePro networks content on CreativePro.com, InDesignSecrets.com and InDesign Magazine. I'm also an instructor at LinkedIn Learning including Affinity Publisher Essential worked for many years in book publishing in pre-press and automation and lots of Affinity Publisher and I can't wait to can do with it. So to get started let's work with. So here's our file, could be any kind of short booklet. It's letter size and starts with a cover here. elements like this running header and span across the spread, table of contents kinds of formatting, body text, sidebars, Silhouetted photo of our CEO here and we And on the back cover we have a page. So you could pretty much remake Affinity Publisher, but you don't have to Publisher can actually open this PDF items into editable right there. And that can be a really deadline, you just need to make a few that's also something that Adobe feature. But it wouldn't take you very did have to make a lot of major changes Publisher and open this PDF file and see open and here's the PDF, and I'll open it. choose which pages to bring here into color space. I'm just going to leave open. Publisher loads the document and it profile, that's fine. clicking in here and editing these text is really cool just to be able to make But it wouldn't take long to discover with. First of all I just noticed right there are no master pages, so if I wanted throughout the document I can no longer of makes sense because the master pages PDF file so publisher would have no way down further I can see that I don't have actually a thing that's really easy to have the move tool, I can just go up here the Layout tab here I'll just turn horizontally, I'll start on the right click OK. And now my spreads are all But if I go back up here, I are hard to work with, so we have you the master page is now just a local over here. The images that span the here, okay so they've been chopped up so they're also not linked to the original InDesign. So if I go to document resource embedded at this point and these are they've all been named for the PDF file five and so on. If I did have access to the replace feature here to link back to a dynamic table of contents this is just numbers changed I'm going to have to I have a lot of the text formatting in PDF file but it would be difficult to this because if I look over in the text I have no paragraph and character styles information that's preserved inside the things as well like this frame is kind got mushed in together in the PDF file. if we wanted to use something other than have any swatches to work with so global colors that I can just change something else throughout the document scroll down I can see what looks like a separate text frames so that's going to rows and columns and make major changes there. And on the last page I don't have a live hyperlink things that I'll get better results with InDesign Markup Language file that you don't have access to InDesign, the called IDMarkz from Markzware.com. I'm and you can purchase this as part of a if you don't want to get involved with to open an InDesign file even if I and then I can export out the IDML to click open, here's the INDD, the InDesign IDMarkz, I get page preview so I can see document information here. I can actually and over on the top left I have the different file formats that I can source document, so PDF and all these extract the text and use that for a button here and I can choose the format whole document so I'm going to cancel button right here so when I click this from the InDesign file and then open it working with. And it's loading and there right away that I have lots more stuff margins and column guides going on here, of my text frames that the layer InDesign file and I can confirm that by see that with my master page content at be. And in fact let's go over to the master first thing I want to do is update this whoops, 21. And I have my dynamic page liked to move them up. I don't like how page so I'm going to align them at the align controls here to align vertically good. And now there's a little bit of guides here so they're not exactly off on the right-hand page and they're left-hand page. I'm not exactly sure why do with the fact that they weren't InDesign file, okay so let's get rid of these and make in Publisher, so we'll go view, guides remove all guides and get rid of these go over here. I want six columns and I like the outline style so I'll that's looking like a good master page. update this date, 2020-21, go to the next spread and I can select this placed image, it now spans InDesign and I can confirm that it's by going to the resource manager and are linked not embedded, static information right now, that's preserve the dynamic nature coming over from InDesign but we can fix this easily enough, we'll do what else can we do here, go to the next spread I want to show you one of my Affinity products and that's the StudioLink feature. With StudioLink, I can access the tools in the other programs Photo right here in the context of my help me work on Brad here, our CEO. I the reason I do is because for the new Brad's no longer sporting the facial hire a photographer and do a new that he does now so we need to get rid for that in Publisher but I do have a and I can access it with StudioLink going up to the button on the top left I'll switch to Photo Persona and I now see the Affinity Photo tools facial hair here, I'm going to use the settings look like what I want, I'm gonna patch of skin down here. The assistant tells me it had to rasterize the layer so I can actually you very much, it's exactly what I wanted, shave. And that looks pretty good, so make that kind of photo modification in to switch applications, I didn't have to forth - so cool. And then when I just want tools I just click up here to switch actually gets even cooler than that. If I bottom right, I can go forward see changes that I made in both personas, with the Publisher tools and the change Affinity Photo tools, so that's really I'm here is I want to change the color I wanna change from this red to something document palette that was brought over and I can tell that they're global triangles in the bottom left corner. So change it once here and it will cascade switch from red to something else. I'll color and I can use any of Publisher's just use these sliders and we can switch blue looks kind of cool to me, maybe throughout the document thanks to the wholesale changes to the text formatting styles. Now the designer who built this 'based on' feature there which allows you on a parent style so that you can just see that change cascade throughout the in all the child styles. So the same Publisher and because we preserved all that we wanted to switch from montserrat font. I'll scroll down to find the parent document are based Now Main_Font isn't actually applied to it just exists to be that parent style. character controls I'm gonna change the bit careful as I choose a different font choose has all the same different styles, italic, you know extra bold, black, I move my cursor over each different changes throughout the document. I mean incredibly cool feature. If you need to particular I know that Open Sans has all to go ahead and choose that and click OK. updated the text formatting, let's see want to make changes to our graph and preview mode just so I can see my column chart. So we'll get rid of the old one making pie charts, not surprisingly it's over here from the tools and I'm going hold down the shift key to constrain it of this pie segment I can either use the or I can simply move my cursor over bent arrow, I can click and drag to this. So let's drag it down about there, data that we needed so that's one piece and paste it. I'll change the fill color, let's drag this guy here. We'll say that year. of my other swatches for this last pie like that. And we could of course update well. Now let's move on to the table over InDesign and Publisher work a little bit InDesign, a table has to live inside of a text frame. It doesn't have to in Publisher, it that can lead to a little bit of So for example, if I click on this guy him so I can make an extra row down here, in the layers panel is because I want to move it, I need to select the Okay or if I don't actually need this in select the table itself and just click now I have two separate things; I have frame that came over from InDesign. I'll here and now I can take the table tool up to ten rows, we'll click in here and new data so on and so forth to update All right that's looking pretty good. And date... 21. And I want to add that hyperlink to this select this text, copy it and then I'll hyperlinks. And I want to create a new but we can make other types of the start, paste in that text that I extra character formatting so I'm gonna now I have a live hyperlink to our zoom back out and one more thing I'd contents. So remember this is just static dynamic so when the headings in the that this can be updated very quickly select it all and delete it and I'll here and create a new table of contents. Now just like in Adobe InDesign the table of contents feature here in text styles, so I can see on the left hand applied to the text in the document so styles it wants, which styles I want it frame in the TOC. And that's going to be and now it's gathered all the H1s and to do is format them so they look text styles panel and you can see the longer see all the list of styles table of contents styles here. And I want to edit this one, H1_Main and now we're going to use that based on on TOC one entry paragraph style just like everything apply it to the selection and I come look. I just want to make it capitals and one thing I think that's missing right in the InDesign layout and for that I because I actually need two tabs to do leader around here and another to get separator I'll go over to the table of controls and I'll add a tab. And then open and close from right here, I'll just going to right click on that tab, change leader, and see how that looks. That looks So now I just need to update the entries are using that same tab set with update, and there we go. And then just to table of contents let's scroll down a find one of our cool headings like the year the CEO wants to be more personal we've updated the H1_Main, now select it and we'll update it. And now we that looks pretty good, we're just about before we do that I want to take Publisher that I love which is the check for certain problems in the to PDF. So I'll open the preflighting by can choose a profile which tells for. I'm just going to start with the a whole bunch of errors but fortunately they're just all spelling mistakes so we can tell Publisher we don't want certain other things just by going to and here's all the categories of things pre-flight. I can go to spelling and just have a few errors that are all going on with those? What's happening annual report the print service provider inside edge of the pages, they only but right now, in this document the bleed checking all four sides and it's finding saying for elements like this photo you what we can do is just change the bleed I'll go to document setup, I'll go to and set the inner bleed to zero. I'll now we're down to just one mistake so double click on it to navigate it's Brad, it's our CEO, and it's probably hard to see but what's happening here is that it doesn't go all the way down to the edge of the page so we're just going to rerun the check and no errors, all right. PDF, so I'll choose file, export. Here's from Publisher, right in the middle is preset. We can customize this by clicking tweaking any of these settings. In this is also where you would go to make sure producing a PDF for on-screen make sure that I'm exporting pages not desktop. And it's done. Let's switch over what we got. So we'll view two pages so cover. There's our nice facing pages elements and page numbers, our nice blue without his facial here, our updated hyperlink to our fictional website. So was able to make a lot of those changes hassle by opening the IDML file in summarize some of the about moving a project from Adobe how you can actually open a PDF file those page elements and make edits to something InDesign cannot do and it can a few targeted changes and output a new aren't preserved in a PDF file that you large wholesale changes throughout the really want to try to work with an IDML it out from InDesign, but if you don't tool like IDMarkz from Markzware.com to Publisher really easily and you get text styles, paragraph and character styles, columns, your linked images are preserved, the swatches as well, so that's feature and how you can use tools Photo right in the context of your page so cool. We use the pre-flight feature to PDF and then we just smoothly exported looked pretty darn good. So I hope you learned some cool stuff that you can do thanks again to the folks at Serif for event. Everyone stay safe, be well and