Hello everybody! Friends? Hello friends! I've got a special surprise for you all today! Do do do dvoo burr a roo bu do bu doo bur bur bur der duuuu bu da ba bu bu bu baaaa *lols* It's James, it's James. James: Hey! How's it goin'? Heyo. Jaiden: Some of you- most of you should know him from theodd1sout James: yee! Jaiden: And... if you don't, you better get on that because he's like, the funniest channel. James: Thanks. Jaiden: it's a fact. We became friends a little while ago and I thought it was about time to have you on A VIDEO. James: Thank you! So, coincidentally, we both live in the oven that is Arizona, and we wanted to share our thoughts and opinions on it, like, don't get us wrong, we love it here. James: Well, I mean, &quot;love&quot; is a pretty STRONG word. Jaiden: We don't completely despise Arizona. James: nyeh. Jaiden: But there's just some things about it that are just like... nyehh? So we're gonna talk about 'em! ..and.. yea! James: There's no trees here. Jaiden: One, the heat. You talked about it a lot in your own Arizona video, James. James: mhm. Jaiden: And if anyone hasn't seen it, I suggest you watch that because it is a pretty A1 video. James: heh. Thanks. Jaiden: but don't do it yet. cuz, you still gotta watch THIS video. James: Yeah, don't- don't watch that video. Jaiden: Yet. James: Yet. *lols* Jaiden: It gets absolutely scalding here. What, the record last summer was like 120 Fahrenheit, something like that. James: Yeah, oh yeah it was unbearable. Jaiden: Like, shoot Arizona slow your roll with the heat We're not eggs trying to be boiled over here. And, some people do that! They try to fry eggs with just the sun, you can look it up. It's a thing. *SpongeBob accordion music* *accordion continues* The heat is so bad, especially in the summer, if you wanted to do anything outside then you had a 50% chance of having a heatstroke. It's just a risk you had to take. Jaiden: Also, cars become LITERAL toasters. You open the door, and you're hit with just a massive wave of just... Satan. And you sit down, with like as little skin touching the seat as possible and you kinda just have to wait and sit there. wait for the heat to die down, just enough to be able to do anything. The seatbelt's too hot, the dash is too hot, the steering wheel is like, holy Jesus.&quot; James: You think we're exaggerating, but NO, if your car was parked in direct sunlight, you have to wait for it to cool down because you have to touch the steering wheel to drive. And you don't wanna be driving like you're playing hot potato with the wheel. Jaiden: I think someone needs to invent, like, a little compartment for holding oven mitts or something in the car, because that's really the only way you can actually drive without burning your hands off. James: If someone actually does that, then we should get 50% of the profit because we came up with that idea. And then when you're all done and you get out of the car and you hear your sweaty back peing pulled apart from the leather seats like a sticky note. Jaiden: It's gross. Eww. James: Two, cactuses. Jaiden: cacti.* James: Not a lot of places have cacti. Only Arizona, Texas, Nevada and New Mexico have natural growing cacti. And a tiny boot of Mexico. So some people who visit are like: &quot;Ooh look, cacti! Cool!&quot; Sure, they're cool to look at, but I don't get why they're so excited about cacti. They're freaking EVERYWHERE. Jaiden: yeaaaaaaAAAAAAA, living with them is the worst. When I was growing up, I lived in the cul-de-sac neighborhood where the road looped around a little desert patch, well, when I was learning to ride a bike, I was pedaling down the road towards the neighborhood, and I didn't TURN with the road because I didn't know how. So I rode straight into the desert center and ran into a little cactus patch. I don't remember much about it because I was little but it was pretty scarring. James: Literally. Heheheh. Also there's a type of cactus called &quot;jumping cactus&quot; because they jump out and attack you for no reason. Guess who? *delayed reaction* AAAAH. Cacti are jerks. Three, the wildlife. Everyone always talks about the scary scorpions and snakes here. And yeah, they're pretty sucky to have to deal with. James: Yeah one time this big scorpion- Jaiden: but NO ONE EVER TALKS ABOUT THE FREAKING javelinas! If you don't know what javelinas are, they're wild hogs. And they're scary as FREAK. They're mean, and they'll run after you, and they travel in packs, and they're smelly... James: Uh, I've never had to deal with those before. Jaiden: Well, lemme tell u. The only way you can get them to not attack you is to feed them bananas. But then they start coming back because they want more BANANAS and you're stuck in this loop forever, feeding them all your bananas out of fear. James: They're like ducks, but worse. Jaiden: if ducks were big, ugly hairy monsters who wanted to eat your bananas. James: Me and my siblings used to capture lizards for fun, and we would just hold them. But sometimes we would accidentally pull their tails off, did you know that lizard's tails still move even after you pull them? I knew that. Also, at night, the cicadas would be REALLY loud and annoying. Jaiden: Four, there's nothing to do here! James: That's why me and Jaiden are artists. You get to stay inside and do fun stuff while not having to worry about dying of heatstroke. Jaiden: Arizona's kinda really boring. There's not really much to do here in terms of entertainment. Sure, there's like zoos and aquariums and like, minigolf. James: and friends, if you have those. pFFT. (Cries inside) Jaiden: The other main option is dirty waterparks. I've never been a fan of waterparks. They gross me out. Everyone shares the tubes and the slides and the water with a very minimal amount of clothing on. Like, who knows what's in that water?! Especially the wave pools, it's like a public bath. I've seen people take hotdogs into them too! It's like, dirty public hotdog bath. *lols* Well, I guess the one I like here is Sunsplash. James: Oh, same. Wait, did we go to the same water park? Jaiden: The same Sunsplash? James: I mean, it could be a POSSIBILITY. Did you go on the green one where the floor- Jaiden: Oh like, the-the floor would drop? Oh my god. James: OMG. Jaiden: So yeah, that's the video! Um, I need water but my thing's all the way in the corner of the closet. James: You can get it, go get it. *lip smacking* James: ASMR, hey, we should make an ASMR video. *lols, and more lip smacking* stop. *lip smacking* Jaiden: *soft voice* the beloved. *lip smacking* James: *soft voice* water. *both lol* James: shrek. Jaiden: So yeah, that's the video. James and I found out we probably went to the same dirty waterpark when we were young and never knew it. And everything's come full circle! James: Yeah, the food was pretty expensive. Jaiden: Hope you guys enjoyed this complaining about where we live. If you wanna hear some more of the pros, James: and more cons, Jaiden: of Arizona, like fruit, old people and haboob- James: HABOOBS. *lols + heavy breath* Jaiden: Go watch James' video... and of course, if you somehow didn't know him or his channel, you gotta check that out too. So thank you! James: Thanks for watching! Jaiden: for the watching! *lols* Jaiden: Thank you for the watching. James: uhm, thank the- the watching, thank you for it. Jaiden: Thanks for the watching. *lols* Jaiden: Bye! James: Bye. *kiss* Wait, OK, ready? James: mhm. Jaiden: one, two, three. James: *clap* Ah, I'm sorry. *both lol* Jaiden: OK, James: OK. *inhale* *exhale* *both lol* *breath* Jaiden: You don't know what javelinas are? They're wild hogs. And they're scary as FREAK! *james lols* Jaiden: They're scary as FREAK! James: *high voice* F-FREAK!! Jaiden: FREAK! Jaiden: I've never been a fan of dirty waterparks, I mean, *lols* James: Who is? *music*