Translator: Suleyman Cengiz Some people look at a cat or a frog, &quot;This is beautiful, nature's masterpiece. I want to understand that more deeply.&quot; This way lies the life sciences, Other people, they pick up an example like a roiling, boiling Sun, and they think to themselves, &quot;That's fascinating. This is physics. Other people, they see an airplane, optimize its flight performance, build machines to explore This is engineering. There is another group of people that rather than try to pick up they study ideas and truth at its source. These are mathematicians. (Laughter) When we look deeply at nature and really and, of course, the scientific method. Now, one way to divide you have the natural sciences, with applications to life sciences, You have the social sciences, where you'll find things There's engineering and technology, where you'll find biomedical, chemical, mechanical and nuclear engineering. And all the applications of technology: biotechnology, communications, And last, but certainly where you'll find things Now, math does show up in some, like physics and engineering, while in others, like in art and music, the role of mathematics is definitely and usually secondary. Nevertheless, math is everywhere, and for that reason, math is especially How? How does math make connections? This is an excellent question. It's actually a question I think, for us now, in our time together, the best we can do is get a sense by examining some of the connections through the lens Now, math is, of course, numbers, and perhaps the most famous number Pi was discovered because it represents it is the ratio of the circumference but nowhere in the world Circle is a kind of pure, a construction from geometry that says, &quot;You fix the center point, and then you take all points that In two dimensions, and in three dimensions, But nowhere in the universe This is a perfect, pure, mathematical is imperfect, rough, atomized, moving, Nevertheless, the number pi has been astonishingly useful Let's go through Around the year 212 BC, Archimedes His dying words were, He wanted his favorite discovery It's shown here. It says, basically, is equal to the surface area that can contain that sphere. Around 1620, Johannes Kepler discovered what he thought of as a harmony Isaac Newton would later Shown here is Kepler's celebrated From 1600 to 1700, Christiaan Huygens, were early pioneers, shown here as a formula - which tells us something about The greatest mathematician is responsible for e to the i theta equals This formula provides a key connection between algebra, In the special case when theta equals pi, it produces a relationship between in all of mathematics: e to the i pi plus one equals 0. Some people have called this the most Leonhard Euler was also an engineer the applied buckling force will buckle under such an applied force - is shown here. The greatest mathematician usually gets the credit the standard normal distribution. A staggering amount of real-world data according to what you might know And our tour of history with Albert Einstein Shown here are Einstein's field equations. The difficulty to understand these Now, that was too fast, I know; There's no exam, (Laughter) Remember we're trying Now, look at all of these formulas, this number that is born Look at all of the physical phenomena, and yet they share this common connection So, when you see a formula you might think to yourself, &quot;Maybe, somehow, someway, the circle plays a part Now, a circle is just one geometric form, and so, too, is the world Look here; this is an airfoil in 2D - And the lines you see are And here, this experiment shows a gas, initially compressed by a retaining wall Then a hole is made in the retaining wall, and the gas expands until it reaches a kind of equilibrium. In this example, it shows a metal rod in this case a flame. Where the flame contacts the metal, the heat will heat the rod until it reaches And it would not do, it would not do without electricity making an appearance. Shown here are the potential lines which give us the paths going from positive to negative charge. Now, all of these examples so different, in fact, that in science, That's potential flow, Fick's law of chemical Fourier's law of heat conduction, But in another kind of way, in a math so similar, in fact, that in mathematics, Laplace's equation. That's not triangle u equals 0, What changes for the mathematician is u can be potential, and u can be heat and many that this equation can be used You see, in mathematics, not only do we but we also have equations, and when we this gives us yet another way Now, the connection between and you should see and foundational Now, we've seen something about numbers But let's put it all together, because that's math. Let's see an application of mathematics. I want us to go This is what we'll call And this, the second generation. Look at the pattern, what happens And then the third generation. And so you see a pattern start to develop. Now, in your mind, decide what the fourth generation Is this your expectation? And then the fifth generation. And then the fifth generation. And then - there we go. And then the fifth generation That's the fractal. The pattern never terminates. It never completes. There's no end to the complexity, no smallest part In fact, this is a famous fractal, The fractal has never even It's never been completed; it can't be When you see a fractal with your mind, you only get the sense of it. Now, appreciation of fractals after Benoit Mandelbrot's work. And part of the reason was that it really took to properly compute and visualize this type of tremendous Shown here at the top And notice, there is a zoom up magnified so you can see it. Just look at the complexity If we zoom in there and magnify, no matter the complexity will never diminish. This is not an easy thing to understand. This geometry is so complicated, it is unclear if it has any equivalent And yet, once people became aware they started to see examples of it This is a kind of where your mind becomes And then when you go out and look after learning it, People started to see fractals and coastlines, like this of Sark, People found uses for fractals and they even saw fractals in the snowfall like this Google Landsat data on the left to mimic the same type of structure Fractals even show up in the geometry and in a staggering number There are also notable uses like music and art, where once people become aware and they had access to codes and with their computer they they started to make use of it Now, this is an aesthetic but many people study mathematics or aesthetically beautiful. Other people want math as a hard skill: they want to predict the weather, There is no wrong reason to learn. Now, you see, mathematics the source of truth. And today, we took one cup and walked to the water's edge And in our cup was one number, pi; one geometric form, the circle; and one equation, Laplace's equation. And just look at the breathtaking scope And finally, in fractals, we just glimpsed the faintest hint that expands our experience You see, the power of mathematics is that it and that is the beauty And to me, this is the meaning &quot;If I were again beginning my studies, and start with Mathematics.&quot; Thank you. (Applause)