(sirens blaring) (poignant piano music) (radio traffic speaking indistinctly) (sirens blaring) - [Reporter] This is And if he wasn't dealing it could be related to that he's experiencing. - [Reporter] Thousands forced to evacuate and firefighters desperate - [Reporter] Authorities and killing four strangers, including an infant, and injuring an 11 year old - [Reporter] Mental health-related emergency department visits were over 24%. - 800,000 COVID-related deaths have been reported of the pandemic. (monitor beeping) (poignant piano music) (traffic buzzing) (Max panting) (poignant piano music) (water splashing) (truck horn blares past) (ambulance sirens blaring) (ominous music) - I am still here, Max. I'm right here beside you. (iPhone ringing) - Yeah. - [Chief] You've got a and paramedics waiting for you to get here. - No, I'm on my way. Yes, I'm on. Ah! Yes, I'll be right there. I'll be right there. - You better clean that out first. - I know what I'm doing. (poignant piano music) - See? All better. - I don't need to tell has hit law enforcement in the last year. Even for us Type-A guys in the firehouse. Each and every one of us our faith, because for we didn't know what we were up against. - Hi, Max. They've already started, - We're the ones who At the beginning of this pandemic hell, we'd take a patient to the hospital, and there wasn't one person there who knew how to help 'em keep breathing. (calm music) But Gabriel Rodriguez, he was a hero in every sense of the word. Gabe wasn't in it for the paycheck, it was his life's mission. And it didn't matter what the call, multiple car crash on 75, or a migrant mother giving or putting on his PPE and rushing in to help the people of COVID. We lost too many of our own. We lost Gabriel Rodriguez. This is a terrible loss to his family, to his beautiful wife and To our family. Gabe was the son I never had. And that's why I'm honored with Paramedic Firefighter of the Year. (poignant ethereal music) (intensely sad music) Attention! Present arms! (emotional bugle music) (wind whooshing) (Station bells ringing.) (poignant piano music) I think this is just about all of it. - What's this? - New program, help out law enforcement. I'm gonna hire a social Take some of the non-violent with some of the kids. (poignant piano music) I'll put this in your car - You have that many kids in crisis? - You kidding me? We've got four times the mental illness we had two years ago. And it gets worse every goddamn minute. Excuse my language. Which car? - Oh, it's this one over here. Sounds like a good program. - Could be. The problem is we can't and we've only got six - Maybe I should apply. (Chief chuckles) I'm serious. - Look, there's a reason to take the job, get paid 16 bucks an hour and you're dealing with all kinds of kids on the worst day of their lives. - I think I would be perfect for it. - Why would you want - I'm a school psychologist. - This is not about some - I think I know exactly what it's about. - Look, all we want, and I can if he were here, is to protect our families all the time. We leave it at the station, we don't bring it home - You don't think Gabe brought it home? - And that's exactly why Gabe wouldn't have wanted you to. (poignant music) - Well, he's not here, is he? Everything I love is gone. You expect me to go back like none of this ever happened? (poignant piano music) (car engine sputters) (gravel crackles) (sad piano music) (sad music stops) (heels tapping) (heels tapping) (cork thumps) (emotional string music) (emotional piano music) (emotional piano music) You are looking so freaking - You like that, huh? - I do. - Wouldn't you like to all night long? (Max chuckles) - Oh, but you're gonna be so - As if anything can keep me from you. Maybe now we can think - Oh, but I just started my new job. - You can quit your job. (Maxine gasps) I'm gonna give us more - I am so proud of you. - I want you on stage with me I hope I can remember it. I'm so nervous. - Come on, I've heard I could do it myself. I promise courage, the courage to face and conquer my fears. - I promise strength. Strength of heart, to who are placed within my care. (poignant piano music) Oh, Max, what did you do? - Open it. (Gabe huffs) (calm piano music) It's a compass, so you can (iPhone ringing) - Hey. - Okay, here's the deal. You go on an observation After that, if you still want - Okay, what time should I be there? - Midnight at the station, - What should I bring? (phone clacks) - [Gabe] What are you doing, Max? (emotional piano music) (wind whooshing) (car engine roaring) - Hey. - Sorry I'm late. (chuckles) - I didn't think you'd show up. All right, well, drink Only thing outta this time of night are cops, cabs, and criminals. Is that your release? - Mm. - That's it. - Mm-hmm. - &quot;Max Toussante, 30 years old. Licensed LMSW. Master's degree from UCLA. Wow. Long way from home, what - Oh, I like the heat, I guess. - You think this is a joke? - No. - I knew your husband, LA Gabe. He was a decent dude. MRT-1, go ahead. (radio chatters) - [Dispatch] We have a 415/647 for you at 1437 Arlington Road. 16-year-old boy, mentally unstable. Neighborhood disturbance. - All right, copy that. All right, let's roll. - Like, right now? - In the car, yep. (soft inquisitive music) (car engine sputters) (soft inquisitive music) (radio chatters) All right now, remember, you're just on as a civilian observer. That means you shut up, All right? You don't need to get hurt - So how long you been on the night shift? - Night shift? Oh, I'm on MRT 24/7. I get a few hours of But I mean, I can average - [Max] Wow. - What the hell do you - I just wanna know why you risk your lives to help people. - So, it is about your husband. (inspiring music) - Look, if you have a you should just say so right now 'cause that's how it feels. - [Dispatch] MRT-1, switch to channel two. - Channel two, copy. - [Channel 2 Dispatch] Are you clear to handle? - MRT-1, it's a 10-15. We should be here. - Oh my gosh! - Scene secure is on the way, but this is just some kid off his meds. You should probably stay here. - No. I'll come with you. (inquisitive music) - Have you seen them? Have you seen them? They've been driving up taking photos of the house. - Henry, we've been over this. - Okay. - Have you seen this? Look, I don't know. - A-a-a... I don't know. - No, I... Just look at the message. - No, I hate that cell phone. All the politics and conspiracy theories. - Oh, no. - Honey, honey, honey, honey. (Henry groans) Did you even take the pills I gave you? - Mom, it is not about politics anymore. Both sides are being manipulated, okay? Look, look, look. I figured it all out last night, okay? They think I'm some sort and their whole stupid fucking hoax. And Google my name. Google my name anywhere, and I pop up next to and athletes, and fucking Russians, because they're all in on it, okay? Go on any page, any page! And find me. And I know I am nobody, That's how deep this fucking goes, mom. They're listening- - Okay. - Okay? - Okay. - It's in the TV. It's in the phones, it's everywhere. They have ears everywhere, okay? And it's all connected. (suspenseful music) They're outside. They're right outside on the driveway. - Oh my God! Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God, put that down. I called them. - Mom. - I called them. - Stop! - Because I'm worried about you. - They want to put a needle in my arm and magnetize my fucking mind! - No. - Is everything okay? You people need some help? - He's bipolar, paranoid, schizophrenic, and he's got a knife. Please, please don't hurt my son. (Henry puffing) - Get the car, Max. (Max panting) Jake. Jake. (ominous music) Jake. Oh my God! (Maxine panting) - Who are you? What do you want from me? - We're just here to help you. - They told me not to trust you. - No. Are you hearing voices in your head? - Of course I fucking hear them. - What's your name? - You only wanna know my name so you can track me. (ominous music) - Henry? No. Henry, Henry, please. - Mrs. Toussante from school, please. From before the pandemic, please. I was your counselor and we would talk. Please, Henry. Ms. Toussante, do you remember? - Whoa, whoa, drop the knife. Drop the knife, kid. - Hey! - Drop the knife. - Stay back! Don't you shoot! - Hey, we're not here to hurt you, okay? (radio traffic) - It's okay. Jake, it's okay. - Deadly weapon and a hostage. - Henry, please. Drop the knife, we're (walkie talkie beeps) - Drop the knife. - Drop your weapon! Hands up! (police officers yelling indistinctly) Hands up! - Drop the knife now! - Please... Put your hands up. Drop the weapon. - It's okay. Just drop the knife, just It's okay, it's okay. - Good. - It's okay. Wait. No. - Drop the weapon! Drop the weapon! - Drop the knife now! - Put your hands up. - It's okay. - Drop the weapon! (siren blaring intensifies) (officers yelling indistinctly) (taser buzzes) (Henry yells) - [Max] Don't, don't! He's just a kid. No! (whimpers) (Henry yelling) I thought we were there Why did you call the police? - Why? I don't know, Max. Maybe because he had a knife to your neck? - I was handling it. - Yeah. - I could have fixed this, I could have- - You could have gotten - He was not gonna hurt me. - Oh, yeah, and how do you know that? - I just know. - All right, well, So if you don't mind, explain this mess. - Well, is he gonna be okay? Where are they taking him right now? - I don't know. Maybe the hospital to check - What's CSU? - Crisis stabilization at the psych ward. Yeah, not the happiest place in town. - Henry used to come Kid's an absolute genius. He's always coming up with these theories on how to save the planet. He's not a criminal, he He needs therapy and I really think we should I wanna talk to the police, She's probably freaking out right now. (crickets chirping) Can we go? - You're gonna be a problem for me. (gravel crunches) - Being a police officer today is tougher than any time I've seen. The fact is, we're not social workers. - What the hell is she doing here? - We spent about six months and about six hours on mental - Since the pandemic, 911 calls concerning mental are up over 200%. We're seeing depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder. In this training you will learn how to spot and treat all these behaviors. At the conclusion of the six weeks, one of you will be selected to join the mobile crisis response team. (calm bright music) (water splurges) You were supposed to scare her off, not recruit her for the team. - Oh, no, I think she's Instinct, I guess. - Yeah, well, this is on you then. What I see is her piling How do you know she won't break? - Under the influence of narcotics. 10-51, subject is drunk. (chuckles) (calm bright music) (exhales) 10-56A, suicide attempt. (iPhone ringing) Oh, shit. Ma, why are you calling me? It is one o'clock in the morning. - [Max's Mom] I always forget what time, the time difference. What are you doing up so late, baby? - I'm working. - [Max's Mom] I was (coughs loudly) what would happen when you're unemployed right now. - No, I'm training for a new job. - [Max's Mom] What kinda job? - I'm working with the fire - (laughs) Fire department? You can't work for the fire- - No, mom, it's fine, really? This is the most awake I've felt in months. - Well, that's what I I was thinking about, that, now, now, listen, listen to me. With Gabe gone, you should think about moving back to and, and I could use your help. - Why, what's wrong? Are you drinking again? - No, nah, don't start up with me I can't believe I make and you're already accusing me. - No, I'm not, I'm not accusing you of anything. - Everybody's always blaming me- - Ooh. - And I'm. Look, I'm too... Ma, I gotta go. - I can't. - My phone is about to die, actually. So, I'm gonna, I'll check All right, love you. Bye. (intense adventurous music) - Over the course of this training, make sure to get plenty exercise, pray, meditate, whatever it takes to calm yourself down. All right, because what we're learning is emotional regulation. Not only for your clients, but maybe even more (intense adventurous music) Every firefighter spends at least one hour on physical fitness Your body is your weapon, You gotta learn to use all your senses: sight, hearing, touch, smell, taste. Perhaps your most important If something doesn't feel right, you must determine your ways of egress. No matter where you your life could literally depend on it. (intense adventurous music) - You wanted to see me, chief? - Hi, Max. Come in. Have a seat. How's the training going? I'm learning a lot. Feeling ready. Wanna get out there. - Gabe would've been proud of you. I remember the day you two got married, whole station house was there. We were laughing, and I went up to him to but he was looking at you and he says, &quot;I'm the (poignant piano music) - So why'd you let him die, chief? (poignant piano music) - (sighs) You're dismissed. (poignant piano music) Max. Stop by HR on the way you start Monday. - I got the job? - For six months. Nobody else finished the training. (poignant piano music) (wind whooshing) (hopeful music) - First ride. - (chuckles) Living the dream. - This beach over here is in the whole US. (hopeful piano music) After midnight, though, (radio hisses) - [Dispatch] We have a 10-71 at 2107 Morning 14-year-old-female having - Not what I was (traffic buzzes) - Yeah, well, don't be fooled by the money. I'll take a call from North County over this zip code any day of the week. - And why is that? - Do you know what you've The police are outside. Do you know what you've done? Do you know? (dog barking) (doorbell rings) Okay, the cops are here, Veronica. Look what I had to do. (door knocking) Thank God you're here. Come in, quick. Would you please hurry up? I've called the police, they're taking you to school. if you called them. You're such a bitch. - I could care less if you You're going to school. (dog barking) I cannot get her to go to school, I can't. So, you two are gonna take her. She's completely out of control! - Yeah, ma'am. We're not the police, we're- - What do you mean not the police? You look like the police. - Okay, ma'am. One second. Is that your daughter - Yeah, she's my daughter. - Okay, well, if she's not gonna come down, do I have your permission - I could care less what you do. I'm exhausted. (heels tapping) (calm inquisitive music) (calm piano music) - Hi. Hey, you. Hey sweetie. I had a dog just like My mom found him (Fluff panting) All he needed was a little bit of love. Isn't that right? - She puts these stupid bows in his hair and everyone thinks he's a girl. So annoying. - What's his name? - Fluff. - Oh, Fluff. He is such a sweet Fluff, isn't he? - You're the first person who I've ever seen him be nice to. - Oh. He's scared. - Yeah. No way. - You know I read somewhere that dogs have the feelings of a two-year-old child. - Ain't that something? Seriously? - Mm. Look at that. See how he loves you. - Are you here to take me to Gulf Side? - Well, I don't know, that depends. Do you feel like you (calm piano music) - I mean, it would get - Why do you wanna leave here? - I'm like a walking TikTok disorder. - So, what's going on today? Do you know why your mom called 911? I mean, usually when people call us, it's because they're really worried. Can I ask you a question? How long have you been cutting? I mean, something must be bothering you for you to hurt yourself like that. - I don't know. (Fluff whimpers) - Did you make that? That's beautiful. - Yeah, it's called &quot;Girl on Fire.&quot; - &quot;Girl on Fire?&quot; - Yeah? - Hey, my name's Jake. Do you mind if I come in? - Is my mom hitting on you? - (chuckles) No, she's just, um, worried about you, that's all. So, how can I help? - I guess I sort of cut myself. - Can I take a look? - It's okay. (calm piano music) - It looks like it really hurt. - No, not really. - So, how come you weren't at school today? - I've got more friends online than I do in that stupid school. Whenever they look at me, - Your scars do not define you. (calm piano music) - And from a medical perspective I know. I know self-harm feels but it doesn't. It's addictive. It escalates. It becomes very dangerous. (calm piano music) Trust me, I've seen it. I'd hate for you to really hurt yourself. (calm piano music) - Maybe I'll go talk to her. You guys hang back here. (calm piano music) (glass clinks) - Did she tell you what - Are you aware of the - Oh, please. All the teenage girls are doing it. Hell, I even did it when I was a teenager. - I'd recommend you for an evaluation. - Gulf Side? You mean the mental hospital? (chuckles) Oh my God. She has you completely fooled. You don't know her. Look, she's just looking for attention. - And those cuts are pretty deep, and they're right next - My husband will kill - You'd be surprised how need mental health services these days. Focus on your daughter right now. She's just a kid. Yes, they're about 10 minutes out. Mother and daughter. They're on their way. Okay, thank you so much, bye-bye. - Oh yeah, that very concerned mother offered me a bloody Mary and asked if she could feel my abs. (Max laughs) Yeah, make sure you put that in the report. - Oh, I will. Hey, you wanna get some coffee? - Actually, I think we just to make sure that... Max, the job here at Mobile Rescue is to take point 'em to some resources, move 'em to the next phase. All right, it's actually quite liberating. You don't have to feel anything about 'em. - How do you not feel anything? (calm piano music) - You sound just like - [Dispatch] MRT-1, - (sighs) MRT-1, go ahead. - [Dispatch] Switch over - Copy that. - [Dispatch 2] We have a Code 2. Police need a mental health roadside at 213 4th Angelo Avenue. We have a 10-67 on a 10-56A. 22-year-old-male 417. - MRT-1 en route. - MRT is en route. - Put the weapon down and come outta the car with your hands up. Put the weapon down, sir. Drop the weapon! Drop the weapon! Drop the weapon! Just go ahead and shoot me! - Tell me something, dude, are you a vet? - How did you know? - Look at your eyes, Don't do this to another vet. Look, I wanna help you, Listen to me, I'm a retired army guy. I'm a vet like you. Don't make me do this. Just put it down, brother. We lost too many already. Just put the weapon down. (soft suspenseful music) (metal rings) - I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't wanna cause trouble. - Hey, you're doing the right thing here. Thank you for trusting me. This is Jake. He's a good guy. He's gonna talk to you - All right. I gotta ask you a few What's your name? - Beau. - All right, Beau, you on - I've been drinking and taking pills for about a week, I guess. on the street out here. - Yeah, half the time we can't respond to a burglary in progress with one mental health - I can't sleep. I can't, I can't stop - I was in the exact same head space that you're in right now not too long ago. Oh, that's a lonely place, man. I was gonna end it. I was gonna end all this shit. Sucked. You a vet, where'd you serve? - Afghanistan. Three years. We were handing out candy and a land mine went off. (radio glitching) I see my buddy blow up right next to me. His brain fucking coming out of his skull. Kids screaming. (kids screaming) - Beau, you got PTSD. Right, that's what this is. Doesn't make you less of a man, all right? Hey, we're gonna get you some help, okay? We're gonna take you to CSU. Rehab, detox, MDR. What'd you say? - No, I can't stand- - Beau, look at me. Look at me. Hey, I'll let you make the choice, man, but I promise you, you're All right, you need to use my phone? - No, I don't want my dad to know. (suspenseful music) - All right, yeah. (cars whooshing past) - Heard what you said to him back there. - About what? What do you mean? - You said something about ending things. (calm piano music) - Oh, I was just talking to him. Doing the job, building rapport. - Okay, Jake. (gravel crackling) (calm piano music) - I'm hungry. (car honks) (seagull screeches) (poignant piano music) I grew up out there, on the water. (birds chirping) Couldn't get enough. Swimming, surfing. Hang out at the edge of and outta the canals, explored the islands. I used to love that shit. - You used to? (walkie talkie beeps) - MRT-1, Jake Monroe. Do you copy? MRT-1, do you copy? - MRT-1? We need a better name for our team. - Hell on Wheels? - MRT-1 copy, standing by. - [Dispatch] You are requested ICD 10-851. - Sunview? - Didn't even finish my Power Bar. - [Radio Traffic] EMT is en route. (calm piano music) - Oh my God, Max. I did not even recognize What are you doing here? - New job. - Wow. (chuckles) You look, I don't know, so different. Hey, I was really sorry to hear about Gabe. He was... Did you call us about a student? - Yes. Caitlin Morris. She's in my office. Well, I don't need to You know, it was really The school was closed and then isolation, and forget about all the other changes going on in their lives. The kids have been anxious, - Well, what's going on today? - I don't even know, she won't talk to me. - The parents on the way? - We've been trying to plus I've got four other kids in the nurse's office with anxiety. I'm gonna just tell her - All right. - You used to work here? - Yeah. (Caitlin sobbing) Caitlin. Caitlin, honey. (Caitlin sobbing) Ms. Toussante is here to talk with you. She's, uh. She's here to help you, okay? Caitlin. I'm just gonna leave her while I call your mom and dad again. (Caitlin sobbing) (Caitlin sobbing) Hey, Caitlin. (Caitlin sobbing) I'm sorry you're feeling sad today. You take all the time you need, okay? (Caitlin sobbing) It's okay. It's okay. (Caitlin sobbing) You know, I used to work at It's nice to be back. (Caitlin sobbing) All the wide-open spaces. Jacaranda trees in the spring. I like seeing all the - My dad died of COVID yesterday. How could a person you loved all your life be there one minute and When we brought him to the hospital, they just wheeled him off down the hall and they shut the doors in our face. (Caitlin sobbing) - I'm so sorry, honey. (Caitlin sobbing) I'm so sorry. I know I can't take the pain away. But I can be here with (Caitlin sobbing) It's okay to feel it. (tense music intensifies) It's okay. (hyperventilates) It's okay. Just breathe. - Are you all right? - Yeah, yeah, yeah. (poignant piano music) - Thank you for taking care of my daughter. - Oh, of course. - Don't feel like you have to I'll call you this afternoon with some of those resources, okay? Take care, honey. Be strong. - I can't believe she sent without telling us her husband died. We should have been notified immediately. - They're probably still in shock. - Well, I was thinking a group of us girls are going to The Tap Room on Friday night like the old days. You should come. - I'll probably be wiped but I really do appreciate it. - We should go. - Okay, yeah, thank you. Good seeing you, bye. - You doing okay? - Yeah. - Hey, you did a good - You think so? (poignant piano music) - Chief was worried (Max scoffs) Said it was piling trauma on top of trauma. Can I give you some advice? - Okay. - You can grow cynical about the world. Think that this is all there is. I don't know, just don't - I don't have any regular friends. (intense piano music) I just feel like the whole school is just having this - Oh, honestly, I make a I had a parent literally threatened to punch me in the face two weeks ago. - What? Oh, man. How are we ever going to get through this year? - I don't know. - Alcohol helps. - Mm-hmm. - To alcohol. Cheers. - Cheers. - Mm. I think this gets better with age. (all laugh) Oh my god, Max. Max, over here. (people chattering indistinctly) - You came. - You look great. - Amy said you were at school on Monday. - Yeah, I was. - 'Cause you're doing what exactly? Mental health with the fire department? - Yeah. - That is just so crazy. - Oh, the guy you were with is so hot. Oh my God. - Oh, well, he is right. You guys should have seen him. Okay, this girl needs a drink. We are gonna just forget and get wasted. - I Ubered here, so. (Sandy laughs) - Danny, can we get like - [Danny] Yeah, for sure. (Sandy chuckles) - How are you doing really? I've been meaning to call - Oh, I'm all right. I just started this new job, so. - Um, we were really I wanted to come to the I- - We don't need to talk about it. - Right. - Yeah. (gasps) What's everybody - Oh my gosh, wait. I started going to the gym. - Oh! - [Maria] And you guys should join me! - The gym. - Eh, I don't know. - [Maria] Yeah. - After tonight, I during the entire pandemic. - Same... Come on. Like, okay, they have this on Saturday nights at 7. They say that that helps, the more... Well, wine definitely helps (indistinct) more sex with me for (laughs). (Sandy laughs) - I dunno, I feel like Why it makes me wanna have more sex. - Is it just... Or are there guys right there. - Oh. - It's that good swish... My husband says he likes a little fat on my belly. (all laughing except Max) Some psychology advice. (Maria laughs) (soft unbodied laughing) (Maria, Amy, and Sandy (tense string music) - Max, are you okay? - Yeah. I'm, I'm gonna get us I just drank it down too fast. (chuckles) - Okay. - I'll be back. - Okay. - Yeah, yeah. I mean, I'm (indistinct). - I really want to, so... the whey balls? - Is it like 50/50 or like (indistinct). (friends chatting indistinctly) (tinnitus ringing) (Max sobbing) - Gabe, please. (Max sniffling) (phone ringing) - [Gabe's Recording] Hey, this is Gabe. If you reached this message, it means I'm out saving the world, leave your number and I'll call you back. - (whimpering) Oh, please. (phone ringing) - [Gabe's Recording] Hey, this is Gabe. If you reached this message it means I'm out saving the world. Leave your number and I'll call you back. (phone ringing) Oh, please. (sobs) - [Gabe's Recording] Hey, this is Gabe. If you reached this message it means I'm out saving the world. Leave your number and I'll call you back. (Max sobbing) (phone ringing) (Max sobbing) (phone buzzing) (calm music) - Max, aren't you sick of me by now? (Max hyperventilating loudly) Max, hey. - I shouldn't have - No, wait. (calm music) (phone ringing) Hey, hey, you hung up. - Yeah. - What's going on? - I, I, I feel like I have, I I can't breathe, Jake. - Where you at? Are you at home? - No. (whimpers) I'm, (hyperventilating) I'm in - Okay, do you know what stupid bar? - Tap, Tap Room. I'm in the Tap Room at - Okay, I'll be there in few minutes. - No, no, it's okay. No, Jake, it's fine. - No, no, it's okay. It's okay. Remember, breathe in through the nose. Long on the out breath. Slow and steady until I get there, okay? (friends laughing) (inspiring music) The restroom? - [Bartender] Just down - Thanks. (inspiring music) (indistinct chattering) (Jake exhales) - I told you not to come. The breathing helped, and the wine helped. - Well, it's not the most but I don't mind. - You want some? - Oh, no. I quit after the divorce. - You know, before COVID, I used to do these and the other chicks from the high school, and we'd all end up getting too drunk and I'd have to have Gabe come and get me. - I can take you home if you want. - Oh, I think I'll just stay until they leave. - What if we just use a service exit? (Max chuckles) - Service exit? - Yeah. - How do you even know where that is? - Come on, you don't When you enter a room, Always look for your way. You got this. (people chattering indistinctly) - Your ways to escape. - Yeah. - Storage room? - Mm-hmm. (chuckles) - Yeah, it leads to the back alley. Yeah, if there was a fire in here, take him out through a storage closet, or even climb up the stairs. Top floor, out the window. (calm piano music) - I used to have this crazy idea that I'd sneak into County Memorial. Unhook Gabe's ventilator, and I'd just drive far away. (calm piano music) Take him to Point of Rocks and just breathe that salty air. (poignant piano music) Why couldn't I save him? (poignant piano music) - I don't know. Come here. (poignant piano music) - I should probably get you home, huh? - Yeah. - Yeah. Okay. (poignant piano music) All right. Let's go. You want me to take that bottle? - No, I got it. - Yeah, you got it, yeah. Okay, here we go. (grunts) Careful, come on. - We go. You rescue guys, always - Yeah. (Max chuckles) (Max snorts) (poignant piano music) - Come up, yeah. Up here. Close the door. - And close the door. - Yeah. - Close the door. (Max giggles) - Okay. - [Max] Okay. Yeah, okay. - Yeah, okay. - Oop! - Oh, okay, okay, okay, okay. Come here, come here. - Oh. - It's enough. - Oh. You left my front door open. - I'll get it, I'll get it later. All right. - Ah. - Where's the room? - It's this way. - This way. - And then that way. And then this way. - All right. - Oh, I'm flying. - Yeah, you're flying, yeah. Almost there. - Flying. - Okay. I'll put you down. - Oh. (laughs) Ah. And I'm flying through the air Aw. Thank you for the rescue, - You're welcome. (Max sighs) Ah. It's hot. Ah. - All right, all right. Get some sleep, okay? - Oh, okay. - Okay. Good night, Gabe. - Night, Max. (door hinge screeches) - Did I just call him Gabe? (chuckles) - I'm glad he brought you home. - I wanted to call you. - I'm sorry I couldn't be there, baby. - I miss you. - I see the way he looks at you. - I didn't notice. - Oh, you didn't notice? - What? Are you jealous? - Maybe. (Max laughs) It's been nine months. One of these days you're - You should say that corny - No, you used to make - Say it. (poignant piano music) - Our love is so strong, (poignant piano music) - Will you just hold me like you used to? (wind whooshes) (poignant piano music) (birds chirping) (dog barking) (door knocking) (door knocking) (door knocking) - Figured you need a ride of work. - Where's my car? - Um, still at the Tap Room, I imagine. - Oh. - How you feeling? - Oh, like my brain has been Thank you. - You remember calling me? - Oh god. I'm... - All right, well, we gotta go moving. Got a call from Morris County already and we gotta make a stop on the way, so. - Gimme a moment. I always forget my sunglasses for work. The world is extra bright today. - You know, you've had It's not too late to back out if you- - I'm not backing out. - I'm just saying that whatever it is you're trying to hide from always finds you in the morning. (inquisitive music) - Hey, didn't you say not to forget about my regular friends? (Max sighs) - That was me, wasn't it? (Jake chuckles) - What's going on here? - Figured you might wanna say hi to Henry. His Mom called this morning. Said they were bringing (inquisitive music) - Okay. Hi Henry. How are you doing? - I'm okay. - Yeah? Playing some cards, huh? How about a game of You up for it? - Yep, yeah. - All right. (inquisitive music) Okay, let's see. I heard they have you on a new med. You feeling any better? - No. It just makes me tired, really. - Yeah. It can take a couple weeks for your body to adjust to a new medication. Let's see. (sighs) I think you beat me. - What do you have? - Two sevens. - (chuckles) Full house. - Are you serious? (laughs) - Yeah. I don't, honestly, I don't know - (chuckles) Okay. - I did know you didn't because you gave it away on your face. You're not supposed to You have to have like a, (both chuckle) - (laughs) Oh, I can't fake it with you. Even in a card game. You know I talked to your mom, Henry, the more you stick to the quicker you can go Okay? Tell you what, I will come and we'll play some more - Ms. Toussante. - Yeah. - I'm sorry about the knife. (poignant string music) - I know. Until next time, my friend. I wanna find out what - Jake, I told you they brought He's gone. - What do you mean? - I mean, somehow they Between you and me, we don't have any beds, and we lost a third of our staff. We called Gulf Side, but the Nobody wants them. - What about the father? - Cops are gonna be all over his ass. (inquisitive music) (car engine sputters) (gravel crackles) - Uh-huh. Uh-huh. (inquisitive music) What the hell do you mean reallocated? (Jake chuckles) - Okay, this is - I call it the Irishman's - And Gabe actually used to make me... I'm sorry. - No. Gabe used to what? - Well, Gabe used to make after a night out. He had me taking all these vitamins, and my fruits and He wanted me to have a baby. - Is that what you wanted? - Anyway. Tell me about your ex. - (laughs) What'd you want to know? - Well, why did you break up? - (sighs) I was rescue diver. You know, rescuing and retrieving, usually dead people, from lakes, canals, Gulf of Mexico after an accident. (people chatting indistinctly) I love the work. It's important and necessary. Gets to you after a while. All the shit you see in the water. - And what kind of shit? - Severed arms. Sharks eating a corpse. Bad shit. Sneaks up on you when (poignant piano music) I, I came home one night and. Well, I got a little lost. - Is that why you quit diving? - I didn't quit, I-(walkie talkie hisses) (Dispatch speaks indistinctly) We got work. (poignant piano music) (Jake sighs) - I got a new name for our team. - Oh yeah? - Compass. (walkie-talkie beeping) - MRT-1, go ahead. - [Dispatch] You're needed at Northshore Public Beach, Access 7. We have a 1056A, attempted suicide, possible drowning of a 10-year-old girl. Lifeguard at the scene. Mother needs assistance. Do you copy? - MRT-1 copy, en route. Oh my God. Mia, oh my God! Oh my God, my baby. Oh my. Oh my God! (Mia breathing forcefully) Why did you do that? Why did you go in the water? - I thought she was gone. (lifeguard speaks indistinctly) - Get away from her. - She's gonna be okay. Now I'm gonna take your vitals, okay? Now breathe. Breathe, good. (Mia breathes in) There you go, there you go. - Just take a deep breath. - Good. - All this yelling is not Stay calm so they can evaluate her. - Hey, can you talk to me for a second? - Yeah. - Yeah? - Why'd you go in the water, Mia? - I don't like it here. - Okay. Call the ambulance. All right. - I'm gonna leave you here with him, okay? Take care, all right? Mia, I'm gonna go talk to (Mrs. Jackson sobs) - Calm down, take a deep breath. - Good, good, good. (seagulls squeaking) - Call an ambulance. Take her to the hospital, she needs- - She doesn't need to go to the hospital. My ex-husband would use that against me. - Ma'am, listen, after what - I am telling you that my daughter is not going to the hospital. - You don't understand, right? You understand. Yeah. Let's just do what Ms. Jackson says, okay? She'll be fine. (seagulls squeaking) I'll check in on the family later tonight. (Jake sighs) - Hey, why don't you let You know the protocol. - Because she's obviously okay. - She's likely suicidal. - She's alert, she's talking normally. Like, if the parents we have no legal right to do so. - What's going on with you? - Nothing's going on with me. (wind whooshing) - All right, look, if you got a problem, you gotta talk to me, all right? We can't be partners if you don't tell me what the hell's going on. Max! - The mom had alcohol on her breath. I smelled it as soon as I met her. If we take the daughter to the hospital, they're gonna claim parental neglect and they're probably gonna take her away. - Okay, maybe so, but - Yeah, but it is my problem, Jake. This is something that - Jesus, Max, stop making Focus on the people we're trying to help. (scoffs) Maybe Chief was right, yeah. Maybe you're not tough enough for this job. - Okay, I'm not tough enough for this job? - What the hell's that supposed to mean? - Why did you quit rescue diving, Jake? - So, I can't tell you one and what's going on with my life without you throwing it in my face? - You said it yourself. One more minute and - Wow, that's rich, yeah. You know, you've been giving me shit since the first day we met. What is it, Max? You think if you magically your husband's just gonna come back? Well, he's dead. Move on. (calm ethereal music) (Jake sighs) Max. Max, get back in the car. Max, I didn't mean it, all right? Can you please get back in the car? (poignant piano music) I'm sorry. Please get back in the car. - My mom is bipolar. I swore I would never be like her. I never wanted to have a baby. And then I met Gabe (poignant piano music) And he always wanted to have a family. Kept pressing me about I was afraid. Now he's gone and it's too late. (walkie-talkie beeps) - [Dispatch] I have a call (walkie-talkie beeps) - [Radio] (indistinct) 20. (walkie-talkie beeps) (walkie-talkie hisses) - What's up chief? - [Chief] Jake, I need to as soon as you can get here. - [Chief] ASAP. (wind whooshing) (Jake sighs) (car beeps) (truck horn blares) (truck horn blaring) - Yeah, I'm gonna need a list of all the paramedics and hire dates, on my desk, in an hour. No, just get me the list. I'll take it from there. And keep this confidential. Jake, Max, have a seat. - Hey Chief. - How's she working out? - Pretty good. Pain in the ass most of the time, but- - Hey. - I mean, all kidding aside, she's, she's doing good, chief. She's, she's a natural. - Ah, it's good to hear. Good to hear. - Well, since you asked us in here, I've been wanting to talk that I have. I wanna start a support group - A group? You know anything about - I mean, just like we do with the MRT, but on the inside. - Oh, wait a minute. - I mean, I've been doing research and I can't believe the of our own first responders. - First of all, the last thing in the world any of our people need to be doing is talking about their feelings. It doesn't work, and we don't want it. See that? Anybody walks into my office and says they don't handle their feelings, can't take the stress of this job. I say, &quot;Apply there, sell burgers.&quot; Now, I was the one who called this meeting, so I believe I'm still a chief. I need you all to settle (Jake snorts) I got some bad news. The city called and your program at the end of the month. - Well, what do you mean reallocated? - Wiped out. City's strapped because Well, to tell you the I'm gonna lose paramedics too. So Jake, I need you Your little break here is over. - The diving team? What does that... Max, there's no sugarcoating it. The program's gonna be canceled and I'm gonna have to let - We're just getting started. - I know. It's disappointing to me too. - Cut this program, I'll walk. - Oh, please. - I mean it. - Are you threatening me, fireman? (poignant piano music) Jake. Jake. Get back in here, Jake. - Jake. Jake, wait. (somber music) What are you doing? - Well, you heard him. It's over. (somber music) - We have two more weeks. Can we finish this out at least? - I'm done, okay? I'm done. I'm sorry. - So you're just gonna quit? You're gonna leave me here to deal with all of this shit by myself? Jake! - Get off. The man wants me back in the water, okay? He's been pushing me and pushing me to be back in the diving. The truth is I'd rather kill myself. (dramatic piano music) - Beau. Where have you been? We've all been looking for you. - Do I know you? - Yeah, Max. We met last week with - Oh yeah. - Well, I heard that you Are you, where are you staying? Are you with your dad? - No, he, he kicked me out. - Wait. Beau, we can help you. (metal thumps) - You're a nice person. Stay away from downtown. - What are you doing? Beau. (backup alarm beeping) (engine whirring) (walkie-talkie beeps) Dispatch, we have a 10-32, army vet, PTSD, headed toward downtown. Gray SUV, license plate PTL728. (radio traffic) Please respond. (indistinct radio traffic) - Authorities say the gunman is a veteran of the war in Afghanistan. Had an AR-15 when police and took him into custody, Sheriff Morris said at a news conference that Mr. Harris was experiencing symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, and was wearing camouflage America is in the midst without recent precedent. - Gimme a meeting with tell him it's urgent. - [News Anchor] An increase in gun sales, which jumped at the outset of the pandemic as stay-at-home orders unleashed a wave of unemployment (indistinct). (iPhone ringing) - This is Max. - People everywhere gasping for air, CODE RED. (alarm beeping) I can see her through the but I know she's not gonna So, I'm pulling on my PPE and I'm saying, &quot;Hold on, ma'am, I'm coming, (medical monitor beeping) But I didn't make it. A nurse, a nurse cares for her patients. (poignant piano music) I didn't make it in time. - You know, two months ago I was standing in this exact same It's true. (poignant piano music) My husband died of That's the first time I've ever been able to say that out loud. And for months I couldn't accept it. 'Cause I missed him so much. So I came to this bridge right here, and I- - You were gonna jump? - Believe it or not, a car honked at me, scared the shit outta me, woke me up out of this fog, out of my head, and I could just smell the and I realized I want to live, that there's still So I climbed down and I walked to the Why don't you come on down, take my hand? I can help you. (poignant piano music) (wind whooshing) You're good. Great job. (poignant music) (Max speaks indistinctly to the nurse) (inspiring music) (inspiring music stops) - Is this the right spot? (Jake chuckles) - It took you long enough. - Yeah, well, I wasn't cut I just, I. (chuckles) All right. How the hell do we do this? - Well, (sighs) I think chief is right. Nobody wants to talk - Yeah. - I didn't know I was calling on this. - Hey Pete, you made it. Thank you, man. - Yeah, I brought Eric. - [Eric] Hey man, you're - (chuckles) I, I guess, I guess. (Pete laughs) - And some pizza. - Okay. (inspiring piano music) You already know Max. Okay. - Thank you for being here. (chuckles) I, I just wanna say that for each and every one of And I guess what I want most out of this is for you to feel that and resources that you How about some ground rules? What are some values that we all share to make this a safe space? - Well, I guess there's a stigma around us not sharing these types of things. So, I suppose just - I don't know. I mean, like it's been said, it's heavy. We're firefighters, and if we'd be seen as weak, unfit for duty. - I like to keep my personal - Ground rules, I suppose, you know, whatever issues anybody we won't throw in their Yeah, we're not here to - Yeah, 100%, absolutely. Can we all agree on that? It is a lot. I mean, you guys are here on the worst days of their lives, but what happens afterward? - What do you mean? - When you leave here and - Well, I guess my, my in the same bed as me 'cause of the, the nightmares made One of my last dives, I, swimming through the And I can just make out the car below me. And I see this woman's blonde hair just floating through the sunroof. Nearly touches my fin. Moving in this, this like, wraps around my belt And I guess I, I don't remember, but apparently I screamed because they, they heard me all the way up in the boat. (firemen laugh) It was the windshield You know, the battery's still running. Yeah, clipped onto my belt. Um. Yeah, Max, you have enough - I know for me, being I feel like I have to hold it all in, prove I'm tough enough. But then I go home - You know, it's the sadness, - [Max] Yeah. - The sadness of just seeing too much. - That was fine at work, but you know, when you come home and you're alone. I never told anybody, but I, I had, I drove out to a, a sinkhole in Captiva. 90 feet to the rim, 300 feet down. And I think, &quot;I'm just gonna disappear.&quot; I'll dive down as deep as I can, I'm not gonna leave a note, &quot;And I would go until Yeah, I just never come (poignant piano music) (snorts) Yeah. Pete, you say something, man. (laughs) - Then you get the kindling effect. Just like a fire. The longer you let it go the bigger it grows. - You people still here? - Hey. - Hey Chief. - I was just about to turn out the lights. - We were just finishing Do you wanna come join us? - Oh no, I'm heading out. - Please, have a seat. - Oh, what the hell? I guess I can spend a few minutes with you. (sighs) So, what do you all talking about? - Well, we're actually talking about our toughest days on the job. - Hmm. - Do you wanna share yours? - Toughest day on the job? - Mm-hmm. - Hurricane Irma. I was working rescues all my home was underwater, and Ah... (chuckles) Toughest day on the job. I guess, uh, I guess that would be when I got the call that That got to me. - Got to you how? - Like it was my fault. Yeah, I'm chief. My job is to make sure that everybody's honor I. I couldn't. - Chief, we spend 24 hours a day together. (poignant piano music) We can literally talk about everything, but not this? - Like suicide. Remember Manny? - And Dom. - This is PTSD we're talking about, just like in a war zone, except it's a thousand And just like you take care of your bodies, and your uniforms, and your firetruck, you've gotta take care of your minds. So, whether or not you wanna admit it, every single one of you is (dramatic string music) - I'm glad you decided to come back. Turns out I can use you both. - Both? - Been on the phone all day. I got your damn funding restored. (poignant piano music) - Well, what do you know. - I guess we're gonna be (inspiring piano music) - Looks like it. Back to work. (Jake laughs) (inspiring string music) (intense inspiring music) (inspiring music fades) (Max sighs) (soft inspiring music) Gabe, are you here? (soft inspiring music) (water splashing) (wind whooshing) (inspiring string music) (seagull squeaks) (bright inspiring music) (bright inspiring music fades) (soft piano music) (soft piano music fades) (emotional piano music) Mm, mm Over and under Covered in light Sun sets the sky on fire behind Something unfolding It's good and it's right I'd give it all just When you say you're in love Makes me come undone (emotional piano music) Something perfectly wild Spinnin' round like a child Oh, in all that you are You are good for my heart Something rare, something strong Stands against all the odds Love that blooms in the dark You are good for my heart (emotional piano music) Mm Nothing compares to feeling at home The look in your eyes Something magnetic, wholesome and true Of all the gifts I've been When you say you're in love It makes me undone (emotional piano music) Something perfectly wild Spinnin' round like a child Oh, in all that you are You are good for my heart Something rare, something strong Stands against all the odds Love that blooms in the dark (emotional piano music) Something perfectly wild Spinnin' round like a child Oh, in all that you are You are good for my heart Something rare, something strong Stands against all the odds Love that blooms in the dark (emotional piano music) You are good You are good for my heart (emotional piano music)