- When we can test the Bible that we can observe and discover then we can have confidence in about spiritual things. - How do I know that the is actually the same as - That's a very good question. - The Bible is the only true Holy Book, that is a massive claim. And Mark, you said that that you put forward for this claim. So you've been speaking and biblical authority for over 20 years. I wonder if you could take us through those five points today. - Sure, so the first of those, Bronte, is that the Bible contains which no book written by man can do. The second key reason with all that we observe in The physical things that we can see. The third reason I'll talk about is that it has this amazing even though it was written over some 1,600 years, The fourth reason is that it which is an extraordinary And the fifth reason is it has a transforming And there are so many that have been completely turned around as a result of the Bible. So I think those five reasons, and there are more by the way, but they're the five key ones that make me believe that the Bible truly is the correct Holy Book. - Okay, so I had a friend in high school that said he would never believe the Bible because he thought it was who put their heads together and corruptly started a new religion. What would you say in response - Well, you know, I think it's rather odd that people say they won't read the Bible because it's written by men, and yet strangely they read and science journals, and But seriously there are but before I go through those, I just wanna say I was and there were some questions and one of the questions What's so different about Christianity to every other religion? And I thought that was 'cause it actually, if you like, sets the framework for And when you look at the they are all about mankind Trying to make himself acceptable to God by observing rituals, keeping rules, or denying themselves Only Christianity is about and what God has done to bridge the gap between man's fallen state Because God is a God of love. He's made a way for us to which is what He has revealed So that that makes this a - All right, so let's - Okay, so that was Now when you think about a book that is written ultimately by and we'll come to that point in a minute, but if a book was I ask people often, what things What characteristics might there be that would distinguish it And we cannot tell the future. We don't know what's gonna happen even this afternoon or tomorrow, or a moment from now. But God sees the beginning. from the beginning, He sees the end. So He's outside of time, and He sees everything. So He's able to perfectly And that is a feature of the Bible which sets it apart from - So you're saying that the which are then fulfilled, and that is setting it apart from any other Holy Book written. - Absolutely, and and they're not things like, you know, a you know, stuff that any old time anyway. They're very specific. I'll give you some examples. In the Old Testament, the prophet Isaiah talks and he names him Cyrus. And Cyrus is going to issue a decree that will allow his children, his people, to come back into their promised land. Now, that was written 150 Cyrus is born. - He becomes king, he issues the decree, and there's a copy of it, in - So this was 150 years before. So Cyrus would not have this prophecy was made. - Wow. Several generations before. So nobody can write that. So that's an example of a that is fulfilled within the and then within the New You might remember that Jesus spoke to His disciples about how not one stone would and do you know, in 70 AD, the Romans came, and and there was no stone They completely wiped it out. So an example of a prophecy that was fulfilled within the But perhaps the most important that are fulfilled in the New. - In the New. - Now you've got some between when the prophets under God's guidance, His Holy Spirit, and when the events were fulfilled. And I'm thinking here in, for instance, in Isaiah chapter 53, there are a number of prophecies, very specific about how how the Messiah would come. In Psalm 22, similarly, there are a number of - And so these were specific as well. - Correct. but saying how He would die, - How He would die, how He would suffer, that they would throw that no bone in His body would be broken. There's a whole list of them. The Old Testament also says the Messiah would come out of Egypt and it said He'd be called a Nazarene and He'd be born in Bethlehem. I mean, can you imagine examining this and thinking, how can He come out of - Yeah, where is He even coming from? - That's right. And all of those things in Jesus' life. Now, Jesus can't engineer around his birth, right? - No, no one could. - No, so it's just amazing, and in the Book of Daniel, there's a very specific about how the Messiah is going to enter triumphantly into Jerusalem. And scholars have worked out from the way Daniel has expressed it, that prophecy was fulfilled when Jesus came in on - Wow. you know? You look at that and there's other than God so directed that they wrote only in and without any errors. And I just think it's amazing where every time I pick up this book and start to read it, I realize what an to be able to read God's Word. - So we've seen prophecy fulfilled in both the Old and New Testaments. What's your next point for us? - Well, the second point of the Bible's record of history with the physical world around us. Now, in the Book of Isaiah, it says that He sits above the circle or sphere of the Earth. And the Hebrew word there can be translated In the Book of Job in chapter 26, it says that He inscribes a circle on the boundary between light and darkness on the face of the deep. And if people wanna check that out, they'll find that in Job Now, if we think about picture the Earth, and the sun's over here, light the interface between the guess what? - A Circle, okay? On the face of the deep, meaning over the surface and by the way, the Earth is covered by So that's a pretty fair description. And then in Job 26, it also says that He suspends You think well, and hang on, we all know that when you hang a picture on a hook, right? I mean you don't suspend So there are statements about that are absolutely accurate. Interestingly enough, in there's a discussion about and it says it'll be like and it says on that day, and it lists some daytime activities. And then it says on that night, and it lists some nighttime activities. So what it's saying is, there'll be day and night. And what we all know that's Right at this instant somewhere on the surface of the Earth. - Depending on where you are, yeah. - So you know, you think they try to claim that the which is complete rubbish. It does nothing of the The whole idea of the came about in the 1800s. There was a novelist who wrote a novel that was just rubbishing Yeah, so invented this notion that Christians believe and the myth that were terrified they were gonna sail off the edge of the Earth when to find a route to the Indies, a new trade route, which And they were concerned to carry enough food to That was their problem of course, and the rest is history. - So we've seen that with our idea that the Earth is spherical, that it's suspended in nothing in space. What other observations of the world around us does the Bible affirm - If we just look at the a large percentage of the Earth's surface is covered in sedimentary rock. They're rocks laid down by water. And when you look at those rocks, you discover that they must because they all contain And if an animal dies today, it doesn't just become a fossil, it has to be buried deeply to and digging up the body and so on. So that tells us that the There's really no time because if there was, you would like erosion and what have you. So there actually aren't in the rocks, although we are told that's the case, that's the traditional of the geological record. But the Bible has in its three whole chapters describing And when you read, the It speaks of the fountains or the springs of the and the floodgates of heaven And the period that Noah and his family and the animals were on So this was a big deal. Now you would expect, after a massive global Well we do. And we look at all all around the Earth, and it's just consistent And then, there's the timescales involved. When we look at the chrono-genealogies in the opening few chapters - I don't know what - Okay, let me explain that. In Genesis chapter five and 11, there are a lot of lists and all the rest of it. So these are genealogies, but they actually have when the son next in line was born, so they're chronological genealogies. So we call 'em chrono-genealogies, right? - Cool, thank you. Now, given that Adam was of the creation week, you can follow all of those genealogies, add the numbers up, and you find out that Abraham after the creation. - Yeah, wow. - And then from Abraham is also about 2000 years. And from the time of is also about 2000 years. So here we are today, about 6,000 years after creation. Now, the story that we hear all the time in our culture is- - Is not 6,000 years. It's like 13.8 billion since to the present day, that is a factor of, let me do the arithmetic, of Take 6,000- a small discrepancy. And there's absolutely no way you can reconcile those But is there any evidence So that's pretty fair question, isn't it? Well, you know, there's stacks of it, and in this video series, we've got a number of videos that actually address these evidences. And let me just list a couple quickly, I won't go into details, 'cause the other material does that. But for instance, the is consistent with starting with about, well not about, but exactly six people, who repopulated the Earth, Noah's three sons and their wives. For a period of 4,370 approximately years, with a quite conservative growth rate of just under half a which is about the population But the population of the with the idea that mankind has been around for over 100,000 years. Because if that was true, - So we would expect to see more people if the human race had - Indeed, if the growth rate was anything like a reasonable growth rate. Now you can sort of say, &quot;Oh, well what if the growth But then you have to argue that the human population on the brink of extinction or tens of thousands of years, and that's a bit of a long go, why? You know, they'd be doing quite well. Why wouldn't they just Another one, which I is that secular scientists have discovered soft And that's a bombshell because- - Why is that? - Well, dinosaur bones are supposed to be millions of years old, right? We're told they died out So they can't have soft blood vessels, intact - Because these things - Exactly, they break down quite quickly. Particularly, like blood cells, hemoglobin's a very complex molecule, it'll break down rapidly. You have to get blood samples fairly quickly, otherwise it's too late. - Okay, yeah. - But here they are in apparently, we're told millions of years old bones. But it is consistent with back to the flood. Because under ideal conditions, you could preserve like for that period of time. There's a wonderful which is creation.com by the way. And this article's and he lists 101 evidences for And you can find it at creation.com/age. And it's just a brilliant article, it's not that there's only 101 evidences, it's just that a 101 Sounds good. We've got more than that, and we can roll some old ones in, and new ones out or whatever, you know, just for variety's sake. Another line of argument that God created the which means it was all planned, it was thought about, it was designed. So do we see evidence of Well you bet we do, it's everywhere. Any living system is It could not have come about through random accidental processes, they just don't have the - No, and this is in my work is biomimicry, where designers are copying what we see in nature - And brilliantly designed. - It is, yeah. - So engineers try to copy these things. One that quickly comes to mind that I like is you see modern and the tips are turned up. But they never used to be, until somebody wisely - Eagle, yeah. - He thought, &quot;Isn't that interesting? The feathers at the end So they did some wind they discovered it reduced drag. So now the fuel efficiency 'cause the wingtips are turned up. Biomimicry, look, it's everywhere. Copying gecko's feet, and how astonishingly - Good grip, yeah. - Right, and we can make that are extremely efficient. Look, there's all kinds of stuff. So evidence of design but that's consistent with It's not consistent with the through random processes So what's important here is against physical things and discover that it passes then we can have confidence in the things that it says to us about spiritual things which you can't test. - So basically when we test the Bible with things that are testable, it comes out on top, and that gives us confidence that perhaps we can't test. - That's right. In fact, Jesus said to &quot;If you'd believed Moses, Now, Moses wrote or edited the first five books of the Bible, first one of which is Genesis, which speaks about the creation. So basically He's saying, if you believed that God was the Creator, then you would believe Me. Isn't it sad that so many people today refuse to believe that So if they reject the very how can they receive Jesus' words? How can they find the life And I think it's a tragedy when Christians reject and try to integrate this and say, &quot;Well, maybe God did it that way, which is really very dishonoring to God.&quot; - So we've unlocked quite a lot of different topics in this section. If people wanted to find out more, I think you mentioned the website. - Creation.com. Real easy to remember. So if you wanted to know you just go to creation.com. - Okay, let's recap. So we have perfectly fulfilled prophecy, we have observations that align with scripture. Can you jump into your third point for us? - The third one is just fascinating. See, the Bible is not like some big novel like &quot;War and Peace,&quot; or something, or a treaties on history. It's actually written by over a period of 15 to 1,600 years. - That's a long time. And there's obviously no way those authors could have corroborated And yet there's this that runs through the So you have people who are kings, and people who are fishermen, people who are lawyers, - That's a really diverse range as well. - Absolutely, and it's and I think this is unmistakable. And it's a feature that sets the Bible well and truly apart Now let me give you some examples. There's an unfolding of the whole concept behind the need for sacrifice and we find that mentioned Cain and Abel brought a sacrifice to God. We find how that develops that is given to Moses when and God spells out the the ceremonial law, and the social law. And of course the sacrificial system is a picture of what Jesus is for all of mankind's sin. So the animal sacrifice that the Jews did provided a covering of their sin. So God and His forbearance allowed that, but it didn't actually - So it didn't deal with it? - Not really, no, no. But if they're obedient, the deal was He would but He also said, if you are disobedient, then I'll withdraw that blessing. And of course the history And as you know, they ended as a consequence of their But you see the whole sacrificial concept that goes right from the beginning through to the time of and then we read in the Book of Hebrews the extraordinary fulfillment of that sacrificial system in what Jesus did on the cross for us. - So that's hundreds of years between the start and the end of that. - Yes, yeah, hundreds of years. So how could the, how could and editing it, have been able to come It was just humanly written. How is he going to know that who would pay the price for sin? Who would remove mankind as far as the east is for those who put their faith you know, I mean, so it I think another example of you know, we read about Abraham, who God instructs to Now that's an amazing thing. Can you imagine that that He's gonna make him a great nation? He finally in his old age, has a son. Now this is Abraham's Abram had Ishmael through Hagar. But that was sort of him How often do we do that? But God's purpose was that and Sarah would have a son. And that son, their only son, was the son of the promise, Isaac. And God said to him, I want - It's just wild. but he's obedient, and he comes to the the and then God intervenes and and spares Isaac's life. But you see the picture of that is a Father offering his And what do we see happen - Mirrors it very strongly, Isn't that amazing? So God offers His Son as of all mankind for all time. Now, you can't conjure that stuff up with a whole bunch of unrelated So to me that is a very for the divine authorship - Amazing, so we've got then we have observations a united meaning across What's our fourth point? - Fourth one is inerrancy. Now a lot of people think, &quot;Whoa, hang on, you hasn't got mistakes, it's Well, actually no. So let me address this topic First one is that those human authors would have had all manner about the nature of the physical world. In fact, it was commonly that there were four elements. There was earth, fire, air, and water. And everything was made So it's probable that at least probably believed that stuff. But the Holy Spirit so that no erroneous concepts like that ended up in the scriptures. Now that in itself is pretty On the contrary, perfectly did find its way into the scriptures, like the spherical earth, and it hangs on nothing, and so on. I think inerrancy also comes, well, let me just sum up the concept, and then we'll talk about that are in the Bible. The concept I think can be that God so inspired those human authors that they wrote only in and without errors. Okay, so His hand is on it. Now think about this. If God is so powerful that He can speak the universe surely he can superintendent the process of the writing of His word. So it gets to us today in Makes sense to me. I don't think that's too hard to do. If you can speak the universe into being, hey, you can make sure So people say, oh look, You know, you look at the gospels and they tell you different and different number of angels, and you know, all sorts of things. I have an article at home written by a very learned gentleman who was the chief magistrate a man called Clarrie Briese. And as a very senior lawyer, he took a look at the rules of evidence. So how do courts determine if in a court case is trustworthy? And there are a number of And he's applied those and they come out with flying So what you're seeing there of the same incident. And if we find it today, a traffic accident or something a number of different some will draw attention to one feature, others will draw attention to another, things that caught their eye, and so they pass that on, but they didn't see something else. - Yeah, I'd love to because I love watching TV crime, drama, it's, you know, pretty fun. I enjoy watching the police interview all the different people and trying to piece it But you know that someone their stories are completely different, way, way, way too different. Or B, if they're exactly the same, 'cause then, you know that's collusion. There's been people that before they've come So it's interesting that that a few discrepancies of just different people, different perspectives on the same issue. - Yeah, but these things They're different perspectives. Now, when you apply that approach, most of these claimed errors they're not errors at all, it gives that air of as you've rightly pointed out, and there's a whole raft There's stacks of people write and it's not hard to find. In fact, if you go to our you can type into the search window, claimed biblical errors or something. There are several articles in there that address a variety of these questions. But apart from our website, there are a lot of other that address them. But I think the correct to these questions is to start by assuming that it is God's word, and then say, what could be the solution to this apparent discrepancy? So instead of saying, ah, therefore the Bible's wrong. We say, ah, that seems I don't understand the answer And time and again, when ah, you do find the solution. There are a lot of scholars answering these kinds of questions. And I don't know of any, frankly, that stand out there in a plausible way. - All right, just to recap, so we have fulfilled prophecy, observations of the world around us, unified meaning over time, and then we also have inerrancy, despite the authors having of how everything works. What is your last point for us today? - Well, I think this is perhaps and that's the impact that the Bible has had on people's lives. People who have come of circumstances that have been radically transformed by the Bible's message. And there's just no other like that can take place. You see, we can try and modify behaviors, and psychologists and You can go and see your You know, &quot;Now Bronte, you when these circumstances arise.&quot; You try and remember, but You know, the only way is if there's a change in the heart. And when the heart changes, then the way we think changes, and therefore the way we act changes. So it's like you have to get And that's what the Bible does. I think that's why it comes because we are in a spiritual war. And that spiritual war is outlined in the opening three We have God creating a perfect world into which comes sin And now we live in this where we are at enmity with God. We're separated from Him. So God has reached out, and made a way for us to And I'll talk a bit more about the meaning of the message of the Bible, but there's so much evidence And there are books and books and books written about people whose One just comes to mind he wrote that amazing - &quot;Amazing Grace,&quot; yeah. I'll just spare you. but everybody knows &quot;Amazing Grace.&quot; It is just the most beautiful thing. And the words, you know, &quot;Once extraordinary words. &quot;That saved a wretch like me.&quot; So he acknowledges that he But this grace that he's writing - And John Newton, he was before he became a - Yes, yeah, he was about Involved in just most horrific practices. The way they used to yeah, anyway, we won't And transformed then into a man who worked with the likes to bring about the abolition How God took him- - And totally, now what transformed him was that his mother taught to memorize the first chapter of Proverbs. Now why would a mother teach a child the first chapter of Proverbs? Because it's really not great reading. You know, it's pretty dire. It speaks of terrible consequences And this is Proverbs of King And it talks about the &quot;Hear, my son, your father's instructions, and do not forsake your And it goes on and says, &quot;My son, if sinners entice If they say, come with us, let us lie and wait for blood, let us ambush the innocent without cause,&quot; et cetera, et cetera. And it goes on and talks of that such evil people will experience. And for instance here in it says, &quot;I will even I will mock when your dread comes, when your dread comes like a storm, and your calamity comes when distress and anguish come upon you, then they will call on Me, So here's God. I mean, why would you teach a child? But his mother taught him this. So he's in the slave trading and they're caught in this So much so that they're convinced that they're gonna lose everything and the ship is gonna sink. Now, they didn't treat the slaves well, and they were pretty expendable. But I won't go into all the details. I recommend people research this, and in the middle of it, those very words, &quot;In the when the storm comes upon you, and he suddenly cries out to God.&quot; But God did listen to him, and when they got back into port, they had a number of drums of water, and they were rationing the water, because they knew they were gonna take a And they were just using but they had five left, and so they were managing it well. They finally, when the storm abated, they get into port and they those remaining water barrels and there was no water in them. Now, if they had known that, they would've had just they would've been in As it was, they thought they had plenty. So they used enough water. You know, that's an just extraordinary. He's such a loving, And so you read a man like John Newton, who's totally transformed by - So these five points are that the Bible is God's Word. And it wasn't just written with their heads together. But I wanna know, how do I know that the is actually the same as - Ah, that's a very good question, and a lot of scholars trying to work on that. So let's sort of break Let's talk about the New Now, not long after Jesus' resurrection, as the church began to spread, persecution started to So it was very important that the apostles' letters to as many of the churches as possible as quickly as possible, because they were there as a source of encouragement to them. And also copies of the gospels, so that people had a So a lot of them were hastily copied under non-ideal circumstances by people who were not scholars. So you know, they missed So there's all these bits and of the gospels that then spread out. Now today, we have something or copies or substantial of the New Testament. So what scholars do is compare them, and they say, &quot;Okay, this but he missed that bit and But we can see how that So therefore, this one is probably closer to the original than that.&quot; So they analyze the text, and look for evidence of what Now by doing that sort of work, they're able to get a very close record of what the original text because we don't have conclusively the actual first letter This is called textural criticism. - So textural criticism that we have available, how many we have, and how - Yeah, not so much the versions, but the fragments of the original. So we have all these fragments. But just imagine if somebody let's say they wanted to so that Jesus did some or said things He didn't actually say. - So to rewrite history, sort of. - Yeah, try and rewrite history, and to tamper with the If they tried that, they have eyewitnesses who would say, &quot;No, no, He didn't do that, He said this,&quot; okay? So you couldn't get off with it, because these were observations and then written while those And if you could change then what about all that you now have to try and It's clearly not possible to do. So the very historical circumstances, and that rapid spread of copies enables us to reconstruct what the original texts - Okay. So the Bible compared to its competitors, or? - Exceptionally well. For example, there was a And the earliest copies of are some 300 years after he lived. - Wow. - And then we can look There's some 600 or so but vastly more copies of the So in fact, it's almost embarrassing how much evidence there of the New Testament text. - Okay, so what about the Old Testament? - Well, there was an amazing and that was the discovery of what's called the Dead Sea Scrolls. And in those scrolls there but it included fragments and parts of, and even whole books Every book is present - Wow. about these is this, that the earliest copies that prior to the Dead Sea Scrolls But these scrolls were hidden So it shifted the age by over a 1,000 years. - Now when they were compared with the other manuscripts that we had, it turned out that they - Identical, And the 5% were mostly and place names, which had been updated, so people knew 'cause places you see evidence of that in the where often there'll be an an aside, like a little editorial note, or it's still here to So it's an editorial note, and the text testifies So it was extraordinary. See, the Jewish scribes placed enormous value on the work of preserving the text. They didn't have data storage They meticulously copied the manuscripts, and if there was a slightest error, it would be discarded, and they'd do it again until it was right. And that was the, the and how effective they were. - Yeah, 95%, it's amazing. - Now, if I can just add to that, it's most important to note that there is no doctrine of Christianity that depends upon any of that 5% where there might be spelling changes or place name differences. In fact, that's also true No Christian doctrine It's reinforced over and over again. So any of the Christian throughout the scriptures, - Yeah, back to our unified So basically, although old, and there's evidence that through content and generations, my next logical question - That is a very good question. So how could a book so old be relevant to today's high - Exactly. The Heart of Man is no different today from what it was right back in the early chapters And that's why the book is relevant, because at the time that Adam and Eve made in the image of God in that perfect creation from the time they rebelled against God, man's heart has actually And we see it all the time now. No wonder the Bible comes under But if the Bible is true,, and indeed it has to be, then it will survive any attack from scientists, historian, archeologists, philosopher, theologian, whatever, and indeed it does. Because what it's about to fallen lost man, and bringing him back like they were originally in the Garden. They'd walk and talk with the What an amazing experience But the incredible thing is that through faith in Today, we too can walk and through the indwelling - So how can we accept that? How can we respond rightly to God? - Yeah. Well that I guess isn't it? And there are several steps in that. The first is the most difficult. And this is where Paul says that the gospel message and it's a stumbling block to Jews. And why does he say that? Well, the first thing we have to recognize is that we are in because our hearts are evil. In fact, in the Old is desperately wicked and beyond cure. - That's not a popular message. - It's not a popular message. So we have to acknowledge, I cannot, no matter what or how often I visit my therapist, I cannot make myself acceptable to a righteous and holy God, it just isn't possible. It's not in the nature of man, God Himself has to reach out and build that bridge So how does it happen? Well, first of all, the because God is a righteous and holy judge. You can't just pretend sin didn't happen. It's got to be dealt with. And Jesus dealt with it on the cross. He came as that perfect sinless Went to the cross, Although He was without sin for us, it's the great substitution, He took it all on himself and He was able to, because He was the Son of God. But then of course, He rose from the dead. Now, that is one of the most Any skeptic can check You know, here we are, our What governs that date? Well, the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the pivotal point in history between BC dates and AD dates. And of course we try We now say BCE, before the common era. But before Christ is simple And instead of saying in after death, is sometimes called, we say in the common era, CE. Desperate efforts to try and But our our very calendar It is so critical. So it's by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and His finished work on the cross and acknowledging our desperate need, and saying, Lord, I confess my sin and I believe in You that God and He places His own of every single sinner and that is stunning we become a new creation. It says in 2 Corinthians 5:17, &quot;If anyone is in Christ, The old has gone.&quot; Think of John Newton. Gone, the new has come. We are completely transformed, The old brain is still there. We've still got our old and it's kind of a lifetime experience to transform ourselves In fact, it says in Romans that we are to be transformed not our hearts, our minds. So that means several things. It means in part that we learn or we understand that God's and it also means that as God sees us, which is actually the true way. And when we're born again, he sees us as clothed in Christ's righteousness. I mean, that is amazing. Here we are, you know, dirty rotten sinners as it were. And then through faith we can be clothed in His righteousness and made acceptable to a And he removes our sin from us as far as the east is from the west. - So the Bible teaches us, and it also allows our hearts - It tells us how that has to happen. You know, Abraham believed God, and that was credited So our task is to believe, and that will be credited In Romans chapter 10, verse nine. &quot;It says, if you confess with and believe in your heart that you will be saved.&quot; That's what it takes. - Well, Mark, you've presented for the Bible as the Word of God. Thank you for your time. - Thank you, Bronte. It's