- Arguably one of the most recognisable names diesel tuning world is Gale Banks from Banks In particular we're big fans of Gale's YouTube analysing certain aspects of diesel engine his products. While the power's one side of the coin, are really cracking down on emissions making good power with reliability but also important and of course on the diesel we've got diesel particulate filters, into the exhaust system for catalyst effect that equipment? I know a lot of people want to take all of that - That's over, those days are gone. Full deletes are so illegal and now the have provided the electronic aspect of that. We've never done that aspect, because we an emissions free engine for racing we do it. But the average truck driven on the street, in whatever state you live in. It used to be, and still is very tight in states have adopted California but the big out the people who have done this because So at the end of the day we look at, much of the aftermarket tuning provides get consumed in the cylinder. So if you do a smokey diesel tune you're that fuel energy in cylinder. We don't go there, we have an AVL device into the DPF. We also can look at soot loading in the DPF that there's back pressure because of the oxy So it adds up to four or five pounds of back Also on the Fords and the GMs, from the DPF So you don't put out extremely high temp tip during regen. - So there's a lot going on there and I think particulate filters were commonplace, coal was pretty commonplace, a lot of people terms, very very simple terms, adding to a degree is going to increase the power aren't really aware of what's going on, pre DPF and then essentially making more - That's why we use the micro soot analyser. - So that micro soot analyser, you're looking engine basically pre DPF so you know how - Yeah and you don't want to regen it The back pressure across a DPF is a function So we don't want to have it regening all pressure to be higher than stock so we stock truck is our bogey, we don't want - Now I probably should go back there actually even know what a regen cycle is particulate matter in the exhaust and it is used to essentially super heat the DPF and Basically freshening is ready to collect more, looking at it? - Yeah but you burn fuel to create that heat. - So that also reduces your fuel economy so - No so we tune our inline devices to honour soot output. - So essentially you've got it as good as it - So we're diminishing the pumping losses by reducing back pressure, we don't get significant percentage so we combine and that allows us to tune more aggressively. And makes the engine a hell of a lot more - Now another thing I want to touch on there, anyway is the diesel engine tuning, I've sort add fuel, we're going to end up making more a richer air/fuel ratio. Of course the aspect of that is we do end up need to manage that heat with the diesel The problem with a lot of the diesel trucks, for towing very heavy loads and we can a tune that's perfectly safe and very powerful a very heavy load on it, tow it up a hill How are you managing that when you're for your tunes? Is it through monitoring and controlling - First of all we're keenly aware of constant Our military engines have to pass a 400 torque or full horsepower. Two hours full torque, two hours full horse, You'll never see that in a pickup truck. So we engineer all of our tuning to do altitude with any air inlet density you If you're a cowboy and you do the old a DPF, you'll soon plug up that DPF but a minute ago. We're looking at EGT of course but we're looking thing here. If the OEs at 18:1 air/fuel, that's our bogey. So how do we get more air into the engine, more air density so we can mix that air Same EGT if you're at the same air/fuel - So essentially while you're adding more fuel, a larger combustion charge inside the engine ratio target? - That's it, exactly. My goal is with intake, exhaust and tuning, 120, 140 pound feet and stay within the design and the exhaust system. I'm a racer. Holding back like that is tough to do. I get the idea of why guys want a full delete I've never ever had a diesel record holding a few so that being the case, including Cummins, no smoke, 222 miles an hour. - I think it's reasonable to say that with the emissions, we're going to see less and less on making sure that the tune will work with Look Gale it's been great to get some insight pretty exciting time with the current crop of that we are able to get out of them so great products so thanks for the chat there. - Thank you. - If you liked that video and if you're not already a subscriber, We release a new video every week. And if you like free stuff, Click the link in the description to claim