I have spent 3 hours, 14 minutes, and 44 seconds long flash game made by a concrete mixer salesman records set by 13 different runners over the Ball Speedruns - Beyond the 3 Minute Milestone, we the first sub 3, to a 2:48 by Yak27, the first frame dependent strategies that revolutionized and PBird 11. However, these discoveries, enabled were widely believed to be almost all that the setups. Sure, the TAS of the game was a sub 2:30, but the stuff that people could pull off in those individual level accomplishments. However, clicking, then you know that we have a lot to more and more of these setups needed to replacing variable movement with binary the next chapter in Red Ball's story, and there was already a massive discovery that blew 6 frame perfect inputs for around 2.5 UltraAug discovered that a frame perfect of the level earlier, and world record contenders by thinking outside of the box, NotVeryGood was the level into something much greater, and it route had already made its way into the TAS, it had a good chance of being incorporated into frame perfect count to 5. Former world record a row during practice later that month. However, awkward and easier time saves being present As is typical whenever a large barrier is died down for a while after Yak's 2:48. It wasn't record set, that being a 2:47.935 by Big_Mukmuk. to save a cycle on the death warp, but he still margin going into level 11 thanks to his excellent he barely messed up the train strategy that he had discovered a setup to complete the train before it went under the ground triangle. This unclear visual cues made it very difficult to pull setup into a way to back up the traditional PBird coining it PJet. Even though this variant required cues for each input made it a lot easier, causing nailed the beginning of the setup to get past this jump off the black platform, causing him to two seconds, but he still scraped by with a new was that the sum of Mukmuk's best segments was a sub 2:40 was on the cusp of being feasible. needed to piece together a viable route, but in the strategies they already had at their disposal. easy sub 2:50 pace, despite having lost 2 seconds his nerves shot through the roof. With a heart rate of 188, NorXor choked a sub in an era dominated by new age runners, the potential to make a splash. However, distinct lack of enthusiasm that was holding there was an event in the pipeline Super Mario 63 is one of the most iconic flash several mario games in a single 2D package, it the Flash platform provided. With a world record it only made sense for the two game's communities the idea of having members from each community to see what kind of time they could get. The top and whatever community was closer to the world The SM63 community had a lot of talent to draw Any% world record by a mile. Vertic had also swept another set of flash game platformers. It times himself and other Mario 63 runners would June 24th to June 30th. Vertic speedran Red Ball In just 391 attempts, Vertic got a sub 3, a feat months of effort. Setting a time only 7% slower to achieving a sub 6:45 in sm63 in the context Ball community ended up setting was a 7:53 by me. but right before the final results were 2:44.484. Poguin shattered the world record by 3 jump since rare.eg's iconic 3:07. In the era of completely unprecedented. The run had almost new strategies. Firstly, he had a new level frame perfects instead of 3. Not only was this reaction time barrier that was present with Max 6, transition. Next, he implemented a 4 frame perfect skip the moving platforms without using the top but it proved to be a decent bit easier. The the corner boost at the end of PJet 11, costing this was the first world record performed on the in-game timer and printed the date at the end of which is why the milliseconds of Poguin's record While the timing of runs in the past had always game does not cleanly fit into either a 30FPS or would have a 100% accurate retime. Some runners but the tournament edition would become Even factoring in Poguin's improvement to the beat the Red Ball community by over 17% in the being a top Red Ball runner, but only time would After Poguin's 2:44, another world record and if one was, it would more than likely be by a record with the same route at Poguin, hoping to missed the corner boost during bottom route his levels 8-10 were optimal, and he Yak27 beat the world record by just 6 he wanted to push the record further, as did the that the current route could get a 2:42, but they potential even lower. In August, they were still and the record was ready to fall at any moment. On 4, meaning that he had to wait to get the death but he unfortunately didn't press left for long bonk the red wall. These two mistakes combined up a slower level 7 strategy in his world record, nailing a new strategy called Carline in level the start of the level and a jump on the ramp height to clear this barrier without slowing lead after getting a near perfect plunger jump, That accidental corner jump in level 12 cost record by 0.09 seconds. However, upon frame to be 2:44.258: just a single frame faster. on the second try and nailed all the other setups. a bit less than optimal, the run clocked in despite three new world records being set in the or 0.419 seconds. It truly seemed like the game and hope of another sizable record ever being run with Poguin and Yak's route could certainly there would be extremely long. However, that's not Well, that's more like it. In one run, Yak27 the previous three records had combined. He Mug 7, resetless 10, and PJet 11 first but he added in Cookie 3, which saves His hood launch and plunger weren't perfect, limit for this route. The implementation of a sub 2:40 would need. He included a bold "3x will happen in 2022!". With only 4 months left or Poguin claiming this final milestone should his By the time Yak set his 2:41, Vertic had shot up placing the top 3 in a dead heat. After Yak had to implement more strategies to increase his the first sub 2:40. He added Mug 7 to match Yak's sidelines. He also incorporated a setup in level of 2022. With a frame perfect jump release at Red Ball can bounce in the spike pit Red Ball will avoid bonking into this ceiling, by frame perfectly jumping out of the tunnel, this stair, saving another full second. This of a viable 2:3x route, and since it was also it was aptly named 3x choker. Vertic was the final 10 second barrier, and just a week after Going into level 11, he was only one and a half PJet and 3x choker, this could easily be By releasing jump a frame early at the start, 3x choker. He also flubbed his second attempt, backup to still get the corner jump on the stairs. had significant context in the overall quest in the game's history had a top-level runner game anywhere close to within 1.5 seconds of a run that was hailed as essentially being perfect a world record had ever gotten to the runner's every single level in the game involved a 9. And, since level 1 just involves a single jump jump up this slope and then to the flag, the only level 9. While it had taken a while for runners it finally seemed like the end game had you simply selected a frame-dependent setup for left a second or two of wiggle room and that is the time that you could expect you hit all of the frame perfects or not, of on the subject of frame perfect counts, I get plenty of people commenting the exact same with over a hundred frame perfects. Hitting 23 is Give me a few minutes to explain why analyzing the Red Ball is a 31FPS game, meaning that each frame hitting 23 frame perfect inputs in a row with here's a video of me hitting 23 "frame Yeah, every input may have had equal but that was still 23 inputs, each with a 32 200 "frame perfects" in a row... so I guess I so the context behind frame perfect inputs clearly so let me break down the factors Red Ball much different from other games. keep track of, while the examples that I more inputs that you have to keep track Next up, you have the impact of rhythm. Generally, easier they are to perform. Even complex "click can produce a distinct rhythm that can become more the setups in Red Ball, the frame perfect each other, yielding no such pattern. visual cues that the game provides. For my a dance a button with the consistent beat of a metronome... audio, there is a very distinct visual cue to look balls moving extremely fast, this only happens first right press in PJet 11. This is the frame and this is the frame after. There is almost the visual change over the same time Regardless, the best proof that "frame perfect" comes from the results of people who have actually level. Thankfully, we have a great example of players, Trick, managed to get a mid 4:56 in Super frame perfects at 60FPS. On paper, this is so much should have been able to just boot up the game and it actually took him weeks of practice and get me wrong, achieving a mid 4:56 that fast unheard of... but it didn't happen instantly, Going even further, there is something baked inputs less consistent than they otherwise should video, then you should be aware that the time frame rate that is specified for any Flash game other words, frames can be shorter or longer than comes out to around 31. On good machines, this However, upon opening Adobe Scout, an official Player, the truth is revealed to be much more Flash throws in a frame that is half the length, a bit longer than they should be. As you can input on any of these half frames, you are machines like my laptop, the spikes and dips I will examine the exact input and frame time desktop and my laptop for 5 runs each. You can released on frame 150, and then pressed again input timings from the first trial to each of the 9 would have succeeded. Yes, this is a small that a certain level of randomness is involved in Red Ball. We will discuss how this impacts but just know for now that any frame perfect comparable to other games. Now, with that out of Though Vertic was still quite a bit behind favorite to be the first to get a sub 2:40. then hit 3x choker. How hard could it he got a run that missed the first frame perfect his second try. Similarly, he messed up the left quickly reset to fix it. Another second lost he still continued the run since the world Check. Resetless 10? Check. PJet? Check. All he Well, he messed up the start, but he corner jump off the stairs. Still, he At this point, the only people who had ever gotten and Caramel. Though there was obviously a clear Mukmuk wasn't as active as he used to be, and There were just three guys that had a chance of in stone that no one else would get to their level that certainty was eroded the very next day, as To explain why on earth Niftski, the greatest set a 4th place run in Red Ball out of seemingly 2021, when the rise of Red Ball began. As Ball community, largely as a result of my videos algorithm, Niftski was one of the runners who he followed the beginner speedrun tutorial that first day. This eventually led to many other Super including AldynSpeedruns, JeremyMKW, who had the world record in Super Mario Red Ball Discord for a little while, though Red Ball had so many new players that, near the Bros.' active player count on speedrun.com. While one was a physics sandbox while the other was the fact that they were short, easy-to-pick-up glitch, since this was the pre-deterministic getting much more than a 3:53, and on February next two months, he put his full focus towards him setting the first 4:54, shattering the game's back to Red Ball, and in June of 2021, he hit the using the newly found PBird setup. Four a good time that would have flown largely under train in the run. This actually set the record for train. Surprisingly, it wasn't until June 20th, and a 3:05.968 on the same day. The keen eyed a half years passing, Niftski's attempt counter practicing way more than doing attempts, the same hint to any up and coming speedrunners out there, a winning strategy. Niftski's approach would Niftski got a sub 3 in just 602 attempts, and a gold level 12. This was the record for did it in 391 a week later during the SM63 Niftski pushed his personal best from a 3:17 to of and almost unimaginable until he somehow Niftski genuinely thought that he was but Red Ball has a unique In late August, Niftski got a sudden spike in he jumped all the way down to a 2:52.903. Indeed, PJet and a better level 12 is all that he Niftski started livestreaming on his he had a run that was a bit behind have granted him another PB, but A week later, he was easily on 4x pace going instead of PJet since he thought that he had had done the setupless stair jump in his personal as you saw earlier, he managed to get the Niftski had been able to improve each time like he may position himself as a 3x contender. Whether he was being truthful this time had yet to game had finally motivated another high-profile On September 19th, Miniland managed to get Vertic's record. Believe it or not, it only 3 pace for the first time. Again, an experienced applying a practice-heavy approach to Red Ball spent an entire week practicing the game before ratio of time spent practicing versus doing it wasn't just the sheer amount of time spent practice and how you practice it is even in on the most difficult pieces of the run, and PBird, utilizing savestates, the frame offset practice as efficient and effective as possible. "I will be going for a time in the 2 minute 40 the top 10, and who knows what will happen after like it had all the momentum in the world, with most formidable milestone. Given all the hype, organize a special event to showcase everyone's On October 1st and 2nd, the Red Ball Community aiming to beat the 12 Levels world record. The Mukmuk, Poguin, Yak, and, of course, Vertic. For attempts as they wanted, with the goal of setting best runs during the event would get a portion of set the first 2:3x during the stream. This kind of the game was made for. The built in timer ensures that nobody is streaming pre recorded to say much about it, since only a small amount that happened was Vertic getting a world record just short again. Soon after, he managed to set about. Still, he ended up finishing first place as the frontrunner to set the first sub 2:40. showcase, I started planning another Red Ball: prize pool, more runners and commentators, and was set to be much shorter, just 5 hours instead meant that a new world record could easily be Vertic got a 2:55 on demand, and Pearce certainly in for a treat, and it didn't take Around the two hour mark, the top of the bit crowded. However, when Vertic After being the only person to set a Vertic became the first to do it here, a time there was still three hours left for larger than a 1st place spot. Here's a The man had a 3x paced run past the large spikes He didn't quite nail the starting inputs for instead of resetting at the checkpoint flag to run that anyone ended up getting during the for the entire thing. Sprong ended up being further cementing Vertic's perceived dominance the world record. Well, the next weekend, The strategy you just saw is known as 9x3, a a whole cycle early. Since he got the Star 6 to stay on 3x pace. Let's watch the rest. The ending of PJet trolled him yet again, but he still clutched 3x choker to claim a new world record of 2:40.355. Now, it may look like Vertic was pretty far away from but Red Ball's hitbox is often larger than phenomenon. By replaying his inputs as a TAS, we away from contacting the flag. We can convert this from Red Ball glory was around a seventh of a Still, Vertic continued streaming attempts for but he couldn't quite close anything out. 12 on 3x pace that missed 3x choker. It wasn't saw any kind of movement. You'd probably expect the race to 3x, but that momentum ended Remember when Miniland said that he would description of his sub 3? Well, he ended Indeed, this 2:46.645 launched him to 4th place, for the route he was going for, which included PJet. On paper, this strategy was more difficult, for whatever reason, Miniland and Niftski found Bros. speedrunners had found more success with it Miniland stated that he could comfortably quit but we all know how that usually ends Miniland had a sudden burst in motivation to time learning and practicing strategies Carline 8, and 3x choker. However, he decided adding 2 frame perfects to save 0.8 seconds. TAZ instead of from the back corner, something which without a frame-dependent setup. It actually with InsaneJetman having made a 20 minute long BirdBanana and his own attempts to replicate setup. With the extra wiggle room that TAZ for an easier strategy called EasyJet 9, which second. With his new route prepared, Miniland he got a 2:43.645, moving him to 3rd place The race to 3x had suddenly turned into a dead that this run wasn't a 3x is because Miniland Miniland was rapidly improving, and a sub 2:40 Vertic wanted to be the first, he had to act now. up short, it was time for him to show off his full Well, that missed cycle skip and bad death sentence. Even a perfect ending with wouldn't be enough for the sub 2:40. That When it mattered most, Vertic clutched up. forbidden for us normal speedrunners to use, with Super Mario 63 really did pay off. The Yak's prediction that a sub 2:40 would happen in another monumental moment for the Red So yeah, the day after Red Ball's last I hit 100,000 subscribers on YouTube! I was of others on Red Ball Online, a multiplayer mod and ImPurpl3. Fittingly, I hit 100k just as I for the video that thrust my channel into the running simultaneous races with everyone for fun, who hadn't done attempts for a few months. practice with the newer strategies, namely TAZ stream was the last bit of motivation that he the ground running right after the stream ended. This dude is a machine. Yeah, he took he had a less than optimal hood launch in but everything else was flawless. This but he still had a long grind ahead of he was still in 5th place after all. Niftski for whatever reason, he decided to keep going. Alright, so remember earlier when I said that improved his PB from a 3:17 to a 2:59 in hold a candle to the miracle that he pulled off world record by over two seconds, leaping improved his PB by over 10 seconds in a span of is that he could have still gotten the record making it the largest world record jump that Niftski cited this run as possibly being This was the first time in Red Ball's speedrunning of full-game perfection. Aside from getting an one that Niftski got, you could not improve this route. The good news is that there were still a be thrown in. We had already seen Carline leaving at least a second and a half of time save compel people to keep going for the record, and of 6 frame perfects. Red Ball desperately needed higher and give any record-hopeful runners enough on December 19th, that need was filled, With 3 frame perfect one-frame-long jumps, the tip of the car. However, unlike most all 3 of these inputs had pretty distinct you could usually still get a decent hood launch notice of the strategy, and he started getting he began drawing some similarities between this Mario Bros. It had a similar position in the run, of the level were somewhat similar to the perfect suggested that the strategy be called pl8-8 as Miniland titled his first perfect pl8-8 "a sneak he had clear intentions of claiming it with this got the Carline portion of pl8-8 but failed the He extended his lead to 1.1 seconds by nailing shrinking the lead to .2. Still, he had just 9, and 10, and he readied himself for SMB11. So... Miniland clearly pressed the up button, as indicated by his input display, but Red Ball just didn't jump. Unfortunately, most flash games, including Red Ball, poll inputs in a flawed manner pressed and released within the span of the same This jump in SMB11 must be a single frame long, so 32ms to give him the best chance of having his is extremely difficult to do, and even if you were single time, it still wouldn't be 100% consistent. mentioned earlier, a perfect 32ms input still has The same day, he got a run that hit all the frame a second ahead of the record. Again, he had the The next day, he finally managed to hit all of For the rest of December, Miniland making progress towards the record. And, on the Miniland had a 3x choker attempt that looked it was a counterfeit. After some investigating, off the pillar is a single frame long, so he made Miniland continued to post steady progress through Niftski's alternate Twitch account a few times. he still hadn't closed out a sub 2:40. He was enough to stream 2:35 attempts to his main Twitch he was going for, which, I'll remind you, was added from pl8-8 and 9x3. It was incredibly straight to a time like that, but he was certainly the road. Well, on his 3rd main channel The man skipped straight to the 2:35, getting it 8 to retry the left-right inputs was the only TAZ 3, Resetless 4, Star 6, Mug 7, pl8-8, It all came together. Funnily enough, the top identical to the top of the Super Mario Bros. complete. With the reservoir of RTA viable setups and stood, and stood. Eventually, it became the 2016 to stand for over a year. Vertic continued getting a 2:37 and some 17 Levels records, but still eluded him. Though top-level play was as I have said many times in this video, Red Ball game, even those who have claimed to be completely to reignite that passion, and for me, creating For almost a month, I had been practicing the that I needed to contest for the record. I kept spreadsheet, which highlighted my weak spots me to beat the record. The only difference a new setup for level 9 that was a good bit easier handful of attempts offline as a sanity check, and quickly. I didn't want to place too much pressure so the only person that I kept in the know about the two of us had become close friends, and I well during my preparation. And, on March 30th, for. We agreed that some friendly competition and I finally made my announcement. The With my personal best still being the famous 3 of attempts, I got my first sub 2:50. Though I had beaten my PB by 6 seconds, the pop off was almost non-existent because distracted by school, my grind started tapering our routes were almost identical, he included some and 10 that saved around half a second combined, for optimal jumps in levels 1 and 5 as well, this entirely frame dependent except for the plunger it was essentially all or nothing. On April 8th, in level 8, matching Miniland in that regard. His on record pace, but after nailing the first pillar. This came as no fault of his own; he but the game didn't pick up the input until frame happening whenever the level transition mentioned earlier. Shoutouts again to Flash for having to take a costly reset there, he still The next day, he got a run that missed the 4th time loss. After a perfect levels 9, 10, and 11, to hit the backup. Since this was another small in on 17 levels. At this point, the world record to that 4 minute milestone. This was the final since Niftski's level 12 split was over 7 seconds The missed jump from the moving but he still set a new 17 Levels world record of could happen any run now, he began streaming day. While Niftski demonstrated incredible he wasn't quite able to put together the perfection can only elude this man for While Niftski's 2:37.710 had come extremely close the real deal. You could not beat this run by Niftski got the fastest ever exit from level over 35 frame perfects, and he hit every single route developed from the TAS hack had concluded. run with my current strategies, I threw in the in Red Ball history. Though this run could he understandably struggled to keep his a reason that the last time that someone back in 2021. on its own, meaning that the door to claim the goal that I shifted my gears towards. On the road 3rd place with a 2:36, I set the 17 levels record frame-dependent input in the run. On May 5th, the first time since my return to the game. Fittingly, While my story had certainly found a happy ending, him time and time again, but he was persistent, this point, all he wanted was to beat Miniland's almost a year and a half. Well, on July 29th... That's not quite what he was after, but beating my 17 levels PB by a single frame was certainly A sizable 17 levels record... this man was that success to the first 12 levels as He achieved his goal by a single frame. After a Vertic was completely overcome with emotion. His journey was over. Vertic was And, that leaves Niftski's 2:34.613 in 12 Levels world records in the game. It took over 4 hours finally arrived at where the game may remain for is the end of Red Ball's story. Though sub 2:40 second barrier for a few years, we have thankfully is still more to be done. Sub 2:30 is possible, dedicated speedrunner will accomplish it one day. still are, let me show you one of the strategies With 18 frame perfects, you can escape the opening seconds faster than SMB11. The movement at the have to keep the game at a pixel-precise window is just a taste of the mastery that speedrunners basis. Many other crazy strategies that were setting have been pulled off, such as this insane plunger to get it in just the right position. the combination of thousands of hours of effort, for 17 Levels. The Tool-Assisted speedrun clocks out of 17 levels in the TAS have been tied to human sum of best will come to match it one day. from an individual level standpoint are extremely necessarily translate over to full game success. thousands of times is completely different from runners that are great at one but not the other. players and the 10 best full-game players, only 5 sum of best certainly proves that the game still shows that a sub 2:20 is not possible, at we currently have available. Let's generously result in 5% of otherwise successful frame perfect over 190 in a row. Even if all of those inputs you'd only have a 0.006% chance of them all have helped improve consistency and level the minimum keypress length of certain keyboards a built-in debounce time to ensure that single usually defaulting to 5ms. By changing it to Red inputs a lot more consistent. Then, a few months versions yield more consistent frame times in the on slower machines. I spent days tracking down an ancient internet plugin, and then developed up Internet Explorer. As a bonus, I was able to lacked, making it a win-win. Finally, we've also which have killed many world record paced runs, repeat delay below the normal range in Windows. Red Ball and the flash game speedrunning scene we will have a way to play a 15-year-old, push its potential as low as possible. But, casual playthroughs, to initial optimization, to the entrance of frame-dependent setups, this game has certainly been through a lot. Of made their way to the internet, who could've known the biggest from a modern speedrunning standpoint. yet to be written. Thanks for following