Butter cookies for christmas. The fastest, easiest and most delicious cookies. Butter cookies are already a classic. Who did not prepare cookies as a child or help prepare them? Wasn't it fun? Well, you are going to love this recipe for cookies because they are very easy ... And they are perfect to give away or share. Just put them in a tin or a bottle with a ribbon ... And your guests, friends or family will be delighted. Ok, let's start making our cookies. In this bowl I already have 110 grams of unsalted butter that should be at room temperature. We are going to soften it for a few seconds helping us with a little stick. As you see, it does not put any resistance because I remove it from the refrigerator 1 hour before using. Later I will mix 80 gr of icing sugar with 1/4 tsp of salt. Salt helps balance flavors and gives cookies a rich flavor. I'll go sifting before incorporating. By the way, the ingredients and tips are found under the title ... In the information box. I'm going to continue mixing slightly with my paddle just to incorporate. Just to not see loose sugar, we should not mix more. Using icing sugar and butter at room temperature helps to speed up the process. The most I mix it is one minute. The next thing I will add are 2 yolks that should be at room temperature. Here mine came together because I took them out a little while ago and forgot to cover them. I recommend that if you take them out before, you cover them with plastic wrap. Let the plastic wrap touch the yolks so that they do not turn ugly. After this I will add 1/2 tsp of vanilla essence. Instead you can use any other scent that you like. I will continue mixing just to incorporate well. That you no longer see pieces of yolks in the dough. Finally I am going to mix 200 grams of all-purpose wheat flour ... With 10 grams of cornstarch or corn starch, as you know it. The cornstarch will help the cookies to be slightly crunchy on the outside ... and very soft on the inside. I am going to sift the flour before incorporating. I will add it little by little. I like to add the flour little by little to incorporate it better. Ok, I will mix with the paddle evenly. Pressing, carving into a dough that should feel smooth, not dry. As you can see, the dough is not quite together. But do not worry, we do not want to touch it with our hands a lot so that gluten does not develop ... and this causes our cookies to be hard. Therefore, as it is, I will place it on baking paper. Ok, here I have everything on the baking paper. I will cover with half the paper. and press out from the center to distribute evenly. Later I will help myself with a roller. Stretch, forming a type of rectangle that should be 4 to 5 mm thick. And well here you can see why I say &quot;type of rectangle&quot;. It should not be perfect but if you try to have the same thickness on all sides. Well, we want the cookies to bake evenly. Stretch a little more, taking care not to overdo it ... I don't want the cookies to be too thin. Now I will fold the edges of the paper to wrap the dough well. Well, we are going to take it to the refrigerator for about 30 min to 1 hour. Of course you can leave them longer if you like, even from one day to the next ... Of course, leave it for a few minutes at room temperature before cutting ... Well, when you remove it, the dough will be quite firm. Anyway, after 30 minutes, I'll cut the dough. You can cut into squares, circles or, like me, use a cookie cutter. The ones I have are cutters with stamps or ejector and they have a nice design. The truth is that they are very practical. But if you are good at designing and you like it ... with any other cutter or making squares or circles ... these cookies will also be very beautiful and delicious. Well, now I'll be placing it on a tray with baking paper. Leaving a space between one and the other of more or less 1 cm. I take this moment to invite you to subscribe to the channel. And I would love to leave me a comment to know what you think of the recipe. I will gather the excess dough to stretch again to 5 mm thick. I'm going to make more cookies ... In total, I got 44 pieces. But the amount will depend on the cutter you use. I'll take it to the oven, which should already be at 180 C. Remember to turn on your oven a few minutes before taking the dough out of the refrigerator. Baking time ranges from 10 to 15 minutes. And for you to see them slightly golden. And believe me, your kitchen smells delicious when they are already perfect. Mine were ready in 12 minutes. But you already know that each oven is different. So go peeking out of your oven from 10 minutes. And when you take them out, let them rest for about 5 minutes on the tray. Because if you try to move them immediately they can break. As you can see here mine already broke a little because I touched it. They are very delicate at the moment. Well, after 5 minutes ... I'm going to place them on a rack to let them cool completely. I love the smell they give off ... It makes me want to eat one but what our moms and grandmothers tell us is that we shouldn't do it Well we'll get bogged down or they'll give us &quot;Run, I'll catch you&quot; Anyway, I prefer to wait. Once cold, you can place them inside a tin with little cups. Or inside a bottle with a ribbon. What better than this time you give something that you have prepared yourself. And just as they are, they look super cute. But, you can even dunk some of the cookies in melted chocolate ... dump them in sugar or use royal icing to fill in the designs. Either way, decorated or not, you will love them because they are very easy. That is why I invite you to try them ... and to share this cookie recipe with your family, friends or on your social networks ... So that more people can prepare them. That's it, see you in the next video ... See you later.