You use applications like Instagram, Facebook, collect your data. Everyone knows about it; collect the data because they want to make and improve the overall business process. But the technological standpoint? In this video, I The growth of data is massive and 90% of the worst data was generated in just the old. If you look at the bigger picture, you use amount of data that is getting generated and this data generally gets stored on some as a text file on some file-based all of this data gets stored at one place. Data warehouses are the system especially built store a huge volume of data and read them in bulk, can also find answers to questions such as: How compared to yesterday? How did we do on this last year's? All of these questions can be easily So, when companies like Google they started collecting massive volumes of data, valuable insights from it. Those were the days and all of these write, so the amount of data and it was very easy to process But as more and more people started the data started growing at an the traditional data Vos technologies were and the speed at which the data was getting This is the Shard Disc architecture where you have some network. Or the other architecture was but to run the query, you have to use the In a nutshell, all of these technologies size of the data that was getting generated at started to struggle. They also required Your database's performance was the big issue. it might take days or even weeks. And all of these things was very expensive. insights because they couldn't process And the last thing is that all of these data types. So if you wanted to store the data, you had have something called ETL (Extract, Transform, places, do some transformation, and then you load you have to do this entire processing before So all of these technologies and we needed something modern. And this is where Now, before we go forward, I just want to say This is the modern database that is gaining we go forward in this video. Snowflake is a market that is entirely on the cloud. The cloud So, in the traditional data warehouses, everything scales properly, update the software. you had to manage most of the things by cloud changed the entire game. Now, you don't just need to focus on your business side What's cool about Snowflake is how it processes and your computer layer separate so that also process this data in an efficient manner. understand it better, at the bottom, we the data really get stored. Then, we have the to process our data and run queries. And we access different features like authentication, So, for example, if you have multiple you can create something called as the virtual sizes of CPUs and RAM for different they will only use the allocated resources. challenges. And even if you need more This makes Snowflake one of the most powerful That is not it. Snowflake is adapting to support so many new things that Snowflake has added For example, if you want to store structured or you want to query data that is stored at some on top of it and start querying it. You don't your location. Also, you don't really require onto Snowflake and then do the transformation One of my favorite features on Snowflake is to create the data pipeline based on some event, whenever any new file gets uploaded, the Snowpipe your data onto the Snowflake table. So, this is What Snowflake does is that they work with what the real problem is. And based on by building the right features. And they have So, let's look at an end-to-end example to you can do with it. Now, before we move forward, you want to learn the data warehouse technology to know as a data engineer, I have created an about the data warehouse fundamentals. You will the Snowflake database in-depth. It took me so I will highly recommend you to at least check Let's continue with our example. the first step is not to find courses, go to the website and create your account. is just write &quot;Snowflake&quot; in your browser, page. Here, you will understand what The first step we want to do here is to create for 30 days, and you also get $400 worth fill your information over here. So, I'll do then they will ask you to choose the Standard, Enterprise, and Business Business Critical version because that After that, you can choose your cloud company and they have their existing you can choose one over here. I'll just go nearest region as per your location. So, for me, &quot;Get started.&quot; You can fill all of these Once you do that, you will get the you can go to your registered all of the information. Just click onto you just have to build your username, and then So, this is the basic tutorial. So, the bookmark your URL. You can also follow the basic this is the UI of Snowflake. As you can see, you where you write all of your SQL queries. Then that you create will be displayed here. We create interactive visualizations, applications. that you want to integrate. Then here you will So, all of the databases that you have, so overall management of the data can be done if you want to get some data for trial purposes, then you can find all of these datasets already Snowflake UI and get more understanding you will get used to this UI, and you will So, all you have to do is just click on this plus will see, this is my Snowflake. So, this is that you can use to write the query. So, this you have selected the warehouse on top of it. you just click onto the database that you want So, in this case, I will go with this particular want to query. So, the first query that you can query. So, over here, the query I'm writing is a there's a schema name, and there's a table name. start running this particular query on this So, this is scanning the entire table and giving is a table information. You can see it over here. but this table has like millions of rows. So, also get more understanding about the query, like you can just click onto this query ID, and everything that this query did in the backend. So, you can also limit the result set just more queries. So, let's say if you want to run this entire quantity as a total quantity sold we'll get the complete information I can do more analytics on top of it. It is pretty If you have the basic SQL understanding, What I'm doing is that I'm just trying to query based on the customer key that is available on customer table, and then selecting these four to run this query, and once you do that, you If you want to understand about you can just go to the admin. You will find we have the compute warehouses that are currently you can just click onto this plus, give you have all of these options available. You You also have the advanced option. So, if after some minutes, Snowflake has a lot of and all of these other things. I can't video. As I already told you, I have a engineers using Snowflake. So, I highly This was the complete overview about Snowflake. make you a master of Snowflake but give you a get the confidence about learning this particular just understand the UI and bit and pieces of it. Okay, so this was all from this video. then don't forget to hit the like button new here. Thank you for watching.