When we look out into space, we are not only looking at things that existed in the past. For instance, the Sun is about 93 million to get here. Thus, when we sit down in the morning with the day and look at the Sun, we're seeing put the bread in the toaster. Time and space are inextricably intertwined This is especially true when we talk about We even have a distance scale called a light in a year. In more familiar terms, a light year is nine of six trillion miles. We use the unit light year because nothing It's very convenient. But it is most convenient when we talk about Astronomers have determined the age of the It is 13.7 billion years old. Exactly how we know this is perhaps the subject take that number as a given. If we do, we can ask a very simple question. How big is the visible universe? There are lots of tricky ways to think about obvious. We can't see the universe before it began means. When the universe began, it was filled with And, if the universe began 13.7 billion years it had to have traveled 13.7 billion light And to make that point solid, astronomers the universe began. It's called the Cosmic Microwave Background ever seen. It is hitting the Earth from every direction photograph of the birth of the universe, 13.7 Accordingly, it would be reasonable to say centered on the Earth, with a radius of 13.7 Boom! Done. Except that this is completely wrong. That's one of the sneaky things about science. It can fool you if you think too fast. Sometimes you have to slow down and mull things And, if you think about it for a moment, you'll that the universe is static and, at least changing. But we know this isn't true. To begin with, the Big Bang happened. The universe is expanding and it used to be And that means that the simple answer isn't I don't want to get too deeply into the to the idea that the universe was once smaller beginning. I made a video about it if you want more. And that expansion is key to understanding We start by imagining what the universe looked was emitted. It was hot everywhere. No place was special. Well, I guess one was, kind of. And that place is the current location of But, at that moment, it looked like everywhere Now there was a sphere centered around that the origin of the cosmic microwave background That radiation moved toward the Earth at the to get here. If we look at a sphere smaller than that special Earth and we can't see it. Light from a bigger sphere isn't here yet, When this light was emitted shortly after 42 million- that's with an M- light years Naively, you'd expect that this light would it took 13.7 billion- and that's with a And the reason that it took so long is that Now, if you think about that, it means that of the Earth had to be expanding pretty fast. Otherwise the light would have passed by the I mean, it was only 42 million light years So that sphere from which the microwaves were And, in the simplest calculation, that sphere lightyears away. However, it turns out that the simplest calculation You see, about five billion years ago, an important. Dark energy is a repulsive form of gravity, isn't slowing down, it's accelerating. That, of course, means that after 9 billion it's now speeding up. When you take into account the effect of dark the microwaves were emitted has grown from with a B, lightyears. And this highlights the confusion that arises We see the light from shortly after the Big It was emitted a short distance away and now now about eleven hundred times farther than Further, when we see it, we see it as it was Indeed, remember that when the light was emitted, were the same as here on Earth. But the conditions here have changed. Instead of a bath of energy, we now have stars That's also true on that sphere. So, if we could somehow see 46 billion lightyears galaxies. But we don't see them there because light now hasn't had time to reach us yet. In fact- and this is a mind blower- we'll After all, they are moving away from us very We saw that location when the universe was It gets weirder. Currently, there is a sphere around the Earth Objects that are now outside that sphere at now, no matter how long we wait. I'll repeat that so it can sink in. We can currently see objects 46 billion lightyears distant past. And any objects that are currently within as they are now, although we'll have to to us. And, because of the expansion, it gets worse. It means that we constantly lose stars that Indeed, we lose about 20,000 stars per second. So there are stars that emitted photons at the photons that they emitted at this slightly One day, the expansion of the universe will we see in our telescopes today, which I remind distant past, will slip from our view. We will one day only be able to see galaxies Andromeda, and a few dozen minor galaxies So that's the answer to the question. Our visible universe has a radius of about 13.7 billion years old. But we're not seeing that distant point the universe began. And the ongoing expansion makes things even The bottom line is that if we're ever going get cracking. Okay, so that one was something of a mindblower, If you liked what you heard, please like, And be sure to click on the little bell icon new video we post. Otherwise you only get notified about a few. And I'm sure you wouldn't want to miss course, physics is everything.