Year 1919. On the streets of Bikaner, a twelve-year-old boy learns to make bhujia from his aunt and starts selling it for just two paisa. Completely unaware of the fact that one day this bhujia would become the foundation of a business empire and one day his name Haldiram on millions of bhujia packets This is the story of India's Haldiram was born in 1908 in a poor family in Bikaner. His grandfather used to sell bhujia and since childhood, that is why at the age of just 12, he worked hard for hours every day and mastered the bhujia making process and very soon started sitting but like his grandfather, he was not satisfied with just earning He wanted to expand his business. The bhujia that Haldiram was selling was made from gram flour but he noticed liked moth dal very much. People there used moth dal in many dishes. That's why Haldiram by mixing moth dal with gram flour. People found his new bhujia and became an instant hit but he did not stop here. He realized that his current bhujia was quite thick and soft but if he could make it thin and crispy then the eating experience would become quite satisfying. To achieve this, he had to first make his batter thin and also needed a mesh whose holes were smaller than a standard mesh for it to produce a thin bhujia. He collaborated to make a perfect mesh and also tried Finally, after several months he made a perfectly thin This new bhujia but Haldiram's innovation was not limited Turns out that Haldiram There were many other shops in the market but Haldiram wanted that the importance should be many times Haldiram knew that Maharaja Dungar Singh was the most popular king of Bikaner and people respected him a lot, that is why Haldiram named his bhujia after Maharaja Dungar Singh, Dungar Sev. Labelled with the Maharaja's name, his bhujia stood out and also got a premium positioning. With this new branding, and customers happily accepted that price. In the next few years, had established the business well. And now at the age of 36, he also had a wife and three sons. Rising from extreme poverty everything was going very well when in 1944 a big twist came in his life. Relations between the women The situation got so bad had to leave home and part ways. But the problem was that Haldiram was also taken out The business which Haldiram today the same business and overnight But due to his responsibilities Haldiram quickly pulled himself together and started looking for work. One day while looking for work someone called his name. When Haldiram looked back, one of his childhood friends This friend of his had returned and Haldiram told him everything Years ago, Haldiram had helped and fortunately He returned 100 rupees and these 100 rupees First of all, he took a small house and then started thinking His wife, Champa Devi and moong dal was a staple dish Then what? With the remaining money, he bought moong dal, and also set up a makeshift kitchen. Both would wake up early and then Haldiram roamed and started selling this dish Within a short time, that is bhujia along with Moong Dal. Due to his hard work, taste and quality, he developed a loyal customer base and within a short time, he gathered money to rent a small shop. Within a short time of opening the shop, that Haldiram People started lining up in his shop and within no time Haldiram again became the local bhujia king. In the next few years, Haldiram focused but then something happened in the 1950s which proved to be a big Haldiram had gone to Kolkata There he had prepared bhujiya and when he saw the reaction he was quite surprised. Those people liked bhujia so much that they were not only praising it but were also giving Haldiram had understood that expanding his business in Kolkata was a huge opportunity especially because there was no big competition there In 1955, Haldiram and his eldest grandson Shivkishan to set up business in Kolkata. Here too he started with a small house and a shop of only 8 square feet. The beginning was slow but eventually even in Kolkata his business started growing due to word of mouth and within no time he started selling Also, to attract Bengalis, he launched a salty snack which became quite successful. In the next 12 years, his shop grew from 8 square feet to 25 square feet and the business Being a big city, the business of Kolkata branch had now become bigger By 1968, all three sons of Haldiram his elder son, Moolchand was handling the business of Bikaner, Sati Das had separated from the family and opened independent shops and Rameshwar Lal was running the Kolkata business. In view of this, Haldiram took and he used to visit only occasionally Business was already going well but what happened after this was going to prove to be a golden chapter Haldiram's eldest grandson, Shivkishan, who was till now working with his uncle decided to open a branch of Haldiram After coming to Nagpur, Shivkishan saw that the people there Gujarati peda, Mysore pak and laddus. Meaning, the people there they were not exposed much Seeing this opportunity, Shivkishan started selling his favorite kaju katli along with bhujia in Nagpur. Initially customers hence Shivkishan started offering free samples to his customers. Once tasted, people went crazy and the demand skyrocketed. Seeing this success, Shivkishan also started offering sweets like malai laddu, rasgulla, and ras malai and knowingly or unknowingly of Haldiram's becoming the biggest player By 1971, two outlets of Haldiram's but Shivkishan did not want to stay here. One day Shivkishan which opened his eyes. That restaurant and there was always a crowd of customers. It was from here of converting Haldiram's After discerning the market, prefer South Indian dishes Now he wanted to offer like samosa and kachori in his restaurant, but before that he had to bring that is why he started with those dishes which were in demand Shivkishan opened a 30-seater restaurant and very soon started being occupied. Seeing this, and also added The customers who came Shivkishan would ask them to try samosa and kachori and as it happened with Kaju Katli, the same happened now. Most of the the customers became their regular consumers. In the next few years, multiple outlets of Haldiram's were opened in Nagpur and due to this, Haldiram's in Nagpur had transformed to an Indian snacks, sweets and restaurant business. In 1975, Kolkata branch's Rameshwar Lal separated from and became independent. An agreement is made according to which Rameshwar Lal will not do business outside West Bengal and Moolchand and his sons By this time, the Nagpur branch but Shivkishan had bigger plans He wanted to expand in a city which would make Haldiram's and that city was Delhi, Shivkishan chose his younger brother By then Manohar Lal and Shivkishan was seeing In 1982, Manohar Lal came to Delhi and saw that Chandni Chowk He had never seen But the good thing was that there was also a lot of demand. Manohar Lal bought a place and started the business in 1983. For the next one year, he built his reputation in the market and started breaking even, when a big tragedy hit him. The terrible anti-Sikh riots of 1984 had scorched Delhi and during this time Manohar Lal's workshop and house too got burned down. For the next 2 months, Haldiram's business in Delhi But Manohar Lal did not give up, he took financial help and acquired a new and restarted the business. The reputation he had built came in handy and the business started picking up again. Over the next few years, but also established and also opened new outlets. Business was continuously growing but even after all this, Haldiram's was still but Shivkishan and Manohar Lal wanted Haldiram's to become a world class consumer brand. People of every household in India should consume their products. He observed that after liberalization, brands like PepsiCo, Kellogg's and Nestle have started selling Basically, packaged and ready to eat food. But Haldiram's spotted a huge gap here. All these foreign brands were investing packaged food but at that time no brand was selling Indian snacks in long shelf-life packaging. Seeing this opportunity, Haldiram's first started selling its products in nitrogen packaging, increased from a few days to a few months. Due to this new packaging, was no longer limited to Nagpur or Delhi. Now people in even could buy Haldiram's bhujiya. After the launch, customers responded very well to these products and hence Haldiram's into rasgulla, sonpapdi, pickles, Within no time, Haldiram's started selling more than 400 packaged food items. To target consumers they offered their products Like, small packs are available for only 5 rupees and big packs go up to 200 rupees plus. Also, he knew that snacks Therefore, Haldiram's, made its packaging attractive and finally, Haldiram's onboarded more than a hundred distributors and lakhs of retailers. Due to these strategies, today people eat Haldiram's snacks in almost every house in India. And even in more than 80 countries Haldiram's is one of the most popular Indian snacks brand. About a 100 years ago, Haldiram's started by selling bhujia for two paise and today the same Haldiram's has done a business The story of Haldiram's proves that by delighting customers, constantly innovating products, and changing with time any big business can be built, no matter how small the beginning. If you liked this video, then I would recommend that you watch this video next.