so previous that i give down the egos for that spoiler we crowd the old clone but that's a lot it's up you're the channel stocker visit your dollar one hundred fifty video calls on million something happened to Young Master and he left Kaitou x actually He is the famous Phantom Thief It's so easy to capture the Chinese. How can the Chinese things fall into the hands of foreigners? How about Xiaobei? Baby, go to the top. They will definitely not find you, Mommy. I found the exit, go forward 50 meters, turn left, Mommy, go forward 30 meters. Find the elevator on the right and take it to the first floor. Mummy, it's not good to turn left. Mummy, they are going too fast and surround the exit. Mummy, there are people coming from behind. Mummy , it's me, Xiaobai, here again. Big brother said that this auction will be for security. The most powerful person in the system is in charge of the Shen family. I'm afraid that you can't handle it, Mommy , so I'm here to support you. Mi is here to support us. Let's quickly change clothes and feel comfortable . I'm sorry , uncle . Thank you, uncle . Mommy, we succeeded in catching them. Mommy, don't be afraid. You take the second brother with you first. Come on , I'll come up. Then please leave it to my little sister. Mummy, let's go first. Xiao Tao, be gentle. Mummy, don't worry. It who wants to go over and pass me first. Last night, famous Chinese antiquities were auctioned by the Shen Group. The ice jade was stolen and was investigated by the police as the work of Phantom Thief The ancient jade was sent to the museum anonymously. The mission is completed . Yes, come on, my dears, let's have a big dinner together tonight. Wait a minute. Mom , please open the door. Sit tight . You are just missing me . Who are you? Your house is rented, isn't it good? Who are you? Ah, let me introduce myself. My name is Ren Liang. People in the world call me Brother Liang . Your father asked me to come here to help you on a blind date. However, I think you are a bit old for your age and your figure is okay. But you brought 3 oil bottles with you like Brother Liang. Eat something. After we get married , no, Sakira will have to send me to an orphanage. Then we will have a baby at home. How much did you give my dad? It's not much , just 100,000 yuan. Hey , I'll give it to you for this kind of money. Your dad sent it over. From now on, you are my wife. Hehe, your place is not small, but it doesn't matter. In two days, I will ask a few people to come over and clean it up and move it here. Hahaha, what is on the table? It's a mess. Hey . What is it? Hey, don't move. Oh my God, why is there a tiger trap in your house ? Hey, don't step on me. Damn it , why is there a hidden weapon in your house ? There is no way for such an ordinary man to want to be our daddy. Hey Nian Nian , you should meet Xiaoliang. Come on, Xiao Liang, you're not a bad person. Why don't you get married at such an old age ? It's Lin Lansheng 's mistress who gave you the idea again. I'm telling you, I've already sent Ren Liang away. Why don't you return the 100,000 yuan to others ? Mistress, she is your mother. My mother is dead. Dad, please don't find me any more blind dates. It's already my tenth date. Are you bothered? I'll tell you the truth. I'm married. Let all these words out. I'm so short. Where can I find a father for you in this time? Mom, you have so many biological fathers. The mission failed . There is a traitor in the organization. Damn it. I was just under anesthesia and came up that night. I didn't even see that person's face clearly. But let's look at the baby's appearance. That man should be pretty good looking, you guys, he was hatched by his mother from hatching an egg , mommy, you still think we are three-year-old children, he is really a viviparous animal. Fish are three-legged toads that can't lay eggs. It's hard to find two-legged men. Yes, mommy, what are you going to tell me? Let me think about it . I am 1.80 meters tall and have 8-pack abs. Appearance is very important , and I shouldn't be too smart. This way our identities will not be exposed. All the surveillance videos of the young master were taken last night. It was deleted without leaving any traces. We tried our best but still couldn't restore it. It's interesting to be able to eliminate all the traces in such a short period of time. Has the Han Dynasty Qinghua Temple arrived? It's time to let the news out. Phantom Thief I can't help it . Arrange a false identity for me as an ordinary person. He is very likely to step on the bottom before making a move. I must catch him with my own hands. Remember, our identity is a secret and we must not know it . Why? Yeah, my sister is so stupid. What if someone knows our identity and sells us out? So we must keep a low profile and keep a low profile , okay? Let's go. The young master, madam and the master asked me to bring you a message. You are limited to one week . We need to bring our daughter-in-law home , otherwise they will take action. The old man is so old. Young master, why don't we invite Miss Suxi back ? Wasn't he the one who helped you when you were drugged six years ago ? Shut up, that woman six years ago. Is it really Qin Suxi? If the master and his wife want me to take it, I will bring it and leave first . Hahahahaha, it's you and I said we are not suitable. Don't pester me. Brother Zheng wants to leave. Hey , baby, take these three little ones with you. The beast has trained me into this kind of virtue and wants to leave. I can't tell you. Your father sold you to me and took my money. You have to go back with me. Brother Liang, I'll teach you a lesson tonight. If you have a brain disease, go see a doctor. Blocking the road , wait, who are you scolding? Believe it or not, Brother Liang, I will take care of you now. I told you to keep a low profile just now, now I can't keep a low profile anymore, Mom, come on , what's the point of bullying women? I'm teaching my own daughter-in-law what's wrong with you. Who are you? Who am I? Who am I? You don't deserve to know . Wow, this is a hero saving a beauty. Is it love at first sight? 183 has abdominal muscles and looks very in line with mommy's criteria for choosing a mate . Hao Taoxiang, he will be my daddy. Young master wants to be a hero and save the beauty. That's not enough. Come on, mommy. The police will be here soon. Are you okay? Oh, okay. But why did you get into trouble with these people? That's the blind date my dad found for me. I didn't agree, so I made some calculations, but I didn't expect that I would actually hold a grudge. Oh, by the way, thank you. My name is Missing . You're welcome. I hate it too. My name is Shen Shi. I just heard that you are on a blind date. Please introduce yourself . My height is 17905 , but I don't have any bad habits. I'm in good health . I have a car, no house, and the salary is not high , but I should be able to support a family. I don't mind you bringing three children. What do you think of me ? This is the end of the process. Why don't we add a WeChat account ? Come on, I'll scan you, I'll scan you. Come on, Mr. Qiao, Mommy, you and your sister have couple names. It's quite fate. Haha, your job isn't really that of a detective, is it? I don't have that ability. I work part-time in a company, so that's fine. Otherwise, I'll become a physiotherapy person. What are you talking about ? It's nothing. This is the key to our home , etc. I've packed it up and you can move in. Let's go home. Goodbye . Goodbye. Miss Phantom Thief secretly prepared 4 gifts for me, one for adults and three for children. Don't be too expensive . Our thoughts must be more precious. Shi Tao, hurry up and give yours. Put the barbell away and put it in the box. Xiaofen, go and give me all your traps. Receive the equipment in the box. I also receive your equipment and deal with it. Remember, we must not expose our identities. Do you know, let's open the door together. Where is the kitchen? I'll put it away. I'm going to buy the groceries. You know how to cook? I'm in the kitchen because I'm afraid you'll be cooking alone. I'm embarrassed. How about I help you cook together? It makes sense. Well , there's a saying that men and women work together. We're tired . Let's go in. From today on, we are a family. We will share blessings in the future . Come and share the hardships together. Cheers, cheers. Mission target: Han Dynasty blue and white porcelain. Target location: Shen's Group. What are you looking at? Nothing, nothing. You Try this Fengshen Claw. It's very delicious . Oh, yes, I'll give it to you. Bring a small gift. Well, this one is from Taotao . This one is from Xiaobei. This one is from Xiaofei. Hahaha, these gifts are expensive, aren't they? This one is from my friend's. He bought it from the jewelry store. He was the manager there. After the discount, it didn't cost much. Thank you, sister. Taobao. We like it very much. We also like it. I also have a gift. Of course, if the child doesn't have it, you must also like it. Do you like it? Since you like it, then give it a kiss, Jiji. Mommy, why are you so shy ? Haha something so special what i do is nothing. You've washed it. Well , it's not early. Why don't we go to bed early? I'll go to the study and get some sleep. It's my first day of marriage. You must be a little unaccustomed to it. Don't worry, I won't. He will take advantage of you. In fact, I can take advantage of you. What did you say ? I didn't say anything. Wait a minute . Did he want you to have a nosebleed ? Maybe it's because the weather is too hot and I'm angry. I'll give you something to cool down tomorrow. Kiss me , Mommy has been sighing all morning. Oh, this Shen seems to be a gentleman. When can I eat Tang Monk meat? Oh, let's go early. Please have breakfast. Yes, I have a rest today. I want to take the three of them with me. Let's go out for a walk. Remember, don't be naughty. Tell me. I'll satisfy you wherever you want to go today . Of course, go to the bookstore. As the saying goes, books have their own golden houses . Well, talking on paper is not as interesting as putting it into practice. The science and technology museum is going to Xiaotao. Where does Tao want to go to the arcade? Xiao Tao wants to go shopping and buy many, many beautiful dresses. Well, let's go shopping first, then go to the science and technology museum , and finally go to the bookstore. Yeah, hey, hey, don't be nervous . The beating you received last time wasn't enough. You're not quick yet. Keep a low profile. You can't beat 10 people. Okay, okay , okay, okay, don't mutter, don't mumble, young master, I tell you, your brother Liang is here today not to cause trouble. Then I can't just give the 100,000 gift money to the private family like this. Forget it, you are her husband , so you have to repay the money for her. Mommy didn't take your money at all. My father's debt is repaid. His father took my money. She is his daughter. This money must be paid back. It is impossible. It 's impossible to repay uncle in this life. I'd better advise you to give up. Little bastard, you, hahahaha , wait until brother has something to say. Let's talk about it. Come on, okay , I don't care if you don't pay back 100,000 yuan. I'll see. Don't you dare to gamble with Brother Liang? If you win two out of three games , I tell you, it's not 100,000, it's 200,000. Don't take what I say to gay children seriously, hahaha, my little ancestors, I'm not lucky, I really can't agree, dad. Don't worry, my sister is the mascot . He will definitely win with him. Hum, okay, let's go, young masters, if you hand over the money right now. Maybe brother Liang, I can let you go. If you really get on the gambling table, it won't be as simple as time. If you really do it, you won't have any room for regret. Stop talking nonsense . It's impossible. What should we be? Let's go and wait for another bet . This gold coin of mine plus this gold is worth a total of 300,000. If you win, it will all be yours. Okay , then I will stay with you today and leave some for me. Bring it. How can it be possible for me to do this now? Why are you so lucky ? Sister, let's go home and give mommy a surprise . We've found someone. We only have a few things. The four of us can do it . Dad pulls you from the front and we push from the back . It's so heavy. Even if I'm a strongman, I can't. Hey, why? Such a coincidence, dear, let's go and get it, mommy is right, mommy, these are ours. Hold me hostage in the room. Don't make a sound. Do you know? Rumor has it that the Shen Group has the strongest security system in the world. I have to rule in advance to ensure everything is safe. Is it me? I have really awakened my super power. Mr. Zhao and Zhao Li are active. Have they made all the arrangements according to your care ? Hey , do you think this Phantom Thief Mommy didn't scan the mission target , so it seems there's only one place. Shit, is n't this missing you? You said you were kicked out when you were unmarried and pregnant , so why are you now working as a food delivery person? What's wrong with food delivery? It's better than some people. Every day I think about the labor force of leaning on my chest and legs . I miss you. Don't think I don't know . I remember when you married a poor boy with no car or house in order to avoid your father and mother finding a man for you. Hey, Master Fengsu Company is just a fly. I haven't released it yet. Did you know that Ruijie, you live by the river? What does it have to do with you to be so generous ? I'll tell you the truth. In the future, Gaudi will also be a president. Oh, I really envy you. You take good care of your skin. You are right, this dignified Shen. How come CEO Mr. Shi ordered takeout in the middle of the night? I miss you. Could it be that you got some gossip and wanted to sneak in and seduce Mr. Shen? It turns out that you are working overtime so late just to get ahead with your body. Miss Fourth, you don't think Mr. Shen represents everyone. Everyone wants to get on the pole and climb onto the bed. I tell you, I don't believe it. Get out of your way. Don't be so harsh. You also want to climb onto aunt's bed. I'm telling you, you are the bitch who will always be stepped on by me. What's going on? What's going on? Xiao Ming, what's going on with you? Here , I'm here to deliver food, Mr. Shen. What should we do now? Mr. Shen, how should we deal with it ? Did n't Mr. Shen make it very clear outside the door just now ? Look at me, I have forgotten. Oh , I am the protector of the Shen Group. Tonight, I will inform you that my original job is here. Why didn't you tell me earlier ? Why do you have the nerve to tell you such a menial job? I heard before that you married a poor man. The kid didn't believe it at first, but he didn't expect it to be true. He's quite handsome. It's a pity. Without a car or a house, he's destined to be nothing. He has a car and I have. We are a match made in heaven . Hahaha, you two, one security guard, and the other. The delivery boy is so poor that he is really not like me. He graduated from a first-class university and is now working as an employee of Shen Group. He has a bright future . I miss you. If you kneel down and beg me now, I can find you a cleaning job. It's great to be an employee of Shen Group. You don't even want to check it out. Shen Group is one of the top three companies in the world. People like you can join Shen Group. It seems that our Shen Group is not that great. You can join me. He is the only one who can get in even though his wife is here. A female gangster who hasn't even graduated from high school is building the Shen Corporation. You let her in? Don't let her get kicked out after she gets in. We won't bear the responsibility of the trash. We can't leave now. We have to leave now. Body search Why body search Our group has lost a lot of things recently , so Mr. Shen suspected that there was a thief. Hey, miss me, why did you sneak up in the president's office in the middle of the night? Feelings, you are here to steal things. This woman, Daozhu Chen, has special hands and feet. It's not clean. I suggest you search her carefully. I didn't steal it. I didn't steal it. After searching it, I found out. Do n't worry, I'm here. How could it be possible? How could the president order takeout? There must be something wrong. The address on the takeout order is indeed that. President's Office, I'm not lying. Is this fried beef ? I ordered it. It's my business. Miss, you have to accept it. Hey, hey, what is this? This is a tracker and it's not mine. Miss Shijun, please follow me. Let's take a trip. Why should I catch him instead of him? He is the thief. If you don't cooperate, do you need to prepare a ceremony? Your takeout . Hey, okay. Let me tell you what happened tonight. The price of takeout that night is high. I see. I didn't tell you when you were asleep. What a coincidence. I also received a call saying that I had overtime pay tonight, so I came here . Well, that's a coincidence. You worked overtime and came to see me. It's nothing. It's nothing. But it's windy every day for delivery. It's too hard to be exposed to the sun. Why don't you try Shen's Group? Shen's Group always only looks at ability and not who you are. I think it will definitely work . Why didn't I think of it? I went home to make a resume . I 'm missing my name, gender, and female specialty. I know that male Ming's specialty is flying over walls and climbing over walls. I told you to watch less TV. My mommy is Spider-Man. Superheroes can do anything . I understand. Your mommy is Spider-Man . Then I am Iron Man. Iron Man vs. Godzilla, I will stab you, ah, oh, slow down for you, Miss Si, your resume is in line with the requirements of our company. Please bring the information to the Shen Group to join the company today. I understand, the young master has already arranged for you, Miss Miss. As for Shi Jing, I didn't expect that she is Miss Miss Miss's half-sister. As for her background, there's nothing wrong with her. She 's so clueless that she couldn't guess that it's not her. But the young master's locator did appear in your office. Could it be that Miss Miss Miss is the Phantom Thief? There is absolutely no problem with h . There must be something wrong with h. The thief x must have noticed in advance and put the tracker on Sijing to divert our attention . By the way, my current identity is a security guard of the Shen Group. Please don't follow me. If you're right, if you're wrong , you'll be deducted one month's bonus. Young Master, there's another very important thing. Mr. Zheng from the Zheng Group is coming today. You know we want to cooperate strategically with them. It doesn't seem good if you don't show up today. So, put that meeting place. I changed to the restaurant and then went to the company to deliver the famous painting that I wanted to give to Mr. Zheng. Okay, I will immediately arrange to get off the bus and get off the bus . Uh-huh, you are not the one yesterday. Yes, Chen Tezhong, Taoist Master Chen, you have arrived at your destination . If you are satisfied with this trip, please give me a five-star review. Please save time and save time, right? Good, good. Keep up the good work. I said where were you this early in the morning ? It turns out I drove Didi to this car. Yes , that's good. After the prison is opened, I want to support you and the children. Of course, I have to be more diligent. Today is your first day at work. I will take you to the car. Thank you for introducing me to everyone. This is Miss. You will join our company from today. How did you get in? Just by virtue of your academic qualifications, you can join the Shen Group. I came in openly . Haha , then I understand that you must have bribed some small leader of the Shen Group with your body . Otherwise, you are worthy of being my colleague. Let me tell you. Why should I arrange your job for you? If you don't like it, I can leave . Oh, and thank you for the reminder. Otherwise, I wouldn't have thought of coming to Shen Group to submit my resume. Thank you. I 'll go to the Crescent Hotel right away. I sent the painting to miss you. I can tell you that this painting was a gift from Mr. Shen to Mr. Zheng. It is worth hundreds of billions . But the painting is an authentic work of Wu Daozi. I remember that none of the people who collect Wu Daozi's paintings are from the Shen Group. Even you, a bumpkin, don't care. I understand. Anyway, send it over quickly, but don't ruin your thoughts. Don't think that you can sit back and relax after joining the company. If you mess up the formal cooperation with the province and city , just wait and get out. Hello, where is the private room of the Shen Group store? The corridor. A box. Thank you, Mr. Zheng, for introducing yourself. I am Mr. Shen 's bodyguard. Mr. Shen had a small car accident when he went out this morning. So I can't come to the scene today. Are It 's okay . He's just a little stupid. This guy can even beat himself up in order to get through. Hahahaha, you are so narcissistic. Why are you here? I came to deliver the paintings. Hello, I am an employee of the Shen Group. The company sent me to deliver the paintings. Oh, by the way, we, Mr. Shen, know that Premier Zheng is very fond of ancient times. Late's calligraphy and paintings are very well-researched. In order to show the sincerity of our Shen Group, the boss specially selected an authentic painting from the picture of Emperor Songzi and gave it to Mr. Zheng. I hope we can have a happy cooperation in the future . Yes, thank you Zheng for me. I 'd better take a look at this . Is there something wrong with this, Mr. Zheng? To be honest, I have studied the truth about Wu Daozi . Wu Daozi 's authentic handwriting is excellent and he has a good knowledge of paper. You can see that this paper is indeed wrong . The color of the painting is too yellow. It's as refreshing as the real thing . Miss, did you get this painting by mistake? We have verified that it can't be a fake. I didn't have this painting in my hands, so I sent it over immediately. I don't know how he wanted you. Of course this painting is a fake . My private life was hidden by this woman. Tell me clearly. What am I hiding? You taught me this painting with your own hands and I taught it to you. But who knows the truth? After a trick , I actually used a fake one to pretend to be Chief Chen. I have already told you that this woman has dirty hands and feet. She dared to do such a thing on her first day in the company. You must be responsible for what you say. You don't have evidence. The evidence ? Of course, this is the truth I found from his workstation. If you don't believe it, it's from the industrial company. So when we collected this painting, I took a special look to see that there was a crease there. Now The witness and physical evidence have been renewed. What else can you say? Stealing company property is illegal. Chen Tuozhu wants me to see that now we should call the police and arrest this woman. Wait , there must be a misunderstanding this time. Oh, what else can there be? I misunderstood the little security guard. You can't protect her just because you miss her. Why are you laughing? I'm laughing. You're not a bit smart in framing others. Your methods are crazy because I miss you. What are you doing ? If Wu Daozi, Shui Ling'er won't be angry with everyone. Please take a look at this flower. It's obvious that this flower is fake. Most people don't dare to try this method easily because of the luxury. Since the two paintings are exactly the same fake painting, why should I go to all the trouble to secretly replace the fake painting with a fake painting? Miaozhenmiao. This girl knows a lot at a young age. She must be very fond of collecting and appreciating paintings like me . I know a little bit about what I know. Mr. Zheng was a poor delivery guy before he entered the review company. Who knows anything about art construction ? In my opinion, he is just a blind cat who met a dead mouse. Mr. Zheng, you must not be deceived by him. What's wrong with the food delivery guy? Is appreciating art classified as high or low? Yes, these words are all made up by rich people to deceive you poor people. I didn't expect that some people actually believe them . This art appreciation is a pastime for rich people , not for low-class people like you who earn 3,000 yuan a month. If you can afford it , if I say that you want to watch a masterpiece, you may have to watch it on TV. No one has ever dared to talk to me like this. Let me tell you, my antique vase, calligraphy, painting, and copybook can't be read in broad daylight. Why are you talking in your sleep ? You lied without making a draft. I miss your husband. It's so funny. Haha, he 's so angry. Forget it. I have my own man to support myself. Dad, my husband is right. Our family is right. Indeed , since that 's the case, why don't you invite Mr. Zheng and us to your home to appreciate it and let us learn more about it? No problem, Mr. Zheng, please, please , Mr. Zheng, I need to go to the toilet and hurry up to protect those antique-style cowards. What's wrong? Feed Dabao. Mummy will bring someone back later. You should immediately grab some antique vases from the headquarters and put them at home. Remember, are they in danger? Are Jiji and the beauty in danger? It's a total of 15 kilometers from the company to home. We still have half of it. Hours of time, emergency, emergency . The special agent team is requesting support. So many people are coming in. The antique vases should be arranged in an orderly manner, concealed , conspicuous , elegant, and elegant. Do you understand? Put the drawing boards together. If they are too big, put them away , sister and mom. I must like you very much when you come back . Daddy, Mommy , you are back. Please come in. Ni, let me see how you can pretend that these are all authentic. Is this vase from the Tang Dynasty? And this copybook, I think these are authentic. I don't know which garbage dump they came from. Is there any bacteria in them? These are genuine and absolutely authentic . I miss you. You taught children to lie. If these are true, then I will do whatever you want . I just ate all the lemons on the table. Mr. Zhen, you are an expert in this field. Please take a look . Uncle, please. This hollowing out technique is a masterpiece of our time. This can't be from the Song Dynasty. Uncle, take a look at this. This is the real thing. Ah, Mr. Zheng, please take a closer look at how this is possible. According to my many years of experience, these things are true. I'm willing to accept defeat and eat it . Do you want to eat it yourself or should I ask someone to help you? Bye bye, I'll come and play with you next time when you have time. I'm waiting for these things, uh , these antique vases were borrowed from a friend of mine in an antique shop. And this painting, I borrowed it from Mr. Shen. Mr. Shen , um , I did a small favor to Mr. Shen before , and then I As soon as I told him, he sent it over. So that's it . Let's pack these words and send them back. Mom, let's help together. The big bad wolf is here. Ah, ah, ah. If you don't give it to me well , why don't you give it to me well ? Hahaha. Hahahahaha, he not only made me embarrassed in front of Chen Tezhu , but also made me eat sour lemons. I hate eating sour lemons the most. Look, your face is swollen. I look, my face is really swollen. Si Jianguo , look at you. Tell me about the daughter from your ex-wife. I was kind enough to introduce her to a partner. She was able to drive her away. What you said about this is really what happened . Now our daughter is the key to Mr. Pang Shanchen marrying into a wealthy family. If she comes to cause trouble at any time , I won't be done with you. This is really outrageous. My mother called her and asked her to come over. I won't believe it. I took the initiative to throw myself into my arms. Can you still control it? cry cry cry cry why why why tell me who? I miss you. Come back right away. I won't go back. If you don't come, you can be careful. I smashed your mother's ashes. The dog started barking again. Sijing ate a turtle in my place and filed a complaint against my father. She threatened to use my mother's ashes. I 've gone too far. I'll go with you. But before I get over it, I have to prepare. There should be a lot of shit in this community, so look for me. I miss you and you still have the nerve to come back. Why do I have no shame to come back? My mother was so angry back then that she let the mistress break into the house again. It's not me. You miss the time when you were pregnant before we were married and gave birth to three little bastards. We kicked you out of the house for the sake of our reputation. Why are you venting your anger on me now? Mom, sister, she has not been having a good life these past few years. It's inevitable that I will feel resentful , but I also admire that my sister can still find a man to take over her even though she has already transformed from a girl to a young woman. I 'm sorry. Did you forget to turn off the sewer? It smells so bad when you crawl out. Shut up. Just tell me. What's wrong with me ? I want you to get out of the Shen Group immediately. Why do you have the nerve to ask why ? If it weren't for you, my daughter would have hooked up with the president of the Shen Group. It turns out that she showed up in the president's office so late that night to hook up with Mr. Shen. Ah , what hookup ? It's my daughter who is smart and knows how to create conditions for herself. We are quiet. She is so outstanding and good-looking. I don't believe it. When Mr. Shen saw it, he still didn't obediently prostrate himself under his pomegranate skirt. Ah, you are so confident in me. I really admire your courage . I miss you. I think you are jealous. I am jealous. I am better than you in every way. Sorry to interrupt . How do you know that the president of Shen Group will like you? Doesn't the president of Shen Group dislike me ? Do you like him? A delivery boy who smells like vegetables is not even qualified to carry my shoes. My daughter is going to marry into a wealthy family. Unlike you, who has an immoral private life and has three children whose fathers don't even know who they are. Hey , let's see. Can your security guard with a monthly salary of 3,000 like him? Who do you think is a little bastard? If you dare to talk nonsense again, do n't blame me for being rude to you . You still threaten me? Jianguo, please take care of it. That's enough. Commander , resign from the Shen Group immediately. If you can't , then I will smash your mother's urn. Okay, you can smash it, mother. If you dare to smash it, I will smash it for you. Are you crazy? Oh, I heard that it is taboo to drop the ashes on the ground. The soul of the dead person will stay in this house and show up at night , and then he will take revenge, take revenge, take revenge, take revenge , take revenge, and take revenge. This is nonsense. Badao died unjustly, where are the ashes ? Grandma has nothing. Oh, I heard that this kid can see things that adults can't . Can't you see it? Are you there? Hahaha. I miss you. Don't mess around. Hey, you have done so much to my mother. You have thought so much about him. Hey, you saw his expression. He is not very exciting. He also doesn't smell the shit that my elder brother and younger sister have been picking up for so long. Is that what you are feeding him? Why is it so smelly? Ah, this is me, I admit shit, Ziyu, I will never let you go. Is it okay what you are feeding him? Grind this dry shit into powder. It is easier to pass the fake as the real thing. I am still cheaper for them. How about we go ? Find a supper stall , Uncle Xiaofei, Xiaobei, Xiaotao, are you sleepy? Mommy , if you want to go to the world of two with Jiji , just tell us that we are no longer 3 years old. Let 's go. We are using Mommy's flirting skills. It's not easy to perform well . Mommy, I wish you win Debbie tonight. Run slowly and don't fall. You've watched too many TV series. Let's celebrate prematurely. Come and try their meat skewers . They are delicious. Can I ask you a question? Yes, you ask . It's convenient for me to tell my child who his father is. What's the inconvenience? It's the same as what they said. I don't know who it is. Six years ago, I drank a little and then accidentally entered a hotel room. Which hotel ended up in it ? Why are you asking this ? Is she the same woman from 6 years ago ? Did you go to that hotel just to comfort you? I just miss you . What happened? Someone paid for your life. If you have something to say, who can't tell me well ? Give me a fight. Why don't you get out ? Right? It's okay. I'll leave first. Please explain to me clearly whether it's my identity and I can't help. It's just a skin injury. Wake up and have a bowl of porridge for a while. I'll check for you and see if there are any other places. Hurt Medicine Last night was not a dream. You brought me back last night. Yes, I saved you. When I found you, you had already fainted on the street. Then , did you see a person wearing a mask ? It 's almost the same as you . Could it be that you 're talking about Kaitou Remember to drink the porridge. Then you have a good rest. I'm going out first. I'm going to post the news that the blue and white porcelain of the Han Dynasty has been moved to the Shen's exhibition hall. Mommy's latest news is that the blue and white porcelain of the Han Dynasty is in the provincial and municipal exhibition hall. It's great. I finally found a breakthrough. Looking for the blue and white porcelain, I must get it tonight. Go to the exhibition hall on the far right of Mommy's 2nd floor . Someone has invaded the young master's system. He's here. Do you want to add cards ? No , I won't do it myself this time. If you don't go on a blind date , of course it's fake. Otherwise, how can I catch you? This person has extraordinary skills . It 's not a good place to stay for a long time . Damn it , Kaitou x Mommy, couldn't it be that he was pregnant with my child 6 years ago? Why are you trying again? Shenzong Master, isn't this the bracelet you bought for Miss Miss Miss? Is it possible that Kaitou x is Miss Miss Miss , etc. Wait, let me sort it out first. Let me sort it out first. If the person I slept with in the hotel 6 years ago was Phantom Thief x, then Phantom Thief They are all my children. I don't care what method you use. Open the door for me immediately. Mommy , let's go quickly. Mommy, Mr. Chen, the door is open. Come on, let's go. Hey, the decorator heard that there is no daddy. Daddy is back. Are you thirsty? I'll give it to you. Get a glass of water . Daddy, you're not thirsty. Daddy, you must be tired after working all day. Let's go to the sofa and I'll give you a massage. I want to delay the massage . Daddy isn't thirsty or tired. I want to see you now. Mommy , Daddy, Mommy is already asleep. He's sick, why don't you see him tomorrow? Yes, Mommy has a bad cold and went to bed early. Daddy, you need to think about it. Mummy, let's see it tomorrow morning. It's because of the bad cold that I have to go in and have a look. Otherwise, what should I do if it gets worse? You two, hurry up. Let's go to Xiaobei to go to bed. The second brother is not like me and my sister. He is a night owl. He caught the older one and then came to catch the younger one. Li Muguan misses the one from 6 years ago. Is it the one you didn't want? How is it possible ? Is it because I made a mistake ? I didn't sleep in the middle of the night . Dabao and Sanbao said you had a cold. I came to check on you . You have some nasal congestion . You have a good rest. My sister told me that mommy has a cold. You still want to take your quilt. Bad sister. It's 15 kilometers from the company to home. There's no way they can come back in such a short time. It seems that I'm worrying too much and it 's Daddy's fault. How about Daddy buying you snacks and toys tomorrow? That's pretty much it. You still have to go to work and rest early. It's a life-or-death disaster . Sorry, I am not just a sentimental bracelet . There are such coincidences in this world. Master, I remember that when you asked me to buy this gift, you said you should be thoughtful , so I specially asked them to engrave thoughts on this bracelet. The abbreviation of the lady's name. If there is a name behind it , it means that this kind of thing in this world is really a coincidence. Master, you can rest assured. What's the matter ? Master, don't you know how the master and madam knew that you were married? Now I have rushed to your house. Hey, why don't you ever underestimate me , Kaitou X, who dares to take out the real thing in front of me, and your real thing will turn into a fake in a minute. Xiaobei, Xiaotang, Xiaobei went to open the door. It was not easy. I asked my mother to dig it out. Two sets of old clothes look similar to what I put on, right? Oops, I didn't take off the earrings . Do you think this house is okay? If my daughter-in-law knew that we were rich, he wouldn't blame us for hiding it, right ? Today's little girls dislike poverty and love wealth. It's not us. Test her first. If she can accept it, it means she really likes our son. That's it . Who do you call ? Oh, you are Xiaotao, you are Xiaoxiaofei. We are your grandparents. How cute, mom. Grandpa and grandma are here. You are Shen Shi's parents . Yes, yes, Shen Shi, Chen Shi's uncle and aunt , come in quickly . Hey, you and my son are both married. What else do you call uncle and aunt? Parents, hey, hahaha, hey, I've been waiting for so long. I finally waited. This voice sounds so nice. Mom, come on in. Hey, grandpa and grandma, please have tea . Hey , you are so good . You have noticed that none of these children look exactly like our son when he was a child. It's true when you say that. Hey, Niannian sits down. Hey, these are the greeting gifts we brought to you . They are all grown by us . Haha , don't you like it? I don't have a mother. I am Lili. Let me tell you the truth. Our family is poor and we have not eaten the last meal. These are We have been saving for three days but we are still not willing to eat . We only have one acre of land. The old house is in disrepair and it collapsed a while ago. So where are you staying during this time? We are just making do in the bridge hole these days. Don't worry. Oh , my grandparents are having such a miserable life. I'm sorry that my parents and aunts didn't tell me that this is your situation. I really don't know . It seems that we still dislike our family being poor. Otherwise, why don't you move here? Move here with us. Although my house is a bit small , it's okay for two more people to live together, okay ? Lili, do you really not dislike me? We are all a family and should help each other. Don't worry, Shen Shi and I will work hard to make money to support you. What do you think? I'm back, son, parents, why are you dressed like this ? We usually dress like this . Why didn't you tell me that my parents are living so hard? They are working hard . They don't have enough to eat and can only eat carrots and cabbage. Now the house has collapsed. You can only make ends meet in the bridge cave. If you don't go astray, you won't come to us . It's our fault. We are too poor . You are the only one who is poor. I only have money left. I don't tell you because I'm afraid that you will worry about Bai Shanxiao's late father. When mom is in trouble, we should help mom and dad . Are you hungry? I'll cook for you . Okay, Xiaofei Xiaotao, come here and help mom go. Haha, why don't you guys come over and tell me? You didn't even say hello to us when you got married. Your dad and I are looking forward to it . You don't know how long this daughter-in-law has been waiting for. You don't know . You can't let our family lose so miserably. You are allowed to change your identity , but we are not allowed to cosplay. Come on, come on. I hide my identity for a reason. I have business to attend to. We are doing business here, but it's natural to meet in person . Yes , he will be the daughter-in-law of our Shen family. I agree. My parents have eaten. Oh, okay, my parents' food is still to your liking. Yes, yes. This is almost catching up with Wu's mother. Wu Ma is very good at cooking. Wu Ma is a famous nanny in our village. She cooks very delicious food. She often cooks for us villagers like this. Hey, my parents will be full after a while. Let's go out to the mall and buy some clothes for you. Hahaha, okay. What do you think of my outfit ? Oh, my wife looks beautiful in anything she wears. I hate it. Thank you very much. Mom and Dad, just like it. Yes, it looks good in anything. Yeah, it's almost okay . After buying the clothes, I went back and my daughter-in-law gave me a gift for the first time. I'm happy to buy something. What's the matter ? Nian Nian, let's go. Mom, I'll buy you something too. Haha , mom. Hey, mom. Take a look . Mom, it's too expensive. We won't buy this. Let's go and see what else is more expensive. What 's more expensive? Let's see if there is anything you like. Just pick it out and take a look at it with your most precious eyes. We are not short of money. It's really ridiculous. You think this is a vegetable market to buy food. You just pick it up . I think you are afraid. You can't even buy a piece of this money. You really count the dog-skin plaster. It sticks wherever you go. It's you who throws it away. Auntie and grandma are the mommy who won't bully her. Grandma, you are the mother of that little security guard. Oh, this family. The poor guy is really extremely poor I would kindly like to remind you that this gold store is not a place suitable for bumpkins like you. If you know your status, please leave as soon as possible , otherwise you will be kicked out if you can't afford it . Not to mention the most expensive gold bracelet here, even if it is the whole store, I will I can afford it, and my wife is right. Why do my parents, like my aunt, like to brag when they are excited? Don't you think you can pretend to be rich by playing some tricks ? I miss you last time after Mr. Shen and I walked away. There were many people. I've seen you package up all those antique calligraphy and paintings and send them out. Couldn't they all be borrowed? You can just pick from the entire store. Do you think you are the CEO of the Shen family? I am not the CEO of the Shen family. I am the president of the Shen family. Hahaha, oops. Hey, this is the funniest joke I've heard today. Is there something wrong with you? Clear your mouth and miss me. If you dare to hit me, if you talk nonsense again, I can slap you again. I'll tell you. Your father has already hooked up with the Shen Group and is about to reach a cooperation with them. Why don't you piss yourself off and look in the mirror ? You dare to pretend to be the Shen Group. You and I will pay the price for your words and deeds today. What price? You damn old woman is even starting to chase me. If you apologize to my parents now, I might consider letting go of my apology. Huh, I'll do it in the next life. You must get to Qinglong Mall within 3 minutes. I want to buy this place and give it to my daughter-in-law. Not even now. If you buy the whole store , you buy the whole shopping mall. I want to see how far you can go with your bragging. When you regret it, then let's see who the person who was kicked out is. What's going on, Manager Wang? You made such a big noise and you alerted this family. They have mental problems and are talking nonsense. Get them out quickly. Madam, this is the contract that Lin wants. Now Lin is the owner of this mall. Madam, Manager Wang, are you? Is there something wrong? How can this poor family afford shopping malls? Shut up. Do you know who he is? Madam, kick him out and take him away . How is this possible? Grandma , he is so powerful. Daughter-in-law, this is what we give to you. Just accept the meeting gift , Dad , and you, who are you ? Didn't I tell you before? I am an ordinary security guard of the Shen Group. My father and mother are now unemployed. Before that, they were farming in the countryside. This contract? This is a genuine contract . Mom , you have done enough acting, right ? Hahaha. Acting is not very popular now . That short play is not very popular now. Mom, I just have nothing to do and want to supplement the family income. I often play the role of the mother of some CEOs. Oh, those lines. Ah, I opened my mouth and came. It turns out that my mother has acted before. No wonder what she said is true, but he is the one in this contract. I just called Mr. Shen. Mrs. Shen is very nice. She said that if she asked him to help , she would immediately find someone to cooperate with us. Acting , that painting last time was also given by Mr. Shen, right? Did you save his life ? Yes, you all have the surname Shen. So your last name is uh, no, no, no , this surname is just a coincidence. Oh , uh, I also bought these clothes and shoes. When you've raised enough, I'll rent a house for you in the countryside . I'll take you back. Why don't you let your parents rent it at home? There's such a big land at home. Mom is so impressed by your kindness that your dad and I should go back to the countryside and not disturb you two. Live your life, okay, Mom and Dad, come here often when you have time , Xiao Tao, Xiao Fei, Xiao Bei, say goodbye to grandparents. Goodbye, grandparents. Goodbye . Okay. Just now, that woman said she wanted to cooperate with our Shen Group. Hurry up and get rid of that person. Goodbye, grandparents. Slowly. Let's go , have you got everything? You've got these three children. They look exactly like our Que'er when they were young. I'll go for a paternity test right away. Parents, what 's wrong with you? Shen Jia's cooperation with us was cancelled. How could this be possible just now? The phone call told me not to go tomorrow. I just came back from the mall and the cooperation was cancelled. That smelly security guard must be a celebrity around Mr. Shen. If he keeps using the power of the Shen family to protect Missing , won't I be forever? If you want to be weighed down by missing me, let me go out and tell you . Why did you come to me today ? Sister, I came to you this time to apologize to you. You will be so kind to apologize to me. After all, we are all sisters. You are an adult. I don't remember what happened before. It's all my fault. Forgive me. If we sisters make peace and make up, it's not like they've poisoned me. How could it be? Otherwise, I'll do it first to respect him and see how he reacts. The poison is eight. You are inseparable. You are fighting with me . Come in, you guys. Serve him and make good money. Of course, why do n't you get out of here. Mommy, are you okay? I'm fine . You forgot that one of the things in animal training is medicine. I'm desperate. I'm thinking of your dad, mommy. Are you coming back now? It's been announced for the time being . Xiaofa, please do me a favor. It's time to eat. Daddy, mommy, why haven't you come back yet? Your mommy went out for an appointment. She should be back soon . Daddy, it's so dark outside. Mommy is not safe alone. How about you? Go pick up Mommy , you are very considerate. I'll go pick them up later. Who are they? The 4 male models you ordered are not available. It seems that you don't want to smile at me. I'm telling you, if you don't like me, you can do it. He drugged me through private messages and ordered me a male model. He also posted on Moments to harm me. I have already driven away the male model. But I have taken the medicine. Now do you know that it is dangerous for you to be like this ? Is it dangerous or not ? As my legal husband, shouldn't you? Yesterday, Mommy and Daddy stayed away all night. I don't know why Mommy took Daddy and he didn't have a brother. We are alone. Mommy is as beautiful as me. It will definitely work. Looks like the old monster has already eaten Tang Monk's flesh . What are you talking about? Since you have been honest with me, why don't you tell him that I am Kaitou x ? He will understand me. Auntie , let me ask you a question. What would you do if you caught Kaitou X ? Kaitou Just chirp at him like this. Okay, I'm kidding you, do you take it seriously ? But having said that , Kaitou Secretly donating those stolen national treasures to the museum. Yes, yes, I am very discerning. This is the end point. To ensure that the task is successfully completed, I'd better not tell him his identity for three years. Miss Seventeen, where is Mr. Shen? Mr. Shen is too busy and we don't know his whereabouts. This woman looks so familiar. I seem to have seen it somewhere. Just bring it here . She is the woman he slept with A Ju 6 years ago. As long as she is raw and cooked, you can accept me. Hey, why did I know it at this time? Come right away. Back then, I had clearly made Axue mistakenly think that the person sleeping with him was me. How could I be like this? I immediately went to investigate the relationship between this woman and Axue. I want all his information, mom . Mummy, you're back. We're all ready to start . I want to eat cake. Mommy, today is Daddy's birthday. It's really good . Let's prepare a surprise for him before he comes back, okay? Xiao Tao, come and beat the eggs. Xiao Fei, come and mix the flour. I mean, A-Xue hid her identity in order to have a flash marriage with this woman. But this bitch was really lucky enough to get pregnant with A-Xue's children in one go. It's okay. You stayed there for a while and then came back. Come on, let's go . Come on, you are me, I am Ah Que's childhood sweetheart, my name is Qin Xu, you two go in first, yes Ah Que, oh, yes, hello , today is Ah Que's birthday. I rushed back from abroad to celebrate his birthday. Unexpectedly, it has been three years. I haven't seen him getting married yet. My aunt hasn't come back yet. Why don't you wait for him ? I'm actually here to find you. I'm here to find you. What do you mean? There are 10 million in this card, which is enough for you to squander. I want you to divorce Ah Que and leave. He can't leave. Taotao likes Jiejie very much. Taotao will not let Jiejie and mommy divorce. You, a bad woman, can't even think of destroying our family. Miss Si, I think you are a smart person. It's not your own thing. Why force yourself to tell you the truth? I am Ah. A man will always miss the first person. If I hadn't been away for the past three years, how could he marry anyone just to get angry with me? Since we are already married, he is my husband no matter what the reason is. Don't force it. This sentence remains unchanged to extinguish my emotions. I originally wanted to save some dignity for Miss Si. Since you don't appreciate it , forget it. I have an appointment with Ah Qiao tomorrow and he will definitely come. If Miss Si doesn't believe it, just wait and see, okay? Gentlemen , even people came to my door. What 's wrong with the weather ? It's so windy . Today is my birthday. Look, I was so busy that I forgot that these are all arranged by you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Especially this flower is so fragrant. There are no wild flowers at home. Hua Xiang, right? You can live it by yourself. You 've eaten gunpowder. Did you mess with him ? It's you and me, daddy. I still advise you to kneel down and apologize to mommy. Otherwise, you will become a single person soon. What the hell is going on? Daddy , think about it for yourself. You are single. Annie, Annie, open the door. Annie, we are a family. What can you say? If Annie doesn't open it, don't open it. Don't open it. Do n't come to my door. If you don't open it, I'll just stay here. Mommy, are you looking for daddy? He just went out. He won't really go to see that woman. If you want to know, go and see if the clothes are ready. Why do you always feel like your back is hot and your butt is cold ? How can the baby really go to see that bad girl? I'm a woman. My sister dares to come out. Is she cheating? Tell me. Come to me. What's the matter ? I know what I did before was wrong. Now I'm back and we are still the same as before . Fortunately, Dai Di blocked his hand. What happened ? Is it the same as before ? Did I have a lot of contact with you in the past? Huang Tian, you came to my house, right? I might as well make it clear to you once and for all. I don't like you and I have been married to Ah Quan for 6 years. The woman I slept with 6 years ago was not the same woman . Please, what age are you still using this trick? Qin Suxi, I have enough patience with you. Don't challenge my bottom line. Otherwise, I will be rude to you and leave me in the future. My wife and children, please stay away from me. What wife and children? That child is not yours at all. I said yes. Oh, my ankle is sprained. Take me to the hospital. I can't bear to leave. Didn't your mother tell you that you can't touch other people's husbands? Miss you. If we don't have a surprise, you'll go with someone else. 4 Miss, my foot is injured. Ask Aqu to take me to the hospital. You won't be so stingy, right? Sorry , I'm just so stingy. No one can touch my things. Aqu, don't touch porcelain. If you hurt your foot, just take a taxi to the hospital. What do you say to me ? Humph , don't be angry. You and I are not angry. I met him just to make it clear to him and ask him not to add blood to himself all day long. He must have told you something. He and I are childhood sweethearts, right? He is just a neighbor and has no childhood sweethearts. Yes, really , really, let me explain. If you have any affection for him, it will be thunderous. Seeing how sincere you are, I will go home and celebrate your birthday. Grandpa, let's go . Hey, happy birthday . Wow, let's have a cake. Hahahahaha. It's over, Mr. Qin. I got the news that someone was chasing Phantom Thief So instead of waking up the lion, he went into the room I opened and went to bed with Ah Que. But it was just a guess and it couldn't prove that he was the Phantom Thief. Aix wanted to know if it was simple. He was indeed the Phantom Thief. Ms. Qin wanted to do this. Report the matter to Mr. Shen. He is now aliased as Shen Shi just to catch the Phantom Thief . I sent it to the wrong one , yes, I'm next door. Thank you. Little brother, your clothes are dirty. I'll help you pat them . Master, the dance is all arranged for tonight. Hey Annie, there is a dance at the company tonight. I have to work overtime and won't come back for dinner. I'm sure. Come back early , grandpa and madam , your mother and I are going to tell you to come back and cook some noodles for yourself. Honey, let's see what mommy bought. What's wrong with Xiaotao? Mommy , I have a stomachache. I have a stomachache . Give me your hand. Got it . The antidote is in the center of the dance floor at tonight's inspection dance. If you want to save your child, go and hurry up. Otherwise, hey, Xiaotao, you guys are waiting for mom. Mom, go get the antidote. Mom, don't go. It could be a trap . Yes, mom has to go too. I can't care so much anymore. Ask what's going on. What's going on? Who is this person? I'm sorry. Everyone, I have prepared a good show for you today. Let me introduce you to this person . This is the Phantom Thief. x What is the famous Phantom Thief? Whether it's true or not , everyone must be very curious about what this mysterious and powerful Phantom Thief Oh , please don't follow the guests. This little episode today is actually specially arranged by Mr. Shen. The purpose is to attract everyone to see our national treasure-level blue and white porcelain from the Han Dynasty at close range. Wow, is this the blue and white porcelain from the Han Dynasty? The color is so amazing, no wonder it is so famous. It's so strange that my brother is obviously Miss Qin . All of this was explained by Mr. Shen himself. I believe you won't want to destroy his hard work, okay . I'll wait for Ah Quan to come to him in person. You can't let me go back today. The banquet is a trap set by Qin Suxi for you. It's been since you went back . My three children were poisoned. If I don't go back, they can only wait to die. What happened to the poison? It must be Qin Suxi. He found out my identity and wanted to lure my husband. I have to go back. I have to get the antidote. I'm going. You wait here for me, but there's no one . But they are my children too. Do you believe me, Master ? Ah Que, you're here. Ah Que, haven't you always wanted to catch Kaitou X? I almost caught him just now. You should see his true face. His three children will definitely not be able to escape after being poisoned. I don't need your help. Give me the antidote. Give him the antidote and he will run away. You are crazy. I have three lives. Ah Que, for you and me. Are you willing to do anything ? Why don't you just look back at me? Are you in love with him? So even though you know he is the Phantom Thief The spirit of x's grand thief , the Shen Group, as China's leading enterprise , should contribute to the country. I want to find him, I just want to cooperate with him. You don't know anything, just help here once. I know this is the case. I really don't know this is the case. Then give me the antidote. You can give me the antidote , but you must divorce Missing and marry me. You are negotiating terms with me . Phantom Thief How many enemies will you have in the future? Ah Que, you have no choice. Hurry up and make your choice. In half an hour, the three of them will be dead. Believe it or not, if I kill you, kill me, you won't be able to get the antidote. I promise you to take it. They are just like Ah Quan, I am waiting for you to marry me. There is something that your mother and I want to tell you. Xiaofei, Xiaobei, Xiaotao are the blood of our Shen family. They are all your biological children , no matter what the price, Master , I I will protect you and the children's lives. How are you feeling better? Mommy, I don't feel any pain anymore. My thoughts hurt and my stomach doesn't hurt anymore. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Mommy, daddy is still there. You can give him a hug too. In fact , it 's just because I 'm Kaitou Shen Que, the president of the Group, I also used the paintbrush to catch you with my own hands. We have different positions and we can never be together. Do you understand? What about our relationship? Are you lying to me? I let you go this time because of the Regarding our previous relationship, next time I will catch you with my own hands and I won't let you go so easily again. Are you sincere in everything you say? It's absolutely true , daddy, you are all lying to us, right ? Daddy will not catch us. Daddy, don't leave. Okay, okay, Xiaobei finally got a daddy , daddy, don't leave. You guys, look at us. There are 3.9 billion men. If you come, come or not. The next one will be a more obedient and smelly man. Shen's Group . What's so great about Shen's Group? Mommy, isn't it? Don't you like daddy? Why are you crying so sadly? Love shouts repeatedly. Mommy is calling duplicity. It would be great if the second brother is here and can help us. I don't know if daddy misses our little Tao, Xiaobei, Xiaofei, my child. Ah, I actually said such things to you. Hey , Master, I really deserve to die . Oh, Master, aren't you doing this for them? Qin Suxi blames that bitch. I'm going to strangle him to death . Hey, Master, Master. Hey, you must not do this. You I strangled Miss Qin to death. I miss you and have three little babies. We need to calm down and hide our memories again . I'm rebellious. I'm sorry for saying that to you. Hey, Master, Master . I'm not a young lady. Hey, Master, Master. Oh, scare the baby to death. Auntie, help me get a glass of water . Auntie, Mommy. Brother is already gone . Yes, he is already gone. Mommy, if you can't let go of Daddy , why don't we go find him? I won't go. As the saying goes, a good horse never turns back . He bit it himself, but as the saying goes, a prodigal son can't pay for his return. I believe that my sister must have her own reasons. Why don't we go find her and ask her clearly? No, Remy is leaving quickly. Hey, Reddy should be here. Daddy is the president of the Shen Group. He It must be in the president's office. My best friend, you still dare to come to the company. You are not afraid of asking people to arrest you. If I send you, I won't come. Get out of the way. I must have told you. Don't think that you have to stalk him and beat him. I will accept you as a cat and mouse. They are natural enemies after all. He only plays with you and doesn't love you at all. Is he dead ? Is this the end of my heart? When I'm done, let's get out of my way. Let me tell you the truth. Three days later, Aqiao and I Just got married . It's impossible for daddy to marry this bad woman. The news that daddy is mommy has almost spread throughout the world. Just ask around and everyone will know. If you're sensible, then quickly leave the company with these three small business owners. Ah Que said, let you go, but I won't let go of what happened yesterday. I haven't settled the accounts with you yet. Sister, it's obviously this bad aunt who bullied Mommy first. This bad aunt called the three of us little bastards and asked us and Mommy to leave here. He just Is it true that you will get married in 3 years ? I came here today to ask questions clearly. I want to know an answer. Let's go to the Civil Affairs Bureau to get a divorce. Miss Qin, a man is just an item that I will never pick up again if I throw it away. The stinky brother Xiaogang doesn't like you anymore. Who told you to tell him this? We are all going to get married. Am I wrong to tell him to give up ? I promised to marry you , but don't expect me to have the slightest bit of love for you. If you let me listen again. When you call them little wild boars , don't blame me for being rude to you. Just make trouble anyway. In 3 days, you will be me. I'm done. I miss you so much that you won't forgive me at all. Why are you standing here? Help me think of a way. In this situation, unless you If you know how to be a clone and act wild , why don't you sacrifice your beauty and body ? At least protect Miss Miss Miss and the three little darlings like this Baby, I can't swallow this breath. I have an idea. Call the headquarters. Call the headquarters. I need high-quality male models who are 1.8 meters tall and have eight-pack abs. The more the better , young master, if you really can't help it , please tell your wife clearly. You see, Madam has lost weight . Why are you so petty ? The matter of being angry with me has nothing to do with you. Mr. Shen, I am very busy. I don't want to waste time here. Come in. Thank you. Just treat this period of time as a dream, Anne. Actually, what am I doing? In fact, you are innocent, Mr. Shen. I think you have made a mistake. Men are dispensable to me. I don't have to give you 20% off. What you want to say, I don't accept this. Mommy is right. Mommy. With such good conditions , we will definitely find a better uncle. Please stop pestering our mommy. Uncle , it has only been a day and I have become an uncle. I have already received the divorce certificate and called you uncle. You still want to go to God? Things between me and your mommy are not that simple. It's all about adults, it doesn't matter whether it's a child or not. Mommy has prepared a surprise for you to celebrate your singleness. Come on in. Everyone is 1.8 meters tall and has 8-pack abs. Take off your glasses and show Mommy these boys. They are all carefully selected by us, and each one meets the standards you want. You can choose whatever you want. Why can't I choose ? I think it's pretty good. You know your roots, you have money and good looks. Besides, what qualifications do you have to care about my babies? Let's go. You have no conscience. These three brats are so heartless. I usually play with them all the time, right ? Look how quickly I rebelled and brought four blind dates with me. Tell me how I can't compare to them. Young master, you are better than them except for your status. Your style and style feel a bit international. Emotions can be cultivated. Besides, people are There is no such thing as hiding one's identity , and there is this mess of getting married and divorced. If I were Miss Miss Miss, I wouldn't date anyone . I would also have to seriously consider this design and this relationship. It's been there for so long, and what else do you think? Miss you , Master, everything you did was to miss Miss and three little babies. Only you can take on this responsibility and friendship. Is this accurate? Fortunately, I react quickly. Xiaofei, Xiaotao, Xiaobei, we should go home, be careful . The medicine is ready. You can go . Oops. He was hit by a ball. He felt a little dizzy, right? It just so happened that I just read a medical book recently and it said about pricking acupuncture points . But, my hands are still a little bit weak recently. Shake you and say that if I insert this needle into you, I will give you hemiplegia or something. Don't blame me. Walk around, walk around. I suddenly feel better. Are you angry? Haha, go away . Look, it's so late outside. I'm a boy. It's not safe for everyone to go back , otherwise I won't have any shameless ID tonight. We must not write it. Well , who are you talking about? Uncle, you are not welcome in our home. If you don't leave, we will hand over the property to the property owner. It's time for Xiao Tang to go to bed. I'm going to come over here. Annie, don't make any noise. I really can't help it. Annie, are you okay? It's fine to go. Tomorrow, mommy will take you to the mall. Yes, it's a beautiful wedding dress. Mommy will wear it. You look very good, Mommy. We have never seen you in a wedding dress before. Why don't we take this opportunity to dress up and take a photo? I agree. Okay, yes. Do you look good singing this song ? Oh, you are so beautiful. This outfit suits you well. Wow. What a coincidence. I didn't expect to meet you here. How did I find someone for a flash marriage? Oh, this wedding dress is the most important thing in a woman's life. It's a pity. The same wedding dress shows different temperament on different people. I think the skirt she is wearing is very flattering to my temperament. I asked her to take it off. I paid double the price. Yes , the wedding dress is beautiful. It is beautiful. But I am too thin to hold it up. Unlike Miss Qin, who has a big frame and a lot of flesh to wear. You definitely look more elegant than me, don't you think so? You said I was fat, I didn't say it was you who said it yourself, Miss Si, I know, Ah Que divorced you, and you have a grudge against me , but I also told you that it's not yours. Don't force it. In the end, it's all in vain. Did you see that this is the real love of the moon god? But he said his love for me. It's as bright as the moonlight in the sky. This is thousands of times better than some broken bracelets, mommy. I can't bear it any longer. I don't need to bear it any longer. This necklace of yours is indeed very beautiful . I was sorry for you before. I want to apologize to you. Why don't you take off this necklace and show me how you act like someone who has never seen the world? I miss you. You are a Kaitou x, so what? You couldn't steal it before. Of course, you can't steal the Love of the Moon God in full public view. The workmanship is indeed beautiful, but it looks fake. How could it be possible? As far as I know, Yue The gem of God's Love will change color in the moonlight , but you see there is no change in this one . You, Miss Qin, are talking about evidence. I have never left your sight on this necklace from the beginning to the end. How did I do this? Impossible , impossible, have you seen anything? The only possibility is that this necklace was fake from the beginning. Miss Jin, your fiance is not very good. I gave you a fake necklace. How is this possible? This is obviously my daughter from Qin Dynasty. When he gave it to me, it was real. Then I didn't know. Miss Qin, if you like this wedding dress, I'll take it off for you. One of you, one of you , go out and adjust the surveillance for me. The other, go out and find Miss Qin for me. There's no problem with Miss Qin's whole. I 've searched the store and there's no discussion . Hey, stop and search your lower body for me. Something happened. I'm worried about the lady. Let's search it. It's okay. I can leave now. Don't leave. I miss you. I know it was you who moved your hands and feet. Hurry and hand over the things to me. Oh , otherwise I'll call the police . You report it. I have no evidence to see if the police will arrest me . My dear, who asked that old witch to do the laundry? What's even more annoying is yet to come. Miss Qin, do you still want to try on this wedding dress? Forget it, forget it. Try it. There are worms, hey, where are the worms? Ah Que must be the one who caused the longing. You must make the decision for me. It's quite lifelike. I can't see why Ah Que is the one making the decision . You took the moon god without permission. Lian took it out from the exhibition hall and put it on, and now he actually lost it. Then he asked me to pay for it. Tell me about you. You have nothing to do to provoke me. What are you doing? I didn't provoke you . I just left after you patted your butt. You were very happy to get married today, right? Say yes to the doll. What's the use? You have the ability to go to the wedding venue. I won't go. Whoever wants to go, whoever wants to go, will you regret it for the rest of your life ? Think about it, it's you What's more important is your face or the happy life of you and Daddy. Mommy, there is no regret medicine in this world. Oh, I have no regrets. I'm so angry today that I'm going to die. If I jump out from here, there's no way I can go. Could it be that Daddy is here ? Go open the door and wait. Don't think that if you come to me, I will forgive you. I am Nian Nian. Come with me quickly or it will be too late. Parents , Shen Shi is getting married today. Shouldn't you be at the wedding? Oops, what kind of knot? Nian Nian is in my mother's heart. You are the only daughter-in-law. Shen Shi and I have divorced. He should have told you my identity. We have different positions and we can't be together. Oh, Nini, let me tell you the truth. Those were all made up by Ah Que to lie to you . Ah, yes, he is arresting you. He just wants to cooperate with you. Ah Que, and he can't stand those foreigners auctioning our country's things. He actually admires you. That person's name is Qin Suxi. He discovered your identity. Ah Que, he wanted to protect you. That's why I agreed to marry that woman . I misunderstood him. Why are you so stupid? He's not a good son you taught. He holds everything back and doesn't say anything. Oh, by the way, A Chui definitely didn't tell you about this. Take a look. Could it be that he is the man in the hotel 6 years ago? It turns out that dad is our real dad. Oh, it's already this time. Nian Nian, hurry up , otherwise it's really too late. Xiao Fei and Xiao Tao are here . Xiao Bei is called to change clothes and set off. Our mission today is to grab It's time for the wedding master . Please invite tonight's bride to enter. Ah Quan . I have been waiting for this day for so many years. The ceremony will begin soon . Miss Qin Sushi, are you willing to marry Mr. Shen Que Shen? I do. Then may I ask Mr. Shen Que Shen? Are you willing to marry Miss Qin Suxi Qin? He doesn't want to let go of me. My stupid father is my mother. How dare you three little bastards come to my wedding to cause trouble ? What are you doing? Hurry up and arrest them. You three are a bunch of losers . You ca n't even beat a child, mommy, it's your turn , you are a bitch again , believe it or not, I will water you to death. What you gave me is just one pill. If you eat it, your whole body will itch. No matter how you do it, you will bleed to death. How dare you give it to me? Why do you forget what you did to my child when I poisoned you ? I just treated others the same way they did. What are you doing in this marriage ? You are not allowed to leave Wu Nian. This is what you forced me to do. Just make your identity public . The thief Ike just appeared in the museum and caused a commotion. After investigation, no cultural relics were stolen. This is impossible . How is this possible ? This is safe. Annie, why did you come back? Why don't you blame me for ruining the wedding between you and your childhood sweetheart? This is the scene of the divorce. It's not far away . If you rush back now, the wedding can still go on . No, no, no, Annie , I didn't mean it. Just listen to me. I'm fine. I know that you married Qin Suxi so as not to expose my identity. I know. My parents told me and I am today. Only then did I realize that the man 6 years ago was you and us. This is called going around in circles, okay. Don't kid me. I haven't settled the score with you yet. Why do you have to take it upon yourself to protect me? What can I do even if my identity is exposed ? The worst is that I will be raped. The hunt has changed to This arrangement is called confusing the public. Even if Qin Suxi exposes your identity, your credibility will be high. Daddy , oh, I won't call you uncle this time. It 's Xiaochao who wrongly blamed your sister. Let's go home. Let's walk home. You're so full. How's your craft? Not bad . Sometimes I think you don't even look like a president . So what do you think a president should look like? A president should have clothes to put on, hands to eat, and mouth to open. Anyway, that's not you. Let me tell you, this is a skit about the stereotype of a president. You've seen too much. Your master is getting late . Hey, you should go to bed . Wait, what are you going to do with the three of them? We have VIPs. Good night. Is that rose guitar you mentioned too vulgar? Daddy, I checked the girl online. Children all like roses. What little peach is born from mommy? Little peach likes roses. Mummy also likes roses . Daddy, why don't I give you a disguise ? You don't need to disguise yourself . You don't need to disguise yourself. Why does this dignified Miss Qin condescend to do this? I'm in a place like this. I'm here to discuss a business deal with you. Come on , tell me. I know the true identity of Phantom Thief I will also take action. It was because of him that several of our brothers were arrested. If I don't take revenge, my scar will not be a human being. Xiao Fei, Xiao Qiao, Xiao Bei, who is the correct person? Please follow the map to find the website. Mom , please give me today's TV. If you have a nice surprise, then I will play with you, Mommy . Mommy is the female body hole. What are you looking for? Go back and practice some tricks. Mommy, why are you so slow? The woman is me. Mommy, has she already guessed that you are going to propose? They will give it to you. No, no , but it's been too long. Amitabha is in danger. Qin Suxi won't give up if she doesn't get her wish. Could it be that something really happened to A-Nian? Let's go find A-Nian first. A-Nian is Annie's bracelet, Annie. I found it and it turned out to be Qin Suxi . Who is he ? The psychedelic Scar makes a living by stealing cultural relics. He once fought with Mommy , but unfortunately he ran away. He has a grudge against Mommy. This time he must be here for revenge, isn't it? It's very dangerous. Can Xiaofei find the location of your mommy 's communicator? Daddy, give me some time to find the location. It shows that mommy is in an abandoned building in the suburbs. Without further ado , we will go rescue mom right away. We have to go to our parents too. Why are you here? Why can't we come? If we hadn't followed the trend and bought some kind of sky-cutting agent to install at home, otherwise we wouldn't have known that something happened to my daughter-in-law. They are all desperadoes and are very dangerous. Then I don't care if your mother and I have to go, why don't you tell me? Getty, don't worry . There are self-defense vests and electric batons here . My grandparents have carefully modified them and put them on . No one can enter them. Oops, my grandson is so powerful, wake up . Getty, please put it on too. Fold some clothes. He is invulnerable. He is so powerful that he can rescue the special forces at any time and anywhere. Wake up. I didn't expect that one day you would also fall into my hands. Are you still proud of yourself now? What do you want to do? What do I want to do ? You forced me to do all this. Why did I do so many things ? Xue didn't want to look at me more. But you were just a ridiculous trial but got it. The funny thing about all of Ah Xue's love is that you are not afraid of water birds, you know? Stop threatening me with water birds. When you die, water birds will come to me. You kill someone for a man . It's such an embarrassment to us women. What do you know? I don't understand the meaning of love at all. You ruined my wedding and I ruined you. Is Nini really here? You're right. I'm not worried . Oh, I didn't expect that Shen Tianfu would be so powerful in his old age. With these clothes and sticks, I can also dance. Son , please go and save your wife. What can your mother and I do ? Then give me a kill of the Phantom Thief. Long time no see. Goodbye. You are fine. It was because of you that I put so many of my brothers in jail. Today I will Let you taste what life is worse than death . I have tasted so many women , but I have never been fooled. If you serve me today, I can spare your life. Otherwise, can I not guard you? What do you want to do? Don't worry, I'm not interested in a man like you . You don't know what you want to do and what I want to do. You might as well tell you that your three precious children and your husband are already on their way to save you. You have this bomb attached . The alarm at the door is waiting for him. As soon as the door opens, your whole family will be shot. No, you can't do this. If you have anything to do, come at me. Come at me. Ah Que can't die. I promised to help you catch this bitch, Miss , but I didn't. Let Ah Que die, Miss Qin. The last thing I, Scar, care about is trust. If you do this, Ah Que cannot die. Ah Que, he cannot die. Today, for the sake of helping me catch the Phantom Thief, I will spare your life. Someone bring it to me. If I can't leave , I can't die . Don't you hate me? You kill me. You kill me. It's so pointless to kill you. This life needs to have some fun to be exciting. It's late for me to shut my mouth. They should. When we get there, I'll leave first. Think about it, calm down and think about it. Wait a minute. What's the password? Mommy lent us the signal to pass on . What did he say? This door can't be opened. Mommy said Scar has set up a mechanism on the door. As soon as we open the bomb, If it explodes , what should I do if I don't open the door? How can I save you, Mommy? Please let me open in the lobby. Let me come . The bomb has activated the forced self-destruct system. The bomb has been tampered with. Now there are only two lines left, one blue and one red. It will be very difficult if you pick up the wrong bomb. It might explode. Which one should I pick? Baby , you have tried your best. How can mommy blame you? If I do n't blame you , blame me. I shouldn't do it. I shouldn't do any proposal so that you won't be taken away. I don't care about you or them. No matter how you try to catch me, you will catch me. Mom, please choose one. I believe in you . No matter what happens, Little Taozi will be with Mommy. Yes, as long as our family is together, the worst is death. Choose. Choose the color you like. Then I will. Just choose my favorite red, just choose red. Mommy, are we in heaven? We are stuck in a queue . Oh, how is the matter handled ? It has been solved. I have asked the security guards of the Shen Group to send all those people to the police . The Bureau followed the clues and found a large number of Chinese cultural relics in their old lair. So many that they could feed them for a lifetime. It became more and more complicated for me. There was something about that couple. You said you liked red , but why in the end? Because red is like the connection between our family's destiny. I don't want to cut off the red thread of fate that has been cultivated for several lifetimes. It's over , it's over, it's over, it's over. I 'm too busy these days. The tasks arranged by the headquarters haven't been completed yet. Today is the deadline. Hey, what can I do? We'll finish it right away . The task of blue and white porcelain has been completed . I have donated the blue and white porcelain to the museum in your name a long time ago . No need to donate it to me . The Shen Group is also secretly photographing the scattered Chinese cultural relics. After that, we will cooperate internally and externally , and the speed will be faster. Anne I started to like you from the first moment I saw you. Your every move, every smile, every move has been deeply engraved in my mind. What the hell is my ability to bully women ? Ghost Sword x Who are you? Don't follow me. I tell you with a playful smile, if you don't like my brother, haha, haha, you're done. We've experienced so many things together. I'm really happy about the time I spent with you. It's not easy to have someone you really like for such a long time in your life. Are you willing today? Let me get married. I am willing . Daddy and Mommy will be together. Mission target: Slim Agate Cup. Target location: Skyscraper. The mission is here again, but will you come with us one by one? Of course , any time, any place, a certain special agent team will attack.