Here are this week's new and trending AI tools that you cannot afford to miss. Later in this video It's a big buzz at the moment, the intro to this video and well, I'm Pika introduced 1.5 Hyperrealistic video generation with dynamic Pikaeffects. They're calling them, and I can't wait You upload a video. You can choose to inflate it, melt it, And let's not forget cake I'm just uploading a picture of me, I can inflate it. And you can see the Pika They are experiencing high demands But what I like about Pika is they give you a chance to try this stuff, While we're waiting for that generation, Say if you're enjoying the content and subscribe as I do these videos weekly. Now, I didn't want to wait so I've actually subscribed Just for one month for $10. I think that's a pretty good deal. Now, if you like, you can also go ahead And try Pikaeffects out. So here's our company logo. And again just click picker effect You can inflate it. Explode it. Squish it. And I have to admit, cake ify In my opinion. Pretty cool stuff from Pika. I'm sure you'll agree and you can try them for free OpenAI had Dev Day in San Francisco and they introduced a bunch of new things, So that's the One of the most popular ones And this is going to be great Take a look at this quick preview that Twilio published Hey there. How can I help brighten your day today? Can you tell me a joke about owls? Of course. What do you call an owl? Who's a magician? Houdini. So essentially you'll be able to make using autonomous AI agents, the real time I don't have access to it yet, sadly, But But that's not all. They announced a bunch of other stuff, This is not really new. Claude but if you go to the link that I'll post you can actually click this playground, and you can describe and they will generate the system So for instance, I'm making an app And maybe I might type something That's not a very good enhanced prompt. And within a matter of moments, that are much more comprehensive Respond to YouTube comments and even give steps. Read the comment sets the tone how to deal with positive, negative, this is really cool stuff. We can try it again with something else. Let's generate a pimped up prompt that can write a script Okay. And it's going through Create a detailed, engaging podcast script and give steps again. Review. Outline. Expand. Engage. Add transitions. Conclude. Output format. Examples. Oh this is absolutely brilliant. Look at this and you can actually alter this prompt But it's easy if you've got this is going to solve that for you I think. Sam Altman all of the new announcements at OpenAI that along with the OpenAI playground finally, let's take a look at automatic It's a big trend this week and this month. And if you watch my previous videos, to build an app with no code, while Replit This is a service I signed up to but they have an agent here With one prompt, Now you need to be on the paid plan. It's about $10 which is about building an app. This time I want to put in a YouTube It'll get the comments from the video, AI and prompt to summarize with three bullet points Let's see how Replit agent gets on so first of all, the AI agent sets up YouTube comments summarizer. And it's actually analyzing to build out the app in front of me. I've got my first response from the agent. It says I've created a plan It's going to summarize videos using different APIs, tells me And do Yes, I could add extra features, a proof plan and start. And away the agent goes to work right now. Look at this. It's writing all the code for my app and creating all the files over here And what's really cool is not only is it writing code, it's going to install So I don't need to worry Installing Python or node. What is that on my system? It does it all for me. Look at this now it's installing things like Flask Now it's in the Google API Look at that. It's got as far as asking me for an open These are really easy for me to obtain And I'll paste them into the values box. Now it's going to go on further and think and produce everything Now you notice here, it's detecting potential issues So any kind of bugs it's introducing along it is troubleshooting them for me. So I really do sit back. I feel like I need a cup of tea or coffee because the Replit Agent And look at this. My server is running everything. I don't need to touch the keyboard. So it's actually got something up it says is the server Can you see the main page with the YouTube Summarize the title and the answer is yes. I can. Yes. Fab exclamation mark. And that's the most feedback Okay, so it's asking me now. Could you please test its functionality? Try entering a YouTube video in the URL into the field So let's go ahead and try this. I'm going to use one of my own videos. And this video was quite popular So let's copy And I was asked it wants me to strip out Now if I was making this for production, I could include error handling There is my YouTube video ID. Let's test this out. My goodness me, that is a one shot app. And there is the summary that has blown And well, obviously I've edited this video but it took probably about 3 or 4 minutes So let's read for being high quality, fast paced and Interesting tools, a workflow. Many wanted to know, the workflow used and the cost of the tech stack, and the presenter received compliments This is indeed a summary of the comments, because I've been reading the comments and it's done so elegantly. And that is a one shot prompt from Replit. It's an insane tool. I'll link it up down below, of course. And if you enjoy what you've seen so far, because I'll be doing more videos AI tools to help you with content creation Coding automatically, One final bit of feedback I've said it's brilliant work. So. Well, when the summary comes Please change to use formatting instead. And put a dark mode button on the app. Will just make it easier on my eyes. Okay. Now we're cooking. Now we're cooking with gas. Let's try this again one more time. This time I'm going to pull something from my other channel Let's copy the link to that waves versus isotope video Paste in the URL, strip out the front, comments for this video. Boom. Look at that. And no formatting. Now this all looks very nice. Mixed opinions on noise reduction tools. Views criticize and the concerned about promotional tone So immediately I can get feedback on this on how What people are looking for. So when you finished creating an app you could even integrate a payment system You then click deploy up here. And what this will allow you to do publicly available so people can type There is never been a better time now to make interesting and useful products and even potentially make money Go and try it out for yourself. Okay, I'm filling on a roll. So I'm going to try and create And this time a little more complex. Build an app that starts by asking So I can lead capture. Once that's entered, Takes the audio adds like compression This is techie audio stuff. My background and then loudness normalize it the standard that you should be So if you're a podcaster, essentially a SaaS app like Auphonic in one shot Let's start building and see what happens. Wow. Okay. And it's building. It knows all the Python libraries that are Right in front of my very eyes. The audio processor is being created. Okay. It tells me it completed successfully, Okay. I've entered my email. It tells me the email was submitted Now I can check this And you can see, yes, there is a user And if I go into it, yeah, I've got an That's pretty insane but it can integrate backend databases Back in the web view, we need to upload So let's try this out. Hello there. It's me Mike, And then quietly. And I'm hoping that my new app can process there is a waveform Here we are back in my audio where I can choose the file Let's see what happens here. Whoa. Okay. Audio process No way. And it's download processed Okay, this is my audio editor. With the original recording, I'm going to drag and drop in my new processed Okay, it looks like it has been processed. Yes, indeed, it has been limited. The big golden question, though, is look at that. Compared to the original recording, I'm now clearly much louder and easier Great for a podcast, but if I drag and drop this into the match It's exactly -16 LUFS the AI app that I created in that a paid app like Auphonic can do, Replit agent. It's like AGI for building What are you going to build with this? This is an insane technology. Go and try it in the link down below. And if you really enjoyed the video, because I will be doing more stuff I do weekly updates on my channel. I'm really grateful for you to be here. You could also help out by subscribing Again, and there's probably a video is a video showing on your screen If you're really into all this automatic With that said,