A Boy Ate Only Potato Chips &amp; French Fries This Is What Happened To His Eyes. DA is a 17 year old boy, presenting to the in hearing, sight, and vitality. He tells the admitting nurse that his field the last several months and a ringing in his some time. You see, DA was an average teenager. He didn't take any medicines or have any At his age, he didn't have any records of A few years earlier, a 14 year old DA came He reported good health, but some chronic eating only french fries, potato chips, and A blood test at this visit noted that DA had An meaning without and emia meaning presence His blood cells were larger than normal, and, in his body. Less blood cells means less oxygen getting tiredness. This was accompanied by a marked vitamin B12 Low vitamin b12 causes anemia. Potato chips, French fries, and white bread The body doesn't make b12 on it's own, beef, yogurt, and fortified cereals have it, But his levels are low, so DA was given vitamin The doctor gave him dietary advice to add DA was sent home with no problems. Several months after that first visit, DA He complained that there were spots hanging An MRI of his brain found no abnormalities Nothing seemed to be the problem, and there injury, so come back if you have more problems, Over the next several months, DA noticed something dark. Maybe looking at screens for too long, he One day, he turned his headphones to the maximum Probably watched too many of those loud meme Skin-deep, DA appeared to be healthy. But, a neuro-ophthalmology examination finds blind spots in his field of view. Nerve fiber loss was detected in both eyes. But his motor and cognitive functions were All of this pointing to some potential neurodegeneration There was definitely something happening to As the days go by, DA is acutely aware of Normal vision is typically 20/20, meaning away. But DA's vision is 20/200, meaning for an be 20 feet from it to see it. That is the E on the chart, and by definition, A repeat slit lamp examination finds no abnormalities No visible damage can be seen. Typically, an injury to the brain may cause no lesions present. These need to be ruled out immediately because emergency. A test was administered for Leber hereditary Neuro referring to the nerves. opathy- meaning a disorder and optic referring A disorder of the nerves of the eyes. This genetic disease is characterized by painless, affects young males. It's not common. It's almost a perfect fit. But the test returned negative. Analysis of DA's blood reveals the same from 3 years ago, but this time, something's Malnutrition is well documented to cause optic liver, thyroid, and vitamin b12 levels return DA's history of B12 injections from 3 years them for quite some time now. If it's possible that a lack of this vitamin b12 levels are normal, and he still has that be going on? Well, there's some biochemistry to be known Vitamin B12 is a coenzyme, meaning it's An enzyme, is a protein that makes a chemical If there's a problem with an enzyme in the are made in the cells, which would cause disease. In humans, vitamin B12 coenzymes for 2 specific In the mitochondria, powerhouse of the cell, to feed into the cycle that produces ATP, -- In the cell nucleus, Vitamin B12 works on the process of synthesizing DNA, allowing to function. -- Both these processes either generate or consume If normally, homocysteine is consumed in the of it would mean it's not being consumed B12 is likely absent. If methylmalonic acid is produced in high produce energy for the cell, then it means -- As the medical team orders homocysteine and results come in at 3 times higher then the if DA's B12 levels in blood are "normal," But, how? In America, Europe, and Australia, a common Mal meaning bad and absorption denoting the another, meaning that it's not that people doesn't allow them to have it. B12 is almost everywhere and clinical starvation of people in these countries. This problem of absorption, is important because your body, it has to be carefully escorted You see, the stomach isn't just a bag that It produces a protein known as intrinsic factor, b12 complex gets absorbed in the far end of The problem is, the body can sometimes send preventing intrinsic factor production, so This autoimmune disease can become worse in like the pancreas and cause type 1 diabetes. But DA has no evidence of autoimmune disease, meaning that the small detail of his diet and potato chips is the cause of this malnutrition. This is not to say he was lying and wasn't writing down and recording meticulously everyday details about one's own food. This concentrated lack of variety in his diet of his problems, bringing us back to the idea DA presented at age 14 with macrocytic anemia. To be oversized, means something was wrong And DNA, is in the cell nucleus, where Vitamin to help drive the cycle to produce genetic Without B12, those materials aren't properly This impairs the maturation of the nucleus, the blood cell's ability to hold oxygen. But the cell's overall maturation isn't cells are created, and each one is larger macrocytic anemia. Without a presence of blood, where each cell But this isn't the end of DA's problems. In the cellular mitochondria, absence of B12 But as the mitochondria tries to make more This might be ok in tissues that don't really The muscles can recycle some of the correct Other parts of the body that don't move they can do for some time without it too. But how about the nerves? The nerves are covered in a fatty myelin sheath Fat is energy dense. It absolutely needs the right molecules to If the wrong chemicals are being used, because then the myelin sheath doesn't develop properly. Small vacuoles begin to creep their way in Over time, swelling and separation of the scatter. The myelin becomes spongy and no longer the a combined degeneration, impairing nerve conduction. If the nerves can't properly conduct a signal, Without a signal, the brain can't interpret And if parts of his optic nerve become damaged mutase to convert propionyl CoA to succinyl properly produce the ATP and fatty acids needed could explain why DA has become legally blind potato chips, because these are foods that This didn't have to happen. Optic neuropathy has a long list of causes. Nutrition is not typically the first thing and Australia think of because, malnutrition simply not common. DA's bodyweight was well within average He didn't look malnourished from the outside. If doctors just thought of nutritional optic simply stopped and didn't look into the they would have been correct. But what if it wasn't nutritional in origin? What if they missed a more common and life that disease progress? You can't just stop at a nutritional cause etiolgies. There's a lot of CYA in medicine, this is Do you remember the name of the stomach protein Well, humans didn't know what was the extrinsic anemia that these patients were getting. In the late 1800s, humans starting feed patients some success. This was the dietary extrinsic factor at play A Nobel Prize was won in 1934 for those experiments. Decades later, humans used X-ray crystallography as vitamin b12 is today, looks like. And Professor Dorothy Hodgkin was the winner paving the way for it to be synthesized in To be added to foods. To make supplements out of it and injection allow them to absorb it. To have it so most people can't miss it, will cause anemia and neurodegeneration ranging . But some will always slip through the cracks. The people most susceptible to b12 deficiency vegetarian or vegan diet. Who wrongly refuse supplementation. Who don't eat cereals, which in the US are For DA, vitamin B12 injections were restarted. He was counseled for his eating habits. Problems coming from vitamin B12 deficiency And while his rate of vision loss stabilized, loss was not reversed. Thank you so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And make sure you get your vitamins, although, And Be Well.