This condition of the dog so, I am NOT sure if will I succeed in But, let's find out! Welcome to Groom House. This is Beya. She is 8 years old and herself at home because she We explained to her that regular &quot;How do you mean, Alexandra, Take it easy, I will explain. Here's the thing. Regular hair maintenance, help the dog stay healthy, So, spending money on grooming is better than neglect and poor nutrition can cause. Does this make sense to you? Do you agree with me or I would like to Speaking of dog well-being there is something we Oh, I forgot something. We have a BIG news! People from Farmina recognized our work and decided to become part of our team and support us in but also in our mission of education of the owners, how to and main part of that is of course food. So that's it. I will continue now and On this channel we mostly talk about grooming, but I realize education about other pet related topics, because they don't have can hear useful, trustworthy information that will improve And that is very important to us. So today we are and I invite you to on this topic with us in the comments When we talk about food, You can buy food a pet store, or you in your home. I forgot that. While I think the food that people cook I always prefer specialized food because I simply my dogs that will have a enough minerals and vitamins and so on. Especially if the pet is It's okay, honey, it's okay. It's okay, don't be afraid. She's first time in a grooming salon, so she's terrified. So, let's get back to our topic. When choosing food for your pets, it's very important to condition because every pet is unique. It is also food is made from without unhealthy additives. I'm switching the because I'm using different blades for different parts of the body. 7FC, I'm using for top of the body because on that part, I want longer hair because in our country is almost summer and I don't want her to be burned by sun, but 7FC can't go so I'm using on that part 10 blade. It gives me a shorter hair. So it's time for 10 blade. For legs. See, for 7FC is impossible to cut this. If you are on the same page as me and but still haven't found a food I recommend Why Farmina? What, in my opinion, sets The answer is that the average needs of pet, but on the You can try how that works by Fermina nutrition consultant, who will based on its individual I know all this because my dogs have Fermina's nutrition with that service and their N&amp;D food. I really don't know why Fermina doesn't charge the services but I guess that for them a So take this opportunity to try Check the links in description of this video. One significant thing that It is one of those changes in this the dogs that we They really don't the company exists and sells their products in over So the point of all this is the fact that someone's LITTLE It is not a big expense for such a large company to donate food for some abandoned dogs, but those dogs' getting quality food Besides abandoned dogs, who have owners but The point of those donations how much better it is for the dog All that with the hope that they Today, Beya will get because we want her If you are interested, about this food in I'm really happy with her behavior. She's so good. At the beginning, I was thinking that this will be much harder, but her behavior is excellent. That not supposed to be Okay, today I'm because they have and that's important for us today because this dog and her skin is compromised, so we need to recover it. This shampoo and and also can be used from the bottle, but I prefer to be diluted in water, so I will make a diluted version. She's afraid of water, so I will not wet the coat first. Even it's better to wet the coat first, this is our today's situation. See how powerful it is in cleaning. It's time for conditioner. I'm also using and it also can be used but I prefer diluted version. It's important to apply conditioner on every part of the body, even if a dog is short-haired or shaved, because conditioner and protect skin You can rinse conditioner immediately, but for a better effect, you can wait couple Okay. It's time for rinsing. Okay, we are done So it's time for finishing ear cleaning. And we are done. It's okay, it's okay. Now it's time for a second shaving, and I'm doing that for a nice and smooth haircut. And now it's time for scissor work. I will do that with Geib Buttercutt Oh, how nice sound. And we will turn off the music so you can enjoy She's sleeping. And I thought that this You're so nice. (Suuuuzuuuukiiii) I don't want to As you saw, she ate most of it, and now it's time for some treats. She deserves it. Do you want some? Of course she wants. One more. Yay! And that's it for today. Thanks for watching, Bye-bye.