Miss Feng, Xue Shao is waiting for you inside Well, it hasn't started yet. No, one more person is missing. uh-huh I'm telling you OK Don't worry about it Washed The weather is cold You wear more Leave me alone Did you send me a message so I could send it to you? snort I'll send you a message Hum Wind Dance Do you think it's possible? Ah Lin Duoduo Are you playing on your phone again? People care about you too. Since he sent it Then you give it to him. Give it to me Oh, Fifth Sister You've worked so hard today. I heard your store is very busy. How about I give you the lost wages? Good 188,000 Cash or transfer Are you blackmailing me? What card fee is 188,000? New products in the store A top blogger decided on the spot But only I can do it So I just passed the money on to others. Xingchi Brother Okay Sun Wu This is the message I sent He still humiliates me as always. After all, I owe him a life. Little Nine Master has arrived Little Nine Lord haven't seen you for a long time This is to make us stand in the grass as punishment. Little Nine Lord You all stand Fear Some time ago, Duoduo Wei Jingning agreed I posted your photo on WeChat Moments Wei Ning attracted a lot of bad luck and trouble I'm really sorry But he didn't mean it. Your people have already punished him. Otherwise, I'll just forget about it. What is your relationship with this woman, Master Xu? If I remember correctly You and Feng Xiaocao are a perfect match Aren't you already engaged? Did you cheat? No, Little Nine Lord What happened between me and Brother Xingchi It has nothing to do with this matter. I think it's related. His fiancee is standing here He doesn't ask for mercy He made a big fuss over a little thing involving that woman Am I feeling wrong? He seems to be speaking for me. Little Jiuye Misunderstood The engagement is just a rumor. Who is this air conditioner in such a cold weather? You pay for the 18 kWh electricity bill. How much do you like, Mr. Jiu? 37 degrees Jiuye's highest temperature is only 30 degrees Only 30 degrees What are you laughing at? Laugh at me for having no common sense Then turn it up to the highest Oh good Uncle Fu's behavior today is really abnormal Uncle Forgive others when you can Otherwise, just ignore his ignorance. This is not my fault for describing me It was my fault before, Master Jiu All the friends circle and photos were deleted Please forgive me just once. Don't This woman apologized to me. I'm afraid of shortening my life This kind of torture will be replaced by those who laugh at me. Uncle asked Lin Duoduo to apologize to Feng Wu Is your hearing bad? How dare Feng Xiaozao laugh at me? This woman dares to take secret photos and I will punish her Master Jiu, are you deliberately humiliating me? Not happy Then I'm leaving Why My time is precious 188,000 is not enough to compensate This devil Are you really seeking justice for me? Sorry, Sister Wu. Uncomfortable Let's see if you dare to laugh at me again. Feng Wuyuan does not forgive Miss Lin I'm apologizing to you. Then I don't forgive Miss Lin Xiao Jiuye said he didn't forgive Nothing Then I'll go first Too hot Wear it for you No, I won't be cold once I get in the car. Let you wear it Why so much nonsense? Um Thank you, Miss. I'll give it back to you after I wash it. It turns out that he didn't wait for his brother because he was afraid that his sister would be bullied. Still feel hot and give the coat to others I think you're just afraid that others will get cold. snort You're overthinking I think he is blind and pitiful. I'm afraid he'll freeze his heart again. It turned out that he had climbed up to Fu Sijiu No wonder, maybe you're overthinking it. This rich old demon is moody. Not playing by the rules You're really not afraid of me knowing The truth of that year What's so scary? Even if he knew, what would happen? Xingchi, you've stopped. You knew that incident. It's not his fault I know my limits Awu is back Where's the coat? You have to return your friend's after washing. Heard Xingchi bullied you again dad I want to move out It is like this The dessert shop is also on track Often need to stay up late to work overtime Living at home is inconvenient Is it because the Xu family is next door? After all, we are the ones who are sorry for them. If it wasn't for finding your mother Xingchen You won't be robbed or killed. Not because of him dad I'm grown up It's time to live your own life You two are engaged after all. Why not get engaged first? Dad, I don't want to get engaged. Nonsense back then This is your mother and Xu's mother A marriage contract made together This is your mother's wish. Also, our family owes the Xu family Only the Xu family can say no to this marriage dad You clearly know that Brother Xingchi doesn't love me at all I don't understand what the meaning of this marriage is. You know, if our Feng family cancels the engagement How many people out there will poke our spines? Oh, okay, okay. Let's not talk about these unhappy things for now. Come to Ah Wu and eat some fruit Did you read the news? The rich young man from Minato took over Fuji The core business fell into the hands of the big house Auntie, how do you know this? Oh, I just talked about it with the ladies. Fu Sijiu was still a child when he was sent out of the city. At that time, the Fu family was in chaos. It is said that when filling out college entrance examination applications His sister asked him to apply to HKU As a result, Fu Sijiu exploded His family is so mad. So to speak He is still your senior. Yeah, auntie When you chat with other wives It is better to talk less about father, son and uncle He's quite stingy. Okay, okay. In a few days, it will be Xingchi's 25th birthday. Don't forget to prepare. ah Xiao Tang remembers giving the Xu family more cakes Put mango first This one likes Hello, Miss Wu Welcome Fu Sijiu had never been to such a place before. Did he come to see me specially? Feng Xiaocao, give me a cup of coffee How come Master Jiu has time to come here today? Passing by Why don't you welcome me? Fengwu, why are you so narcissistic? I think they are looking for you. How dare I do that without me? How many times have I told you, Mr. Xiao Jiu? Don't call me Master Xiao Jiu Does he think I call him old? Nine Songs Hey, don't ask me for yours. Just thank you for speaking up for me in the box. I didn't speak for you. I know you don't want to speak for me. But your few words It's been a great help to me I have nothing to give you. I can only buy you a cup of coffee Wind Grass When will you remember me? How dare you be so arrogant in Zhucheng? I really don't know who I am. I have to show you some color today You're gonna kill me. so That's all He probably forgot it a long time ago. By the way, do you want to take away or drink in the store? Pack Why is Brother Jiu feeling sleepy so early in the morning? I come to your shop to buy coffee because I'm sleepy Why not welcome? Alipay deposit of RMB 1,000 Brother Jiu said it was my treat You can't pay I'll add your contact information Transfer the money to you Um If you need likes in your Moments, just ask. Okay, I have something else to do. I'll leave first. Wow sister Fu Si 9 is so handsome Isn't he as unruly as the rumors say? I feel like you two have a good CP feeling I can't reach the level of someone like Xiao Tang Fu Sijiu. Oh, I said the wrong thing. I know you have a lot Me and Brother Yuki there is nothing When you are done, remember to send the cake to Xu's house later. I'm leaving first. Ah Wu, why are you like his servant? I came all the way back to you Not to mention accompany me Do you still have me as your friend? Okay, this is my job. You can just pull it off. How can you work for free? I owe it to Xin Chi. I can't figure it out in this lifetime Is there anything you owe? Besides What does this have to do with you? If you want to blame someone, blame the robber who killed Xu's mother. Yin Yin, stop talking. If it weren't for me Mother Xu would not have met that criminal I deserve all of this. Okay, okay. I won't say anymore Hey, who is that little vixen next to him? A whistle on the left A whistle on the right Really annoying The pursuer I really hope Uncle Feng sees him like this. I stopped trying to bring you together. I want to eat cake Okay, let's cut the cake. Awu Go Help Xingchi cut the cake Oh, hurry up and call you along Ah Wu, cut the cake quickly Cut it quickly etc. Let Duoduo help me Xu Xingchi Don't forget who you are engaged to. What is he? Besides engagement Did I promise? you Yin Yin Stop talking Why are there only mangoes? Xingchi hates eating mangoes the most Honeycomb cake made by you You eat him Xu Xingchi, you are crazy You know that Awu is allergic to mangoes Xingchi, don't go too far. That's about it. So what? Allergy only Can't die Xingchi Brother Xing Chi How to hook up with the deputy wine steward The wings are hard I have nothing to do with Brother Jiu. The way Ninth Brother called me was quite affectionate. Don't you forget who killed my mother? You owe me I can't figure it out in this lifetime Xingchi, don't go too far. Just a plate of cake Not that difficult, right? If you eat him, maybe I will forgive you. After all, you owe Fengmo What right do you have to refuse? From now on we Support the grass You tell Are you crazy You know Are you still eating mango if you are allergic to it? Is Xu Xingchen so important in your heart? You're willing to sacrifice your life for him. If something really happened to him I'm not done with you Xu Xingchi, you go do it Ah Wu, you've ruined me. He owes me He'll never escape in his life. Wherever he is I will definitely catch him Go to the hospital and find the best doctor in the allergy department. Doctor Doctor doctor Doctor Doctor Put the patient on the bed quickly Make way for a moment. Make way for a moment. Ah Wu Ah Wu Ah Wu Ah Wu Don't worry, wait outside. The doctor said to keep sleeping Is it cold? Not cold Mom cuts an apple for you Have a piece You wait for me here I miss you so much Brother Jiu, please help me. How much does medical expenses cost? I'll pass it on to you later. Feng Xiaocao, I've said There's no need to be so polite to me. What were you crying for? It can't be because of Xu Xingchi's attitude. If so You really should change the water in my brain Why How old are you? I don't know what medicine to take when I'm sick. Be good. It has nothing to do with him Why is that? Allergy medicine needs to be taken for a week You need to pay special attention when you go back these two days. If the disease recurs, you will need to be hospitalized. I know, doctor. Thank you. I'll go now. Okay, I'll take you back. Yeah, thank you, Brother Jiu. Remember to take medicine when you get back Be careful not to become a pig head I see Thank you, Brother Jiu Poor thing Awu's sister has a stepmother and stepbrother at home I guess the family property will belong to my younger brother in the future. And I have to deal with Xu Xingchi, this annoying little goblin He and Xu Xingchi will break up How do you know you'll move? Sister Wu follows Xu Jing every day Because of this It shouldn't be I bet she'll move. dad I have discussed this with your uncle Xu. Since you really have no feelings Let's call this marriage off. Thank you, Dad But you moving out I'll think about it again. Stay home obediently But I've already paid the deposit. In the Rose Garden Very close to the Tianping Temple This matter is not negotiable Do you want more people to laugh at my joke? Laugh at my huge Feng family for not having room for you Or laugh at your stepmother for treating your father harshly? So many years You also know that Xin Zhige has always had women around him. In fact, if he hadn't gone too far You won't break up the marriage for me. All you care about is the Feng family's reputation. You're so embarrassed to say that Isn't everything I do atoning for your sins? If it weren't for you, Mom She won't allow her mother You won't die I've heard it so many times over the years. But I'm not your tool for show Hey Lao Feng I won't tolerate it anymore. Ah Wu Ah Wu It's getting more and more outrageous, isn't it? It would be nice if mom was still alive Two mothers My marriage with Brother Xingchi Let's just leave it at that, okay? I have tried my best over the years. I'm so tired Mother Please ask Mother Xu for mercy for me. Please tell her not to blame me. Mom, I miss you so much Fu Xiaocao told Brother Jiu why he was crying. Thank you, Brother Jiu Why is Brother Jiu here? Of course I'm worried about you Following you to hang out How come you opened this place? No one is allowed to come Brother Jiu likes to visit cemeteries when he has nothing to do. Is this a habit of rich people? Who taught you to speak this way? Aren't you afraid that I'll be angry? never mind I won't argue with you anymore. My car broke down. Please send me back. Brother Jiu, you can actually call a taxi. The phone is dead I didn't bring my wallet. You're out so late at night. Feng Xiaocao Are you sending it or not? Can't I send it? That's weird. Hey, what do you two need? A bowl of wontons I want a bowl of wonton too Is there anything taboo? No chopped green onions Hey girl, you don't understand Scallions are the soul You will know after you try it Forget it. Then eat it Wontons for two He is helping me pick the green onions. If you don't like it, why not refuse it? The boss is kind-hearted. And I can eat some chopped green onions. I said before that I don't eat chopped green onions. Auntie never let go of her cooking Later, my dad kept talking about your aunt. Don't make her sad. Feng Xiaocao You don't have to compromise every time. Don't think that you will bother others every time. Got it, Brother Nine Also, don't always go to your mother and cry every time you feel wronged. Auntie will be sad if she finds out. If you have any problem, please find Brother Jiu. good What are you looking at? I know I'm handsome Eat now From now on, you will be under my control. I won't let you be bullied anymore. After eating, go home Brother Jiu, let me take you home. No need for me to take a taxi Didn't you forget your phone and wallet? I'm teasing you Then I'll go back first Let me know when you get home. You don't have to compromise every time. Don't think that you will bother others every time. Also, don't always go to your mother and cry every time you feel wronged. Auntie will be sad if she finds out. If you have any problem, please find Brother Jiu. I finally have my own home Dad should go back and ask Qingchi to cancel the engagement. Yinyin, I moved to a new house. Can you come and give me a warm home? Okay, how did you suddenly figure it out? Not with your stepmother and brother anymore Um I won't have to please their family anymore. Then I'll go play with you. Feng Wu From now on, you don't have to stay at the Feng family anymore. Playing an emotionless puppet where are you going Go to Feng's father Today is a good day I plan to take the bracelet that my mother left for my daughter-in-law Go to Feng's house to propose marriage You don't have to go The Feng family has already called off the engagement Huh, how is this possible? How could he break off the engagement? Even if Feng Wu is just fooling around Uncle Feng wouldn't agree. Stop here. You went too far that day. Your uncle Feng is a person who cares a lot about his reputation. You bring that woman out in the open. You are not hitting Feng Wu in the face But it's his face, Feng Houhai I'm going to apologize Just a phone call from me The original will immediately stick back like a dog-skin plaster Xu Xingchi, that's enough. Who was your mother leaving because of? Don't you understand yourself He chased you out to find you who failed the college entrance examination You know your mother died because of you. And he put the blame on Feng Wu. Ninth Brother How come you are here? I heard you moved here. Just passing by the airport Just come and see you how You want to catch a cold and then scam me No Brother Jiu is going to the airport to spend New Year's Day. Um Going back to Hong Kong Brother Jiu, why did you come to build the city? Can I ask this question? First, our old man married three wives. He has been having affairs with other women outside these years. And I am the old demon in the family For the sake of inheritance The Fu family has had a lot of internal turmoil over the years My elder brother and elder sister are afraid that I will get hurt Sent me here. It turns out that being the Crown Prince of Hong Kong is not that easy Wind Grass You won't tell my secrets to others. How is it possible? I swear I won't. Um I trust you What about the second one? Fengwu, why are you so gossipy? Jiuye My family is urging me That is Second reason I'll tell you next time Brother Jiu is leaving today If you have any questions, remember to call Brother Jiu. good Go up. I'll leave after you go upstairs. Then I'll go back first Feng Xiaocao hopes you have really let it go Ding ding ding The last dish Eat it quickly How come you are so awesome? You must try it soon. New Year's Eve Warm-up Party Ah Wu, who are you sending this message to? Why are you so happy? Oops, I didn't message anyone. I saw it You just smiled brightly You are not still in contact with Xu Xingchi, are you? Yin Yin I will no longer have any connection with Brother Xingchi. Cheers Cheers I said Xiaojiu is in a good mood today. You have a situation? Are you in love? Um But you are indeed quite old. It's time to find a girlfriend. Otherwise Your family is going to arrange a blind date for you. I already have someone I like Why don't you bring it back home to show it to your family? It's tilted I said Xiaojiu We can't do this immoral thing. It's not because of him I will feel guilty for my mother's death all my life. I defaulted. This matter is just for the Feng family's support Now the Feng family is willing to help us This is already good I do not agree You don't like him, why bother? This marriage ends here. Don't make it too ugly in the end. Feng Mo wants to get rid of me Don't think you are a god. Sister Awu really broke off the engagement And it was Feng Houhai who came to Xu Kun personally They canceled their marriage. Not only that Sister Awu has moved out Give me the address Hey, sideways a little bit Why don't you take a picture of me from the side? Hey, let's draw this. What's wrong Why It seems to be true Ah Wu, do you still remember the Fusi Bar? At the last birthday party The Fusijiu who helped you out Are you familiar with each other? Me and Fu Sijiu Can it be considered a friendship? Well, not that familiar. Well, that's good. I heard that recently the rich Arranging a blind date for him You should be careful of those rich girls Don't let him help you out before. I'm being watched. Not that exaggerated. Bar He is from the Fu family. How many people want to be his woman? Don't get involved with him. How can I portray Fu Sijiu? Hey, sister Wu is trying to avoid suspicion It seems that you and Miss Tian's visit to the park It really works Ask the elder sister to give me an explanation If it weren't for my elder sister's consent Which reporter dares to publish additional gossip? Hype Me and Tian Jia Just treat me as dead? Hey brother, you are emotionally unstable now Where are you going? I'm going to explain it to Ah Wu. I have nothing to do with that Tian guy. What did you explain? It was your sister who deliberately asked you to go there. Did he force you to go on a blind date? Xiaojiu, what position do you have to go to sister Awu? Besides, they don't care about me at all now. If you can't speak, shut up. Brother Jiu, why are you here? Shouldn't you be with your girlfriend? Which shops are open on New Year's Day? You're the only one with the light on. I thought there was a thief It is better to arrive at the right time than to arrive early Make me a cup of coffee By the way, I have to congratulate Brother Jiu on the upcoming good news. So how much money are you going to give me? That's a big red envelope. Brother Jiu, remember to invite me to your wedding banquet Let me have a nice meal. Then you can't count on this meal. Why are you still angry? If you were set up by someone, would you be angry? My elder sister fucked me I happened to go home with you Actually, there is nothing Why explain so much in one go? Do you want some milk or sugar? don't want Then add some coconut milk It won't be so painful anymore You are laughing at me Don't dare You're seeing it wrong I have time to correct my myopia. You are becoming more open to me now. I'm going to wash the cups Why Just leave it alone, I'll do it Then I'll pay This is still my life This is the first time someone is sitting here with me drinking coffee Someone is willing to spend time with me Is there anything else later? ah Um There is a dragon lantern over there in the park There are also lantern riddle guessing activities Walk with me He actually dragged me away like this Still so natural Hey, this handsome guy Look at this bunny lantern This is our best seller. Look, this is the last one. ah How can we visit the Lantern Festival without lanterns? Ah Wu, this is the last windmill left. Just give this windmill to your brother. dad Didn't you promise to give me the windmill? Ah Wu, how old are you? Don't you know to let your brother in? You really seem ignorant. It's ok, Five You can give it to Auntie Xiao Li if he likes it. I don't want Come and thank my sister Thank you, sister Hey, thank you, sister. Take it and play with it I'm all grown up Don't buy it How much does the boss cost? 10 bucks is good Brother Jiu, wait a minute. What's wrong with buying a lantern? Dilly You are a child to me. You deserve to be taught to block the way He hit someone but didn't apologize. You're still scolding your parents? Brother Jiu, why are you bullying my son? Release him now. He hit someone I have to apologize today Otherwise I won't let go No harm has happened. Let go of my son. Forget it, Brother Nine Don't worry, Brother Jiu is here I won't let you suffer It's alright, baby. Apologize or I'll tell you, teacher. Don't tell the teacher I apologize. I'm sorry, sister. It doesn't matter. Okay, just say sorry and it'll be alright. You are such an adult, but you still argue with a child. What bad luck Walk Sorry, Brother Jiu blames me. If someone bullies you You just stand there like an idiot. It's my fault for not dodging Fo Xiaocao, you were not like this before What happened to you? That's what made you like this Ninth Brother It hurts, that's right Next time I get bullied by others, I will be so stupid Stand still and watch me deal with you If someone bullies you You just bully back. If you can't beat me, ask me to help you. OK, I know. Thank you, Brother Jiu Since my mother passed away This is the first time someone bought me a lantern. It was also the first time someone treated me like a child. I Some of the partner merchants who exchange employee benefits are about to expire It just so happens that you put it in employee benefits The company responsible for afternoon tea and birthday cakes Cooperation stopped Everything else remains the same. Which one should I switch to after it stops? Field Don't you want to cut off all contact with me? I'm not as good as you want Brother Jiu, thank you for giving me the lantern today. This is the shell I found. Made by myself If you don't mind No disdain Sorry, this is all I can give you now. Just use it for what it is worth That courtesy A memorial gift for Feng Xiaocao Brother, I can't accept this. This is too expensive. If you really want to thank me Then just send me a cake next time. Remember I like chocolate Okay, I remember it. Thank you, Brother Jiu I'll go back first. Goodbye, Brother Nine See you next time Feng Xiaocao I have patience I will give you enough time Let you accept me slowly Sister Xu Group brought such a big order Could it be related to Xu Shao? Manager Wang said It's Uncle Xu's idea. Uncle Xu takes care of our business This face cannot be denied Besides This order is enough for our annual turnover. That makes sense. Pack up your things Let's go, huh? What is it? Such nasty food I thought it was something good. It's garbage Shush This was designated by Xu Shao himself. Xu Shaoke is not as good as Mr. Xu It would be troublesome if he heard my conversation. That's how it is. It's not delicious No one can tell I don't know what path this shop owner took. It can even squeeze out my cousin's snort I'm the store manager. The product you just mentioned This is the peach gum that has been selling very well in our store. You said it's not delicious Please advise What tastes bad tastes bad. A piece of trash deserves my advice you If only the ingredients your cousin uses could be as good as hers I'll have her back immediately. Does he have it? I just said it casually. Explain why you don't need to say it casually You don't need it tomorrow. Please give me another chance. Give me another chance Ah Wu, I have something to tell you I can't speak No need Sister, it's okay. You wait for me here. If you have anything to say, just say it. People at birthday party I have cut off contact with him. Let's forget about you making Uncle Feng regret his engagement. I am serious about Xingchi's regret for marriage Hanwu You used to call me Brother Xingchi I know you're saying that now Just to get my attention. I said the engagement will remain the same, so stop making trouble Brother Xingchi, I feel guilty towards Mother Xu I feel sorry for you But I've been at your service for so many years Plus I owe you for the birthday party Already paid off so Please let me go Awu Awu What you owe me will never be repaid I'll let you come back on your own initiative Where have you been I'll be there in a minute Box 8401 Don't go to the wrong place Don't treat me like a child. I found it myself The cake you chose Will your friends really like it? I picked He dare not See you later See you later You are Feng Wu Hum, the dog that licks Xu Xingchi's side You went to the wrong place. There's no you here. Xu Shao I'm here to deliver the cake. I said your Feng family is not that poor. You actually have to make money yourself. This is quite different from the treatment your brother received. What if you ask me for help? Maybe I can even mention it to Master Jiu. Even if I gave you a random job, it wouldn't be so miserable. Haha, you know each other. nonsense Yingxuan's cousin Zhang Yizhi is today's protagonist He is also Xiao Jiuye's childhood friend. I don't need to say much about the relationship between Yingxuan and Xiaojiuye Then you give him a call first. Ask him when he will arrive. Who are you? You dare to tell me to do things? Lin Duoduo, you know He just posted a photo on WeChat Moments I don't need to say more about the end. How can Lin Duoduo compare with me? My relationship with Xiao Jiuye My relationship with you Speak out How come I don't know That's not the case. Little Jiuye is Feng Wu We saw that he worked hard to run the store. Want to help him He humiliated us instead. Bullying Yin Xuan Don't believe we know you Yes, Master Jiu. You mustn't trust him. You are Zhang Yizhi's cousin, right? Yes, I often hear my cousin mention you. I didn't expect you still remembered me so It was your cousin who spread the rumor. No, I didn't. Brother Jiu, what are you doing? Don't mess with my hair This time it was not bad You still talk back when someone bullies you Worthy of praise Come on, I'll take you in. Brother Nine Feng Wu can actually call Little Nine Master What is the relationship between them? Feng Wu and Xiao Jiuye are so familiar with each other I was in trouble just now. Hey, can I do this? Look, Brother Jiu Take care of your sister I protect my shortcomings Don't blame me for turning my back on you next time. What happened to Brother Nine? snort Ask your good sister Why don't you come in quickly? Am I wrong? He Feng Wu follows Xu Shao every day I also ate mango cake for Xu Shao, which I was allergic to. Now he comes to seduce Xiao Jiuye again What's going on? I have something else to do so I'm leaving first Hey Feng Xiaocao Ninth Brother Your sister you want It's not handled well Don't blame me for helping you deal with Brother Jiu personally. It turns out that the two of them Known before Do you really think you are the little tyrant of Hong Kong? I've been here for so many years. Is it really because you like this place? Jiang Yixue, you've caused a big disaster this time Now let's pray that Master Jiu can coax Sister Wu well. She is just a dog of Xu Shao How can you compare with me? You're on your own. In Brother Jiu's heart What can you compare with Sister Wu? Who are you? A dog who is a licker and wants to compete with me Still want to confuse Xiao Jiuye I will never let him have an easy time. Fuyao grass, why are you running? I came out because I felt uncomfortable. You told me There's no need to endure it. you Is it because of the mention of Xu Qingchi that you feel uncomfortable? It's raining outside I brought an umbrella Do you need it? I have to hurry home to attend Xiaoli's birthday party Feng Xiaocao Sometimes I really want to get into your head See what you're thinking about Let me go Let me hold you for a while, okay? I have something else to do, so I'll leave first. Feng Xiaocao When will you have me in your heart? Today is Xiaoli's birthday party I told you to come back early. Several guests asked me where I went. Knowingly asking this I don't know how to say it behind your back You and your brother had a conflict. Or you and your stepmother have some free time Sorry, Dad. I have some time today Enough is enough. Enough is enough. Go put on some makeup to cover up your ugly face Like a serious illness People who don't know might think I'm screwing up the house price. I don't wear makeup Xu Ying is inside You can borrow some cosmetics from him later. Feng Wu, you did this on purpose Did you deliberately make it look like this for the guests? So that the guests can say that your stepmother and I abused you. Yeah uncle Hanwu is not like this He has I came here before I had time to eat. Just to not miss Xiaoli's birthday party right I just wanted them to see me like this. Let them know that you treated my stepmother harshly. Treating me, Feng Jiadong, harshly You bastard. you Master Jiu, the Feng family now has a son There's no room for my daughter, right? Where Master Jiu, why didn't you tell me in advance that you were coming? It's better to take a seat first Unexpectedly Every time I'm in trouble, someone comes to save me It's him No This Feng family banquet is too expensive I can't afford it No, no, no Xiao Jiu Ye is serious Is he okay now? Uh uh uh can I take it away? Uh uh uh Wait, I'm getting up too. Um Am I a bit of a hindrance to you two? How come? You can have some. I have no appetite now. I mute my mic If Master Jiu treats me, I won't be polite. I want this And this Have one each. Oh, and another bowl of porridge. And chicken soup Don't put onions in chicken soup Well, he actually remembered. What are you busy with recently? I don't even have time to eat breakfast. Thank you, Brother Jiu Recently, the dessert shop received a big order. Employees are still unable to get started I have to take them with me. Then remember to eat Yo Little Nine Lord The bee house is busy making desserts for weddings. There is a lucky star here That should be done to perfection. I'm so busy that I don't have time to eat. Xu Hasn't he let go of Xu Xingchi yet? They, the Xu family, want to choose Ah Wu's dessert shop That's also Awu's excellence What are you doing here? If he's really that busy. Can you go talk to Xu Shao? Anyway, Xu Shao loves you so much I will definitely decide for you. I've heard before An employee questioned Xu Shao's decision. He was fired right away. How come Xu Xingchi just took over the company not long ago? Some people questioned his decision. If he does nothing Do you want to be gas-cast by your employees in the future? His Xu's way of managing the company What does it have to do with our grass? Yes, that's the reason. What Xiao Jiuye said is indeed reasonable. We are shallow. Why is this Jiu Ye still protecting him? Your little crispy meat Here, I ordered this especially for you. I remember Xu Xingchi doesn't like to eat this You always eat for him. I guess you must love eating. ah Giving you a chance is useless. What are you? In front of me bullying him again and again Do you really think I don't exist? Is there something going on between the two of them? He even knows Ah Wu's taste preferences I'm going out to answer a call good What's going on with you two? Tell me whether you can carry me on your back No what to say It's hard to describe Really not? No Well, I think he is quite considerate to you. I actually want to say that you two are a good match. I told you to stay away from Fu Sijiu before. I'm afraid you'll be hurt by those celebrities who like him. Suffering from an unexpected disaster But now it seems He's very nice to you. If you two have that intention In fact, Fu Sijiu is your best choice Why are you suddenly saying this? I didn't think so much Rich and powerful If you marry him Your father won't dare to control you anymore You are free That's from a fire pit. Jump into another fire pit? Hey, that's not what I said. If he really loves you How can this be considered a fire pit? Oh my I didn't think so much anyway I don't know what love is Follow your heart You will figure it out Think about it carefully Looks like I have to work harder. I didn't say anything wrong. He Feng Wu is just a bootlicker of Xu Shang roll Thank you, Brother Jiu It's okay actually. I don't care what they say. Feng Xiaocao You don't care Or is it because I haven't let go of that person at all? Walk Feng Xiaocao, what do you want to do? My name is Feng Wu Not Feng Xiaocao Thank you for protecting me just now But I can't bear it Gone first Zhang Yizhi My friendship with you ends here. And that cousin I'll make him pay. After Xu's mother died Awu's heart has been closed all these years It's rare for him to be so kind to an outsider. There are so many emotions It seems that this Fuzi wine is very important to Awu. Really unusual Hey 5 You are absent-minded Not good at making things Take a break I don't have you. Are you angry with Fu Sijiu? Why? Fu Cijiu is a very nice person He is different from the dandy boys that others say he is. It's just that Jiang Yixuan's appearance today Let me see a fact We are not a circle of people I don't want to be with people in that circle anymore. Have any connection Ah Wu, are you taking your anger out on him? These seven or eight years This is my first time today I saw the attack star in you again. I didn't I'm actually mad at him. I don't care how others view me and Xu Xingchi But he can't Ah Wu, he is different to you. Think about it carefully. I'm leaving first How come you are here? No phone calls No reply to messages You plan to ignore me from now on How dare I be angry with Master Jiu? Look at your phone I was just making you cake and coffee The phone is beside me. I didn't watch it Should you apologize to me? A cake specially made for you Go there and do it Try it How about it Because you care about me so much. Forget it this time Yeah, so-so. Thank you for your kindness, Brother Jiu If you tease me for no reason next time, I will What about you I'll pinch your face off pain Don't act like a spoiled child Thank you for your kindness, Master Jiu. Finished eating Every cake in this shop is made by you Isn't there a lot of work in the store recently? It's not all my own work. I didn't make one for your brother Xingchi. Why mention him again? Do you have a grudge against him? Have a grudge against Who are you going to fight? Um here here here That's pretty good. I love you for what you have done It's clearly hurting me You're not going to get my forgiveness. Ha ha ha ha What happened to Xiaoli? elder sister I didn't know you were having such a hard time out there. Why didn't you tell me? What's wrong? Is my sister fine? Don't lie to me. They say you are poor I do all the work in the dessert shop myself. If you are short of money I give you all my lucky money and pocket money They are talking nonsense My sister is rich Making desserts is just my sister's hobby. You keep the money. When you grow up, can you buy Xiaomei a diamond? Sister, please don't lie to me. I have money I'm super rich And Dad and Mom said From now on, the entire Feng family will belong to me. I can support you What What is Ah Wu? He should study hard. The company is the hard work of my parents. I'll depend on you from now on. No brothers or sisters The better the Feng As Ah Wu grows older, he becomes more confident If someone bullies you Mom and Dad can make the decision for you No Sister believes you Sister, there is something else. Just hang up first What's wrong My parents once told me I don't have any brothers or sisters So you want to leave Feng to me as a dowry. Now I have brothers and sisters The assets I had are gone. Then take it back What to grab Feng Your mother's blood That part I never thought about arguing with Xiaoli. I just didn't expect that my father would not leave me any Feng Xiaocao, you don't fight Do you want to look at the things your mother left you? Leave it to others? dad Will you really leave me nothing? Feng Xiaocao Are you really going to be so soft-tempered forever? fine You think slowly I'm always on your side Something happened to Sister Wu This is the cake shop My wife is in so much pain. Come and judge, everyone. My wife is in so much pain after eating their cake No one can stand up Look at your face, it's pale Sir, please talk nicely. Let's go inside and talk. Come on, call your boss over. Your boss isn't coming. We're not going anywhere You are the boss, right? My wife ate your cake and became like this What do you say? Don't rush. We use the freshest ingredients And there will be samples of the cakes made that day. We will arrange sample delivery immediately Your lover looks miserable. I'll go to the hospital with you guys first, okay? There's no need to go through so much trouble. Isn't there a flow medicine? Bring the sample You ate it I believe it's not the cake. My sister and her friends bought mango mousse cake. You can't eat I'll eat it for you to see. No, I want the boss to eat it himself. The boss doesn't dare to eat it It seems there is a problem. I won't dare to come here again. I dare not eat cake You see, he doesn't eat. It must be something expired. Otherwise there must be additives or something. I'm the boss Who is looking for me? You are the boss. He is the boss Don't try to fool me Do you need me to tell you whether I am the boss or not? Brother Nine is here Well, I'm not afraid because Brother Jiu is here No hospital You want me to eat this, right? You're definitely not the boss. I want to see your business license You've never done business? My wife and I opened a dessert shop Do you have to use my name? It happens that everyone is here His wife is in so much pain He's not in a hurry at all I just want to pester my wife. What is going on? Are you looking You're sleeping with someone else's wife Yes, my wife I became like this because I ate your cake. Don't try to shirk responsibility Shameless If it is really our store's responsibility We will definitely take responsibility to the end But if you were instructed by someone If you must make things difficult Sorry, I won't let any of them go. oops Do you still need to be responsible? Well, then, let's go to the hospital for another checkup. Maybe I ate something wrong. You dare to run away Hey, don't go. Thank you, Brother Jiu Someone must have ordered this today. Have you ever offended anyone recently? No one Really not It seems that there is a Jiang Yingxuan who is pursuing you What do you mean I'm a burden to you? No That's not what I meant. I will definitely check this matter I'll give you an explanation, okay? I was too harsh on you just now Apologize to you No matter how you apologize, there's still no conclusion. No matter what Since I scared you That's all my fault. Ding Ding has been sick these two days. Xing Chi came to see him specially Sister, please sit with Brother Xingchi for a while. I'll be down soon. What happened to DingTalk? A few days ago, the Feng family came to visit Dingding was frightened But I've already given him the shot. No big deal How much does medical expenses cost? I'll transfer it to you No, not much money. You are busy with work on weekdays It is inevitable that Ding Ding will not be well taken care of in the Feng family Put him here with me. When would you like to see him? Come anytime I can take care of Ding Ding by myself. This way I can make more cakes tomorrow when I deliver them. As a thank you gift I said I can take care of it. Don't you understand? Awu You used to like skiing. When I celebrated my birthday before I really like the snowboard you gave me. Let's go skiing together when we have time. It just so happens that Tintin has never seen snow. Let's hug him. Let's go play together No need, brother. I don't like skiing. I went back before because I wanted to accompany you. Tintin Sorry, Xingchi, we are really not suitable. You should move forward. If Xu's mother were here I sure hope you're happy. If you need anything later I'm willing to do anything Mr. Fu You drive this car really well. Required This car is Fu Sijiu's treasure. Are they done with their work? I left after finishing my work. In a hurry Also for people like Fu Sijiu How can there be no female companion around me? I'll see you after get off work. I go back to Feng's house at night Thank you for what happened just now. The Feng family treated you like this. You're back at the Feng family. I'm afraid it's not because of Xu Xingchi next door. Feng Xiaocao In this case Then I, Fu Sijiu, will never care about your life or death again Sister, you are back. Sister Xiaoli brought you a gift Thank you, sister I'll go get you something. Xiangchi brother How come you are here? Hey sister Sister, why did you leave? Xingchi Brother Why did my sister leave? Is there something wrong with Dingning again? Nothing's urgent My sister will definitely come back. Well, go ahead. Let me go Don't ever try to escape from me. Be brave I've learned to ignore people. Mr. Fu, your car is really exciting to drive. Required He must be chatting with a beautiful woman Now you post a photo of a cat It must be a bummer. Wait for me downstairs with the cat in your arms in 10 minutes Look who this is Ms. Feng is finally going to pay attention to me This is Tintin My mom gave it to me when I was 10 years old. Now 13 years old Can you help me take care of her for a few days? no problem What's wrong with you? I haven't seen you for a few days. Not even a greeting Is this your attitude when asking for help? Are you like this with everyone? What am I like? Just like that Would you agree to someone's request casually? Ask me about me How many people can Father and Son Wine help? It seems to be true Who was the person who drove your car in front of my store that day? Our partners He wants to buy this car By the way, see if it is convenient Then can I open it? Feng Wu is not your boyfriend What are you jealous of? You don't even have the right to be jealous. You can drive away at will. Put Ding Ding in my house first Then take you to a place Let's go Where are you going? You'll know when you get there. Get on the bus. Xiao Jiuye and his people are all here What are we doing here, bro? You will know it soon. Old Wu, I'm here No one can bully you anymore. Brother Jiu, you are here Everyone is here I said I would give an explanation to our Feng Xiaocao I can't let him lose face for me. I am Feng Xiaocao Sit quietly This is my location Little Nine Lord Little Nine Lord I was wrong. I won't do it again. Please let me go. He was also the one who did the cake shop business. French imported Leila It's not a good wine though. He should be a good match for your status and position. To make amends What do you think? Xiao Xiaoye Miss Fang Miss Fang, I did you wrong. Can you please let me go? Can you please help me beg for mercy? I plead guilty and accept the punishment Cousin Can you please beg for me? I know I'm wrong I warned you Don't mess with Sister Wu You just don't listen Now this is all your own doing. I can't save you Third uncle I won't interfere in this matter. Jiang Yingxuan is at your disposal. Phoenix Dance Do you think you are something good? You are a dog licker in front of Xu Shao Enjoy the bliss in front of him Now he is relying on Master Jiu to show off his power. Hahahaha, in the end you are just a fickle person Two-timing Dare to say Hahaha I said Isn't that right? Houses have been around for many years. Xu Shao hates him so much He doesn't care Being bullied and scolded like a dog Sticking to him like a piece of shit plaster Let him do whatever he wants. I said Little Nine Lord He has done a lot of stupid things for Xu Shao over the years. Don't be deceived by him anymore. He doesn't deserve it. He doesn't deserve it. Get out of here Hahaha The name Xu Xingchi is still haunting Just remember them all Ah Wu is my person If you dare to bully him again I know I will have to pay double. Ninth Brother What's wrong Things are not at all what Jiang Yixuan said Are you tired? I'll have someone take you back. Why are you still unhappy? It seems that the lesson given to Jiang Yixuan is not enough. Let's go Don't you want others to send you? Then I'll give you the car keys. You drive yourself No, I want you to send it. When did you become so clingy? Or are you afraid? You despise me Feng Xiaocao, can you please try harder? No matter when You have to be yourself Don't let anyone cocoon you. Including yourself Since I broke up with Xu Qingchi Don't look back Since you decided to stick to me Don't cling to others anymore. besides I don't dislike you Don't slander me But you My car broke down. Please accompany me to the 4S store. You're starting to order me around, Fo Xiaocao Then I'll go by myself You've got me. Let's go Hello, Ms. Feng This is I am Mr. Feng's assistant. Okay, you two take a look. All our vehicle information All here Jiu Ge has long legs If you buy this car From now on, Brother Jiu will not feel crowded when riding in a car Miss Feng has really good taste. I remember Mr. and Mrs. Feng came here last time. Mrs. Feng also likes this car very much We are a family indeed. I like the same styles. Really? Did they order the car? Mr. Feng doesn't think so. That car is so domineering I'm afraid Mrs. Feng will feel uncomfortable. So I changed to a small car of the same price. Dad is really considerate to aunt I want this car. good Then I'll book it for you now. I'll probably be able to pick up the car next Monday. Should I use Mr. Feng's account or No, I can't take out a loan. No need for me to buy it for you No, I can do it myself Swipe your card Fengshi is also a well-known enterprise in Zhucheng Miss Feng actually took out a loan to buy a car How pitiful! Brother Jiu, I am sorry to bother you today. Waiting for the bus to arrive I'll go pick up Ding Ding Well, go ahead. Hello I am Mr. Feng's assistant. The car that Miss Feng ordered just now Help me change my payment method Change to full payment If he asks Just say it was a birthday present from Mr. Feng Sister, you are back Xu Shao came today He left you a box here. youth Why did Xingzhi send me a birthday present? Is it your birthday today? You go and get busy first. I can't accept Xing Zhige's ring Too expensive Ah Wu, the relationship between us You can afford this gift Xing Chi Apart from the family relationship, we We don't have any other relationship. I have already talked to Uncle Feng We've discussed our marriage again. He said he would think about it for a few days. But I think he will agree. Because except for the Xu family You have no choice I have already talked to Uncle Feng We've discussed our marriage again. He said he would think about it for a few days. But I think he will agree. Ah Wu has been here since Fu Zijiu appeared You have changed a lot Not as obedient and sensible as before But it doesn't matter I will teach you slowly later remember You can only be mine Why Sister, what's wrong with you? Get up quickly Why doesn't anyone ever ask for my opinion? Don't I have my own Will? Am I just a doll that can be cooked at will? Don't I deserve a little respect? I don't know either What's wrong Who is the blind person who bullied you? Brother Jiu heard that smoking can relieve worries Can you give me one? What kind of cigarettes does the child smoke? But I think the smell of cigarettes on you is quite nice I want to give it a try You even learned to smoke. You've smoked a million cigarettes. Give me one, what's wrong? You dare to talk back to me? Then I quit Then you give me the rest. Tell me, who bullied you? I know that I am a bully in my home Speak Brother Jiu will charge for you Never mind. Ninth Brother I won't have dinner with you tonight. It's Xu Qingchi again Aunt What's wrong with you? Is Feng Wu back? You're still pretending to be confused Why did you buy the same car as your aunt? Shouldn't you give me an explanation? Lao Feng Ah Wu must have heard the rumors from outside. Just against me never mind As long as Wu likes it. I used my own money to take out a loan to buy a car I don't know what to explain to you. Your aunt took a fancy to this car some time ago You bought it right away. What does it mean? Do you want your aunt to protest against Feng Jia? Dad didn't turn his head Did you just buy your aunt a car of the same price? Why can't I buy the same car? What's wrong with me buying a car for your aunt? How many years has your aunt worked hard for this family? Even if there is no merit, there is still hard work Know how people outside are getting into trouble now With your aunt? They say if you have a stepmother you will have a stepfather. He is right. You Ah Wu I know Xiaoli said something wrong Auntie apologizes to you You should stop caring about it. Look at what you did Auntie has been advising me Let me give you the company Yeah Dad plans to When will you give me the company? You, you really want it The company is the hard work of my father and mother Any questions for me? Ah Wu, your brother is a boy after all. When he grows up, he will get married and have children. If Aunt Didn't you persuade dad to give me the company? Awu How come it's been so many years? You still can't change it You have been paranoid since childhood. Never give up until the goal is achieved Isn't Xu Ma's lesson enough for you to remember? Why do you always bring up Xu Ma? I want you to remember the consequences of your willfulness. You use Xu Ma's matter to force me to compromise again and again Give in Now even the company wants me to give it up Haven't you ever thought about my mom Is he also watching your actions from heaven? You're a rebellious beast. I am a traitor Unlike my father Ning Yi, who ruined the Feng family's reputation Selling his own daughter to the Xu family I promised the Xu family marriage, is it because of you? Don't forget You still carry the life of the Xu family on your shoulders. This is what you owe them. Don't be angry, Lao Feng. Ah Wu has grown up Your words are useless. Wait till he gets married Let Xingchi talk about him I just marry any cat or dog Just return my life to Xu Ma I will never marry Xu Xingchi You don't marry Xu Xingchi Do you want to get close to Fu Sijiu? Stop dreaming How can you get into the passenger seat? anyway I won't marry Xu Xingchi Just give up on this idea. I will never allow you to control my life. you Here is Fu Leifeng, the good man who never leaves his name I have already done what you said. Leave my name and buy it. Any other requests? Hasn't he put down the bloody pool yet? In his heart Am I not even as good as one finger of Xu Qingchi? Hey brother, talk Um Let's put the contract here first. It has to be our Little Nine Master This contract worth hundreds of thousands of dollars is left here without even looking at it. You really are Hey, Sky Today a clerk told me that Ah Wu was in the bar OK, I know. A friend of mine who owns a bar said I saw my sister Lawu drinking alone. What He did not return to the Feng family His family takes good care of him. If he makes any mistake Tear down his bar Beautiful girl is heartbroken Why are you drinking alone here? Brother, drink with you. Okay, come and drink. Me, get out of here Release the demon grass What are you doing You look better than that big brother just now You can drink with me. Feng Xiaocao, what are you doing? My dad said Want me to marry someone I don't like and live my whole life with him I won't. I just marry anyone. I don't want to marry him either. Marry someone casually You have made progress Feng Xiaocao You can marry anyone you want. Marry anyone you want I'll marry you. You look more friendly. What happened to your face? Boss, get out of here! Otherwise I'll smash your store. Did Lu Qingtian tell me? If he had any mishap My Little Nine This is really none of my business. He is like this when he comes Feng Xiaocao, what happened to your face? Have I ever told you If someone bullies you, you should bully them back. Who are you? Why are you so mean to me? My dad bullies me. You dare to bully me? Could it be that Empress Feng also fought? for you It hurts so much I need to tell Fu Zijiu Say you bully me Can you be a good boy? Otherwise tomorrow will not be nice. Go now! What is going on? Check it for me now. After finding out that Awu's sister came from Feng's family There's half a mark on my face. It might be Feng Houhai who called Feng Houhai, go check the reason. He is bad and he bullies me What to see Close your eyes Okay, okay, I'll shut you up. Why Who are you? She's really good looking. You are so good looking Fu Sijiu Grandpa, can I take you back? No, I don't have a home. You and I I've always been Are you Fu Sijiu? Only Fu Sijiu would say something like this to me I am I am Fu Sijiu I am coming Hug me, hug me, Why is it so high? Can you be shorter? You look like Fu Shijiong Like Fu Sijiong Oh my god, sister Awu is so brave This trip is just in time. Fang Xiaocao What are you doing My head feels dizzy. Feng Xiaocao, you are not going to admit it I am right It's no use not admitting it. Feng Xiaocao, you were the one who invited me first Don't think about defaulting He actually hit me so hard. Feng Huohai is really ruthless Don't go I won't leave I'm here with you In the dream, I also called Xu Qingchi's name Can't you just let her go? Feng Xiaocao, if you drink too much, just go to sleep. You dare to talk nonsense again Be careful or I'll throw you out Should I report it? I'm not your Xu Qingchi I'm sorry, Xu Ma. I'm sorry. Xu Ma Who is Xu Ma? in the silence took no one answers but i still hear your voice if you'd only come hold me if you'd only come sorry i'm late again i didn't fall late again in Ah Wu kept talking about Xu Ma tonight. Go check if it has any connection with the Xu family. Tell me as soon as you find out. Hello, I found it The Xu Ma you are talking about is Xu Xingchi's mother Zhang Youxian He and A-Wu's sister's mother are best friends She is also the godmother of Wu's younger sister. No wonder if I guess correctly Xu Qingchi's mother must have passed away many years ago. Yes, and according to the information at that time She was probably out looking for her sister Awu. Just an accident What I finally know Why is Sister Awu so against blood? Come and accept him There is a life between us. Sister Awu She considered herself a sinner. sorry Ah 5 If you hadn't run away from home My mother won't look for you. You killed him. This is my mother's blood. You remember You owe him your life forever. Ah Wu Ah Wu Don't be afraid There is Brother Nine Awu Don't be afraid, Wu Go where the light is Go where the light is Where there is light Ah Wu Ninth Brother I am here I am here It's great to have you here Mom, I think I found the light. Don't be afraid, Awu I will face everything with you You won't be alone anymore Where is this? My head hurts Oh my god What happened last night? Why is Nurse Fusjiu here? Why are my hands grabbing his clothes? It's over. It's completely over now. How can I face the support wine? If you don't stay now, you won't have a chance. Dare to do but not to take responsibility Vice President, that's all you can do. You definitely can't deny your debt. I said what are you waiting for Waiting for something to happen is not your style I just want him to come to me. But I didn't expect that he would actually be such a rogue. Does he think that I, Fu Cijiu, have a good temper? I don't think there's anyone who knows you. I know you're stingy. Someone who can take advantage of you That's not the case. Like Lin Duoduo last time I remember he secretly took a photo of you and posted it on WeChat Moments Directly closed down the studio How dare he do this to me? That's right. Sister Awu has been steady and obedient in her work these years. She only does this when she's facing you. Doesn't this mean he's an exception? Do I look like a cheap person? Why do I need this exception? His sense of responsibility cannot be placed on me. Not to mention cheap You said so, right? I mean, this is what you want. Didn't you notice? Sister Wu has been full of energy recently. No longer as lifeless as before At the mercy of others This is all thanks to you. I'm telling you Don't be ungrateful for what you have. If Ah Wu's sister Use this liveliness on Xu Xingchi I wonder if you can still be so calm? If a crow's mouth can't speak, then don't speak Feng Xiaocao Today it's hot Brother Jiu will send you ice cream How about settling the relationship? Feng Xiaocao Is it a cold? I think someone is talking about you. Drink some water It won't be long Your little brother will come to find you. I haven't figured out how to face him yet. This is a really good state. I've always been fine No, it's not. You've been depressed all these years. Since meeting Fu Sijiu Your status is back to the previous state If this was in the past Don't talk about stealing the car from your stepmother. If your father sold you out, you wouldn't even say a word. It's not as exaggerated as you say. I just suddenly realized I don't owe them anything. There is no need to tolerate everything. Yeah, you're right. It's best if you think this way There is nothing in this world that cannot be overcome The only one who can be trapped is you I understand. Thank you. You don't have to thank me You should go and thank Brother Xiaojiu He is the great hero But I haven't figured out how to thank him yet. I'd like to say The grace of rebirth should be pledged with one's body Just marry me What did you say? I'm not that great. Let him marry him. I didn't say anything You let Fu Sijiu marry Not only can you get rid of your dad Can I get rid of Xu Xingshi? With his current status and ability Even if the Feng and Xu families joined forces I can't make it difficult for him at all. In this case You can still be free Isn't this the best of both worlds? Am I right? How can you calculate like that? Ah Wu, you should ask your heart Do you like him or not? If you say you don't like him How can I rely on him so much? Let him into your world. I think I really like Fu Siqiu Yin Yin I I hope you can understand your own intentions. If you were with Fu Sijiu You can get rid of your dad. And that Xu Qingchi Xing Chi My dad doesn't know what happened. Make me marry him Listening to him makes me angry Hey, you said he hated you so much at that time It was not easy to break off the engagement. Why are you being tortured again? Oh, let me tell you He is just full. So I want to cancel the engagement first Only then can I follow Brother Jiu Hey, don't be nine brother nine brother If you speak up Your ninth brother is very powerful. He will definitely make everything Well arranged. Quick pick up Quick pick up 9 Brother Feng Wu Call me back. Don't be angry I'll call you back I won't be angry Is it ok? Tell me where you are right now Hey, in my hometown. Come quickly Yin Yin, how can you stand on his side? Because I know you want him to pick you up. Wait for me I'll pick you up right now No more running around Know no knew No more running around Know no Oh well. Then you just wait for him here obediently. Wait for him to pick you up later. Let's communicate well Express your feelings Come on, I believe in you You Deserve the Best Go ahead. Star Chi How did you get here? I accompanied Uncle Feng and Auntie out to do some things I wanted to bring you back with me. What is coming will eventually come I couldn't hide. Xu Shao A Wu There are some more things You go back first Awu Uncle Feng and Auntie are still waiting for you in the car downstairs You don't I was so willful that I hurt my uncle and aunt's feelings. family What other overnight grudges are there? The marriage contract issue must be resolved. I can't be with the father and son 9 with an engagement Who are you? Why do you say I'll go with you? It's okay Some things It is only when the parties are together that it can be explained clearly. That's right Ah Wu is still sensible, let's go Don't worry, I'll take care of it. Uncle and aunt Coming, coming Ah Wu, why did you come here these days? Your father and I are worried sick. Tell us where you're going next time. Don't let others see it. I thought others could think whatever they wanted. What does it have to do with me? Isn't it normal for me to go out for a walk when I'm in a bad mood? Who would stare at me all day long? Speak well Your aunt is doing this for your own good. You're not young anymore. Still speaking without restraint Act recklessly Ruined the Feng family's reputation What's in it for you? Dad said it lightly. When you slapped me before Why didn't you think about the Feng family's reputation? Do you still remember this? Uncle and Aunt Today is a happy day Don't bother with Awu. Yes, Awu Don't be angry Today is a happy day Can't quarrel What's the happy event? Which Where did you go? This place is pretty good What are we doing here? Oh, silly girl Of course it's because of your marriage with Xingchi This is the engagement venue I chose for you. It is the most luxurious hotel in Zhucheng My Feng family married off their daughter Of course, we can't lose face for the Feng family. I don't want Ah Wu, stop making trouble Our marriage is the wish of your mother and my mother Are you going to destroy it just like that? This marriage is an agreement between my mother and Xu Ma. Can I disobey them? I don't want to I will not marry Mr. Feng Hello, Mrs. Feng This is our most luxurious banquet hall. I'll show you around. Take us to have a good look at my Feng family Of course, you should marry your daughter in the most magnificent place. You'd better give me a break. Don't embarrass me in public. If you give me any more trouble I can't forgive you How much benefit did Uncle Feng get from the Xu family? This is about marrying a daughter. This is unknown I thought A Wu was your bargaining chip. Ninth Brother Little Jiu Ye is really a coincidence I am here to help my fiancee choose an engagement venue What are you doing here? Fiancee Engagement Venue Wind Grass How come no one informed me of such a big thing? That's not the case. Brother Nine, I, I You finally figured it out Only engaged to me You can take back what your aunt left for you. Don't you want anything of your mother's? Xiao Jiuye is waiting for the marriage to be confirmed Let Xingchi personally deliver the invitation Now, our family still has to go out for dinner The wine fairy has a good relationship This shop was originally mine. If Miss Feng likes This banquet can also be given to Miss Feng Thank you for your kindness, Master Jiu. It's just that Ah Wu is a more sensible child. He doesn't like to take advantage of others. Thank you for taking care of our Ah Wu before. Wait till the wedding date is set There must be grass in your house. Don't you have anything to say? I good Very good, you are really Two days ago, he hugged me and kissed me Now you come and choose an engagement venue with another man Fortunately, my teacher has fallen flat on his face. Father and Son Wine Don't forget the debt you left behind And the things your mother left for you Get out of the way Father and son wine, please stop What to do Didn't you say you would always stand by me? You're regretting now. Go find your fiance I don't have a fiance I only have you Stop using fancy words here. Before you said that, you kissed and hugged me Finally, you just walk away Why are you taking advantage of me again? you Weren't you the one who provoked me first? I tell you I am the rich little Jiuye Not just any guy. You provoke me again and again like this Do you want to give me an explanation? Honeycomb, please show some courage You are facing the Hong Kong bully Fu Sijiu It's not someone else who said it, it's Fu Sijiu I like you Is this statement okay? Can Do you know what you are talking about? I know you believe me It's not my intention for Sunny to be here That You mean you want to be my girlfriend? That's fine. After all, I'm such a nice person. So handsome Ninth Brother You have a conscience. What is the service doing? how Is Xu Shao blind? Can't you see? Awu It's time to come back with me. Otherwise, my uncle will be angry. Besides, have you forgotten our previous agreement? Awu This is your mother's last wish. Mom must want me to be happy But I'm going to settle this engagement. Only then can I be with Brother Jiu Xu Xingchi, who do you think you are? Ah Wucai can't look down on Humph, whether you like it or not is up to Awu to decide Awu Do you remember when our mothers shut up? Xu Qingchi, you are my mother's boy You can't stop talking about your mother all day long I'll go back with you Feng Xiaocao Brother Qiu, wait for me Wait until I get home and finish my business. I'll go find you, okay? Some things need to be resolved There is no use in running away Isn't this what you taught me? Whatever happens Remember to contact me Awu Fu Zijiu is really good at coaxing little girls with sweet words It's normal for you to be deceived by him. I don't allow you to talk about him. Ah Wu, you need to know I am the only one who is right for you Xing Chi You've never lacked girls around you these years. The reason why you are like this now Because I'm not following you around anymore You're just not used to it Don't let the engagement delay each other. I believe Our mother in heaven will understand. Please let me go, and let yourself go. No, Ahu I like you I've been wrong before. Give me another chance But I don't like you Brother Xingzhi, I only have a brother-sister relationship with you. Ah Wu, you may not like me But you can only marry me Don't you want to know How much did your mother leave behind for you? You know You only know Auntie left some property for you to rely on. But what you don't know is What my aunt left behind was 49% of the shares of the Feng Group. These shares are enough for you to shake up the entire Feng Group So when is Dad going to give me the company? No wonder Dad won't give me the inheritance left by mom. Why are you telling me this? Whoever you marry now will be remembered by your uncle Only marry me In order for you to get your shares back And my uncle doesn't remember me Yo Who has made our Little Master Jiu unhappy? Looks unhappy Brother, can you please say hello in advance when you come back? I'll let Sunny Day pick you up. You stinky boy How long has it been? There's no news. Did you pry open the corner? If you don't have any more news I can't stop you at home. Yo Look at our little Jiuye like this Looks like it's going well. Of course, you don't even look at who I am. Oh, really Whose daughter is this? I can tell you Now that it's settled I'll bring it back soon for you to see. What's the hurry? In a few days Take it home in a few days. Well, you said it. Just come back Xingchi, have you prepared the invitations? Yeah, it's all done. We will arrange to send it to you later Your 25th birthday is coming up in a few days. Remember to dress formally Don't lose face for our Feng family. Birthday Party Yes, uncle specially prepared a birthday party for you. Since my mother died You never celebrated my birthday again. Birthday party at this time I'm afraid it's not that simple. What's your tone? You might as well just say Ah Wu, don't make your uncle angry. Uncle just wanted to give you a surprise. That day was not just a birthday party Or our engagement party? So you've already decided. Choosing an engagement venue is just a notification to me Yes, we're getting engaged in a few days. Stay at home these days. Stop showing up in public. Lao Feng We are going to deliver these to you personally. I've sorted it out. Take a look Awu is back This is the birthday party Where is the word birthday? Fengwu, pay attention to who you are talking to I've said I won't marry Xu Xingchi This is my marriage My happiness Can you respect me? Fengwu, don't be so willful Everything your parents do for you is for your own good. Marrying Xingchi is your best choice But I don't like him at all Well, my patience is limited. You're forcing marriage. If you have to marry Then you should marry Brother Xingchi Shut up are you crazy Don't Marry Xingchi Still dreaming of marrying the rich guy Yes, I want to be with Fu Don't forget what your 25th birthday means Do you really want to take away the things your aunt left you? Hand it all over to others? besides You owe me You forgot I said I won't marry Xu Xingchi This time I come back Not only to cancel the marriage but I want to take away everything my mother left me. Awu Ah Wu, stop making trouble. Sister Qin has been sent out Once you send it out, you can take it back. I'm sorry, Star Brother I will make up for Xu Ma's matter in other ways. But I can't marry someone I don't love. Bastard Lock him up for me. You are not allowed to leave this house unless you are engaged. Why do you care about me? Because I'm your dad I really give you face, don't I? Ah Wu, your father won't harm you. Ah Wu, you forgot what you promised me You owe it to the Xu family. How could he like you? Have you forgotten your mother's last wish? Have you forgotten how my mother died? Does Master Jiu like you now? I said I don't like you anymore Abandoned you What are you going to do? A toad wants to eat a swan It's really embarrassing. Have you forgotten how my mother died? Ahhh The one you like is the daughter of Zhucheng Feng Group Feng Erpeng and Zhucheng Xu's Feng family have an engagement Yes, but he has divorced. Let's not talk about what help his family can give you. Feng Wu and Xu Xingchi are entangled Looks like he's in a hurry How can I be worthy of you? That's just another hidden secret. Not anymore. Feng Wu and Xu Xingchi have been childhood sweethearts since they were young. I've been haunting him for ten years. You said to separate, so we separate. Of course, I am Fu Sijiu Feng Xiaocao How could you let me go and not choose Xu Xingchi? Brother Dong What happened? Sister Wu, what happened to her? Get it Big brother is here too What happened to Fang Xiaocao? This is what you call divorce. The invitations to other people's wedding banquets have been delivered to my home. Yeah Xiaojiu, if you continue to be so stupid Even if Feng Wu is pregnant with Xu Xingchi's child Run to you and say this child is yours You can recognize it with your eyes closed. Don't touch my Fu Sijiu's elder brother I came out of town two days ago. I arranged several blind dates for him. He's just playing with you. Shut up, Lao Feng Are you crazy? Xiaoli, don't come over here, don't come over here That's not the case. He must have been forced. Little Jiu Ye, you have to believe Ah Wu doesn't like Xu Xingchi He told me personally that the person he likes is you He wants to be with you But I don't know why Engaged to someone who hurt him Then you tell What am I? This must be his father. Yes, it was his father who made the decision is that so This engagement party is really not what he wants I have inquired about it. After Sister Awu returned home The number of bodyguards in Fengzhai has tripled. I'm afraid there is another shot. What does Feng Houhai want to do? Ninth Brother What is Xiaojiu doing? What are you doing? I went to Fengzhai You are going to meet Feng Wu again I want him to explain this matter himself. What if I explained it? If he was forced I'll grab him. Then you turn the Feng and Xu families upside down. Check the Feng and Xu families in Zhucheng The more detailed the better With Xiaojiu's personality No matter what the outcome These two companies are going to lose a lot of money You guys are just ridiculous. Do you really think I would hurt Little History? Someone, lock Xiao Jin back to the room. Let me go Get out Ninth Brother She is the best friend of Awu's sister. Xu Yin wants to see you. Can Master Jiu help Ah Wu? He got engaged to his brother Xingchi as he wished. That's me Feng Xiaocao, are you there? Brother Jiujiu Is this a dream? How come your hero I didn't come to pick you up on a colorful cloud Unrecognizable Ninth Brother What happened to your hand? Who hurt you? My ninth brother, can you hug me? What to hold You're getting engaged on your birthday. How can it be possible for me, a stranger, to hug you? No, no. Except you I won't marry anyone. Okay, okay. Tell Brother Jiu what's going on. Brother Jiu, please take me away I don't want anything anymore I only want you Feng Xiaocao, I can take you away But you have to make things clear. After you left with Xu Qingchi that day What happened? How is Sister Awu? Is there any need to ask? Look at him, he looks like a peacock spreading its feathers. It must have turned out as he wished. Awu was put in solitary confinement by the old man in their family. The engagement wasn't his idea at all. I said that sister Awu must have her own reasons. So, brother Jiu, what are you going to do? Rushing into Feng's house to snatch Awu's sister away? Take me with you, please Don't worry, definitely bring it with you Your dear brother My girlfriend was poached This can be tolerated If I remember correctly You got this girlfriend from someone else, right? So what? If I dig it out, it's mine. You can't let someone else poach you. What a shame for the co-pilot! Big Brother You are my good brother. Why Okay, okay. How old are you? Do you think you were still the king when you were a kid? Waiting What's this Open it and see With the status of the Feng family and all these messes I really don't deserve you. But you're right about one thing. Since it's yours No one can take it away Otherwise, wouldn't our Fu family be embarrassed in Zhucheng? That's it. Big brother is right Things in here Since they are so shameless Don't blame me for helping them make things worse. Uncle Wind Did Deputy Sijiu come to see Awu? No, what's wrong? Let's go. Ah Wu, why are you here? Let's go back to the room. It's windy. Are you worried that I'll run away? I'm not worried about you getting sick. Yeah Awu Could you please stop being so hostile to me? This is my room Get out of me Are you leaving? Ninth Brother I'm waiting for you Hello Congratulations Congratulations Congratulations and thanks Shi Shao has already checked it in the wild No suspicious persons were found No other anomalies were found I have sent my brothers to follow your request. Check all the entrances and exits. Today is really peaceful Ah Wei, you see Fu Sijiu won't come at all I'm the only one who really cares about you, right? Let me go Ah 5 You should be more interested My brother will definitely treat you well. You are the most important thing in everything Give you everything, okay? Do you have any other plans? I tell you Rest Ms. Xu The engagement party preparations have begun Sir, please go in first. Awu Think about our mothers We will be a family from this year onwards. Everyone Thank you very much for your presence. Come to attend the engagement party of my beloved daughter Feng Wu and Jiaxu Xingchi Ah Wu smiled Ah Wu, don't mess around. Everyone What are you going to do? Fengwu My patience is limited You'd better not be in such an important occasion Let me get off the stage I wonder who dares to touch Feng Wu Fu Sijiu Little Nine Lord Ninth Brother We can't stop Waste Roll Brother I've wronged you these days. After that, leave everything to me. good Fu Sijiu, you are arrogant and domineering at ordinary times. Today is my and A Wu's engagement party Bring someone here to cause trouble Is this too much? This is Zhucheng Not your city You know I'm afraid you won't make it I'm here to cause trouble. What can you do to me? Brother Fu, you guys come and seduce him. I don't blame you anymore Now you're here to pick a fight at the wedding banquet Don't think that the Fu family is big and powerful. My Feng family is afraid of you. As the saying goes, it is better to destroy ten temples. Don't ruin a marriage Little Master Jiu, aren't you afraid of retribution? I never liked Xu Xingchi I never thought about marrying him. The person I like is Fu Sijiu It's you who are trying to separate me and Brother Jiu. Do you know what you are saying? What's going on This is what my mother told me personally. Xu Xingchen, you dare to say How did your mother die? Don't you have any idea? I remember hearing before It seems that Mrs. Xu went to visit the Feng family. Runaway Feng Wucai was killed by criminals Yes, yes, yes, I remember it too. But it seems that because the Feng and Xu families have a close relationship So, this matter is over. Fu Sijiu What on earth are you going to do? How did Mrs. Xu die? Because of Ah Wu Or because of his disappointing son? One look and you'll know Xingchi is not It's not your fault Feng Wuye ran away from home today Your mother went out because she was worried about him. It's not because of you It's because of Ah Wu Yeah, it's not because of you. Xingchi, you have to be strong The whole thing has nothing to do with Miss Awu Are you telling the truth? Miss Old Five My wife actually didn't know You also ran away from home that day I'm incompetent I'm cowardly. Mr. gave me money Send me back home So I didn't tell you the truth I've hurt you for so many years. I'm sorry for you Uncle Xu Xing Chi Is what Uncle Li said true? So for so many years You have always known about the death of Madam Xu. It's not because of me Everyone Previously, my daughter Feng Wu and I were deceived by the Xu family. For many years, because of guilt I have been very tolerant of the Xu family. Now the truth is out The Xu family is too bullying. Please bear witness The Feng family and the Xu family have no connection since then. My daughter's engagement is hereby announced Today, please go back first I will personally apologize later Uncle Feng Old Feng! Our family did a good job on this. Shut up. Brother Qiu, what do you mean? Ah Wu and the others can no longer bully you Do you still know this person? Of course I know He was our family's former driver. But he stole our money before I chased him away Just know Tell me about it What was the truth back then? My wife had an accident. In fact, Mr. He, the young master, had to leave urgently. The master ran out My wife is worried The accident happened when I was chasing the young master out. Come home with me Mr. Feng, please be more polite to Ah Wu We haven't finished our business yet. You owe Ah Wu more than this. Ah Wu was previously deceived by Xu Jia. You suffered a lot Now the engagement with Xu Jia has been cancelled. I'll ask you Aunt Li I'll tidy up your bedroom. You go home Dad, I'm back this time. To take back what my mother left me. Oh, I already know it. My mother left me 49% of the company's shares Who told you Your mother doesn't have so much. I have contacted Awu's mother's lawyer. Confirmed that 49% of the shares were left to Ah Wu You still want to deny What happened between Ah Wu and the Xu family before I know you're angry. Who would you like to be with in the future? Dad won't stop me anymore. Don't be angry anymore. The company is not as easy to manage as you think. Those shares are with dad. Dad will help you manage it well. Dad, don't you think you're funny? What That night, Brother Jiu asked me what my plans were. I hadn't made up my mind yet. Now I think it's really a joke, Brother Jiu I killed Xu Ma I owe Brother Xingchi a life Because of this matter My father has always been tolerant of the Xu family for so many years. I now But it's going to ruin the engagement that Xu Ma and my mother had made. I have to leave with my shares. Am I a white-eyed wolf? No, my mom, my heart is the softest How could he be a white-eyed wolf? I don't want this either. But I'm really tired My dad and brother Xingchi remind me every day I really can't stand it anymore Leave it to me Ah Wu, as long as you think clearly Whether it is a marriage contract or a share Leave it to me I must cancel the engagement. Things I like But the issue of shares also made me think again You have already taken care of the shares. I heard it so clearly. What are you still pretending for here? Okay, let's do business. What official business? Mr. Feng, this is Mrs. Feng's will. According to Mrs. Feng's arrangement Feng's 49% stake After Ms. Feng Wu's 20th birthday Give it back to her Feng Wu Do you really want to be so aggressive? dad My fate is short Shallow relationship You can only plan for yourself you What are you going to do? Feng Houhai I told You are not following Zhang Liang's But to inform you You'd better sign and hand over part of it. otherwise The one you have to face is Fu Jia. Logically speaking Negotiations should be conducted with courtesy before force But I have a bad temper If you are not sincere Let Awu not get what he wants Just destroy everything. Anyway, the companies that have gone bankrupt in the hands of the rich in recent years I don't need you, Feng Group. Okay, father OK I also signed the equity transfer agreement Is this okay? Thank you, Dad, for your help. alright Everything is resolved You will be free from now on Thank you, Brother Jiu Ah Wu, you got everything you wanted. If you and Xiao Jiuye want to get married in the future You will eventually marry out of your parents' home. Dad, I won't be back. After the share transfer process is completed I will find a lawyer Settle all the expenses in Feng's house over the years After conversion into cash Return to you Do you know what you are saying? What I mean is dad Let's not talk anymore. Thank you, Dad, for raising me. I wish you a long and healthy life Uncle Wu, please don't treat your father like this. Brother Jiu, do you think I'm too cold? I blame you for not making this decision sooner. What Ah Wu, do you know Now there is light in your eyes You are no longer the dim and cowardly you of the past. Thank you, Brother Jiu You've always been with me If it weren't for you I don't know how long I will be in this state of confusion. Since I met you I became myself again Okay, stop saying sentimental things. You've all grown up I can't be a crybaby anymore. Do you know I won't cry anymore Ninth Brother Back I heard about what happened to you today. You brought people to disrupt the engagement party of the Feng and Xu families He also took over Feng Wu's 49% stake No, I'm exhausted. You're causing trouble for the family everywhere. If you can't even protect your own woman Then my title of Little Nine Master is in vain. Do you still want to save the Fu family's reputation? You are the only one who has many crooked ideas OK Now that we've talked about Just treat people well Stop causing trouble everywhere. rest assured If there is something, it is also a happy event Uncle Fu, what are you doing again? I want to marry Feng Wu How can marriage be so hasty? You are not afraid of neglecting the girl. I mean it. My mom's heirloom Bring it to me now Hey, you're so impatient. Fu Sijiu You won't get the girl pregnant, will you? Brother, what are you saying? I figured it out. You are still a virgin. Okay, pure love god of war Now that I have made up my mind It's up to you. Get it done early Bring the girl back to Hong Kong to meet her father Got it? Don't worry Arrange things for me. Don't let me down. Otherwise, don't blame me for turning against you. Brother Jiu, why are you here? Why are you so surprised? I can't come Where is the new cake product I just researched? Why don't you try it? taste Um Tastes good And it's much sweeter than before. The past was more painful I like to eat something sweet now. I can't bear any hardship. That's right. Of course you have to eat sweets in a dessert shop As a Reward Come on, I'll take you somewhere. Where to go You'll know when you get there Brother Jiu, you have a lot of things happening recently. You don't have time either. Now it's all over I think you have a lot to say to your aunt. Yeah, I haven't been here for a long time. Ninth Brother Thank you Xu Ma, I have canceled my engagement with Xingchi. I have no connection with him. But I believe He will definitely meet someone better and more suitable in the future Mother I'm here to see you I've been living like a coward all these years. Endure it if you can I thought that this way I wouldn't be bullied. I often come to you to cry I think you must be worried. Fortunately, I met Fu Sijiu He taught me a lot. I am that happy creature again. Mom, I want to introduce someone to you. My boyfriend Fu Sijiao Aunt Although we have never met But my feelings for Ah Wu I have admired her for a long time. I hope you can leave her to me. I will love her more than I love myself Make her every day happy Happy life Don't worry, mom. Qiaoge is very good to me I will definitely be happy Awu I've been waiting for this day for a long time. In the past ten years, I could only watch you silently from behind But now I can finally be with you I am already satisfied But I still want to be with you forever. Today in front of my mother I promise you I will love you all my life You can satisfy my selfishness Will you let me accompany you for the rest of your life? I do It's okay if you don't want to Then can you tell me again? I do earnest Why are you here? Of course it was arranged by Master Jiu. He said He wants to propose to you in front of your most important people. So we waited here early in the morning. Although it's a bit weird to propose in a cemetery But Brother Jiu's feelings for you are still worth affirming. If you can't speak, shut up. What's so weird? No wonder, I'm touched Thank you, Brother Jiu Little Nine Lord You proposed to him in front of your aunt. You must treat him well But you must not regret it. Don't worry I will definitely be mean to my mother.