"Verily I say unto you, the era of the sword The Time of the White Chill and the White Time of Contempt: Tedd Deireadh, the Time The world will die amidst frost and be reborn It will be reborn of Elder Blood, of Hen Ichaer, A seed which will not sprout but burst into Ess'tuath esse! Thus it shall be! Watch for the signs! What signs these shall be, I say unto you: Aen Seidhe, the Blood of Elves...". Thus reads the prophecy of the elven sage, An oracle that not only foretells the prophetic the brutal realities of the present. Welcome to our two-part miniseries on the In this first episode, we will explore the with the origins of its eldest races, leading of Nilfgaard and the Northern Kingdoms, before Wars: the calamitous clash of civilizations novels. "Search back through your memories to the to the days of Abrad, the old oak! You may not remember them, because your lives But I remember, and I'll tell you what it from your boats on the Yaruga Estuary and ~Sheldon Skaggs, Dwarven Veteran (Blood of Deep in the mists of prehistory, the Continent and sparsely inhabited by various different marmot-like Werebbubbs, the reptilian Vrans, The first colonists to arrive on its shores the continents' mountains, where they developed The two races, bonded over a shared love for strong allies to this day. Centuries later, although still thousands ships appeared on the horizon of the western Those who piloted them were the Aen Seidhe, Unlike the Dwarves, their arrival was not with the species' who preceded them. Before long, magnificent Elven palaces could while their sorcerer-seers, the Aen Saevherne, world. Approximately 1,500 years ago, the world was as the Conjunction of the Spheres, causing their own reality and into the world of the niches in the new world they'd been tossed However, out of all these new species, the diminutive creature that stood on two legs. Indeed, it was through the Conjunction of the continent for the first time. The settlement probably began in the far south, the Alba River eventually came across the The two species eventually mixed and became with a culture, language, and bloodline which Around 1,000 years after the Conjunction, of humans arrived at the mouth of the Yaruga the "Landing of the Exiles". Where these 'exiles' came from is a mystery, across the continent than any of the humans Immediately, the Nordlings, as they came to species between the Dragon Mountains and the The Vrans and Werebbubbs were hunted to near shelter amidst the impassable primordial forests The Dwarves and Gnomes likewise, retreated the Makaham mountains, weathering the Human The Elves, meanwhile, chose to withdraw instead Abandoning their palaces, they retreated further for new land would eventually just... stop. Of course, it didn't, and when the Elves Nordling tide, it was too late. The Aen Seidhe were skilled warriors, but area: their loins. Unable to reproduce nearly as efficiently sheer force of numbers, and after being pushed were forced to surrender. Avallac'h said nothing for a moment. "Share?" he finally drawled. "With you? Knowledge, my dear, is a privilege, and privileges And why would I, an elf, a sage, a member of a creature that appeared in the universe from an ape, a rat, a jackal, or some other A creature that took around a million years of operation with a gnawed bone using its After which, it showed the bone up its rectum (Tower of Swallows, Chapter Seven) elf, relations improved, and the fair folk The Conjunction of Spheres had left vast fonts mages showed humans how to channel it, thus, It would not take long for the wizards of organization: the Brotherhood of Sorcerers. Before long, this Brotherhood had grown so of even the most powerful of Kings. For indeed, as the Nordlings had conquered had formed in their wake. As a common Dwarven witticism goes: when the Yaruga, three kingdoms sprang out of every But eventually, smaller states were absorbed dominated by four main Kingdoms: Temeria, Although the smaller Kingdoms of Cidaris, and Rivia, Kovir, Poviss, Skellige, and the niches for themselves. As humanity built their settlements across contested by various post-Conjunction chaos and strigae. Thus it was that the Witcher caste was born, with heightened senses and natural resistances As a result, monsters were driven into the humans to become the apex predators of the Soon after, the Nordlings broke their peace In a famous incident, one Marshal Milan Raupenneck the entire Elvish population of Loc Muinne, Seidhe which would only end when the last by Aedirn three centuries later. By now, most of the elder races, known to into human society. The Dwarves found the most success in this, cities. Nevertheless, they, like all nonhuman species persecutions and racially motivated violence. It is here that we should divert our attention Kings were building their royal keeps atop Black Sun was on the rise. "You've travelled a long way," repeated Morvudd, the White Flame Dancing on the Barrows "I'm not sure," Geralt calmly replied, (The Lady of the Lake, Chapter Nine). The Empire of Nilfgaard had relatively humble Beginning as a smallish city-state situated descendants of the Black Seidhe slowly began Neighbouring states in places like Vicovaro, Mettina, and Nazair were slowly brought into culture and language, which was a dialect Around 40 years before the present, the Empire Emperor, Fergus var Emreis, was deposed and as 'The Usurper'. To eliminate all other claimants to the throne, Emrys, and had his court sorcerer cast a spell the form of a grotesque humanoid hedgehog. After this, the bestial Emrys was tossed into But die he would not, and in fact, it would change the fate of the world. Escaping beyond the Nilfgaardian border, the he adopted a new alias: Duny. There, destiny would embrace him, when he Cintra, and saved his life. To claim his life debt, Duny invoked the ancient the King's unborn daughter. Fifteen years passed, and after a series of Calanthe, resulting in his life being saved wed to Pavetta, their bond proving powerful him from urcheon back into a man. For a time, Duny and Pavetta lived peacefully However, soon Duny was approached by the ambitious who offered to help restore the prince to Duny agreed, and resolved to return to his him. Pavetta, however, had other plans, she managed meant to take them south before it left port. When Duny found out about this, he became his wife overboard, causing her to drown at With his family ripped from him, Duny's he cruelly hunted down all his political enemies. Eventually, he was able to reclaim the throne And after using the gravestones of his enemies additional grim moniker: Deithwen Addan yn on the Barrows of his Enemies. Now with the endless legions of Nilfgaard Cintra, where his daughter Cirilla was still "Before we stood on that hill, the Chapter do.' Whose war was it? What were we defending there? The land? The borders? The people and their cottages? The interests of Kings? The wizards' influence and income? Order against chaos? I don't know! But we defended it because that's what had And if the need arises, I'll stand on the ~Triss Merigold, Fourteenth mage to die on (Blood of Elves, Chapter Three) a massive Nilfgaardian army mustered in Nazair. It is unknown how large this army was, but men, not including horses and supply wagons, The Emperor put his top field marshal, Menno force. Without delay, Coehoorn marched his soldiers corridor which led through the Amell mountains, No army that large moves without notice, and capital of the black banners cresting over Queen Calanthe, ever the warrior, did not assembled the Cintran Royal Army and marched Knowing herself to be outnumbered, Calanthe Luckily, in the years since her late daughters' of Cintra had wed herself to one Eist Tuirseach, In honour of this marriage alliance, fifty isles to reinforce the Cintrans on the mainland. In July, the Nilfgaardians under Coehoorn Calanthe and Jarl Tuirseach, at the foot of joined. The armies threw themselves upon one another The fighting continued for nearly an entire they found themselves direly outnumbered, To make matters worse, reinforcements were coast had prevented the warriors of Skellige and her men in the pass, with no hope of salvation. With the tide already turning against them, by an arrow, killing him instantly. After this, Cintran morale broke, and the of the Black Sun had annihilated their foes, open. In the chaos, Queen Calanthe, despite being few surviving remnants of her levies, and to make a last stand. Coehoorn pursued her doggedly, and within the city's walls. With no army large enough left to defend them, and black-clad soldiers burst in, subjecting and children were cut down indiscriminately. The last remaining Cintran knights retreated Nilfgaardians quickly breached that too, forcing which had been protected with a magic barrier. This, however, only delayed the inevitable, ripped through the barrier. Knowing it was over, the nobles of Cintra As for Queen Calanthe herself, she leapt headfirst in death as she had been in life. In the meantime, a Nilfgaardian Knight by waded through the blood-soaked streets of him by Emhyr, to find Cirilla and return her As luck would have it, Cahir managed to find he went rogue, and helped her escape out of Cintra now belonged to Emhyr, but Cirilla, remained woefully out of the Emperors' grasp. Despite this, the Emperor ordered his armies Not content with Cintra alone, the White Flame not be satisfied until the entire North belonged For his successes in battle, field marshal of the new Imperial Province of Cintra. But governing it would have to wait, for there With Cintra in ashes, the black banners moved There, Coehoorn was met with fierce resistance, of Skellige, led by the young Crach an Craite, after the death of their beloved Jarl, Eist Nevertheless, the Black Ones crushed the army Sodden south of the Yaruga into the Imperial Chaos ensued across the Nordling realms as Seeing a chance to pay back centuries of oppression discreet Nilfgaardian propaganda, many Elves Northern cities, where they had been second-class where they formed guerilla units that preyed and undefended villagers. Before long, the Elves were joined by Dwarves, suffered at human hands. These nonhuman guerillas became known as "Scoia'tael", tongue-in-cheek reference to how they lived By now, the utter disarray consuming the north most powerful kings: Henselt of Kaedwen, Demawend of Redania. These four men were not friends, and were over one border dispute or another. However, the brutal massacre of the Cintrans, they had all admired, proved to be a unifying in a common cause. Thus it was that the rulers of the north joined south to meet Nilfgaard's legions. Both the Nilfgaardians under Coehoorn and Vizimir of Redania, bee-lined it to the Yaruga. Ultimately, it would be the Nordlings who force the Black Ones to meet them at a place There, the two massive hosts formed lines one of the greatest battles in the continent's For all its importance, we know surprisingly Cirilla, during one of her elder blood visions, sea of grass, stretching out to the horizon. Other small details provided by Sheldon Skaggs, that both sides drew up fairly standard battle back. The Northern army was also a diverse one, many Kingdoms, borne not only by humans, but For indeed, while many short-folk had joined authoritarianism Nilfgaard represented, and Nordling oppressors in the common cause of The battle itself was long, brutal, and bloody. A swamp of steel, arrows, and gore. However, the deciding factor of this contest the blood-soaked grass, but with the wielders For indeed, the Brotherhood of Sorcerers, who ubiquitously controlled the Northern realms grassy hillock overlooking the battlefield, had into fending off the Nilfgaardian advance. Twenty-two magicians would step forth onto come down again. Originally, it was thought that fourteen northern but Triss Merigold, the fourteenth of the After days of fighting, and over 30,000 dead routed. It was a glorious victory for the Nordlings, The mages of the north were heroes, but who the very same scheming sorcerer who was in Only time would tell what he was planning. In the meantime, Scoia'tael commandos, fueled ravage the northern countryside, and perhaps Nilfgaard had consolidated its hold on Upper Moreover, Princess Cirilla, the key to securing since wriggling out of the grip of Cahir. Indeed, the First Northern War may have been We are going to talk about the Second Northern of all major fantasy, sci-fi and alternative and pressed the bell button! Please, consider liking and sharing - this the almighty algorithm. We'll try to read and respond to every comment video and which videos you hope to see in to us! This is the Wizards and Warriors channel and