Did you see two girls running out? Did you see my daughter running out? No, I don't know Zhenzhen, Zhenzhen Zhenzhen, Zhenzhen, where are you? Wheat Dad, Mom Save me ah Ahhh Be good, just bear with it. Dad, I'll rescue you right now. Wife, quickly pull Xiaomai out! Ahhh Ahhh Zhenzhen Mom, my feet hurt. Mother Don't be afraid, mom will help you up Ahhhhh Lao Xia, come quickly I can't help Dad, Lao Xia Ah wheat Dad, save my sister first. You wait here, Dad. Dad will come back to save you. Come on, Zhenzhen Ahhhhhhh I am your biological daughter. Welcome host to activate the cannon fodder counterattack system Only by changing the fate of the whole family cannon fodder You can survive. Stay alive Didn't I die in the fire? The host's world is actually a novel The fake daughter you adopted is the group's favorite heroine And your whole family is cannon fodder Everyone died miserably Your parents are hollowed out All savings Heavy debt Finally forced to commit suicide by jumping off a building dad Mom and Dad, you are useless now. Die early and be free dad Your task is Let them recognize the true face of the fake daughter And cut off relations with her I actually went back to the day when my parents took me home from the orphanage. Xiaomai, we are home now, let's get off. Come Come Zhenzhen, um, mom In her previous life, she deliberately knocked over the thermos cup. I still pretend to be pitiful even though I got burned Parents listen to one side and believe it Blame me instead Who is speaking? Who is speaking? Ahhh It hurts. Sister, how could you throw hot water on me? Sorry, sorry. Are you okay? You splashed me on purpose. Sister, how can you say that? Mom and Dad I think I'd better go. My sister doesn't like me. Zhenzhen, you must have misunderstood my sister. Yes, Zhenzhen Didn't you say you wanted to get along well with your sister? My sister has apologized to you. Just forgive her. ah Hmm, Xia Zhenzhen The tricks you used on me in your last life are now returned to you. Wheat clearly didn't open his mouth This is her voice What previous life? This life Xiaomai seems to be hostile to Zhenzhen. Dad, it hurts. Will this leave scars? The injury is so severe Lao Xia, please call the doctor. Zhenzhen is a big star No scars on the body It's okay. It's okay. The doctor will be here soon. Come on, walk in. Oh Blind parents! You believe everything Xia Zhenzhen says No wonder she made him commit suicide by jumping off a building. Why Zhenzhen is sensible, obedient and filial How could it kill us? We have raised Zhenzhen for 18 years. Don't we know what kind of person she is? She would never do such a thing. Hey, let's go. Let's go in first. Are you okay? Hello, Miss Wheat Mom and Dad, where is my room? Oops, I'm sorry, Xiaomai Mom is busy and forgets I want Sister Lin to prepare a room for you now. Mom, why don't you let your sister sleep in my room tonight? We can get close to each other I don't want Mom and Dad What did I do wrong? My sister is unhappy again No, I just want a room of my own. Can't I? I never had my own room sure Xiaomai, this is your home. You can choose which room you like Hahahaha, yeah Come on, mom will take you to choose a room dad What did I do wrong? My sister seems to dislike me. Oh my little baby Don't think too much. How could my sister dislike you? Ahahahaha Of course I despise it. In my previous life, I entered Xia Zhenzhen's room She ended up accusing me of stealing her jade pendant Because of this My parents locked me in a small dark room to reflect on myself. I got claustrophobia from it. I want to go out, let me out Let me out Mother I will never fall for Xia Zhenzhen's tricks again I don't want to feel that kind of pain anymore. Let's look at this room. Do you like this room? The sun is the best Okay, you take a rest first. If you need anything, tell mom. How could Xiaomai think so badly of Zhenzhen? I don't know whether it's right or wrong to take her back. Uh uh uh Uh uh uh uh Summer wheat You are a wild child who grew up in an orphanage. Why do you fight with me? I will definitely kick you out This home It's either me or you Hey sister I can't sleep. Can we come in and talk? Humph, you are still a thief with a heart of your own. Come in I know My sister hates me for taking away the life that originally belonged to you. But This is not something I can control. You just wanna tell me this Yes, although my sister is my parents' biological child But I have been with them for 18 years after all. This kind of bond is not something you can compare to. So what? I hope my sister You can really treat me as a family member Don't go against me anymore. otherwise Mom, Dad and brothers won't let you go easily. Ah, so you came here to show off your power. Are you finished? You can go now Then I won't bother my sister. Good night. Garbage is better suited to the trash can ah There's a thief in the house Mom, what happened? Mother The jade pendant you gave me is gone. Maybe my sister stole it. In my previous life, I entered Xia Zhenzhen's room She ended up accusing me of stealing her jade pendant Look carefully. Don't misunderstand my sister. I still had it when I went to her room last night I haven't been anywhere except her. If not her, who else could it be? Since you suspect I stole it Then you come in and look for it. Sister, if what is lost is ordinary things That's fine. But this jade pendant is very important to me. I must find it Just find Just a mask Is it really that scary? When I was a kid, I was afraid of sleeping alone. This is what the director's mother gave me to give me courage. Zhenzhen, aren't you looking for a jade pendant? Have you found it? I clearly put it here last night My sister must have hidden it. Why did I hide your jade pendant? Sister's jade pendant It was my mother at my coming-of-age ceremony. A gift for me Please give it back to me. I can exchange it with you for something else. If you can't find it, just say I hid it. Xia Zhenzhen's words are really well-organized. No wonder our whole family fell into her trap in our previous life. Zhenzhen, you haven't even looked for her other rooms. How can you be sure that it was your sister who took your jade pendant? Look again I'm sure it was my sister who took it. Miss Zhenzhen You found your jade pendant in the trash can It's really troublesome How could it be possible that she was on this side? Obviously what It should be in my room. Mom and Dad Although I grew up in an orphanage I haven't seen anything good. But it's not stealing. Xiaomai's parents didn't mean that. Zhenzhen, why don't you apologize to your sister quickly? Dad, Zhenzhen How did your parents educate you? Apologize quickly It's okay My parents raised my sister for 18 years. Now I've been separated Pamper her and she will be dissatisfied with me It's normal to frame me I didn't frame her. Dad, I'm sure it's her. She stole the jade pendant and threw it into the trash can Then she framed me I still don't repent even though I'm hurt Go back to your room and reflect on yourself. When will you apologize? When will you come out again? Old Xia, have we spoiled Zhenzhen? She just doesn't feel safe. Not bad in nature If ever Can my parents trust me as much as they trust Xia Zhenzhen? Just half of it would be fine. Wheat Zhenzhen has Mom and Dad will make up for it for you in the future Tell your parents what you like. And you brothers can order them around at will. Let them go all over the world Find some new stuff for you Hahaha, thank you, mom and dad Hey Zhenzhen has countless new clothes Even the haute couture dress is only worn once I want to buy a piece of clothing and wear it until I have to wear slippers Come to Xiaomai and see which brands you like What about tomorrow? I asked them to send you all the new products of the season. Isn't Xiaomai an actor? Your second brother runs an entertainment company. I asked her to select a few more good scripts for you I'm just a stand-in. Haha oops At your age I should go and film idol dramas with young handsome guys. Do you like the new actor Pei Heng? I'll ask your second brother to arrange it for you later. dew Hei Hang is the male protagonist of the novel Your mission is to seduce the male lead to break up her and Xia Zhenzhen This kind of blind people who like Xia Zhenzhen Man, I don't want Sister, it was my fault just now. sorry These are the clothes I usually don't wear. I'll give it to you to make amends Please forgive me. A child who knows his mistakes and can correct them is still a good child. Hehehe Xiaomai, you and Zhenzhen have similar figures. See if you like it This dress What's wrong, sister? These clothes were made specially for me by my elder brother. Private Customization So precious Why don't you like it? Then ask your elder brother to buy it for you tomorrow. It's not that I don't like it It's just that the clothes are all unraveling And lipstick marks Shh Brother, you must have been deceived. Oh, I think I got it wrong. I'll go change it again. Your sister is a bit careless Ha ha It's not that Xia Zhenzhen is careless You are so generous. What is private customization? At first glance, it looks like the crew's props are given away I'm worn out. What costume? Tell Zhenzhen to stop taking clothes Didn't I just give her a set of jewelry last week? Give that set to Xiaomai Good jewelry Xia Zhenzhen resold it as soon as she got it How could it still be there? The gifts her parents and brothers gave her over the years Transfer her money She moved them all away. She's very courageous. They started embezzling public funds. But she took so much money Every gift I give is a fake All the treasures in my father's study are fakes Not worth 100 bucks What happened to them? husband How could Old Xia Zhenzhen transfer her property? You can also hear the voice of wheat Yes, I heard what Xiaomai said. But after all, we watched Zhenzhen grow up. Is there any transfer of property? You'll know it when you see it for yourself. Hug me, Fengbo Meng Po, hug me. You old witch Dare to wear my husband's underwear and shirt I will beat you to death You shameless bastard Listen to me Madam, listen to me. Madam Madam Listen to me, ma'am. Red scarf, listen Wow old witch My mother's fighting power is off the charts Beat her up and find her shirt Beat her up. You're fired. Get out of here. Don't go away yet Oh, Mr. and Mrs. really understand. I feel relieved Old Xia, did you see it? Our good daughter really stole the official seal Transfer property again Could it be Zhenzhen? The password is her birthday. Even her brothers didn't know. Could it be that after so many years of being well-behaved and sensible She pretended to be I usually treasure these things. I can't even bear to watch it All the fake ones are fake. How can it be? Blast her She cheated so much money from us. I can't even afford a gold necklace What an ungrateful person No, she has to spit out the money. Mom and Dad Mom and Dad You guys here? I found my sister. I'm going to give her new clothes. Don't send it yet. There's something wrong with your father's company. I'm worried What's wrong The reporting company has just discussed a big project 100% return But we lack 80 million in liquid funds. To be missed It seems they didn't find anything. What a pity That's a profit of more than 10 billion. Dad, you really can't come up with the money? It's really difficult But don't worry Dad, no matter how difficult it is You won't be short of pocket money. Haha, how can that little money compare to more than a billion? Don't worry, Dad. Even if I sold all my bags and jewelry I will also give you this 80 million You have so many That's not the case. I'm usually very frugal. Dad card for you Good daughter, daddy We've prepared a big reward for you. Thank you, Dad Then I'll go first. My parents changed their last name. It's you, the host. Xia's father and mother recognized the true face of the fake daughter 80 million was taken back from her One year life span of the host make persistent efforts Yo Since it was the money that Xia Zhenzhen gambled away Well, I won't be polite. Isn't Dad's company in trouble? Why do you buy so many luxury goods? There are difficulties But we want to hold a family reunion party for Xiaomai Can't be too shabby What how Are you unhappy that mom and dad have recognized their biological daughter? I didn't mean that. It's just our little jewel. You know that the company is in a bad state recently. This kind of happy event is needed to stabilize people's hearts. I see They actually wanted to reveal Xia Xiaomai's identity Then everyone will know that I am just an adopted daughter. Feed my son They are going to hold a celebration party for Xia Xiaomai They don't want me anymore Don't cry, wait, brother. Your uncle's family has finished writing. Yeah Changshan Zhao Family My second brother had plastic surgery Why so handsome? Host, this is the series ranking Your chance has come Pooh I am allergic to the last name Pei Can't see me Can't see me This is Xia Xia's biological daughter who just came back. She seems to be avoiding me Don't come over here Interesting, I can actually hear her thoughts. Ha, Pei Heng is here. Xiaomai, this is your second brother This is Pei Heng I've decided to sit inside. Brother Pei Heng Don't call me second brother I only have one sister, Zhenzhen. Who allowed you to write this kind of thing? What are you doing, old man? mom Have you ever considered Zhenzhen's feelings? This is my second brother who dotes on his sister She accompanied Xia Zhenzhen on the variety show As a result, I got the disease from Xia Zhenzhen In the end, he went to jail for Xia Zhenzhen Who is speaking She just cursed me in her heart Vicious indeed Stupid son No wonder he ended up in jail. I'll see how she cries later. Second Brother My second brother, Zhenzhen, is gone. Stop crying. Isn't the second brother back? I wonder who dares to bully me. I wonder who dares to bully me. Second brother's pig brain is really a waste of her face Go down quickly Anyway, I don't agree Half-Eyewitness Don't you want Xia Xiaomai to enter the entertainment industry? In a few days, Zhenzhen will host the live variety show I'll save a spot for her. Me? You are not satisfied If you don't want to recognize me, you don't have to force me. Anyway, Xia Zhenzhen is the only daughter in this family. I can actually support myself by playing minor roles. I'd better go You stinky boy What bullshit are you talking about? Dad, she is your sister. Why can't I recognize my relatives? Hello, Dad. I announced it on the day of the press conference. Xiaomai and Zhenzhen are twin sisters Is this okay? The press conference must be broadcast live in its entirety. Everyone must know that Xiaomai is me Our biological daughter good snort What kind of magic potion did Xia Xiaomai give them? Everyone is thinking about her Don't be sad Even if I recognize You are our only sister forever. It will never change Second brother, you have a good relationship with Pei Yingji Can you let her join in? Pei Heng, don't think about it. She doesn't appear on variety shows She's a big shot. Even if the elder brother came, he couldn't handle it. It seems that Pei Yingdi's background is unfathomable If I could marry her No need to hang around those idiots from the Xia family anymore Haige, come sit down The father, Jia Qianjin, is going to seduce the male protagonist Go and flirt with the male lead If you succeed, you will be rewarded with three years of life. Go ahead! Even if my summer wheat lives a few years less I won't flirt with Pei Heng. Let her lock Xia Zhenzhen up Did I offend this girl? How could I possibly like Xia Zhenzhen Wenying Dad, I poured you some water. What a beautiful night Love is too wasteful Invite you to indulge in the evening breeze Xia Xiaomai, come back and snatch my identity as the daughter of the Xia family Now even the Iron Film Emperor wants to compete with me Zhenzhen, are you okay? Xia Xiaomai, why are you pretending to be so precious? You can donate your eyes if you are blind. She obviously fell on her own. Almost splashed on me Second Brother Dear sister, I fell down by accident. You see, Zhenzhen knows how to speak for you. You will quibble. Xia Zhenzhen used the same trick countless times The second brother will still be fooled Blind and stupid She deserved to be jailed for Xia Zhenzhen Tragic death Enough of summer wheat. Ms. Xie Wheat was so far away from you just now The touch is a bit too strong She actually helped me So big This is the first time someone is willing to protect me. Trust me unconditionally Stand up for me I was too hard on her. I really didn't hit the needle just now. My feet hurt. Is it painful? Go Go Go I'll take you to the hospital. You don't go with her Who do you want me to accompany? Of course it's Xia Zhenzhen You two are an official couple. What's closed? I took the variety show that Xiang Minggang was preparing. Hey, brother Are you saying that Brother Feiyang has agreed to participate in this show? Very good Then I'll hang up first. Today I will be the most loyal star in the audience Qiqi, this necklace doesn't seem to suit your temperament Otherwise, give it to me. Letting go Letting go Mom, I like this necklace too. You have so many necklaces and you can't wear them all Forget it, mom My sister is right I have a poor temperament Not worthy of such an expensive necklace How can I not be worthy? Look how beautiful Zhenzhen, when did you become so petty? And I stole my sister's things Okay, okay. The press conference is about to begin Let's go quickly, eh? What are you laughing at? You like to be in the spotlight, don't you? Today I will let you take the spotlight Is that the eldest daughter that Xia family just found? Yeah, it's pretty. I heard that the two daughters of the Xia family are twins. How come they look completely different? Not quite Um, everyone I'm sure everyone has heard of it. Our Xia family found our long-lost daughter. Xia Xiaomai is a loving family this time This live variety show It was specially prepared to celebrate her return home. Obviously it was to hold the real me Xiaomai and Zhenzhen They are twin sisters. After 18 years of separation, we finally met again This live variety show The two of them will kill wheat together Please introduce yourself to our friends in the media. Director, don't do this. Who is this? Xia Xia, do you like this gift I gave you? Shut it down for me Look at the good things you did The familiar routine is here again In her previous life, Xia Zhenzhen was like this. Ruining my reputation It was her life just now. She did this kind of thing herself and still cared about Zhenzhen I heard before that my sister is not fair in the crew I didn't expect to do this. Are you sure it was me who did this? Who else could it be if not you? Miss Xia Is that you, the woman in the video? Of course not Everyone heard your voice. You still want to quibble The voice is indeed mine. But the woman in the video is not me Do it again The next battle to shield the wind and evil bones You have to taste it yourself What are you going to do? Hey Director Don't be like this. Don't take off my sister's clothes Sister Zhenzhen is here to save you I only heard that my sister had a bad reputation in the crew. I didn't expect to do such a thing. Second Brother I really thought the person in the video was my sister. I didn't expect she would frame me like this. I don't know what's on my mind. Don't be afraid, my second brother is here. Xia Xiaomai, you should know when to act up. Everyone, Qiaomai has a bad character. It was just a prank of hers. The video is not real My second brother thinks I framed her first Of course, Zhenzhen is so amazing Don't blame my sister. It's fine I have forgiven her. I thought it was a big revelation It turns out to be a little fun between sisters. Oh yeah Intervention Brother, your brain will bankrupt the company sooner or later. Everyone Just a small episode As for the other guests of this variety show I will reveal them to you one by one when the show starts. Next, we prepared a sumptuous dinner for everyone. Please move forward Mr. Xia, may I ask which other guests will be present? Can you reveal it in advance? This is when the live broadcast starts Everyone will naturally meet elder sister Xia Xiaomai, besides making trouble What else will you do? Don't blame your sister, brother. My sister definitely didn't mean it. Sister, why don't you change into a dress? Unknown I thought our daughter was a beggar. The hotel has spare dresses If you don't mind I'll take you to change it. What are you standing there for? Go quickly Summer wheat is just an appetizer Then comes the heavy game the bench What's wrong? It's okay. Brother, why are you suddenly participating in a variety show? Still coming to this press conference Who is on this variety show? Why is it locked? Miss Xia The clothes are ready for you. Change it quickly High-profile hand become What happened to my second brother? My sister hasn't come back yet. Something must have happened. The waiter just told me She said she didn't go to the fitting room. Instead, he went to the police suite. Yeah, police station What does this look like? Police officer Ah, second brother My sister just entered this room. No, it hurts. Hey, be gentle. Shhh, this is too exciting. What are you stabbing? Open the door and get out! So many reporters praised my second brother If I didn't take the photo of my sister, my reputation would be ruined. She is so shameless and still afraid of being photographed Summer wheat Is your mother looking for me? Why is it you? Why is it you? It turned out to be a training store Who dares to film her? Oh, forget it. Brother Sun Why is it you? Who does my sister think it should be? Where the hell is that fat pig? Security guard goes Hand it over Who am I going to connect with you? Why Wang Songyu has already gone to this matter. Why did someone build a stage for you? I'll finish the show with you. What were you two doing in the room just now? Xiaomai's dress is a bit tight I'll help sort it out. What do you think we are doing? You guys are not here to catch someone committing adultery, are you? Zhenzhen, you're not talking about me Maybe I heard it wrong. Two Dogs I suddenly felt What's wrong with my stomach ache? Why do I suddenly have a stomachache? Xia Xiaomai, I'll send Zhenzhen back first You take a taxi The live variety show is about to start filming Please don't make trouble for me anymore. Otherwise I'll make you look good Weird Not as gentle and sensible as Zhenzhen Brother, go, go, go Xia Xiaomai, wait for me. Pei Yandi, thank you for what you did just now How about I add you as a friend? I'll transfer the money for the dress to you later. Let's go See you, um no Never see you again. If there is something wrong, it will definitely work. Don't worry, we'll see you soon. Welcome teachers Come to the family live variety show Start Today We will be here One month of collective life Next Steps Let me introduce our mysterious guest to you. She is Our first mission today Is to build a tent with your partner And spend a night together Host Is this partner of any gender? The partner result is determined by the allocation of the accompanying actor Who with cerebellar atrophy came up with this rule? Not the face tribe Yaner said she originally rejected this program It must be because of me that I came She will definitely choose me I am in a group with Xia Xiaomai I am in a group with Xia Xiaomai How is this possible? Why didn't she choose Xia Zhenzhen? She must be seeking revenge on my god's friend Brother Feiyang My sister snores when she sleeps Talking in your sleep again Otherwise it sounds interesting. Let's go set up the tent. Ah, so perverted You really want to take revenge on me Zhenzhen Your sister is so shameless This seduced Pei Yongdi I'm used to it My sister always opposes me in everything Don't worry, Zhenzhen I'll help you deal with her tonight. Thank you, Brother Liao Hai. Host, you want Be careful She wants to do something unexpected for the next Qianjin I'm trying to trick you into sleeping with me. Disgusting scumbag Still want to sleep with me Be careful or I'll chop this rotten cucumber into pieces and feed it to the dogs Come come come I wish the program group of &quot;We Are One Family&quot; will get better and better Come on, cheers. Oh, the grand dance Sister Xiaobai, I heard that you are an actor in Hengdian. You already know this, right? I'm waiting here tonight for summer Xiaomai, after tonight you will be mine Ha ha It's done. Wait a minute. You go to Xia Xiaomai's tent and wait to accompany the actor My brother is already waiting for her in her tent. ah Ah, what's going on? Oh! In this summer wheat tent Why is there a man's voice? What are they playing? What's in the tent? funny We promised to stop broadcasting this tent for 24 hours Social Complaints Let's see the situation first. What happened here? We are all here. Then only Xia Xiaomai is messing around in there How could my sister do this? Hey, stop filming. Please give my sister some face. Are you looking for me? Why are you here? Am I weird here? Hahahaha How come you didn't call me when you have such a big melon? Open it quickly There are snakes. There are snakes. Hahaha a snake bit me Help me! Go call the doctor Doctor, come soon Hahaha oh good good Ouch, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts Don't look at it, it will hurt your eyes Why can't I watch it? I'm an adult I just want to see If you want to see it, just look at me. Sister, you have harmed Brother Liao Hai like this You still have the mind to seduce Brother Peiheng? What does it have to do with me? We have tried our best Don't be discouraged. It's impossible to pass on the family line. But life can take care of itself It's her Xia Xiaomai She kneeled down to me Xia Xiaomai, she kneels down to tease me What did I do to you You deliberately lured me to your tent. If you were bitten by a poisonous snake How could there be poisonous snakes in such a large factory? Sister, how could you do this? This will cause death. Xia Xiaomai, you are so vicious I seduce you You deliberately seduced me Are you sick? I seduce you What do I want from you? You look so ugly You end the battle in 3 seconds Or do you think you are a dirty and sick little dog? Obviously so ordinary Yet so confident Shut up Besides, this isn't my tent. I didn't even enter the tent. How to harm you It clearly says Tent No. 2 If this isn't yours, whose else could it be? Sister, you can't always evade your responsibilities. This is definitely not the tent of Xiaomai and I. Our Husband There are wheat and grapes So someone deliberately changed the number cards Mislead Xiaomai into walking into the tent by mistake and doing something wrong You... stop talking nonsense. I am the victim Yes, that photo must be photoshopped. It's a pity that there is no surveillance at this place. Otherwise, you can get evidence Send this pervert in for tea. Hey hey hey This person has been secretly taking photos of Xia Zhenzhen Thank you Brother Feiyang There's no silver box here. Wow, he is really a sneak photographer. Hey, did you take a photo of someone stealing the number cards? I didn't take any photos Find it and I'll tell you My patience is limited. I am a fan of Shanzhen I just took some photos and videos of her Brother Ping An I believe she likes me too much. That's why I took the photo secretly. Why don't you give her the phone back? Wow, so kind. Or you can build the Leshan Giant Buddha elder sister Forgive others when you can I have already forgiven her. Why are you so aggressive? What does your forgiving her have to do with my search for evidence? you Hey, hey, hey, pat people, pat people Light sign light sign From the moment Zhenzhen came on the show, I took pictures of every scene How did you really take this photo? Find it out See clearly? You attracted this snake by burning the incense yourself It's really your own fault. Call the police Mr. Lei, there are people from both our families. Don't overdo the fire Xia Xiaomai, if you dare, call the police I'll kill you I'm looking for you to die, hahahaha Are you looking for death? Good, good, good, good Can't call the police Cai Xiaomai, although we are wrong But aren't you standing here peacefully now? I'll beat him to death Don't use moral kidnapping. I can't call the police if she fails to hurt me Okay, even if I beg you I can't have a brother in jail. Otherwise, how can I be a star? Still a star? Go do it in jail. Do you think you, an accomplice, can escape? What did you say? Hello This is Yuncheng Wuyunshan Villa District Someone poisoned here. What Who spits out poison and gives medicine? She is who she is She wants to rape her Don't hit me, Miss Xiaomai Sister, I don't have a brother like you who breaks the law. Police officer, I'm not the only one What to do? She needs evidence first. She must have an accomplice. And more than one person Don't be honest. Hey, bring back the army to save her. Destroy the evidence quickly I tried to break my phone. Wait till you let it out Have a date with me. Sorry everyone Just a little episode The program team is already cooperating with the police investigation I'll give you a result as soon as possible. Well, teachers Today's program recording ends here Because there were snakes and insects just now Considering everyone's safety Then we will take you to the hotel villa Now let's redistribute the room cards Great! Finally I don't have to meet my co-star Give me a girl. If it doesn't work, Xiao Lucheng is quite pleasing to the eye. There's no way you can get rid of me The second young master is divided into different cultures Miss Zhenzhen and Pei Yingdi must be Divide a room What a coincidence, I'm still in the same room with Xia Xiaomai Ha ha ha ha ha It shouldn't be Is it possible that she still wants revenge? The wine hasn't sounded yet. Hei Heng is Xia Zhenzhen's man How can I listen? Why does this handsome bastard ruin my heart? How could I possibly like Xie Zhenzhen? 3 Xiaomai, stop right there! My brother got arrested I'm gonna kill you Women fighting Men, don't interfere. If you have the guts, let me go I'll kill you Are you sure you want to fight me here? You are not afraid of the collapse of manpower Better give me a head Look how I kill you Okay, that's what you said. OK, I got it. What's up Director? Ah Chao has given instructions All the cameramen followed Zhenzhen Xiaoyan Go away, you If you have the guts, let me go Why Sister, sister, you are usually so elegant at home. Let go, this is a stop show. Just let mom and dad find out This is so embarrassing I saved you, it's shameful ah Brother Long, let me go Let me tear you apart I'm going ah ah I was scared to death You dare to hit me in the face Your nose is too narrow Chin is too pointy I'll send you back to the furnace for re-creation Don't thank me Wheat, I'm going to kill you Hey hey hey hey Luckily, this person has a disease. If she scratches her face, it'll be the end. ah Sister, please stop hitting me. If you want to hit me, hit me. Dead woman is not familiar Today is your death day Hey you I Ahhhhhhh Oh, leave me alone I today What do I do today? Women fighting Men, don't do it. Okay hahahahahaha Our daughter is so fierce Hahaha, these hands definitely follow me. Okay Yeah, leave me alone. I have done everything now. Xia's live broadcast data on the first day After it came out, Miss Xiaomai's fans increased by 10,000 Zhenzhen's price didn't increase. Instead, I lost 250 Xia Xiaomai is so scheming Zhenzhen is too simple If this goes on, she will definitely make you lose everything. Hey, old three You go with Zhenzhen I promise to complete the task I didn't expect the chronic disease to be so serious. Don't worry, I will protect myself. I'll leave it to you. Hey wait You have to be careful about that stuff. Just a bed The program crew is going to stir up trouble Yes, just a bed. Hmm, Brother Haiyan You're a very nice person. Give me the bed Make your own bed I really admire you I sleep on the floor Pei Hao, are you really willing to give me the bed? If you don't mind I sleep with you I mind You want to seduce me into committing a crime? That's wishful thinking Then I'll go take a shower first. You won't get up while I'm away, will you? Should I wash it or not? If you don't wash it, I'll wash it. I love taking a bath, my skin is so good. Put on a shower cap and sing and dance Mermaid wants to escape Thump thump thump up and down left and right Why am I so small? It's just Wangzai buns Small steamed bun Don't take a good bath in there What are you doing? I'm only 18, so I should still have a chance to grow Yeah, you guys need to thrive. wheat Okay, come down to me. My mother has centipede A huge centipede Okay, dead already. Don't come down Is he really dead? Look. This chest muscle is bigger than mine. The feel is so good Summer wheat I promise I didn't mean it. My hand just slipped Oh my god, is this what it feels like to have your chest muscles slide down a slide? When did you come to my bed? Do you want to see it, little ones? Where are you now? I made that one. Otherwise, there is another person besides you. What happened to my bacon last night? I just dreamed of eating ribs I can't remember it at all But the marks on her neck Oh, what a beast I don't care An Xia Xiao Bai is responsible for me How to be responsible Don't you think you should give me a name? It was so sudden I need to think about it carefully It's over. It's over. Sex is really a knife above your head Look at this necklace. It's so beautiful. Isn't Xia Dingliu going to have a concert soon? I landed here. Of course, it's to support our Zhenzhen. Third brother Zhenzhen misses you so much Zhenzhen misses her third brother Isn't the third brother here? This was when I was a kid. Breaking Dad's antique worth 300 million Then use 3 seconds glue to stick on the smart third brother She was the one talking just now No one seems to hear it except me She also destroyed my father's favorite ancient painting. She used soy sauce to supplement Dad has discovered No one knows about this. How did she know? Hey, Xia Mingyang is just a spendthrift Yeah, 3 good. Dear elders I am very sorry to say goodbye to you all in this way. The variety show &quot;Love Family&quot; has suspended recording A while The program team will send a special car to take the teachers away Thank you, Mr. Pei Should I be polite? Let her stay for dinner. Well, forget it. I haven't decided whether to be responsible for her. Goodbye, take care. Wheat Mom Xiaoheng is here too Auntie, long time no see. Still so handsome Speaking of which Our two families have a baby marriage. You and Zhenzhen Didn't you and Xiaomai have an arranged marriage? What? I had an engagement with Pei Heng. No wonder I felt we had a close relationship the moment I saw Xiaomai Um But Pei Heng later married Xia Zhenzhen. Are they blind parents? Because Xia Zhenzhen likes Pei Heng I gave my engagement with Pei Heng to Xia Zhenzhen Look, what I did was really inhumane. Before a big mistake is made I have to bring Xiaomai and Peiheng together. Xiao Huang, why don't you stay here and play for two days? Why does she live here? How inconvenient! Good aunt Sorry to bother you. Oh, don't bother, don't bother Auntie, I'll prepare a private room for you. Just treat this place as your home. All right. Stop standing. Come in now Mrs. Zhang took their luggage inside Are you really planning to live here? How long do you live? Live until someone gives me a name Don't tell me which room my aunt lives in. There's definitely something wrong with these two kids. Xiaoheng drinks tea Xie Gong Go and clean up the room next to Xiaomai for Xiaoheng to live in. My wife Mother You still have the nerve to come back? Mom, why did you hit my third brother for no reason? Yes, mom You don't care about us. And hit us I'm your own son. Xiaomai is still your biological sister. My second You bought so many gifts. Is there any wheat? I'll make it up next time. Third one You forgot how Xiaomai got lost in the first place. It's because you're playful. Took her out and lost her You cried and said that you only wanted your sister to come back Would you like to replace her? Now she's back You're so nice to her. Stop arguing. It's all my fault I'm sorry, sister. Then I'll be annoyed I can't eat these days. All right? Don't Cry, Zhenzhen How can I survive without eating? Well, only the idiot Third Brother would believe this nonsense. I hid a bunch of food in Zhenzhen's room. Chen Zhen has already apologized Summer wheat, you should harvest it while you are ahead. Chen Zhen, you are too stupid How can I go on a hunger strike? I have done something wrong and I must accept the punishment Okay, you don't eat it. My brother won't eat to accompany you. Zhenzhen loves to drink This won't work. This is for wheat bags. Um Mom, you are too cruel. Zhenzhen is weak now Weak No no no Xia Zhenzhen is assembling goddesses on the show Didn't eat anything Now I am eating a lot of summer wheat ah How could Zhenzhen be such a person? Forget it, Zhenzhen is still hungry. Bring her some food. Zhenzhen Brother brought you food. Why Brother, I don't eat, it's okay Your body won't be able to handle it if you don't eat. Listen, open the door quickly. If my second brother sees me eating snacks secretly, it will be over. Zhenzhen Zhenzhenzhenzhen Open the door quickly! What happened to my second brother? I brought food to Zhenzhen She just won't open the door Are you okay? How about you eat something first? Remember Zhenzhen first. Zhenzhen, open the door quickly, Zhenzhen Zhenzhen, please open the door quickly. Zhenzhen Zhenzhen has never suffered such injustice Could it be that something bad happened to her? If the door is not opened for such a long time, something must have happened. Zhenzhen, if you don't open the door, your second brother will come in. Zhenzhen Second Brother Second brother, third brother Only a fool like Third Brother would write such nonsense. Xia Zhenzhen hid a lot of food in her room. No, listen to my explanation. That's not the case. I'm overdoing this. Second Brother Don't call me Third Brother I'm just a fool Resentment Ah, Brother San Third brother, third brother What's wrong with you Third brother, third brother How come this happened out of nowhere? Mom, I don't know either. I didn't do anything Third brother Sister, what do you want this third brother for? Let her go. She has hypoglycemia. Hypoglycemia This third brother is not a member of the lower class of society. Why is my blood sugar still low? You're full. Forget about the fact that Third Brother went hungry with you. My third brother is so weak. I fainted after being hungry for only one day. When I was a kid, it was common for me to not have enough to eat. How about it ah Food Eat, eat, eat, you only know how to eat I was scared to death Eat it yourself Since my aunt is already well I, Xiaomai, will go take a rest first. Okay, go quickly. Go quickly. Go quickly! Yeah, mom Hei Heng and his sister live alone next door Isn't that good? Hum, take care of my three sons And he wants to extend his claws to my future son-in-law I have to nip her hopes in the bud. They are a young couple Living together is not too much But you're right You are grown up now I live on the same floor with my brothers and a few other men and women. Not so good Mrs. Zhang moved Miss Zhenzhen's things downstairs What Mother What happened to summer wheat? There's a drama about to start filming You play the third female role in the play My second brother is so kind to give me resources There won't be any conspiracy. You won't trick me into going to Southeast Asia, will you? I am so unbearable in her eyes This is a drama with an investment of hundreds of millions. Pei Heng plays the male lead If you don't believe me, ask her. Then I will be able to turn things around. Remember to audition. Don't be late Good boss Why didn't I realize this girl is cute before? Didn't my second brother say that this role was given to me? Hey, Zhenzhen, hey Big Brother What's wrong, Zhenzhen? Did Xia Xiaomai bully you again? Brother, when will you come back? Zhenzhen misses you Zhenzhen, be good and don't cry Big brother will be back soon Okay, I'll wait for you to come back. Xia Xiaomai is waiting for her elder brother to come back I wonder how long you can be so proud That summer wheat Since we're going to film together Add WeChat The male lead Gu Beichen is played by Pei Heng He Nana played by Jiang Xue Jiang Xue Isn't she the girl who saved my second brother? Jiang Xue is blind to my second brother's white moonlight The second brother mistook Xia Zhenzhen for Bai Yueguang Ignore Jiang Xue for Xia Zhenzhen Hurt Jiang Xue Caused Jiang Xue to be raped Unable to bear the humiliation, Jiang Xue chose to commit suicide The second brother went to jail for Xia Zhenzhen's crime I won't know until I die. Jiang Xue was the little girl who saved her when she was a child Can't wait to meet this beautiful lady The river is snowing Second brother, third brother We're leaving first. Xia Xiaomai, I added you Please agree. I will add her She doesn't know what's good for her But what she said In this play, you Xue Enyou No. 1 Mr. Xia, I am not with you because of my sister. Zhenzhen's lies You have to take good care of her on the set. Don't let her be bullied. Do you know good Even if you don't leave yet, Violation Paper Go check Jiang Xue's information for me now The more detailed the better Big Brother Don't take Xia Xiaomai's words too seriously. Maybe she's talking nonsense. Why You can hear Xia Xiaomai's voice You can also hear Xia Xiaomai's voice This is too mysterious. Is everything she said true? She said before that Liao Yuanyuan had a heart disease Liao Yuanyuan is really It seems that we have to believe what Xiaomai said. Maybe it's a coincidence Anyway, can you bring the crew to help me keep an eye on it? As long as you are willing to join me and the male lead A little intimate scene Later I'll take Jiang Xue to your room to discuss this. Go ahead. It's broken. Jiang Xue's accident wouldn't have happened earlier, right? Caused Jiang Xue to be raped Suicide due to humiliation The boss found out that these are all Jiang Xue's information It's really true Zhang Xuejie Can you accompany me to find Director Zhang later? What's wrong, Zhenzhen? This Jiang Xue is quite arrogant Can she agree? She is just an artist under my second brother What's there to be proud of? Just wait in the room. Then I'll wait for you in the room. I just want Director Zhang to change my role. After all, you are the heroine. A lot of scenes That also requires your consent. Bai Tiancai was worried about the substitute Director Zhang is a little unhappy Besides, I heard that she gave up. Oh, I'm here. What are you afraid of? Okay, I'll go with you. Idiot, if you hadn't taken my leading lady role Brother Pei Heng and I have long been in love with each other through movies Yes, Director Zhang, Sister Jiang Xue You guys chat first I'm going to the bathroom. Zhenzhen, I'll go with you. You don't need to talk to Director Zhang first. I'll be back in a minute. Director, please don't do this. Little bitch Whoever enters my room does so willingly? How can this person pretend to be a decent person? Let me go, let me go Xia will never let you go. It was Xia Zhenzhen who personally sent you to me. Do you think Mr. Xia will help her or you? Today, brother No no no Ha ha Mr. Xia I finally found you President Xia just thought of her I want her to give me Don't be afraid, I'm here It's my subordinate. I haven't touched him yet. Get on the bus It scared me. That subordinate is not me. My subordinates asked me to do this. subordinate Xia Xiaomai whispered again Are you okay? It's okay. I suffered a little Frightened and fearless Congratulations to the host Xia Mingkang and Jiang Xue's fate as cannon fodder Has been changed Thank you for this time, Xiaomai. Xia Zhenzhen deceived us all this time Don't worry, I will give you an explanation for this matter. ah Yang Xue's wrinkles will soon be everywhere I should be the heroine Brother Perfume Sister You dare to hit me Xia Zhenzhen, I am so good to you Why are you hurting me? I don't understand what you are saying The right path has exposed you. You tricked me into her room. Still installing it now You know it all Why are you doing this to me? How did I feel sorry for you? You are a little star with no background What's wrong with sleeping with the director? At worst, I can just ask my second brother to compensate you a little more. My second brother just hit me Please help me teach her a lesson Don't call me brother. Xia Zhenzhen, you don't deserve it Second Brother You actually bullied me for this bitch. Liar, you were not like this before. Then ask yourself what you did The fire at the Children's Palace when I was a child Why on earth are you there? Second Brother This is to save you, of course. Still lying I didn't save you. She deceived you, brother. I am the one who saved you It's you The people who made fire back then had this birthmark on their hands It's you The people who made fire back then had this birthmark on their hands What are you saying? I will never admit my mistake At that time, I was about to escape with my little brother Suddenly someone hit me with a stick and knocked me out That person is you too, right? Did You Know Later the fire spread I almost died in that fire Xia Zhenzhen, you have been so vicious since childhood It turns out that Xia Zhenzhen has a history of arson Could she have set the previous fire? The instigator was rescued I was burned alive She's not fine. How could he be burned to death? strangeness Why is my heart so big? Second Brother Brother, I was so stupid back then How could I possibly harm someone? Coming, coming Tears business is coming My brothers can't resist now. Can you handle it? If you can't handle it A piece of paper immediately banned Xia Zhenzhen Brother, if you say one more word, get out too. 2nd Brother You can't do this to me My life is over. This life is all your own fault Big Brother Xiaomai is the big brother Hello, Brother She is my biological sister. She was the one who bullied Zhenzhen He also instigated the second and third brothers to leave Zhenzhen alone. This is my love-brained brother. What a loving man I can't bear to see Xia Zhenzhen suffer any injustice After witnessing Xia Zhenzhen's wedding with her sweetheart Sad and desperate to commit suicide This is the voice of Xia Xiaomai What nonsense is she talking about? Isn't I the real sweetheart? Why did you leave Chen Zhen alone in the crew? Do you know how dangerous this is? She can come back as the crew's car. What are the dangers? What is this saying, old man? Zhenzhen is my beloved sister since childhood You even brought back summer wheat. Why leave Zhenzhen? Boss Xiaomai is your real sister. Dad is right. Xiaomai is our real sister I'm looking at you. Xia Xue sold the anchor That's why I treat Zhenzhen like this. You are so stubborn. Do you know what Xia Zhenzhen did? she Big Brother Big Brother Zhenzhen Big Brother I miss you so much Why did you come back just now? Okay, don't cry anymore. Brother, you're back. You're already so grown up. What does it mean to hug each other? Keep some distance from your brothers in the future. Mother I really miss my brother. I haven't seen you for so long Dad, what are you doing? Me and myself What's the difference between a sister hug and You are all adults now. You should have your own measure Look at the wheat. Is she so inconsiderate? Summer wheat Can Xia Xiaomai compare with Zhenzhen? Look, Big Brother is always on my side Brother, don't make mom angry. It's all my fault. I took my sister's place. My mother didn't kick me out of the house. Let me live in the storage room on the first floor I am already very satisfied What storage room? That was a bedroom. When did it become a storage room? Mom, how could you let Zhenzhen live in that place? It's Zhenzhen, she's not your biological child. But at least I have kept it for 18 years. This 18-year relationship Isn't it better than a summer wheat? Zhenzhen walks Brother, help you take your luggage up At worst, you can take my money. Minghan, you are making trouble Brother, you are really self-indulgent Xia Zhenzhen moved to her room How can she seduce Pei Heng? She has a lot of sexy pajamas hidden in her room I want to wear it to show balance. Zhen Zhen really likes Pei Hao But this summer wheat Shut up My brother is mad. I didn't speak just now Can the boss also hear Xiaomai's voice? It seems that my brother heard it too. So to speak Our whole family can hear Xiaomai's voice Zhenzhen, let's go Big brother, forget it. I don't want to make my mother angry. I don't care. Peihao Mind Yourself Don't mess with Zhenzhen You should ask Zhenzhen about this. She wanted to seduce me. There's no way she would do that. Okay, let's make a bet. How to avoid us swapping rooms See who she goes to. Wow, my boyish heart is about to be broken. Okay, I'll let you all see it. Zhenzhen is definitely not the person you think she is. good Then wait and see Xia Xiaomai must be talking nonsense Zhenzhen loves me so much How could she Find a balance Zhenzhen is not her parents' biological child. All along I no longer have a brother-sister relationship with her. Who is Brother Ocean is me What are you looking for me for? Brother Shenyang I like you Don't push me away From the first time I saw you I just like you But as long as I get close to you You won't even look at me Do you know how sad I am? Isn't it your elder brother you like? Why are you looking for me again? I don't like you, you jerk. Since you don't like her Why do you act like you can't leave her? So I don't have money to spend? She said that people are stupid and have a lot of money. I just pretended to like her. She's like a licking dog How disgusting it looks. It doesn't even match your shoes. Ocean Brother I only like you She wants to follow them That hurt her heart. She loves me willingly. I don't care whether she is uncomfortable or not. Even if she dies in front of me now I don't even bother to look at her. Ocean Brother I only care about you It's true I can give you everything I have now Aimug I really like you Little Zhenzhen Open the impression is wrong This is Big Brother Brother Jia, why is it you? I'm a waste, you're stupid Little Zhenzhen, you are really great Listen to my explanation Deep or not Don't touch me. Go away. It's you, bitch, isn't it? You were the one who framed me, right? Does this require design? I was the one who tied you up and took you to my friend's room. Or I let you speak my words You must be dreaming. No, I'm sleepwalking. Still installing I have raised an ungrateful person for so many years. Your brother is so good to you. Is this how you repay them? If you hit me, now take your stuff and get out of here Um, no, I don't Want dad Don't call me dad The worst thing I have done in my life. I adopted you. Such a shameless thing That's not the case. That's not the case. I'm just too cooperative Right My dear sister, I will never disbelieve your love Mom and Dad Bro, I was wrong. I really know I'm wrong I shouldn't just go along with it. I shouldn't slander Big Brother I really know I'm wrong Don't drive me away You drove me away How can I live? Third Brother Third brother, you love me the most. Please help me ask them not to chase me away Please You are really fierce this time Second Brother Brother, I am your most beloved sister. I beg you Take your dirty hands off I treated you well before That's me being blind. You can't do this to me I have lived with you for 18 years These 18 years We obviously love each other so much It's because of her As soon as she came back Everything has changed She shouldn't come back. This is Wheat's home. You shouldn't be left behind Second Old Third Throw this ungrateful bastard out of here! It's so late. Or say a word Let you go with her. What are you still standing there for? Go away and don't dirty the Xia family's land. No, I'm not leaving Second Brother You always forgive me for my mistakes. You won't this time. Whether I am right or not You've done so many evil things. We've done our best by not sending you in. Third brother, are you going to treat me like this too? The third one is gone Xiaomai's reassurance feast can't be delayed any longer Otherwise, everyone thinks Xia Zhenzhen is our biological daughter The eldest, the second, and the third, please get ready. Do it tomorrow Oh, good. Congratulations to the host Mi Han's fate as a cannon fodder has been changed Since you are ruthless Don't blame Wuyi. First of all, thank you for taking the time to Take out your precious time to attend this banquet I want to announce two things to you all. First, Xia Zhenzhen has always been our Xia family's adopted daughter. Not biological Now Xia Zhenzhen has severed ties with our Xia family. Leaving Xia's House What? Xia Zhenzhen is actually an adopted daughter? After Xia Zhong's daughter disappeared Mrs. Xia Zhong was heartbroken. Xia Zhong adopted Xia Zhenzhen However, Xia Zhong has been looking for his biological daughter. But even so Xia Zhenzhen has always been the apple of the Xia family's eye. How can you just drive them away? Yes, that's right. Xia Zhenzhen's birthday party is held grandly every year. Why did you suddenly end the relationship? you say What would my biological daughter look like? I don't know the second thing. Our biological daughter has been found. Found her You may have heard of I hope you guys will see her soon. Don't be too surprised Well, please welcome my daughter to come on stage Xia Jiumei is so beautiful Not only beautiful, but also straightforward Have you seen Love each other variety show She's having fun in there. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my biological daughter, Xia Xiaomai. The identity of Xiaomai has not been announced before. Because everyone has some misunderstandings about her Little girl is lively A little bit naughty But you are all her elders. I believe You wouldn't have any problem with a little kid, right? What is Mr. Xia talking about? Having a cheerful personality is a good thing Besides, I haven't done anything harmful. Everyone, do you think this is right? Thank you to all the elders of Xiaomai for your kindness to her. Welcome home, wheat This is a gift from my brother. You will stay in a hotel when you shoot movies in the future. It's definitely not as comfortable as living in your own home. So I bought you houses all over Yuncheng. I misunderstood you before. I'm sorry Brother Xiaomai knows that you like acting From now on, you can choose any script from me. The mistress keeps it for you. I don't know what to give you. So in your name Funded all the welfare homes in Yuncheng A library was built for them. Are these still my three blind brothers? Thank you, big brother, second brother, third brother This should all belong to me. Xiaomai, you will be our only daughter from now on Xia Zhenzhen Why is it you? Where am I What are you going to do? Of course I killed you. Summer wheat Only you died Dad, mom and brothers will love you again Could it be that Xia Zhenzhen set the fire to burn me to death? It happened ahead of time Xia Zhenzhen, you are crazy Ahhh Xia Xiaomai, you've been poisoned by my medicine Do you think you can still be as good as before? Ahahaha Xia Zhenzhen, you thought I was dead Will your parents love you as much as before? Don't dream It's because of your appearance How did the world become like this? Only you die You will return to the starting point Think of a way Must Die Ahhhh ah ah Oh my god, there is still a girl inside who has not been rescued Burned alive Oh, that scream is so painful to hear. Ahhhh Mommy! I'm sorry, mother-in-law I won't live if you call me mom Mom Calm down. Mom Mommy mommy Brother, save me Mom, she didn't lie to me. In my previous life, I was really burned to death by fire. I still doubt her Ah, wheat, wheat fear never go my way never will someday never far away Congratulations to the host The fate of you and your parents as cannon fodder has been successfully changed never far away Pei Hao When did you hear my voice? When I first saw you So you can hear it in my house, right? At the camping villa When you see the little bun in the bathroom I can hear it too Oh my god Hey, cousin Do you want me to find someone who can lower his head for you to drill through today? Why am I so small? It's just Wangzai buns Oops Host Forgot to tell you Because the male lead tore up the ending I will come to this world to bind you Why didn't you say so earlier? Walking is able to move Wandering through Kasmith A lock