Transcriber: S Ying This is my friend right here. His name is Tom Hartman. Tom is over 400 pounds, just barely got divorced, has very little confidence And he has a very persistent brother. His brother has been trying to come to a motivational conference, And this is a couple of decades ago. After a lot of prodding, and he goes to this &quot;Zig&quot; Ziglar and he is not comfortable It's the last place he wants to be. He's around all sorts of people He sees this guy up on stage, And he's just very uncomfortable. And he's very resistant, actually, But over time, just listening over the first 90 minutes - Zig is up there, about how you see yourself and about how most people They have a very negative And how your story about who you are is generally a direct correlation How you see yourself is how you act. And he was listening to these ideas, and he was hearing about how it's important to go where you see yourself but from the circumstances And a lot of his shells got broken down And actually after the first session, "Is it alright if we go and buy Because there were tapes And he couldn't afford it; He was pretty much out of a job, his whole life was kind of in shambles. His brother really liked the idea and so his brother got him the tapes. After the conference, he ended up listening seven hours the next day, and ended up listening He was listening to the things on repeat, There's a really good idea and your outlook shapes your behavior. And so he was changing his input. Rather than listening to the radio, rather than listening to things he was just listening to stuff that was completely retraining him Because of this input, And the bold behavior that he did ultimately led him And that peak experience And there's a lot behind the bold behavior that he did. So ultimately what happened was he got the idea that he wanted He bought two very nice fitted suits - he actually had to put a down payment And he had them fitted - obviously, he couldn't have them but he bought two smaller suits. And the person selling the suit said, And he said, &quot;Well, And the guy who was selling the suits because he just couldn't believe it. You know, Tom was still But what's very interesting is that Tom was investing money He was not investing money And he was actually saying what he was going to do. There are a few things Number one is the story was a story based on his future, whereas all of the stories were based on his past. He was explaining himself &quot;This is why I am the way I am.&quot; Now his story was And there's a lot of really of spending money on your goals. So for the last four or five years, I've been getting my PhD and one of the research studies that I did was studying the difference and actual entrepreneurs And I asked a bunch of questions, trying to figure out what's the difference And one of the questions that I asked the want-to-be entrepreneurs &quot;Have you ever had And almost all of the want-to-be A lot of them hinted to the idea that they Almost all the entrepreneurs said, &quot;Yes.&quot; And not only were they entrepreneurs. I asked lots of authors, And they all said, &quot;Yes, I've had them, and at multiple stages have I had So my follow-up question was And actually, I was interested firstly &quot;What was the point of no return?&quot; &quot;What created that shift?&quot; Then my next question was But I was kind of surprised. What often created was making a financial So I interviewed like a 17-year-old and his point-of-no-return experience was when he and his friend when they put their money They invested $10,000 because they wanted to sell shoes. He said his point-of-no-return but, second, when a huge truck came and offloaded basically He said he realized that at that point, He couldn't give the shoes back. He had this mountain of shoes and basically, at that moment, He said at that moment, he realized that he was leading a company. And from that moment forward, So he put himself in, essentially, That's why it was a point of no return. Because in a lot of ways, he couldn't actually give the shoes back. But what was more important for this 17-year-old and for Tom Hartman was that there was an identity shift. There's a really good quote &quot;A mind stretched by a new experience can So this episode of Tom led to, actually, that gave him the realization that he was no longer the person but now he was this person So Tom was hanging out in a grocery store. He was actually in an aisle, And a four-year-old girl and the four-year-old girl said, And Tom swung around, and he looked, and he realized that there was And it very quickly kicked in: And he just started laughing. Like this was the first moment And he was just laughing, laughing ... and then, eventually, And he realized at that moment that he no longer identified And at that moment, he realized Fast-forward 18 months. He now weighs 225 pounds. He has started and successfully created He's become far more spiritual. He's changed in every area of his life. He's a totally different person. How you do anything And in a lot of ways, Tom Hartman's example that things like fad diets, a 30-day diet, trying something for a year, is not a way to change your behavior, because changing your behavior When you shift your identity first, then the behavior that is up here is in alignment with your identity. If you keep your identity down here then you're acting in conflict And that doesn't work. So kind of to portray this example I want to introduce you Elko is an entrepreneur from Amsterdam. He's 38 years old, and he, as well, And he's always had a bad diet. And he's always had a story in his head His mom told him when he was a teenager that they are the kind of people who always are going to struggle That was the idea he had in his mind. He actually also had the idea in his mind that he was going to be able to holding off just until about his 40s, 50s or 60s. But then at that point, And because of his bad eating habits, He couldn't sleep very well. And so one night, he was up all night, and a thought came to him. And he said, &quot;What would happen What if I just went back to nature And then a second thought And that thought was &quot;What would happen Rather than thinking, or &quot;What if I did this for a year?&quot; The question that really seized him was &quot;What would happen if I did this And as soon as he had that thought - all of a sudden, he has like this vision, of himself in his 90s. Totally vibrant, totally healthy. He sees himself And at that moment, From that moment, And so he just committed to it. This was over a year ago. And Elko has not touched any bad food. Literally, he's one He hasn't touched any bad food since then. He lives under the mantra &quot;100% commitment That's actually a quote from Harvard But that idea is also actually backed by a lot of very interesting So again, the quote is &quot;100% is easier than 98%.&quot; And the reason why this is so important is because if you're only 98% what that means is that you're not You're not actually fully there. You haven't actually made the decision. And if you haven't made what that means is that you're not If Elko was only 98 percent committed and he was in an environment then he would have to play a tug-of-war &quot;Do I eat it this time? Do I not eat it?&quot; And that, right there, that mental tug-of-war Basically, the idea it's another word for willpower - but it means you haven't and you're not actually sure and because you're not sure often the situation wins. One of the most consistent things is that, generally, people And the reason for that Michael Jordan actually Michael Jordan said, &quot;Once I made a decision, And kind of the Latin root means that once you make a decision, you have to actually And so because Elko made a 100% commitment and he also shifted his identity he didn't ask himself the question &quot;Could I do this for the next 30 days?&quot; Because if you think about it, then you definitely haven't changed You're saying, "I think But once 30 days or a year is over, I go right back what to doing what I was, but maybe then I'll have That's not what happened to Tom Hartman. That's not what happened to Elko. And as a result, those two people - they made a fundamental, And because of that permanent shift, I actually told the story His name is Nate Lambert. He was actually one of my professors. And Nate has also struggled And Nate and I were doing because Nate wanted to go sugar-free. Again, he'd struggled And I knew it's a lot easier if someone like him is already doing it - But it's also easier to do But after hearing Elko's story, &quot;Nate, why would you for someone like you, who knows this is going for the rest of your life?&quot; He's like 38 years old. He struggled with this his whole life. I said, &quot;Why would you What's going to happen a year from now?&quot; And I told him about the idea of 100% commitment and the difference between Decision is the opposite once you've made the decision, you no longer have to play For example, if you make a decision you don't push the snooze button. If you haven't made the decision when the alarm goes off, Willpower often does not work. And so because Nate just sat with his wife, he made a list of the pros and cons for the rest of his life. He asked himself, &quot;What would happen The list of cons was there, you know. There were certain social gatherings miss on some of the things, but the list of pros was fundamental. And the biggest pro was that he would no longer Psychologists have found that, on average, And Nate said that about 40,000 He couldn't stop thinking about it. And that's, essentially, You can't stop thinking about it. And he was very addicted to food. And that's why the Michael Jordan &quot;Once you make a decision, you no longer have to That was the biggest benefit &quot;I'm no longer going to do it; I don't want to think And once he let that go, and once Elko all of a sudden, they were able to be The problem with them willpowering their way to change, maybe setting short goals, is that they never of that thing they wanted Once they can just make the shift in how they saw themselves once you make a decision by committing 100%, all of a sudden, and they felt so aligned they started doing Elko started a business Within a week of having he had already started. Since then, he's done all sorts Nate's the same way. Ever since he's been able and he's stopping, no longer avoiding, and he's now pursuing the life he loves because he's so aligned and the story he's telling himself not based on &quot;Well, Then all of a sudden, he could be more courageous; The scientific definition of confidence is actually that confidence Once you start acting confidently then you develop confidence. And confidence then allows you allows you to see a bigger future, and confidence allows you So now, I'm kind of pushing this question on you. What are some things What have you been thinking about doing? And maybe they've been It could be an addiction weighing in your mind for years. Maybe you've tried it maybe you're going off of it for a year, On the flip side, what things have you that you've been thinking about? What are those things - going back a lot of want-to-be entrepreneurs had been thinking about this for years. It actually took me years to get And it all starts It all starts with shifting your story You can't do it through willpower; you have to do it Thank you. (Applause)