- Most animals die after Animals that keep on are quite uncommon. So humans are the big one, orcas are another one, and there may be a few but it's not as well studied. If everything about reproduction getting that next generation how does menopause, something where reproduction how is that beneficial? It turns out we think it's the grandmother or the The idea is that historically for humans, having a grandmother meant you had an extra that themselves weren't So you had someone who could building shelter, finding water, passing on historical knowledge And so menopause represents it's the idea that we Now, just like there are hormonal changes that lead up to the first period, there are hormonal changes that and that time is known as but you may have also heard it as perimenopause or pre-menopause. The menopause transition is anywhere between four to seven years, maybe even a little bit longer, and it is this winding down Over time, menstruation People might go more and eventually they'll And when people are skipping periods, we generally believe they're, you know, probably about one to three Medically, we use the word menopause to describe the day of the final period, but you never really know and we say everything is post menopause. We say menopause has occurred when you are a year from your last period. So the typical age is between If your final period happens then we call that premature menopause. And if your periods stop before age 40, we call that primary Now, people can also You can have your ovaries removed and then that puts you into menopause. Menopause is associated with a large constellation of symptoms, and because this has been I don't think we have a full handle on how many symptoms are common and in what percentage of to experience all of them. But the ones that we know a lot about are hot flashes and night sweats, which are known as vasomotor symptoms. Another common one is vaginal brain fog, palpitations, Those are some of the more but of course the list is quite long. The hormonal chaos time has an average duration of However, symptoms don't So some people have their and some people have their worst symptoms towards the end of the and some around the time or even afterwards. It's really important that while we do have medications can only do so much. However, one of the most important things is having a good health and that is exercise. And I don't like that answer but we can't deny the impact of exercise on all of the domains And if you want the one thing, if exercise were a drug, that would be the thing To keep that in mind, and it's not just aerobic so that would be the for treating menopause. We do have other treatments as well, and one of the treatments that is menopausal hormone therapy, or MHT. We used to call it hormone and we do not use that term anymore because we are not replacing We expect menopause to happen, we expect estrogen levels to change, but we also don't expect people to suffer, and so it's a therapy. Also, menopausal hormone therapy is the gold standard treatment for hot flashes and night But when people are suffering then we use vaginal estrogen. So the big question is, should I take it? Like any medication, do you need it? That's what you should be asking yourself. Because while menopausal hormone therapy can help many parts of menopause, there's also parts that So you only wanna take a There is no broad agreement that every person should be So I often think about as things that are really evidence-based, and those would be the So that would be hot or prevention of osteoporosis for people who are at high risk. There are also what I would meaning it might help and that takes a much in the office. A good example would be depression in the menopause transition. There are some studies that show that estrogen can help with that. Interestingly, it doesn't So, if someone were two years and said they wanted to start that wouldn't be an But if they were having irregular cycles, then that would be. Other yellow light indications The studies aren't great but and there is some data that shows it may reduce the incidence but there isn't a global recommendation to give menopausal hormone It also doesn't work for and we do not recommend starting for prevention of dementia or cardiovascular disease. There may be some benefits but it hasn't reached the threshold where it's a universal recommendation. We also don't recommend it for brain fog. There are quite a few studies that show that it doesn't have any short-term impact on brain functioning. And one caveat to that might be if you're someone who's because of hot flashes. One symptom that isn't discussed enough in the menopause transition People obviously can have skipped periods, but people can also have heavier periods. For many people, hormones are part of and one way we often do that is with the estrogen-containing It is good at controlling heavy bleeding and people also get the benefit of estrogen and contraception. But there are other options too. We can use a hormonal IUD and then, if people wanna start they certainly can. So, whether or not you should start it would really depend on, do you have something that it can help? And if it is a safe therapy for you, then it may well be worth trying. And like any therapy, if you start it and you're that you wanna get, then it should be reassessed. When we're talking about we are talking about meaning a pill, a patch, or a gel. And it is very important that because making hormones into something that's absorbed reliably, either from the gut or across the skin, is actually quite challenging. It takes years of research to do this so we know that they When you get a compounded product, you have none of that and so there can be issues absorption, there can be issues with dose. Also, compounded products don't contain the same warning labels that which gives them the illusion of safety. Because when people see a warning And if they don't see it, they think, well, they But it's just that the don't require that And I would include as part of compounded hormones. Pellets often deliver very high doses of estrogen or testosterone or both, depending on the pellet. They're also not batch tested and they're associated with and the big problem is adverse events often don't get reported. Now, one question I get, well, but I wanna take bioidenticals. Bioidentical is a marketing term that has essentially no medical meaning. The belief is that it's a hormone that is identical to But being the same as doesn't make a hormone safe. What makes something safe is if it has been tested and studied and we know that it is safe. But here's the kicker, is that almost every that I would prescribe for you could be considered bioidentical because it's all estradiol, it's all made generally from soybeans and it all comes from I mean plant as in factory, And testosterone is not part We don't recommend we don't recommend adding we don't recommend adding The only indication for it is from libido or desire problems who have a relationship of those desire-related issues. So how do you sort the snake Because there's a lot of I have a few good rules of thumb. In general, if something it probably is. There is no influencer or doctor that no one else knows about. If the information's out Number two, be very mindful because you need to Many people actually end up because people who sell snake oil are really good at search So how do you fact-check, What I recommend people do put it into your Google search, and add ACOG, American College or Menopause Society, the Put your question and then and what that will do is to bring content from those Number three, be mindful So is this person truly an expert? Are they a physician who is Or are they someone for example, a naturopath Does the person sell supplements, okay? Supplements are untested, If I sold a birth control pill, if I had Dr. Jen Gunter's you would probably rightly think that my information about When you have somebody who makes money advertising supplements or even has their own you should really consider all of their medical because how do you know to promote their supplements? I would be very mindful about getting health advice or While it's great that often the way they talk about or physiologic states like menopause isn't always evidence-based. - Want to dive deeper? Become a Big Think member and join our members-only community, watch videos early and