Right, that's a good start. Let's just get to You don't even know what a miracle you are yet. have no teeth, and are around 1/800th of your baby of any placental mammal, which of course equally helpless twin, which occurs in around 50% the world gets two new pandas. Mother can't store meaning she has to choose who she thinks is the After the miracle birth, it's a miracle you and your mum potentially not knowing how to Luckily your mom knows her stuff and you're well lots of cuddles. Your colour pattern is now fully and you finally open your eyes for the first time. can move on your own, getting your first bit of her little chubby wubby, so still a ways to go. you put on a brave face and take your first different to what you're used to and you can see after conquering the ground you take to the skies, you to her favorite food, although her milk is go on you travel through the mountain forests and less milk. It's now the year mark and you're go solo. You belong to the order of carnivora and so designed for meat, but mum doesn't teach intricacies of what bamboo can be found where, and so you can just about survive on a diet that you and you don't have much time to play anymore as 12 hours a day eating. You're still hanging around new fellas and you decide it's about time you move and alone. Don't worry, that's the way you like little energy your diet gives you is by completely Other people, I mean pandas, are very draining. sit still and munch down 15 kilos of bamboo a day, something else, you don't really have a choice. doesn't digest plants well, having limited ability little energy and protein. Your main source of found in bamboo, which you have evolved a high carnivores. Because of these digestive limitations of food to survive, and that's all got to go to call it a day. You wake up the next morning then notice a marking. Smells male, quite high to avoid this territory. In service of not having communicating. Maybe it's time you get yourself a with no markings around, then change that by This tells other pandas about your age, height, bamboo. You've not been here long but decide to the valleys and further up the mountain slopes, incline equals more energy. You know it's worth it guess what, bamboo, shoots. At higher altitudes which are much richer in protein and starch than and take the opportunity to have some slightly doesn't digest properly. The only new drawback but you can make that up with the leaves in and you're back down in the valleys. You're cold. At this time it might make sense to eat your low energy but still readily available plant. although you do take the chance to have a little as your thick coat provides enough warmth and in horse manure for extra insulation, so you reason to hang out in the valleys outside the and what a barrel of laughs that is. You're not you're around 6 years old. That's 25,000 kilos You are now an adult Panda. 100 kilos, 5 ft long, the bear family. After a bit of debate, it has even with your questionable choices. It's the leaf now to keep up with your size. You're coping well having a bite force designed for meat helps with are actually large muscles that had to adapt along with your now broader back molar teeth. At bone started growing too much, only to end up bamboo. There's one more adaption to mention. cyanide poisoning, but not you. You found a way go on you notice that the bamboo around you is territory with a different bamboo species that's quite fast, but don't cause... you know, bamboo, towards the forest with the fresh bamboo you're This is annoying cause you kinda need to get can't get food any other way, maybe should now. It looks like you've been chosen. species and considers you a valuable out to other countries to illustrate a strong strengthening their public image. These loans up to a million dollars a year, which can be put resources you must be looked after properly Today's the start of your new life. The first In fact, you were given the name second, 50 years of the same plant. Your full name is actually the that plant, you have loads of it, so just a quick you have a fright when a stream of strange at the edge of your territory. I guess all you your daily supply you notice a few extra bits have the day after eating a bit less bamboo than your day early. Funny that. A year's gone by, not much panda in your territory, and you can smell that already? Can't really tell in here. Female pandas so it's of vital importance that you both take the succeed any cubs will also be the property of the support conservation there. After greeting each into position then... give him a second... time's This shouldn't happen. Annd now they've both gone Guess better luck next year. [Music] What is wrong quite well now, so come on, species survival. I've never known a species to be so clueless do seems to purposely make your life difficult and you just don't care about. How could you have what happens when your brain shrinks cause you go to plan and now it looks like it's your time to been theorized that China will take their pandas relations, or maybe the zoos just don't want Find a territory, find some bamboo, back to anywhere but we'll give it a go. As a male you markings that indicate a female in heat. Once you and you then manage to find the female, along with show some aggression towards them which, along allowing you to take a spot next to the female. but we all know how it ends. As you're chomping wait, what?? That all went to plan. No issues, next time. [Music] Well that's really unexpected. there's another reason why you wouldn't mate in all, and just a highly specialized animal who's unique environment, where even though you derive extremely abundant bamboo was still the better bad at mating, and when left to your own devices to the American Black Bear, having had no problems until a certain 'invasive species' turned up and the only miracle is that humans can get to the this complex thought, but still think the pandas Who knows? [Music]