In this video, we're going to build a home has plenty of performance for Docker and the best part - all of the and you won't have to sell a kidney to build it. This build is going to be and will still have lots of So without further ado, let's get to building! Actually no, I lied to you guys... there is going to be a further ado Namely, this message from Brilliant.org is not going to show that's supposed to be my job. But if you're looking for a fun way AI and other topics with Brilliant is the way to go. Their courses are made specifically so even if you have a few minutes a day You can still learn effectively. with hundreds of courses on neural networks, computational biology And who knows, maybe instead of working on the next breakthrough in the or inventing a new number, or, If you want to check it out, and get your free thirty day trial The first 200 people to sign up with the link So thank you Brilliant for sponsoring this For real this time The heart of this system is Now as my friend Natalie says, &quot;Um...&quot; This little board is powered by which supports H265 video transcoding, It also supports all the new encryption so you'll have no issues running Tailscale, For the storage, we have 6 SATA And if six SATA ports somehow you can also get one of these M.2 to SATA Just like a lot of other similar boards, But despite some Intel claiming that the system also runs perfectly As you can see, the cooler on It's a long story. The tiny built-in fan does get which can actually be fixed by between the screws and the motherboard, and replacing them with some After doing that, and the CPU runs way cooler. Moving on to networking, but four 2.5 gig Ethernet ports. These are powered by the Intel i-226-V NICs, to three devices to your NAS I'm not counting the fourth one because you'll still probably And if 2.5 Gbit networking isn't enough for you, into a PCIe slot using a riser, There are also some versions of this motherboard so you can also go with that Do keep in mind though, that both so in reality you'll be limited Which is still more than 2.5, I guess. Now with four 2.5Gbit NICs and full you could, theoretically, use this Router, NAS, docker host, the whole thing. You probably shouldn't do that though.. But if you really hate me Make sure to subscribe because Other than that, this board cool and useful features, such &quot;Hey, go...&quot; No~ come, on, really, two Contrapoints Anyway, it's not all unicorns and rainbows, First and foremost, the CPU performance... The base model with Celeron N5105 performs though at only a fifth of its power consumption. At the same time, this should still be running some Docker containers And there's also a slightly more expensive version that comes with Pentium N6005, And finally, the second flaw of this system Now these two cons might seem pretty significant... You can get this board for as little as 160EUR, and for that price it has I mean, think about it - 6 four 2.5 Gbit Ethernet ports, quad core CPU with for 160EUR. Now I can already hear you guys asking boards with mobile CPUs? would destroy that wimpy Celeron? Well, yes, the motherboard itself is 220EUR. It also only has one Ethernet And once you add the price Intel Ethernet card and an M.2 SATA controller, And that's for a platform with and no proper PCIe power management. Though, spoiler alert, the latter is Now personally, I don't use my or serve mission-critical I do, however, run things the Arr-Suite, Nextcloud, as well as an occasional And the N5105 handles it like a champ. But, if you know that you and don't really need the then yeah, the Erying boards And as for the lack of ECC memory... [Ugh, I'm gonna regret this] I think the importance of ECC memory for a Now, don't get me wrong, ECC is a very nice The risk of a memory error causing a significant but to be fair, it's never zero. Still, as a home user who media storage, backups, photo You're more likely to lose your a power outage or even a human error. That being said, if you do have in which you absolutely cannot afford and don't want to take any chances Then yes, you probably should look The problem is, getting a and CPU combo with ECC support this NAS board from Topton for a similar price... Old server gear is cheap, but it's You can buy an old Dell but you'll also pay twice its price And probably get tinnitus. And newer server gear is much more expensive. This motherboard with a low power Xeon, 6 SATA slots and 2 Ethernet ports And here's the kicker - the than the Celeron N5105 and also which means no hardware There are like three motherboards power efficient, have a buttload and don't cost an arm and a leg And they're pretty much impossible to find. Then there are Ryzen CPUs, which However, the AMD AM4 CPUs tend to be less You can check out this blog post from Hatted So, if you're building a if you handle large amounts and don't want to take any chances with it.. And if you know that the earn more money than you invest into it... Then yes, a server-grade platform But if you're a home lab user whose backups and personal use... Then, in my humble opinion, We're building a home server here, Now that that's out of the way, For this build, I'll be using 32 gigs 16 gigs should be enough if you're running But if you want to use ZFS, with a couple of VMs, you You can get a 16 gig kit for 38EUR You can also check out used laptop memory as well. But whether you buy it new or used, For the case, I'm gonna be using Fractal Node 304. As you can see, mine looks It has a custom 3D printed front I've also replaced one of the hard That can fit up to six 2.5&quot; SSDs. Still, even without these mods, It can fit six 3.5&quot; hard drives, And a dual slot full-size PCIe card. Even though Node 304 doesn't Like hot swap hard drive bays or microATX support, You can get it for 100EUR new, or even as little as 35EUR Power supply is a pretty especially if you focus on power efficiency. However, the problem is that on the market are pretty Which is understandable - a And when it runs, it's going to be under load - or crunching some numbers. However, for a power efficient lower load efficiency is very important. Most of the time, our server is Compare it to a gaming PC, which and I think you get the idea. Because of that, a lot of homelab enthusiasts These can be plugged into a obliterate any ATX power supply However, the catch is that the PicoPSUs Sure, you can use SATA or Molex but that's janky at best, So instead, we're gonna be I got mine for 130EUR and for that It comes with modular cables and But this power supply also hides a little secret. After buying one online, an Unraid user Marc Gutt looked at its its low load efficiency and found This is actually one of Node 304 for the case, instead Right now, the SFX and FlexATX power supplies which you usually find in are simply not even close to the RM550x And even if you're not going it is way easier to find an decent, inexpensive and quiet ATX pee ess you than And with way more power connectors than a PicoPSU, For the hard drives, I went with these These are pretty much the best bang for and go for as little as 13.21EUR per terabyte. 'Recertified New' basically means refurbished by Seagate and is I got three of 16 Tb Exos which is 40EUR cheaper than their new price of 258EUR. As of making this video, you can which is 82EUR cheaper than the new price. Despite being 7200RPM Enterprise drives, these are actually pretty And since they're refurbished they also come with a one year warranty. So if you're on a budget, definitely don't These would normally have a way longer and as long as you buy them it's definitely a good option. Another great option if you're building a home NAS These are basically regular SATA and cost way cheaper than internal You can normally open up a drive which means that you also This process is called 'shucking' and Two of the most popular Western Digital My Book and Right now you can get a 12TB This one is a display unit, and you can also often get minor scratches and only a few power on hours. With 8TB and above, you are getting CMR drives, but anything below that will be You probably don't want SMR drives in a NAS, And besides, higher capacity better value when you look That being said, times change two or three years after it came out, So here's a website that I personally use You can choose between different countries Which is basically thee way to Another good place for research which they've been publishing since 2015. Here you can find very of hard drive models and their failure rates, which could be very useful if Last but not least, and I Whether you go for an expensive Don't trust your hardware and Now let's talk about flash storage. As of making this video, the and right now you can get a 1 or a 2 TB drive for 90EUR. Now I'm not going to get into reasons I'll leave that to serious tech analysts... But what I will say, is that you should definitely get a couple of SSDs for your You can use them as cache or for tiered caching in Unraid, and they can dramatically speed up You can get a couple of 1TB and then add more drives as your server grows. I'll be using WD Red SSDs here, but you can definitely get And as for the bootdrive These days you can get a 256 And yes, it's obviously gonna but we don't really need any And even if you're running Unraid, it's still recommended that you have a You probably don't want to put Since this motherboard has two M.2 slots, That way, if one drive fails, the system will And yes, as usual, RAID is not and make sure that you can actually restore them. Alright, let's build it! Building in this case is pretty easy, especially since we don't otherwise make the cable Speaking of the cables, I can short and low profile SATA cables from Aliexpress. These come in four-cable and six-cable variants, and are way easier to manage One of the most important things in a Energy in Europe is expensive, buying one of those old dual-socket Xeon monsters Even if you don't mind the noise. And in terms of power efficiencty With all three hard drives spinning, the overall system power consumption After two minutes of inactivity, the Seagate Exos drives go In this mode, the system consumes around 26.5 W. And finally, with all 3 drives in the the power consumption goes down to just 18 W. But what if we fill our server with 6 hard drives? Well, in that case, we're looking at 35 watts with the hard and around 19 to 20 watts with Now believe it or not, this if not for the onboard JMicron SATA This controller doesn't which prevents the system from Moreover, executing powertop --auto-tune Still, 18 watts is definitely nothing to scoff at, features and a compatible SATA controller savings in terms of costs. And here's the total build I think 492.44EUR is a pretty with 32 gigs of RAM, quad 2.5 gig And just for reference, here's the total build cost with all To be clear, I wouldn't recommend doing them if you're just trying to build This was more of a passion project for me especially if you don't have a 3D printer. Still putting this out there but the first build is still the one For comparison, Synology's So for twice the price of our which performs slightly better than the As well as a more compact However, it also comes with gigabit and most importantly - the Synology DSM for your operating system. Unlike some NAS boxes from installing a 3rd party OS on a On the other hand, if you have a self-built NAS, And basically get all the NAS-centric operating system Or just stick to TrueNAS, And even when it comes to power efficiency, main advantages of a pre-built NAS Now, after my last video, not including storage in the total build cost. So here are some build templates With 16 terabytes of usable both in RAID1, this build will set you back 1047EUR With 24 terabytes of usable both in RAID5, you're looking at 1144EUR. Here, we're using 12TB drives instead of 16, which are a bit cheaper when Finally, 32 terabytes of usable both in RAID5, will set you back 1385,44EUR. So yeah, there you have it guys. We built a nice, practical and which you can use to run or even a hypervisor like Proxmox. I hope you guys enjoyed this video,