(brooding music) - Most plane doors aren't locked. There are no keys, no sensors If someone wants to pull - A man opened the emergency exit door and forced his way off the plane. - And yet with 40 million these doors are virtually So, why not? - Your self preservation, surely. - Common sense. - Most people are, you know, smart enough to not mess with that. - The real answer relies - How high do planes fly approximately? - 10,000 km or - I think that's overshooting it. I think you'd be in space. - 25,000 km. That's the height of a plane flying? - Is that way too low? - It's too much. It's too much. Too much. Too much. Bring it down. - Maybe yeah, 1,000 km? - 1,000 km, still space. - 50,000 ft, I think. - Yeah, some of them can - 30,000 ft. - 38,000 ft. - Yeah. Why do they fly that high? Uhh... - I don't know. Safety, I guess. - Probably to avoid and if there's high mountain ranges. - I don't know, - My guess is to avoid - I think that's a decent guess. Now, it's true that one of the benefits of flying at 30,000 ft is a smoother ride. This is high in the troposphere, the layer in which most weather occurs. So, there's less turbulence and fewer storms to navigate around. But this is not the main The bigger reason, of course, is money. As you go up, the density of air decreases and at 33,000 ft or 10 km, the density of air is just a third of what it is at sea level. So flying at this altitude, the plane runs into a third closer to the ground. That means the plane for the same amount of thrust. And as a result, you get and since you spend less time in the air, you burn less fuel. It seems in a way that like Can you compare like the Do you essentially get the energy back as you fall down the other side? - Yeah. When we climb, we burn In cruise, we burn about And in descent, it's maybe 10. So, it's almost negligible. - Not only that, jet engines They work by compressing mixing it with fuel and igniting it. So, the combustion products from the exhaust nozzle. Now, this process is more And at altitude, the temperature is around minus 50 degrees Celsius, which is a lot colder here at the ground. So, flying higher means you and avoid the weather of lower altitudes. - The other reason you wanna fly high is to take advantage of and the company likes people who do that, because you're burning less fuel, so it's less money. - But there is a problem The air up there is unbreathable. If you were suddenly teleported to the top of Mount Everest, a you would remain conscious This is because in addition to density dropping with Air pressure actually falls off faster, because it depends on the So at 10 km, the air pressure is only a quarter of To be clear, the air is still 21% oxygen, but the partial pressure of oxygen, the pressure exerted is around 5.5 kilopascals, which is a quarter of Now at this pressure, not can force their way into To function normally, humans of at least 16 kilopascals. So, all the cabins of airplanes that cruise at high altitude A little bit of air is into the cabin from outside. It actually comes in from of the jet engines. That is what maintains - The downside is that you are taking away a little bit of the - Now, pressurizing the cabin required a radical redesign of aircraft. Before pressurization, planes would fly up to 10,000 feet or where the partial pressure just at the limit of On these planes, doors opened outward and there wasn't much concern since the pressure was But once planes were pressurized, all the doors were changed They're wider on the That way the higher pushes the door into its frame, How airtight is a cabin? - It's pretty airtight, but So, you'll notice for example, every time that someone you'll see some of the So every time that happens, you can actually see the cabin - And this is why plane doors don't need locks. The difference in pressure and the low pressure exterior is so great that no one is strong enough And if someone had come up and turned that while Nothing. - Even modern plane are shaped like plugs. They're just cleverly designed. The main passenger door on a Boeing 737 is both wider and taller to pass through. But when you pull the lever, gates at the top and bottom fold in, reducing the height just enough. However, the sides are still too wide. So, the door first has It's that movement inwards It would require a force equivalent to lifting 9,000 kilograms. And airplane cabins aren't to the sea level pressure You may have noticed this if you take a bag of chips on a plane. It's easy to squish on the ground but as the plane climbs, the and the chip bag seems to I measured the pressure in my plane and at cruising altitude, the pressure dropped to 77 kilopascals. Meaning the partial pressure of oxygen was only 16 kilopascals, the minimum required for people This has some unintended consequences. Do you think you fart more in a plane? (interviewee laughing) - If I did, I'd blame someone else. - I feel like no. - No. - No - I can't let it rip, no way in the world. Do you think you fart more in - A hundred percent, no hesitation. Sure, I mean it's gotta do - So as you go up, that and the air wants to go somewhere, and the quickest place it can go is south. - Bag of chips just popped by itself. - Now, the International to sea level pressure, 101.3 kilopascals. So, why are planes pressurized to the minimum extent possible to carry human passengers? Well, it's actually In 1988, Aloha Airlines 243 was en route from Hilo The cabin was being but unfortunately, this plane's and all of a sudden at 24,000 feet, the crack widened and the whole roof tore off the front of the plane. Miraculously the pilots and only one person was killed. The difference between the and a plane is that the and it stays pressurized. But a plane experiences every time it climbs to cruising altitude. So, the fuselage is stretched and then relaxed with every flight. Stretched and relaxed, The Aloha Airlines plane had the second highest 737 with nearly 90,000 in total. That's way more than it was designed for. This led to fatigue, cracking, corrosion, and the eventual explosive decompression. So, planes are pressurized to minimize stresses and But even 75% of atmospheric pressure should be plenty to prevent So, how did this happen in May, 2023? - A passenger panicked to open an Airbus They were on final approach and they were quite close to the ground, so the pressure differential And because of him using all of his force, he actually managed to get and we didn't think But if you want something - Wow. Was he okay? - He was okay. Everyone - That was a pretty serious mishap. So, I guess the next logical question is: Have any other passengers by say, forgetting to put When you're sitting there on the tarmac and they come on and tell you to put your phone on And why do they get us to do that? What is the reason? Is there a reason? - Obviously, they if it wasn't for some benefit. - I'm unfortunately a bit of a rebel and I don't follow the rules and yeah. - But you're not worried - I'd make sure my parents so I can have it off. - I mean, yes I do because with like the radio or whatever. - Well, I think it's the - I feel like I've always been told like it messes up like instruments, but honestly you're So you know, just gotta put - In 1961, the Federal found that some portable FM radios could interfere with since they used neighboring radio bands. And out of caution, they banned almost all personal But airlines could test and overrule the FAA ban Any device, that is, except a phone, because another organization and that's the Federal See a phone on the ground with buildings and hills around it can usually only see at the same time. But from the air, it could The concern was that 200 phones traveling at 800 kilometers could rapidly connect overloading the infrastructure. At least that's what the So, they banned cell phone (funky music) But there's a problem with this theory. A plane is a big metal enclosure, essentially a Faraday cage. So, it should block almost That's why plane antennas Your phone signals can only which means they go horizontally So, they would have to before reaching the ground. And the cell towers your well they are tilted downwards, you know, to collect all the signals from people walking around on the ground. So, it's very hard to make unless you're flying really low. So, phones could only conceivably during takeoff or landing. And the FCC never even In 2005, they went the rule banning 800 MHz may not be needed in order to protect ground-based cellular networks. As far as we know, a mobile phone has never All airplane mode does for So, why are these rules still around? - I've been flying myself and where I've gotten interference, you know, when you're and you get that you know that signal, and that is because someone or the phone is on. Will one phone in an Probably not. Will 200 do something? Maybe. Rather than taking the update their Twitter profile at 500 feet, rather than saying that, we're saying no, you know, just keep them off, you know, enjoy the Wi-Fi up at - But airplane mode might The EU actually no longer requires it and is pushing for airlines on all EU flights. So, we may eliminate that inconvenience, but we still have to What do you think about airplane food? - I only eat the bread rolls. That's only thing I can handle. Apart from that, everything - It's can be very good. - Eh, bland-ish, different consistency. - Do you think the food as it would on the ground? - No. - But bad-tasting food might See, the air that's pumped is really dry. And the Sahara Desert for reference has an average relative humidity of 25%, but inside an airplane cabin, This can dry out your nasal passages, hindering your sense of The lower cabin pressure like the intensity of salt and sugar. But there is one flavor in flight. What do you drink in an airplane? What's your drink of choice? - Apple juice. - Apple juice? - Yeah. - Interesting. - I mean Coke, that's default - Orange or apple juice. - Gin and tonic. - Maybe a Bloody Mary, but... - You're the first one today. - Really? - Yeah. A German survey of a thousand flyers found that more than a quarter of them order tomato juice in flight. And what's really weird is would never drink it on the ground. And would you drink Bloody Mary, would that be like a or is it a special plane drink? - I only have it on planes. - So, why is everyone Well, it could be because of the noise. A 2015 study points to the chorda tympani, a nerve that carries taste information from the tongue to the brainstem. It runs right past the eardrum, between the tiny sound conducting bones. So, loud cabin noise might This could produce an audio illusion that boosts our sense of umami, the savory taste you and well, tomatoes. - I always drink tomato It just felt like my plane drink. Or like spicy tomato juice- - Yeah. - Like both of those - Yeah. So, next time you're on a flight, go for something extra sweet or salty or maybe try the tomato juice. I feel like with how much people fly, our perspective of flying is still pretty distorted. So, why is that? - Yeah. I know that we talk a lot and we dig into them really, really deep and people might ask, &quot;Why Doesn't that just make people But the fact is that this why aviation is as safe as it is. The fact that we have that dig deep into these accidents means that we learn from them. So, every flight becomes That's actually a big reason that I started my channel 'cause I promise you, the more you know the safer you'll feel. (closing music) - Do you think that climate - Eh, depends on what people - Yeah. - It's been a bit of that in - Today, the media tends to prioritize sensationalized headlines Part of why airplane mode is is because of the media frenzy So it's more important than ever to look at all sides of the story. This is why we specifically to sponsor this video. Recent stories about the come from a 2023 study that suggested a link to climate change. Yet, this study was barely totally eclipsed by other major events. But Ground News lets you You can easily compare the coverage and verify the source of the information. If you look closer, you'll see that some of the outlets, like The Independent and the SCMP, argue that climate change is While others like the Free by dismissing the study. That's why it's really important to look at all the information. But Ground News doesn't on things like science and aviation, they also specifically the media isn't covering. Veritasium is all about and Ground News' mission is to provide all sides of every story, so that we can do that for ourselves. So, I encourage you to check them out at groundnews.com/VER. The link is below or you Make sure to subscribe through our link to save 40% off unlimited access. And by supporting Ground News, you're not only getting a tool but you're directly and our work in the meantime. So, I wanna thank Ground News and I want to thank you for watching.