&quot;Speeding and...&quot; [CLAP] &quot;All lined up...&quot; &quot;Brand new season!&quot; &quot;Brand new tour for Formula 1...&quot; I'm looking at the brand new car for the car racing sport, Formula 1, with the current MAX: &quot;Would you like to come and see the car? And we're gonna show you what it takes expensive cars in the world. Because the thing is epic group science projects where 10 teams all hundreds of people spending millions of dollars In this video, I'm going to give you rare build these cars and into a garage This is Formula 1 cars, explained. I am on my way to the Red Bull the nitty-gritty engineering details but of a Formula 1 car. This is Jack. Jack's going to &quot;I will do my very best!&quot; He's doing a finger scan to get us in... &quot;So Cleo, welcome to Red Bull.&quot; Holy.... I don't even know what to say. This is Everything! That's the purpose of it. The reason why they know what they're here to Oh my god... These are all race driven cars from our history in the car and then finishing on the right hand side with The RB7 actually isn't here and the reason you may have seen it do a donut on the top of the Can I touch it? &quot;You can touch the car, it's fine.&quot; about 3 or 4 hours sat down in the car getting essentially and they sort of get the seat formed to other race cars that you might have seen like there's something that makes a Formula 1 car use the same frame or chassis so winning really each team has to design and manufacture their with how you build your car. But you can't just the regulations that the FIA and F1 provide us and shapes they are.&quot; That's the formula in Formula 1. rules. &quot;The incredible thing with Formula 1 for me race. They've all designed and built their own everybody's within you know a second of each itself. But the only way that you gain an advantage look at every area that you can possibly can to spend $135 million per year minus driver salaries. win it means that every decision needs to get the that goes into building these cars is next many of the same technologies that you know NASA apply them to designing our own rocket that goes room. Now we're going into the secret... what do WOAHHHH. Yeah this feels cooler. Who are these cars? &quot;So these are a variety of &quot;There's some show cars but also there some Can I walk here? I have a question, you're gonna say no. &quot;Yes!&quot; He didn't say no! &quot;Just be really careful not to nail your head Welcome to my crib... Every Formula possible within the rules so their two drivers can tracks all around the world racking up points to last 2 years the team that has done that is Red last year. And here's Red Bull. Yeah. So how do they This is the car that won all of those races and this is &quot;So this is RB19. This is last year's car that obviously A winning Formula 1 car needs to do two things: a straight line. The challenge is that the things be great at the other. The team that can design the let me explain: First, to make a quick turn, you need fundamentals, what we want to do is generate what's grip which means quicker turns. So how do you like an airplane upside down. On a plane, the air air across the car forces it down. &quot;So that is where get it to suck, you need higher pressure above the lower pressure air is to get it moving really fast. you want to be able to speed up the air as much as slow it down as much as you can on on top of the good way to get fast lower pressure air isn't for It's to create tiny tornadoes under the car. They &quot;A highly powerful vortex, that in itself generates a that rotates.&quot; High velocity air! &quot;Those structures generate low pressure for a very long region.&quot; help suck the card toward the ground to give it Formula 1 card generates a downforce three or four theoretically drive on the ceiling. But all of this straight line you need to knife through the air more downforce... &quot;it normally comes with added drag air, so it's a resistive force.&quot; For example, look at but it feels like a big parachute slowing the car teams are allowed to build in a control that the allowing the car to zoom down the straights system or DRS. Designing a winning Formula 1 car pushing the rules and the limits of physics to This is a question that I'm sure you're going to sit in this car? &quot;I don't think it's up to me. but...&quot; &quot;You can sit in the car.&quot; YESSSSSSSSSSSSS. Thank you! Ah! &quot;I've got something rather special that you can we'll get you in the car, see how &quot;So how you feeling in there, Cleo?&quot; This is SO COOL. Let me just describe what this feels like. My legs are like that, and my back is here like that. So I is what's happening in here. I'm getting more and is interesting. The idea of going 200 mph in this I have a totally new appreciation for what quite comfortable. This is clearly crafted apparently. That is actually going to come up in that in a minute. Eventually, I had to get out of design goals of a Formula 1 car, it's time to see works on designing their cars they're constantly physical rigs that mimic a moving car and in big Formula 1 limits how much teams are allowed to these little 60% scale versions of their cars are so light and fast and strong is that basically a material 10 times stronger than steel but half a piece?&quot; Yeah do you have a piece of carbon fiber? Can I hold it? How heavy is this? Oh it's heavier look on the side so that's when it's layed up...&quot; the car? &quot;With its strength to weight ratio being light whilst it retaining a lot of structure you can actually see light through it there Woven carbon! To create the carbon fiber parts right shapes and then lay down carbon fiber cloth out and shove them into basically a pressure resin. Then they cut and measure those carbon programmable machines. It looks like it's getting that gets added to the water to make sure it can fully appreciate how big this is but there are in front of us all of the parts for the RB20, the room right now in these white boxes. Pretty cool. &quot;I think it's more about not getting it on camera...&quot; they use depends on what they need it to do. Okay it. So this is a lot of what the car is made out the car for certain parts and components which &quot;It is quite...&quot; Holy cow! It's hard to show visually how much I'm trying to hold... I could probably like this is very heavy! So that's densimet to the car. We sometimes add weight into the have to have a minimum weight of the car so car to bring the car up to weight...&quot; There are car and after they're designed and molded The paint job on a Formula 1 car is a big deal and they see the car for the first time. And teams going to look beautiful. But the paint isn't just lot of the sponsor logos that you'll see on tiny little edge would create unwanted drag they it's just astonishing to me and effort goes into the Now we're headed to the most secret their new engine. &quot;This is one of the world's &quot;This isn't just an engine, this is a a Formula 1 engine.&quot; from Honda but that's about to change. In engines that they're working on right now and it. &quot;So this building here wasn't here to two you see the workshops you'll see what we've it matter to build a Formula 1 engine yourself? the engine is paramount really. You and everything all that side of it, is the a ton of money and time into a custom engine they their car and ultimately win more races. Can you I'm in the super secret engine room but we can't but I'm standing in front of the real Formula &quot;People going to love it.&quot; They're going to hate me! Okay so you and the reason why little bits are covered not allowed to see. If I'm working on a Formula 1 maximum power, smallest size? Is it light? &quot;Power. You will ask for more power. Even if he's got the most why this engine is so cool let me explain how the so your car probably has a four stroke internal too which means there's a cylinder and inside four strokes. In the first one, air and fuel rush into then a spark ignites the mix and it explodes gears generating mechanical movement that turns up and pushes the remaining gas out. That whole are six of them in a V shape which is why it's from 4 to 8 depending on what you drive. But one car is the maximum number of cycles - that down-up car about 6,000 a Formula 1 car over 15,000 that these cars combine a bunch of other technologies which compresses air before it enters the cylinder 1 car. It's a great example of why Formula 1 cars not that this tech is brand new. It's that it's of smart people with millions of dollars to make car tech for all of us. The engines that they're will use less fuel and more electricity and we got a sneak peak.... Can you hear that? So that's &quot;Are we allowed to be hearing it?&quot; Just running by - Ooo! What did that noise change mean? &quot;So it it really just revved up the automated power curve. You can hear it's coming a measurement. Next speed, measurement. Next speed, speeds, at different, they're running power curves wide open throttle which means everything we have.&quot; cars it's time to see where they race them. We're here! Here we go... Hi! No I'm not allowed to video any of this... &quot;Turn 1 awaits you a couple of kilometers away!&quot; &quot;No! Every day is a learning day. I can't believe I'm here. And uh you might recognize these guys. Their job is to take the incredible just built and speed them up over 200 times normal gravity, fighting off competitors These drivers are legends. Max Verstappen has DUH DUH DUH DUH MAX VERSTAPPEN Remember those Red Bull win records? to drive a Formula 1 car? &quot;Imagine sitting in a roller coaster 10 times worse, while having a steering wheel in when my dad was in F1, when I was a little baby the pictures, but the very first time that I sat was a little bit nervous. Even I to this day shoots off, you have this like [WOAH] kind And for these cars, since no two drivers are quite the same either, even for the same team. myself, from Max, so they know exactly my seat &quot;The seat is very important, it's a carbon seat. I actually got to sit in what I think was your Actually it was kind of a good fit! .... [RECORD SCRATCH] our butts are the same size? Anyway, here's what of the engineers who helped design it. Would a look totally different? &quot;Yeah. So they all look very dozens of buttons and knobs and switches all and the brakes and much more in every possible &quot;The drivers memorize all the buttons so they can &quot;Sorry... all right... no, we're good.&quot; He might have That was a pit stop. At least once every race, pit box where roughly 22 members of the pit crew other parts. A good pit stop is less than 2 seconds. when we were at the Red Bull Factory we got to see are hot hot! Like hold on.... now it hurts. That's how they've got a really hard job. &quot;Couple more tries...&quot; It each team. For each race, they all get a hard, medium, types of wet tires. Your soft tires have the most ones are on the opposite end of that spectrum and what do they mean? &quot;The drivers will feel when when at the right time is a big part During a race, you'll hear drivers their race engineer, but that race engineer of strategists, all trying to figure out the at the track but most of them are actually back like NASA! And the people in this room aren't just run simulations about tons of possible outcomes. and we run them on the Oracle cloud.&quot; Millions?? account weather and heat of the brakes and tire doing and then feeding those simulations back a race so that's kind of thinking about what's your competitors to and so how might you need to exactly, so we're constantly talking, the intercom somebody in one of your ears. So actually the one ear, and the other car in the other ear, so trying to take them all in. It's basically like The most complicated board game in the world! A inside that car, it's also about the tech behind race but the thing I think is so cool is that even and simulations at the end of the day it still to focus you know because you have always someone trying to focus as much as possible but you have we've talked about from design to build to paint A Formula 1 car is never done. A team is constantly single race over and over and over again. In the Formula 1 and Formula 1 cars is that they're of the individual perfectly formed pieces coming I've noticed with a lot of my episodes of Huge If True. Ingenuity but more and more it's also the story the story of a Formula 1 car and the story of so there's something really magical about a team athletes and all of these people coming together and better every single time. I find a lot of hope What else can we do? I can't believe this is real life. One of mind is that most of the people that work on these not with their team because there's a limited to bring to each race and I know that the only and subscribe to this show and I just, I'm feeling make you a little bit more optimistic about what enjoying this video and you want to help us go to the comments where we should go. And we have some