Jimmy Stewart is one of those classic actors seen his face. He appeared in over 80 films throughout a He was even ranked #3 on the American Film A name like that made fans take notice, but The shy everyman tried a few relationships They had a family, and his children are his Keep watching as Jimmy Stewart's daughter Who Was Jimmy Stewart? Jimmy Stewart was born on May 20, 1908. He had a humble childhood in Indiana Pennsylvania He began his career in earnest when he graduated He went on Broadway and joined summer stock His first official film roles were in 1935's It With You. 1939's Mr. Smith Goes to Washington shot He continued to soar after that with other He joined the Air Force during WWII and was His first post-war role was perhaps his best-known, It became a holiday classic after modest box He'd developed a morally upright persona as 1948's Rope and 1954's Rear Window. He also tried comedies such as 1950s Harvey Shot Liberty Valance. Nothing could keep him down, but something Finding True Love and Making a Family the man he was. His MGM boss Louis B. Mayer was worried he his co-stars, so they started setting him Eventually, the things that made Jimmy Stewart man in his earlier years. His war history, handsome but approachable take notice. He was dubbed the Great American Bachelor Jimmy was connected to many women including Young, Norma Shear, Dinah Shore, and Marlene The relationships differed in seriousness, Then, one day, he met Gloria McLean. She was a socialite, actress, and model. They met at a dinner party, and he admits That didn't make it an obvious match. She was divorced and had two sons from a previous Jimmy married Gloria in 1949 when he was 41. He shocked the world and made headlines. Gloria admitted about a year later that she'd bachelor. She was worried that he wouldn't like seeing every day. Her fears were unfounded. They had a picnic on the beach on his first She said that he made everything into an occasion They had their own children in 1951, twin It seemed that he'd finally found a woman His Death and Legacy he recorded his lines for the animated movie He also appeared in a few talking head documentaries The death of his wife seemed like the right His health was already declining. He had to use a hearing aid, survived a bout Jimmy Stewart died at the age of 89 on July He suffered an embolism that lodged a blood Over 3,000 mourners attended his memorial Bill Clinton said the world had lost a national Jimmy certainly created an impressive legacy, who lived with him. Like and subscribe to FactsVerse for more Keep watching to learn the truths that Jimmy Who Is Jimmy's Daughter? Jimmy was married to his true love Gloria They had two sons, one of whom was tragically They also had twin daughters. None of them had any interest in acting, including She instead became an anthropologist, living at UC Davis. Her parents were interested in conservation, received in high school. She feels that her father would be relieved Kelly remembers going on the set with him She thought that everyone fussing over him kind of thing she could do. She also remembers that his preparations for He'd sit in his special chair at home, looking He'd never speak his lines out loud, but go over them in his head. She still remembers that image well even if it. That was the only way he brought his work was out" when he came through the door. It helped her feel loved and noticed in a What Jimmy's Daughter Had to Say father" or a "hands-on dad." He wasn't the type to help with homework of how to behave. She says that her father's massive career His respectable, All-American attitude was He was gracious with fans. He never refused anyone who wanted an autograph. Fans would tell him about writing a letter back. His secretary had to help him in the later His distinctive Southern drawl was also real. It showed up when he would tell them stories he took a while to get to the point. She does remember one moment when the light That was when his wife Gloria died in 1994. She remembers that they were both wonderful They had a similar sense of humor that worked type. She says that, when he lost her, it seemed He wasn't depressed per se but would spend At the same time, she does believe that he life. Speaking of that, Kelly believes It's a It encourages those who dream of traveling. It also lets everyone know how important it ones they love. She's grateful to those who've made it part that a gift to their family. She also believes that it was one of her father's He loved working with director Frank Capra, Another thing he was most proud of was his It took a toll on him, leaving him with nightmares It was Frank who helped convince him that away. Kelly also remembers Jimmy as a doting grandfather. She and her brother's children all have much they made their lives better. A Few More Stewart Secrets in 1939's Mr. Smith Goes to Washington. It was going to go to Gary Cooper, but they He was humble enough to not focus on his full He couldn't stop winning in his early years, He wasn't satisfied with it, though. There are rumors he wasn't even going to with it told him it'd be worth it. He turned down roles that went on to be Oscar They included 1981's On Golden Pond. He didn't like the relationship between treating his daughters that way so he turned He also didn't like the racial themes in in 1976's Network. The only place he couldn't seem to succeed The Jimmy Stewart Show debuted in 1971 but He won a Golden Globe for another show in It was a ratings flop and he found TV too Jimmy was strongly against colorizing old He was one of the opponents who lobbied Congress The House Appropriations Committee decided Any film that did get colorized had to have changed. Acting wasn't even his only passion. He was an accomplished pilot with over 400 He flew over 20 combat missions by the end with the Air Force Reserve until retiring He also starred in a biopic of Charles Lindberg Fame in 2009. There's even an airport named after him Jimmy was also a poet. If the improvised crying scene in It's a story about a dog will. He appeared on Johnny Carson's The Tonight His piece Beau which he read in 1981 had everyone, There's also a collected version of his and it sold over 300,000 copies. What's your favorite Jimmy Stewart film? Let us know in the comments below