Power and elegance - Africa's big cats. We think of them as kings, ruling But not all their neighbours This powerful hyena clan with a local pride of lions: Three lionesses with nine cubs, on They've survived their first But all nine will soon face As the pride breaks up, the future of the young lions While their eternal enemies, The duel of the hunters continues. These rocks are the centre It's an ideal location - with Three lionesses have safely Nearby waterholes attract a steady Bulky zebra are difficult quarry But one of the three females Crowded together, the zebras That helps, but the lioness must cross A lion's attack is of stalking, speed Spotted hyenas, in their close to the rocky valley, use The tightly organized pack raises Hyena females dominate, in a strict hierarchy that can hold The lion kings rarely control a And the monarchs of the Rock Pride in a fight with foreign males. One of the kings has disappeared. His time has run out. He can no And yet he has done better His young are already grown Now all he can do is survive. Alone, barely able to hunt. New males now rule the territory That's not good news for the the interlopers will not tolerate Any encounter could be fatal. The conquerors lose no time, They know, they too could be Within three weeks the females These are uncertain times Will the new males be strong enough Will they stay at all - looking for more territories The two oldest sons of the previous the Valley of the Rocks. They have turned into nomads, in the hope of finding another As singletons it would be to drive away the males In tandem they might A hyena clan rarely knows High-status females guarantee Whenever they can, these females to maintain their position. So a hyena pack can stay together The only newcomers are males and they'll start right Rebellions are rare. One evening three females to rise in the hierarchy. They've been supporting Now it's become a First they intimidate They would never dare As a trio they can mob without risk of retaliation. After the first success they now dare to approach their It's an older hyena who has often defended her position The coup succeeds. The three rebels have upset But there's still a long way In the lions' pride close by, The younger siblings are ignored They don't see the sub-adult sons But the brothers are already much and claim most of the food. Soon, rough and tumble between could turn into something Real tensions are beginning A few days later it's serious. Some of the young lions have been The young males have not been and they are making their sisters' Only a few days ago they Now teeth and claws These wounds will heal soon, but there's no love lost Unlike hyenas, lions have With so many animals the situation easily becomes The sibling group is gradually First, two females break away. The five remaining brothers and two of the sisters The two female singletons remain but avoid their relatives. Soon they are They are already good hunters, Especially dealing with their The coming weeks will be The first lesson: the best chance to approach They usually start out separately, The impalas are too fast for them. But the young lionesses have Topi. And they haven't sensed Neither predator nor prey They orient themselves almost Her sister targets Approaching from the opposite side. The sound of the first attacker's the antelopes are too fast for her. But her sister is in A perfect ambush! A hyena has registered Right away, it's on the spot. And a hyena is rarely on its own. The lioness has to keep the death She can't drive the hyenas away. Her sister storms in, but the hyenas won't give up. And the row attracts more and more It's getting dicey for They eat as much and as fast as When so many hyenas come together, the ranking system they have minimizes fighting and biting. The hyenas get bolder as Finally they move in for the lot. All the sisters can do, is It's a hard lesson: watch out when hunting when These unpleasant experiences where they are less likely to bump There's little competition here. But where the grass is tall, there are few herbivores. They spend days looking for food. And finally they find something. In this grassy jungle warthogs Especially when they have young. For the hungry lions they may be Warthogs are hard to catch and You have to get close, or risk An adult warthog can outrun And even the young are not She will soon lose energy But her sister has held back and she finishes the job. Meat, is hard to come by. That's why predators are such Not just lions and hyenas, but lions versus lions, too. The worst competition is often To find a big carcass, both lions and hyenas whenever they get the chance. An anthrax epidemic has Enormous amounts of food - if you There's so much to go round, this noble male doesn't need In fact many big cats scratch along whether it's because they are Like this aged battler. The crocodiles will take For this old lion, the epidemic No longer able to hunt, he often For him, emulating the hyenas - by Royal dignity must But that doesn't mean He can still make an impression. And in fact this mountain of meat But the crocodile senses he isn't and is no longer intimidated Nothing for it but to withdraw. Male lions die much younger many of them exactly this way. He has come to the end Other lions that aren't so skilled have a different strategy This isn't so very 'royal' either. The older sons of have gone their separate ways. And one of them has learned that warthogs are not always safe One warthog is lying to the entrance to the burrow. The lion mustn't get within range Sometimes warthogs choose a burrow that's too small to protect The hogs are basically They can only hope the lion It was four hours of hard work, before the lion pulled the hog out Two young and a second The hard graft was worth it. This warthog will feed him Not far away a hyena mother A group of warthogs are surveying They show her not the The hyena is unsure. She can't attack an adult warthog, Hyenas and hogs both need the holes and from predators. They have no choice and must both that a lion will occasionally There are new arrivals, at After four months a lioness has given birth to But the new kings didn't stay, The previous litter is They won't help defend the young, In fact they're competitors and will steal their share The newborns could even The young males are The lioness mother has This isn't her first warning. But with every passing day It's simple: get out of here! The bachelors must It's the end of the old Rock Pride. It's tough on the Until now they could scrounge off Now they'll have to fend Five young males have But they need self-confidence, That, has to be earned. A massive bull may be too ambitious These boys have witnessed many a They know they must attack from For a few seconds, But the bull has allies. They can't separate him It'll take a few more rehearsals, If they stay together there's a good chance they'll Though it may not seem so yet. Months have passed. The land has dried out. More and more fires are starting. In the south of the Mara reserve Rising hot air draws huge amounts into the atmosphere. As the fire rips across it's an inferno for For the storks, it's feeding time! Kestrels also indulge with abandon. Like the white storks, they are It's their last feast, Lilac-breasted rollers seek out right behind the line of the fire, and just have to wait. Tropical grasslands are adapted to The savannah used to burn every and then recover quickly. But in recent years, bush fires Satellite photos show drifting over Africa This isn't just the result More and more farmers and herdsmen to bush and old grass, to clear Most of the grass roots withstand and the ash fertilises the soil. Once it rains, the land is soon But when there are too many fires, Fire-resistant red oat grass, now dominates the borderlands Scientists fear that wide swathes will no longer support good grazing For the large mammals, the fires they simply get out of the way. But for the smaller animals it's not so easy. The young hare is scared Its mother must be able to find it. Its singed coat is the least The raptors are circling above. It's safer to stay under cover. Towards evening the wind will drop. The little hare has more or less Its mother will soon In the fire season, the sun frequently rises behind The black, devastated land Animals walk through the Plenty of opportunists arrive, Warthogs aren't great nomads. They stay for the last remnants of So the charred land is never empty. Now, all depends on the weather. If it stays dry for months, most hoofed animals will leave. If it rains, these areas will be even for lions - because the fresh grass will So for territorial animals fires bring uncertainty. Territories might be given up, nearby clans and prides Neighbours, and nomads, break into The Rock Pride siblings are One of the solo lionesses But her two sisters have already The sisterly relationship There's no fight. The occupiers leave it This year the inhabitants of the don't have long to wait. The rainy season is punctual - and abundant. Salvation for all the animals Briefly, the savannah blooms. The antelopes return to their and some of the hunting grounds are newly staked out. The territory of the Rock Pride Increasingly, neighbouring lions Three months after the great fire the lush green attracts plenty of The new grass, just a few is especially nutritious For lions this is now A new pride has occupied The topis know the lions are too to take one of them by surprise. They foregather in a &quot;jousting The bulls command from which they banish other males. They try to convince as many of their qualities, in order That involves a lot of running It can be exhausting in But defend your patch successfully, and you get your reward. Toward midday most females leave, The lions are resting and many of the bulls do the same. Others may prefer to &quot;freshen up&quot;. Hyenas are famous for their Which are most unusual for lions. And yet some of the new arrivals do This is very rare behaviour Maybe a single female first and then it became a So the hyenas on the edge of the But right now they're only the hoofed animals. The bulls wait stoically for the resting in the shade, No lion could get this close without provoking a powerful The antelope bulls will not leave to be taken over by a rival. They must simply tolerate the heat. The hyena has no intention she is simply approaching The antelopes keep an eye on her, but she makes it clear she has They're just lying there, The antelopes show no sign of fear. The hyenas disguise their And so a deadly game develops Are the bulls paying The antelopes just The hyenas don't seem to be They look supremely relaxed, even though they are ... and focussed on their prey. Most of the antelopes still have But the game continues. Attacks like this are a challenge, The bystanders at the waterhole The two hyenas continue and turn a midday nap into a nightmare. The hyena is hanging on No way is it letting go. And now the clan colleague The buck is in deep shock The lioness knows exactly what is Like the most natural thing she claims the kill with a lion's A second lioness soon joins her ... and a third is already It takes time for more hyena from the Valley of the Rocks; this is right on the edge And the lionesses are creating They are lucky there are They can hold their The hyenas won't counter-attack - yet. Knowing time is short, the lionesses ruthlessly With their teeth. The original huntress was unlucky. Bitten by a lioness, she'll be out of commission The lionesses won't let the hyenas Even though a lion would The noise level builds, as the One other factor plays the hyenas belong to different As they pursued the antelopes, they invaded another As more hyenas arrive, they must before they move on to the kill. It doesn't matter who The important thing is which So when the lionesses withdraw, the Rock Valley hyenas yield to the The winners eat as fast as they can And once again, their orders who gets how much to eat. A hyena clan may constantly But their conflict with hyena When famished Rock Valley hyenas they risk serious injury. For a few minutes the Rock Valley But in the end it's a numbers game. The attack is repulsed. Hyenas are unquestioningly Hyenas and lions: for millions of years they have Both live in large family groups, attacking the same prey, But in the course of they have developed vastly Traditionally, we find lions But their underappreciated rivals are in their own way, And as long as we don't change the duel between lions and hyenas though the ages to come.