You probably agree that Excel to analyze a lot of data quickly. Now, in I have a video that gets you started in make sure you watch this video just so you Now, the first Pivot Table feature that many feature makes it really easy and super fast So over here in Excel, I have this marketing Responsible Person, the Location these campaigns and Ad Spend. We have 150 rows of data. This MarketingData. To get started with my first and select Recommended PivotTables because I might we get to see some suggestions. The first and Campaign Name. Ad Spend and Units Sold by you want or it's kind of like what you want, it's you get to decide if you want it on a new sheet you already have your Pivot Table, and either So, for example, let's say I wanted to add drag and drop it in the Rows. Now I get to see Location as well as Campaign. If this is too I can kick it out and drag Location with the Recommended PivotTables makes The next feature a lot of people miss is In-built created this Pivot Table and you want to keep let's say Gustavo was very successful in his we want to keep track of this. So I'm just going I'll just give it an orange background color, so I've basically formatted this cell, but check it's actually the number, the Units Sold for is this: if I bring up the Field List take a look at this--that formatting came with it's gone, but I don't have Gustavo here. If I get to see the highlighting. If it's someone you don't want to lose track of a key item, The next overlooked feature is the Conditional I mean by that is this: I have a Pivot Table here Campaign Location. Now what I want to do is add so that I take one quick look at this, and I can the worst. So what I'm going to do is just click format--this is, for example, one of them--and and select the Conditional Formatting of with Solid Fill. Now Excel just applied the but take a look at what's beside that cell--that's I see more choices. I can apply the Conditional Sold. This applies the Conditional Formatting to to exclude the Totals; I just want to apply it to item, all cells showing the Sum of Units Sold for applied. Now, if you want to edit the Conditional Formatting, Manage Rules, select a rule, edit I don't want to see the numbers. and now with just one quick look, I can tell that and Email Campaigns for Jesse are has to work on his language skills Next is not taking advantage of Custom Number let's say I want a separate column to show my bars separately beside it. So I'm going to Now you're probably familiar with the standard Thousand Separator to these numbers, I'm just go to Number Format, Number, use a Thousand down here, you have the ability to add a Custom of formatting that you want from these standard I'm okay with this; I'm just going to go out. Format because I want to hide these totals. It bars if I'm showing them in this column here. So this time go to Custom. Inside this box, I'm and that's going to hide all my values. Now let's delete the header here and add a space. Here, we but there are so many tricks and use cases Pivot Tables. For example, with a simple tweak, positive and negative percentages, or you can add Aside from Custom Formatting, there are many other them a more professional look, whereas my daughter look. I cover all the tricks in my new Excel with my content, you know that good design and learning. In the course, we go in depth, and I scenarios because real-world comes with messy Pivot Tables. Sometimes they can't be grouped dates. Sometimes your data might be on multiple create your Pivot Table. Sometimes you refresh doesn't show up. There are so many things that and in the course, I'm going to address all and you want to find out more, check out the if you want to follow along with what I'm as well. You're going to find more details Now, let's move on to the next feature: So Pivot Tables are great, but what is this? This also don't like with the standard Pivot Table it combines all the different fields in the same column, so I usually go to Design, Report Layout, Tabular Form. I'm going to go with Outline Form. I get proper headers. Now, notice another thing refresh your Pivot Table or you make adjustments and this annoys me most of the time. So I go PivotTable Options, uncheck Autofit Column Widths everything stays as is. So I would love to have create a new Pivot Table in any file, I get these have to go to File, Options, Data, Edit Default to whatever I want. If I want to change the Report show Grand Totals or Subtotals, I have the ability adjust any of the settings here. I could turn have a Pivot Table with the settings that you like and your changes are going to be automatically this is going to be saved with your Excel other file, create a new Pivot Table, Next overlooked feature is Report Filter right here under PivotTable Analyze, Options: Show if you take a look at my Pivot Table layout here, Person and Location in the Rows. For Values, I'm Now, the moment I move something to the Filters, drop it here, and I go to Options, Show Report this do? Well, let's say I needed to create a Gustavo wanted to see his own report, and Walter and replicating the sheet, I can take advantage set it to All and then go to Options, Show Report filters you have in place. I just have one. When see what happens. Each person gets their own is replicated. We can see the Responsible Person Okay, so this concludes my list of common overlook. So was there a feature that I let me know what that is in the comments. you had overlooked for a long time and you just is in the comments as well. By the way, don't you can download this file. You're going of this video. Thank you for being here,