Hey everybody. Welcome to the podcast. My guest today is big wave surfer, Laird Hamilton. This is an absolutely unbelievable conversation and I think you guys are gonna really dig it. So, without further ado, after hitting that subscribe button please enjoy my conversation with the great Laird Hamilton. Let's do it. Laird Hamilton in the house. Thanks man, appreciate you coming out to do this. On your mark get set go. Yeah, let's do it. It's close, it was close. We've been going back and forth. This may be one of the longest your schedule, my schedule scheduling. I know it's been a minute. We were supposed to do this last week, then a swell emerged and God forbid, I'm gonna get in between you in a wave. Not that I could, but that wasn't happening (Laird laughs). So here we are. I suppose it's flat out today. Yeah, well somewhere it's not. Right somewhere. of my life. your dream stage fix you, right? That's where I hit I almost. Over (laughing) Over where there might be as well. Well, I don't know if you have any recollection of this at all. I'd be surprised if you did, but I don't know if you remember, but back in about it was late 2012 my family and I were living at common ground in the yurts behind the restaurant there and I was doing some stuff with Chris J at the time and you and your family would come and eat at the restaurant pretty much every day eating Rodman's amazing food. That places no longer, right? Yeah, that was one of the saddest thing I've ever seen. People work their whole lives to make a successful restaurant. You don't ever, When you get one, you never, you're never supposed to stop it (laughing). But Chris was losing like 50 grand a month or something like that on that restaurant. And he was doing it just because it was a passion of his and he wanted to make it available to the community but he was like hemorrhaging money on it. Yeah, well, I think hemorrhaging on that project the restaurant was actually the one of the, probably the only successful I don't know, I think he was losing money on the restaurant as well. Yeah. And we had come out, I was trying to help them figure out something productive to do with the property but you know, ultimately he couldn't figure out what he wanted to do with it and he's moved on from then but that was like a really precious period in our family's life to like live on that farm for that period we were there for like almost four months. And I just remember you guys coming in and that's where I started this podcast. And Gabby was like my third guest on the show or something like that. But I would see you and like you scared like I was intimidated by you. Like I was too afraid to come and talk to you. I was like, I've actually heard over there, man. I wanna talk to him. But like I never did. And then it took this many years for us to get together and do the podcast. So anyway, that's my big war story. Wow as soon as I looked at you, I knew you I'm, like my name stuff is the worst in the world but facial recognition, I think it's probably connected to survival, just so you know, the foes and the friends. Yeah. when you're saying the door, I'm like I know that, I've seen that guy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I remember Gabby talking to my wife, Julie at one point. And she was like, &quot;You guys might like Maui&quot; you know (both laughing) and that's a loaded statement. I spent a lot of time on the islands (Laird laughs) on all the islands and not nearly as much time as you have obviously. But there's something very powerful in the energy. You can feel it when you're in Hawaii, for sure. And more than any other place on the North shore of Kauai. And that was a challenging period for us because you know, we wouldn't, we were new, we were interlopers and we were trying to like create a little community or a little, you know, like plant and roots there. 'Cause we weren't sure we were gonna come back to LA like we were considering staying there. And it was hard man trying to navigate like the unwritten rules about how you behave in that part of the world. That's true. Well and each Island is distinctly different. Every Island is different. The sides of the islands are different and and Kuai is, we know, Kauai is the, well we always say, you know, bright light, dark shadow. Right. and it's I mean, I don't know if there's a connection to it, it's the wettest place on earth. Yeah. it's kind of and it's the unconquered kingdom by command man and so that the great uniter of the, you know of all the islands couldn't conquer Kauai. And so Kauai has kind of a, it has a, you know there's an aspect to it I think that it definitely makes you kind of introspective. I think you just go there and you kind of go in and if you're not ready for fully in then it's (laughs). Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, there's incredible light but there's a heavy darkness there. Absolutely. And I spend more time on the big Island Yeah. not, you know, in Kailua, but like Yeah. and riding my bike all around the Island. And I think most people's relationship with Hawaii, is they fly there. They're at a resort the entire time. They have a great time. That's not a Hawaii man. Yeah. is a very different place. And you really, you can't fuck around with that energy because it will bury you. It will. Yeah. And we 'cause Gabby and I laugh 'cause she grew up on islands too. So she has Island sensitivity and Island awareness and you see people kind of glamorize, hey, we're gonna move there and live in the paradise and the whole thing. And then you just kind of go, okay, well, if you're coming in with that naivity, like you're coming in thinking it's just everything's all, you know, rose petals, you're gonna probably have a rude awakening. It's better to go, you know? And then Gabby says is the best. And I, listen, I was raised there, I've lived there. You know? I mean, it was a technicality that I wasn't born in Hawaii. I was born in San Francisco, but being in Hawaii since I was three months old and I always walk like, I'm a visitor. You know? And I think it's important probably to do that everywhere in life. Like if you always feel like you're just, you're a visitor, 'cause whenever you see people that get too prideful of, you know, hey I'm a such and such or I'm from here or something like that. I think that kind of like, I think that can hold you back and definitely affect your conduct. Yeah. I mean, it requires an extra level of humility. I think, I remember I wanted to shoot some video stuff and I was talking to Joe guy, you know Joe, right? And we were planning some stuff and I thought, well I can just go, I was gonna go to this beach and do this thing. And he's like, you can't do it you know. He's like, if I'm not with you, forget it. Yeah. you're, you know, they don't know who you are. Yeah. different and new, like (Laird laughs) it's like, hey man, I'm not trying Yeah. Yeah, yeah. And he's like, no, no, no, you don't understand. (Rich laughs) Well, Joe and I have been childhood friends. I know, yeah, I know. little kids. his thing out there? He does a lot of community stuff. So he's working in Hanalei and then working with the community. He's trying to, I mean, the community has ongoing things. I mean, with floods and hurricanes. And then COVID, and I mean, all this stuff is adding. I would have thought you'd be already out there by now. Yeah, I normally I would be, we just have had a lot of work stuff going on with the girls, especially too. 'Cause my daughters, you know, my middle daughter is hitting a lot of tennis balls. And so there's not a great, you know, in the wettest spot on earth, you better have a covered tennis court. Yeah. to be able to put time into that. And then my youngest daughter is going to school which in the past was online now it's, then it wasn't last year. And now it's back online of course, because of what's going on with the pandemic. But so I'm, the girls are kind of holding me back here. I'm also just finishing a home on the Island. Oh, well. for 20 years. So like a lot, like I have sometimes these crazy like lifelong goals, you know, that they're like, they come to fruition like 20 and 30 years down the line. It's not on purpose, but it just seems like maybe that's just like a relentless pursuit. Like you have a vision or a dream or see something. And then you just, and you get, you know, you get distracted, but you just keep coming back to it. And eventually, Baby sitting it over the years (Laird laughing). Kind of like how I baby sat getting you on the podcast. So, two, three years ago. But you were talking to Gabby so at the end you had the, Yeah, yeah. you had the good line. that's interesting because you don't strike me as somebody who is like a goal setter. You strike me as somebody who's more like intuition based like you follow your heart, you follow your curiosity, your creativity. It's not like, here's my goal and I'm working towards that. You see more in the moment in general. But you know maybe I'm using the wrong word, I'm using following my path, my intuitions and following my instincts as, and then identifying something. I think I've had the fortune to be able to kind of I have the fortune to be able to sometimes understand what certain things will mean, or you know in time like, hey, if you get on this board and you start paddling and that eventually that's gonna people are gonna like to do that. And they're gonna be able to do that all over. Just, you know, it's part of that, you know, I think there's an aspect to innovation that you understand what the mechanism or what the idea will eventually turn into. So I, and then it took, so that almost seems goldish at times. It almost gets a little gold like. But it's rooted in play. Like you go out and start playing around with toe surfing because there's no waves. It's not like, Oh, I'm imagining re-inventing surfing. Yeah, I know don't. one thing leads to another. And then, you know, a year later you're doing things that you wouldn't have anticipated when you first just started fucking around with that stuff. That's true. But, you know, I think one, a quote I really like is that they say that, innovative people are fulfilled by accomplishing things and that competitive people are fulfilled by beating others. And I think I'm, I'm really on the, I really enjoy the, you know, that fulfillment of, okay, I think I can do this and then get and then you not I can beat this guy or I can outdo that guy. It's more about, you know, accomplishing these tasks. Which is Yeah. Yeah, yeah. you're not measuring, you've never been one to measure yourself against what anybody else is doing. Yeah. how it measures up against what you think you're capable of. Exactly. Yeah. Or what's possible, like what and then you might not even be capable of it, but is that possible? And then you figure out how to become capable of it maybe. Right. Right, right, right (Laird laughing). Yeah. Necessity is the mother of invention so (laughing), Yeah, yeah, it's, you know, what's funny about that. I watched, I rewatched &quot;Riding Giants&quot; last night. I've been, I dunno when that movie came out. It was a while ago but I hadn't seen it in a long time and I just watched as a refresher of course. Yeah stay people out there. Yeah it's amazing. And what struck me is, you know, you're, you've been labeled with this moniker of being like the innovator in surfing, and you certainly are that but when you watch that movie, you understand that the history of surfing is innovation. It's constant innovation, right? Like from the very beginning, when you track it all the way back to the first big waves that were surfed and how they just iterate and iterate and iterate, like you're just continuing in that tradition, which is, it makes it weird when you hear, like, I know there are people that, you know, are traditionalist in some regard that give you shit for trying new things, but this is what surfing is right? From the very beginning back to, you know, with a thousand years ago I didn't realize like that's when it started. Or even more, I think it came out in the necessity to learn how to navigate, you know, going out into the ocean when there was surf. And then then through that, like the guy if you could take your boat and ride the waves in, then that brought me Right. but, you know, I grew up in a time when in surfing that it was all about innovation. Like that was the focus. And then it kind of, I think when the competitive aspect of surfing came in, it kinda stopped innovation because it forced a certain, you know, Rules and structure. Yeah. take the risk to go out and try something that didn't work. It would, it'd be like, if you're a bike racer and you're gonna go on a bike race, you're not gonna try some new prototype bike in a bike race, 'cause it's gonna break. You're just gonna go with what you know works. And then I think that kinda in a way, you know, they talk about in like in computer design that all the innovations happen when there was a think tank, when everybody worked together and they were just throwing ideas. And then as soon as somebody got competitive or they got possessive with an idea and held it and then stopped sharing, then that's when it kinda, everything's slowed down for awhile. And so, you know, when I was a kid, I just remember everybody that I was around they were, you know, I mean it was the sixties and people were, you know, doing all kinds of drugs as well to give their, maybe to give their imagination more of a boost. But the truth is they were, there was a lot of innovation going on and they were doing weird designs and weird boards and I mean, if you look back then and you look at the equipment, you're like some of the stuff was so bizarre looking and then it kinda went through this flat period. But I think for me, I always, that was the, you know, Brian Keaulana is a great Hawaiian Waterman and kind of a Hawaiian chief. And, you know, he always would say, &quot;Hey, don't define me by my equipment&quot;, which I appreciated that Yeah, yeah. like, hey, which you know, which tool you're gonna use? Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's interesting that the flat period lines up with the verizon of competitive surfing and competitive surfing is not part of, right. Like it's never even addressed in riding Jaws. No, no. part of that narrative at all. And you never even dipped your toe in that, right? When I was little, we played because it was fun. You know, when you're a little kid, you go down and it was like, you and your friends showed up at the little surf contest at the beach and you all went out and kind of, it was like, and you know, there was no money (laughing) And then money came along and, you know, and then it was all of a sudden, it was like, okay everybody got, Yeah. Gets aggressive and that's-- As you know, looking back now, we're in this we were talking about social media and our kids before, (chuckles) before this started. And you know, how addictive all of that is. But one thing that it has created is the ability for athletes in all different disciplines and specialties to kind of craft their own path. Like when I look back on your career like you were really the first or one of the first people who said, I'm not gonna do, I'm gonna be a professional athlete on my own terms. And I'm gonna define what those terms are. I'm not gonna participate in this structure. I'm gonna do it outside of that and that was pretty radical at the time. And you've been successful in that and let the path for many to follow in your footsteps. But now, because of these technological tools you're seeing athletes do that. Like they can make a name for themselves and support themselves doing what they love without it being in that traditional competitive environment. Well, see, I mean really in all art, I mean, if you look at all art in a way, I mean, you look at music you can get exposure. I mean, that's one of the, I mean, again, bright light dark shadow, right? One of the great things about, you know, social media and just these tools, the block I call it, is that you can, it's an opportunity to expose your skills and your talent to the world. And let them do, you know, if you, the followers will decide if you have a bunch of people following and are interested in what you're doing or saying, or dressing or whatever it is you're doing, it's I mean, you can make a living from it. Right. It is cool. It's super cool that people can do that. It is, it is. And it's allowing a lot more freedom in art in general, Yeah. I just mean self-expression, right? In a way it's forms of self-expression. And in my case, it just happens to be in sport. But in some other cases is in music, it's in cooking, Right. it's in, you know lifestyle, it's you just go down the line. But it had to be hard back in those early days trying to figure out how you're gonna make that work, right? When you just try to do everything. I'm sure you had people in your life who were like, what are you doing? Like you got to get a job, right? Yeah, well, you subsidize it any way you can. That's why I did, you know, it's like, oh, a modeling job. Hey, you look good in that thing, take a picture. Or, hey, you're gonna be, you know, be a in a movie and you can do stump we're okay. I'll do that, I mean, it's like, Right. you did whatever you needed to do to subsidize your Yeah. now I'm in a position where I can subsidize my excavator work with surfing. Yes (laughs). surfing with excavation. Like, I'd go dig an excavator so I can go surfing. So you did whatever you could. I think one thing that really allowed me a real opportunity was Oxbow, which was this, the French company that sponsored me for more than 20 years. And it was, you know, because I didn't have to, you know, cut trees, mow yard, dig holes, support cement, hammer nails all to survive because I had that kind of, that support. It allowed me a little more freedom Yeah. and to be creative and to work on stuff. And so that was a fortunate thing, I think without them, and that support during that stretch of time, I wouldn't have had quite the luxury to be able to be as creative as I was. Right. that was a unique thing that happened, but you know, all along the way, you're always, you know, you just do whatever. but you grew up, you know, on the, when you're a kid on the North shore and you're seeing all those dudes, Yeah. obviously influenced you so profoundly like that's what they were doing, right? Yeah. oh, I can figure out how to get a bag of rice or whatever I need to live. Oh yeah, they'd do whatever. Yeah. work on the thing in this way, I mean, you did, they would do, I mean, and it's a little bit like, it's a little bit Island lifestyle. Like I, sometimes I get around people and they're like, well, how do you know how to do that? Like, how do you have any know how to fix that thing? And I go, well, I lived at the end of a road where if you didn't fix it, it was broken. Right. call the guy that fixes those. There was no, you know, it wasn't so specialized. Like it is now, like, you just had to kind of, you know I always love MacGyver, like MacGyver for me is the best. Just give me the bubblegum and the duct tape and a little tie wire. And, you know, and you can just Jerry rig something and get something that was broken to work. And I think that that mentality is definitely useful in, well, not only survival, but in innovation. Yeah innovating all these, Yeah. of what surfing is convey. Yeah, exactly. That imagination. That's what Thomas Edison said. He said, &quot; All you need to be an inventor is an imagination and a pile of junk.&quot; So I'm like, well, I always had the junk, He's a good marketer too though. (both laughing) He knew there's always that. He had that part dialed. Well, there's that too. That's a piece of it. I wanna talk about water and your relationship to water and the ocean, like I'm in certain respects like a different kind of water, man. I'm a swimmer. I grew up swimming, swimming is my passion. And it started in pools. And, you know, I've done interesting things in the water. Like monofin swimming, things like that. And now it's about ocean swimming. And then I got into ultra endurance triathlon and all of that, but I have a very deep and emotional connection to the experience of being in water and underwater. That's overlaps with yours a little bit, I would suppose. So, I'm interested in how you think about your relationship to the ocean and, and you know, how you articulate, like what that means. First of all, that's my Grandmaster, right? Like if you said, who's your, you know, people say, hey, who do you look up to? Or who do you, you know, who influenced you? I mean, I'd have to say that the ocean probably has had the biggest impact on shaping, you know, the way I behave more than any one person except maybe my mom. 'Cause she birthed me and she had a huge influence of course, but the ocean, the lessons that you learn from the ocean, the relationship that you have with it, it just, it covers so many things. And I know that, you know, my reverence for the ocean, just my reverence for its power, its beauty, you know, it's magnitude. Like it's just the massiveness of it and insignificant, it's our space, right? Like the ocean is our space on earth. Like if you wanna know what space is like, you just go to the ocean Right. what you can go to the edge of the space or you can go deep into space. And it's been, it was a great escape for me when I was a kid to leave kind of the cares of the land behind you Yeah. and all the stresses. all of that gets muted, right? And it's just between you and the elements. Yeah, and maybe just a giant shark that may be lurking in the distance (both laughing). Right? in the back of your head, like, hmm, Let me see. I'm not a big fan of swimming out in the middle of the ocean with a mask that you can't see very well. But (laughing), but you know, so I think I, you know, so the relationship with the animals in the ocean, with the way, just with how it makes you feel like it like the therapy of the, it's heels you. It's like being back in the womb. It is. Yeah and you get healed from it. Like you can go and be in the water and you know now we get all these science, you know, science follows I say science follows instinct, but you know, you get you have these ideas like, hey, this really like, I go there and I feel different, everything's different. Then they get some data in there. So like, yeah, that's 'cause you're getting negative ions Yeah. and you're grounding, in your preparation Right. Andrew Huberman shows up And validates what you've been telling yourself for 20 years. No, it's true. It's true. And that's kinda, I mean, that's pretty amazing that in this time, you know, in the world that we can do that, that we're getting to do that. But it seems like your instincts, you know, your gut instincts and your intuitions and all those things, those serve you right. And I think there's a karmic thing. I mean, obviously the ocean is the most conductive element on earth. And so, you know, sound travels through it, waves, sound waves, but also wave energy, what we ride. Yeah. and I know like karmically, you know, whenever I'm in the ocean and I have some negative thoughts or some feelings or something I usually just pay instantaneously. Right. the wave comes and hits me and I'm like, Karma comes quick. I was supposed to, I gotta shed that stuff. I gotta, clear my mind. like a deeper level of humility. I mean, there's this idea that you're conquering these waves. You're not conquering these waves (Laird laughs), you're trying to, Yeah. exist in symbiosis with them, right? Harmonious, that's always talk about the harmony. Riding the wave is an act of, you know, is an act of harmony. You're trying to be harmonious with it. You don't conquer waves. You have the fortune to ride them for a moment and be part of them and you know, if everything goes right. But yeah, you don't, there's no conquering No, no, no. No, and I, you know, my sense is that it gives you this deep appreciation for the natural world, right? It does. Alex Honnold on here, I've had Kilian Jornet and like the themes, you know, it's just this like the majesty of nature is just so profound when you're, you know, in the midst of trying to do your thing. Yeah well that being observent. In harmony with that harsh natural environment where the stakes are very high. The observant, you know, being observant I think that's even today, like I was at not my house. And there was some Hawks that fly by my house and just, and they come and you know, and it's and the more aware you are, it seems the more connected you become to it. And all of a sudden it's almost like they come over and say hi to you. And you're like, hey, how's it going? They go (craws) and they turn away. Yeah. if you could go yell, okay, the hawk but did the Hawk? I mean, you're connecting with the hawk. The hawk came and but you have to be observant to even see the hawk. Then you have to actually put the energy and the thoughts to the hawk in a way that you, that your, how you're observing it and what you're, what it means to you. And that happens with the dolphins that happens with the you know, the whale that happens with all the creatures of creation and ultimately nature. I mean, nature is just, I mean, it's. It is creation, right? So we talk about creation, the great creation, will nature's creation. So, you get to observe it. And I think being aware of it, being aware of the sunrise and the sunset and the movement and all that stuff connecting to it allows you a deeper relationship with it. You just can't, 'cause you can't have this deep relationship without it, without connect, without having the, you know the observation and being aware Yeah. as you become, the more aware you become the deeper that relationships become. And then the more it shows itself to you. Yeah. about going on these journeys and reconnecting with nature. And I'm like, if you're already reconnected, if you're already connected, then that's not gonna be so profound. It's just, it's so many of us have grown so far away from hey, it's hot. I'll turn the AC on. Hey, it's cold turn the chill out. Hey, it's dark keep the lights on, hey, you know, it's bright but the shades on Yeah. we're insulating ourselves from it. And, you know, and obviously the ocean is the King Right. and moving And has, I mean, all the things it can do, just freezing and liquid and steam. And just to, I mean, we just, it's like the un, you know the unexpressable element, Yeah. And still so mysterious. You know. But on the hawk example, I mean I think the hawk example to me is an illustration of the fact that no matter where you are, you're still in nature. Like we have this bifurcated, like idea, like right now we're not in nature. Like if we need to go down to point doom to be in nature but we're in nature right now. Oh, absolutely. And we always have that opportunity to be more connected to the environment and the energy and everything that's going on if we can be still and observant. Amen. I think that that's one of the things that will help everyone will help humanity the most is if we can continue to re, 'cause we have it right? We have an ability to really be connected to nature in a way that we don't, is so profound we don't even fully understand it, the depth of what we're capable of and what we, and the depth of that relationship. 'Cause, you know, I always, you know, we are it and it is us. I mean, we're so con, you know, if you think you're not connected to the sun (laughs), if you think you're not connected, Yeah. and you're not, and it's not you and you're not it, then that's, you know, and that's the big separation right now. And it seems that in the present that we've become so insulated that that's what's leading to people being, you know, either depressed or having physical ailments or whatever it is. A lot of it is 'cause they're not fulfilling, I believe they're not fulfilling, you know, this void which is what nature was fulfilling. Right. this void in them through just even observation, Yeah. and connecting that way it's filling this. And then all of a sudden you have this void and then you're just putting stuff in it that the body, you know and the soul and everything can't, Yeah. Not, probably not a lot of, not an epidemic of anxiety and depression in, you know, indigenous tribes that are, you know, dealing with survival and connected fundamentally to the world in which they live (both laughing). You know what I mean? There would be none. (laughing) Yeah. But then allergies (laughs) to engage in, you know, the high-risk kind of adventures that, you know, light you up gives you, you know, it puts you in this contact with the fragility of life or what death means that I think enlivens your daily experience, right? Like how do you think about risk and death? Well, I mean, first of all I think that's the most honest way you can live. The most honest way you can live is to know that dying is very easy and you can die any minute. And then how would you conduct yourself? You know what I mean? And it's, and I think for me, that's a daily challenge and a weekly challenge and a monthly challenge and a yearly challenge is just to always have that kind of awareness that death is ever present. And then, and the truth is is that the truth is that right now death has a name and it's walking around and people are, it's affecting people severely because they, because their relationship with death is so insulated through just the way life has become that it's, we're not living honestly, Right. if we were out in nature being threatened constantly by stuff, then we'd be, our awareness would be so heightened, but I, you know, I feel that you don't know what being truly alive is unless without that relationship to that edge, you know, to knowing where that edge is, like when you're a kid like, hey where's this place where, you know, where do you fall off? It's just a big it's if you take the evolution of what's dangerous when you're a little kid and you grow into a mature adult then you go, okay, well, that's the same relationship. It's just, everything has become, the scales have become bigger. Yeah. It's just so honest. It's I know for me, it makes me a better person. If I am, if I go in those situations and in the environments and around the strength of it, the strength of vulnerability, right? Yeah. vulnerability, and, you know, the highest end of vulnerability is death, right? Yeah. of vulnerability like, hey, get your feelings hurt. And, you know, the tribe might except you, public speaking, I mean, people are fear that more than death because they're worried about acceptance. So, but vulnerability, right? Being vulnerable and how that makes you and that makes you just feel so alive. And that's honest, that's it. What's interesting about that is that it runs so counter to every message that we see out in the world, which is all about comfort and luxury, and you know, fancy bullshit or whatever. And we're, you know, sort of fed this narrative that if we wanna be happy, it's all about, you know getting this stuff or isolating ourselves removing ourselves from anything threatening and in truth you're living example of this, that sense of purpose or that engagement with the world that gives you that feeling of being alive only comes through challenging yourself or immersing yourself in the elements and pushing the boundaries of what you're capable of. And it's something that it's not like a one and done you gotta do it your whole life. It's a practice. Anything else. And the truth is that's the irony, right? The irony of the story is that that all the things that you think, are what you need are the things that are gonna are gonna bring you the furthest away from your goal, which would be to feel alive and to be healthy at the end of the day, like what's, it's connected to health, right? It's like, you know, the irony is that exposing yourself to a great threat makes you the healthiest you can be which is, that's like, that's the most confusing thing ever, right? Yeah. dangerous stuff and then that'll make you the healthiest you can be. You're kind of like, okay, well, that seems like, it seems like you should be really safe and do things. And then that'll make you vulnerable to be really sick. (laughs) You know, it's like that Right. but that's, it's that simple. Like, it's really that, I think there's sim, you know, I always talk about if everybody scared themselves once a day, that and genuinely scared themselves once a day it would be good for you. Like, it would just reset, like everything gets reset and you're like, okay, all right. Like and I use an example of, you know, sometimes you're driving down the road and you're kind of just, you're feeling a little flat and all of a sudden something, you know, an animal runs out or car almost get, something happens and you get that adrenaline boost. Right. you're just like your vision gets real sharp. All of a sudden, you're just like, everything just gets clear. And you're like, you're aware. And you're, and your senses are in high alert. And then you're like and it took that it was just boom, that quick. And that living in the state of that kind of awareness is such a better, it's just a better way of you know, it's like it's a better way to live, about having a healthy relationship with that too, Yes, yeah. you know, you can have an addictive relationship to that that will destroy your relationships. And, you know, you just become, you have tunnel vision over what's the next thing that's gonna jerk me up, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I've got friends like that. A lot of them work here actually (laughs). There's a lot of destruction in the wake. Yeah, exactly. Right? Yeah. that were like something you've had to like, you know, deal with, or you seem pretty grounded and level about the whole time? Yeah, you know, I mean, listen, I think I was I've been fortunate to be around enough of those guys and watched, you know, I've seen a lot of good guys, you know, die (chuckles sadly) because of the, either the complacency from doing it, doing stuff and not retaining that respect. Maybe they got a little comfortable, you know, it's like they, they drop their guard. And most of the guys that I know that went down doing dangerous stuff, it was more about that. You know, it was just maybe too many times at it or too much of it and not enough balance like not enough, you know, it's like, for me I feel like it's important to get, you know, I guess for me the, when I look at it, 'cause I'm like you said, not huge, like obvious goal setter but I have one goal in mind, which is to live. To survive. That's at the top. That's the thing and I want it (laughing) That's a good goal to have. and I'd like to be and I like to be to be old and gray. Like I would like to, I see that as like the objective is to be standing at the end, right? And so if that's the goal, then that means that you have to go about things, not like, you know, burnout hot and go out on fire. Like, because I think that that and that's I mean, at a certain point along your course, you got to make a decision. You have to make a decision about what, you know, 'cause you can get caught into that, right? You can get caught into that and there's something pretty selfish about that actually. And so, and because at the end, I mean, when you die, you don't care but what about all the people that care about you? And so, in a way you got your people that you love, your family, your friends these other people that, so some of it becomes that, some of them becomes like, hey, you know what? Do I wanna do that to my kids? Yeah. to my wife? I mean, we don't know the time or the place, of course, no one does. And it could be in 10 minutes, it could be in 10 days could be in 10 years, could be, you know, we don't know that, right? So, but the honest way to go about it is, you know, okay. You know, we always go any risk taking that we take, we it's all about, there's a kind of a methodical process that we go through in that, so that, you know, the more dangerous it is, the slower you go. The more preparation you have, the more, you know there's this certain like formulaic process that you do to do things the external noise, right? So that you can hear your intuition and you know when it's the right moment. Well and be good with saying no. Yeah. ah, you know what? No I just, I don't feel it. Like today's off or you're on the wall, he was gonna make the ascent. thing ever. He's like, I'm not doing it today. I respected that, particular scene in the film. All the camera men are up there. I'm like, That's the exact, that's perfect. I go that, I respect that. Not, you know what, go anyway, and then timber. Right. But the pressure of all the whole thing, I can appreciate that because it's knowing how to make the, that's a big judgment call. That's. Yeah. were already all the camera man had scaled up Their were already there was a lot of stuff that was already in motion. So, being able to like completely tune that out and not have that be part of the calculus about whether you're gonna do that hard thing or not. Important. that takes like a you know, a solid, you know, barometer. Important. Yeah. And I think that that, but that's a reflection of the real barometer that allows you to do the other thing too. So at the end of the day, it takes a certain, you know for him to do that, actually be able to do that climb. You really have to have a certain 'cause people, you know, I think when people watch things that are, you know, in, from their perspective, you know, beyond understanding, they like to put, they like to disclaim it as okay. That's just a reckless person. Right. they're just, you know, they're just reckless. They don't wanna say, &quot;Hey, no, that's some calculated, &quot;well, you know, well orchestrated, prepared.&quot; It's the end point on a multi-decade journey that this person's been on. Yeah. to look at you and say, well, Laird you know, of course, Laird can do that. 'Cause Laird is Laird you know and certainly you have, you know, some genetic gifts and you have a certain level of talent but to dismiss what you're doing is just a well that's because he's Laird, is to deny like all the work that you've done, like this dedication that you've shown over the course of your entire life to get you to the point where you can drop in on a wave that nobody's ever surfed before. Yeah. Well that's, and I think that's the, I think that's always the part where, you know, when they talk about people being adrenaline junkies and all that guy's just an adrenaline junkie, I think that's a way to let them off the hook. So they don't have to actually, you know, to do the work and pursue the thing that they might be interested actually in. Right. Oh yeah, no, that's just the way, you know that's the way that this a disclaimer to let that people off. It's an easy yeah. It's an easy way for people to not have to look in the mirror ( Laird laughs) and evaluate, you know, Yeah. Yeah. because that's scary. And a lot of people don't wanna do that (laughs). They don't. No. there is that kind of you know, addiction junkie mentality. Yeah. in all extreme sports in life. But, you know, it's certainly part of the kind of historical record of surfing. You know, you grew up in a culture of like play hard, play hard, right? But you've emerged from that as somebody who I look at as, you know, part of, I would suspect now the young surfers look to people like yourselves, it's not about the partying lifestyle and it's really about how can I optimize my performance and body, mind Yeah. Like, you've sort of set the tone Yeah. of surfers and you see it like the Smith Brothers are all about that. Like, there's a, it's a healthier ecosystem right now. Well you know, listen I was around a lot of radical stuff Yeah. I can remember, you know, seeing guys that you looked up to that were like your heroes, and then you'd see them on a you know, on a park bench with a paper bag and, you know, fallen over. And just how painful that was. Like as a young guy, you see, and you were the guy who you were that I looked up to, Yeah. You're my hero and there you are in the gutter. And I saw it more than once. And I think, you know, I felt like that if I was ever in that position that I would look at it like a responsibility. If I'm fortunate enough that somebody will look up to me. And except for some reason at all, I don't wanna ever give them an excuse to justify and including my children, you know what I mean? It's like, I was, I used to, well, I used to but I loved, you know, I love red wine. I'd go to France. I had French company, I go go to Bordeaux, they'd send me cases of the most beautiful pin on walls in the world, and I'd be like, you know, this gorgeous stuff. And I was like, but I liked it maybe a little too much. So I was like, you know what? I don't want anything to have quite that kind of power over me that I could 'cause my mother was a drinker. And, you know, we have long family, you know, a relationship with drinking and I'm like, you know what? I think that's gonna be a problem. So if my daughters decided that they wanna drink, it won't be because it was just part of what we did at our house. And it was just like, accept that I'm gonna dip. It's gonna be because they discovered on their own they do it on their own but it's not gonna be because of me. So, a little bit, you know, I think a combination of all those things I've seen seeing guys that, you know, ruin their lives. And I seen deaths like bunker spreckels, you know, overdosing and guys, you know, and then heroes being in, you know, just hero to zero. And then you're looking at that guy and you're like, wow what a bummer that is and what disappointment that is. And, you know, and at the end of the day, you know, leading by example, like in a way it's the same thing as parenting too. You can say whatever you want, they're just watching what you're doing. Right. at the end of the day and I think that's true with, you know, if you're in a position of influence, I mean, and I see it in a lot of major sports. I see, you know, a lot of influential athletes promoting you know, stuff that's, you know, poison to people and, you know, for money but obviously they probably have enough money. They really don't need to do it at the end of the day. It'd be kinda good to have some discretion kind of go you know what, probably not that stuff Right. it's not so great. And then every little kid that looks up to you is thinks that they can drink that and it's gonna make them like you or whatever that, so I think there's a lot of things that you know, and then don't forget just wanting to have optimum performance like wanting to have (chuckles) wanting to be able to continue to perform at a certain level and, you know, be the gray hair. Yeah. be on the top of the mountain and you're not gonna do that. You know, being stupid so. Well, you've always had this growth mindset, right? Like you're always devoted to like trying to iterate and innovate and all these things. And that's, I think harder than it seems or it looks like most people kind of figure out what their lane is and then, you know, they become successful in that lane. And then you get calcified around that. It becomes harder to be creative. Yeah. your set of beliefs or your approach, you know, as an athlete, like this is how I optimize my performance. And then you don't wanna hear about any new ideas or anything else but you seem like somebody who's always been really open to learning and experimenting. You know, I attribute part of that to where I grew up. So, because I was, you know, I grew up in an environment where there was a racial thing against guys that looked like me. And so I was already, I kind of had, I had that. I think that was helpful because I had, you know, I always used to say, you know, people don't like you for how you're born and why would it bother you if they don't like how you behave? And so, at the end of the day, it's like, I think that being the willingness to be a beginner again and not, and be okay with people laughing at you and like you being like, you know, hey I'm gonna try this thing. And it's stupid. And people are like, that's so dumb. Why do you, you know, I mean, multiple times through some innovations that we were involved in, either we had people just naysayers going Right. you know, that's not surfing or what you're doing is not this or so I was used to that. And then it becomes almost a formula. And, you know, I talked to my friend Paul the other day about, you know, how we like the early part of the curve, you know, that early part of the curve is nice and steep when you go from, you know, a beginner to like starting to become proficient at anything, it's a really fulfilling thing. And then once you're at this other thing, you're at a real, you know, you're at a plateau and you're just scraping for you know, for little tiny, you know, millimeters. And, you know, I talk about surfing and you look at the amount of hours that we have being okay, will another hour on the 30 or 40 or 50,000 hours that you have you think that's gonna make you better or is being more flexible gonna make you better Yeah. gonna make you better, you know, these other things are gonna have a more of an influence but you gotta be willing to be a beginner. I think the biggest thing is about being a beginner and willing to subject yourself to failure and being okay with that. I think I've been hurt. I've had enough injuries. It helped me with that process where you wonder if you're ever gonna be able to do the thing you did and then not being, and then having a, you know I think there's a, to not be a narcissist and to not be a, have an ego and all that. That's impossible. There's no way you're not gonna have some narcissism or are some ego aspect to you. Yeah. I mean, you have to have a bit of an audacious sense of self to even attempt these things. And there's a healthy aspect of that. It's about keeping it in check, right? And (laughs) making sure that it's not the, it's not ruling the rooms. Exactly. Exactly so, and I mean that's an important piece to it, but you know, willing to fail, being okay with failing is important. And I think, and then what happens is you do it a couple of times and then you're like, Oh yeah, I know I'm at this part in that journey. And then you do it again. Then it becomes almost a formula right, there becomes a formulaic aspect to learning, right? Or creativity. When you have an idea and you're on a napkin, then you make a prototype, then you break it and you crash and you can't do it. Then you can kind of start to do it. And then eventually get to a point where it's something that you can do well and it's, you have things for it. And then it's, and then it's not as interesting at that point. It becomes a little less interesting. And I think one thing I've been conscious of and it's, and lately it's happened a little bit, you know, it happened a few times where you don't become victim to your past successes by saying I got to go back out and show everybody, Yeah. Yeah, that was what I was gonna ask you. (Laird laughing loudly) Like when you, you know, hey, I'm the big wave guy. And then somebody else goes, finds another wave and surfs a bigger one. Do you feel like you got to get out there and show them who's boss, you know, you're over here tinkering in your garage with new shit but there's gotta be some aspect of you who's like There is, but again, I think, Yeah. having a good perspective about your ego's voice, like what what is that in you that's doing it? Yeah. is there something saying you need to go show these, show people what you can do? You did that and you've showed that. And in a way I can do that. And I do aspects of it, whether it's on purpose or not but it doesn't bring me the kind of joy or the kind of satisfaction or fulfillment that doing something that I haven't done does. And I start to realize, you know, that I really am inspired by doing things I haven't done. Like that's the more, whether it's a distance I haven't done or a height I haven't done or speed I haven't done or something but something that I haven't done is a lot more fulfilling. That just brings you a lot more satisfaction. What's it's freeing too because you're not. It's free. Yeah. against past successes, right? I mean, as somebody who (Laird laughs) I mean you're already somebody who doesn't really care about what other people think anyway which is healthy but, (chuckles) That's helpful. yeah, that is helpful (Laird laughing). But at the same time, like I know when I go to the pool, like, I don't wanna look at the pace clock because I'm used to clocking certain kinds of intervals. And I, you know, I'm not able to do that now. So that it's. It changes your life and I'm doing it, yeah. It's set up and it's like. I have to constantly remind myself, I'm doing this because it brings me joy. You know? And what else can I do? Or can I do something different? I'm not innovating in the sport like you are in surfing but you have to recalibrate your relationship to these things and not hold yourself to some standard that's gonna cause you suffering, right? Was it, yeah. and just being like, well I'm gonna go do, and then you're constantly a newcomer. You're new and you're always progressing and learning. So you're getting fulfilled through that process. And that's usually big Improvements those are big successes not from doing something that you can't do to do to being able to do it. That's a huge success. You couldn't, you did. Not, you did something at this level and you maybe you're doing it that level. Maybe not quite at that level. I go that that's just a set up for failure. And I, there's a great quote that I love that says, &quot;Never let your memories be bigger than your dreams.&quot; And I have to say that I really, I think that that's important because I have friends that have played professional sports and then they're retired and everything's about what they did. Right. what they're doing they're ever gonna do in their life that's gonna recapture that. Like sense of glory of being in the Coliseum. No. Yeah, I mean, how, Right? so, and that transition is pretty tricky, I think I've been I know 28 (laughs). By the way. And there's probably, you know, there could be 40 or 50 more years. (Laird laughing) So, you know, and so I think that that's, you know the irony is that maybe I didn't, maybe early on I didn't get, I wasn't in the Coliseum and I didn't get the glory but then I also don't get the downfall of having gotten the glory. And I can just kinda, it's kinda like it's a flat, you know, it just kinda keeps going along, which, you know it's not on purpose. It just ended up that that's how it's worked out. And also knowing that you can go and without approval, you can be fulfilled. So I can go out and I can do something like I'm at a stage right now where I can get a couple of friends and we can go somewhere and we can do something and no one sees it. No one, there's not a video. There's not a film. There's nothing, no one even knows and it works. Yeah. And you come back and you feel like you feel when you did something that everybody saw. And everybody said it was great. Or people saw and said it sucked, but you didn't. So you almost, it's nice to be at that stage (laughs). It's just for you. Yeah it makes it a little bit more special that way. That's pretty nice. 'Cause then you're, 'cause then ultimately you're in, you know, that you're not relying on the approval of other people which at the end they really, truly really they don't care at the end. Yeah. Yeah. about you like you care about you (laughs) you know? Yeah. The funny thing about innovation is that it does require a certain level of like foresight because we always think we're at the end point of everything. Like it's, everything is progressed to its ultimate pinnacle already, right? When surfing was at a certain competitive apex with the short boards and all the compete, you know like the competitions, it was like, well there's nothing left to be said or done here, right? And to be able to think outside the box and say, Well, what if we try this? What if we try that? requires a certain, you know, there's something very unique about being able to see what nobody else can see. Well, that's what I, and that's what I said to you initially was having the understanding of what things mean. Like if I make this glass right, if I have this thing I think about it, I'm gonna make this thing and it's gonna shape like that you're gonna be able to put stuff in there, you know and you're gonna have to hold it. And then you're gonna be able to drink out of it. Like, but you got to see that, right? You have to be able to see what the function will be at the end. 'Cause that's the only way that you get the motivation to actually continue the process. 'Cause it's a pretty R and D and that kind of development that's some can be pretty discouraging. Like there's some discouraging aspects to ideas that and one of them is other people like the truth is that there was a woman who had some in, did some incredible innovation. I don't even know her name or what she did, but I do. I appreciated what she said, which is they asked her you know, when you have a great idea, you know, what should you do? And she goes, just, don't tell anybody for at least a year, (Laird laughs) because they will discourage you. Yeah. you know what, that cup thing that you have, that's a terrible idea. And it'll sink in and you'll be like, and then when you break the first one and the second one and the third one and-- too hard (Laird laughing). and then that's where, so I think there's a has to be. And that's why I talk about dog with the bone, you know, that relentless thing that you're not really, it's not really a goal, but somehow you're just constantly, you just always go back to it. You're like, oh, the thing. And then you go back to it. Now I have ideas that I've been thinking about that had gone away from and then eventually I come back over here and I'm like, &quot;Oh yeah, yeah.&quot; And then I go away and I do it, some other idea. And then I go back to the one and then you just keep and eventually that one just pops his head. And, you know, I mean, I think everything's about timing. I mean, we know that it's like you could do, you know, a good idea, you know, 10 years ago is not a good idea today. Or, you know, there's ideas today that are, that won't be good for 10 more years (laughs) you know it's like, It's just all, you know, So yeah, I think the foiling thing is a good example of that because the technology is at a point where they can, you know, make this available to consumers with the electric foil. I mean, that, stuff's crazy Yeah, well just all of it. of the blue, right? So when you look back Yeah. Even you're like not for me. To be zero effort (both laughing). Let's evaluate for only for 15 years he got out I know, We talked about that in success too, when the guys go, hey the overnight success and the guys like, hey, I have been doing this for 15, you know, Right. or 15 years. It's like, you know what, it's interesting how that, Yeah. when you Look back though, you know, and think about the early days of you getting up on standup paddle boards when no one was doing it and now you look around and everybody's doing it. I mean, there has to be like a certain level of satisfaction. Like, I mean, you've created like this cultural groundswell, like this populous sport that so many people are doing because you thought, hey, I should get a longer paddle so I can stand up on this thing. Yeah, yeah. Well, and I you know, and Gabby and I talk about it and I think I, you know, for me, in a way, those are my reward, you know, those are the rewards. Those are the trophies that was, that's like my trophy, like people are like, I don't have a trophy case. I don't have a bunch of things like, look at all my trophies all my championships, all my stuff. I don't have any of that stuff. So in a way, those are, you know, those, that's fulfilling Right. This incredible legacy. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, when you see a guy in Dubai with a turbine paddling like that you're like (both laughing) that was, that went a long way. (both laughing hysterically) That's wild. around the whole planet (laughing). I was watching you foil on a Nazare. And it's just wild to watch that. And what was interesting is that it allows you to surf the wave in a completely different, like you're not reliant upon it cresting, like you're able to ride it much earlier and it gives you this longer ride. So it's a completely different relationship with the wave that that technology, you know, makes available. Yeah, it totally re, what's interesting we talk about with, because of that we have to re, like the definition of an unmakeable, a wave, you know, an unmakeable wave is changed. You know, what was that makeable before now all of a sudden becomes makeable or what was unrideable before now it becomes rideable. So the parameters all changed, which is interesting how you you know, you just have a different device. And now the way we look at waves and what's rideable, like that's our biggest thing, like looking there's new waves that are, that would never be considered for surf, for conventional surfing. Now, all of a sudden, the foiling is rolled up. Yeah. which is, you know, which in an ever populated earth is pretty great when there's new frontiers. And it can, I guess that continues to happen and with a lot of innovations but where there's this like a whole new frontier where like in a world where everything's saturated, like all, you know most of the great surf spots on earth, people know, and they're at. And they're surfing and those numbers are increasing. And there's only so many ways now there, you know now they're making wave pools and stuff Yeah. to make up for that. But to be able to have a whole new, you know, a whole new search gives you-- Yeah. it wasn't until maybe a couple of years ago that I'd even heard of Nazare. Did that just, I mean, so it seems like in that kind of timeline of iteration there was Makaha, then there was Waianae then there was Maverick's all of a sudden then it was about third reef Waianae, then there was Jaws and then Teahupoo, and then Nazare, right? So it makes me think there probably is another wave out there that no one's found. There is. to be discovered. I mean, Nazare in itself is a, you know, it's a, there's a couple things happening in Nazare, which is it's a very photographable wave, Because you get the foreground of the lighthouse or whatever that. Gives that descriptive. Right. And the wave also does a thing where it stands up for a second. It's not, I mean, and nothing against Nazare but it's not an like an optimum performance surfing wave. Like, Jaws is. Like Jaws still at this moment is the best big wave performance wave in the world? There's just there's no, I mean, I don't care what big wave you go to, you take all the big wave riders, they'll all agree when you go to Jaws, you know, I mean, the one thing about Nazare is that it has a, there's a consistency to it. And when it doubles up, it has a, you know, kind of a geographical phenomenon where the wave doubles up and two waves come together. That's why they get that the extreme height of it. So there's a lot of that around Nazare that and it's in front of a cliff, so it's extremely dangerous. But as far as surfing goes, like, as a surfer you, usually that wave, you're like, that's not an ideal wave for surfing. Like, as a where Jaws, you wouldn't say that but the truth is that Nazare wouldn't even be Nazare without towing. That towing even be able to like, right? it wasn't a surf spot because towing opened it up and made it become a sport. So now it's a sport because it towing without towing I mean, you can surf Nazare on the small days, like conventional you know, prone paddling, but it's not a, It's not it. It's a-- And the foiling was it the break next to Nazare, right? Yeah, well both Nazare and is there a wave off the coast from Nazare that for foiling was perfect. So, and actually it was probably great on this last giant swell that they had, but they weren't letting us into the country over there. Right (laughs). Yeah. When we were there, like in the spring. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I was there in what, February? February, March? Yeah. Let's talk about the fitness journey and the pool workout. Legendary, it's been going on for a long time. Yeah. are part of that community. I've got tons of friends who are either part of it or have dropped in at some time Yeah. There's a, it's almost mythic at this point. It begins with Don Wildman really. Yeah. a little bit. Yeah. So Don, one of my heroes is, will be, and always will be was his and he's passed away. But Mr. Wildman, you know, started Bally's health clubs started. Right. of the largest health club chain in the U.S. Was in the Korean war when he was 17. And did the iron man what didn't first one when he was 50 I think did 10 or 11 iron mans. And, you know, you used to do all the senior games in Utah, all the bike racing stuff. And him and I, I met him at a helicopter, snow boarding resort in Canada. Randomly, some guy just says, &quot;Hey, that's Mr. Wildman. &quot;You need to meet him, go over there.&quot; And so I said, hey, went over there and &quot;Hey, nice to meet you.&quot; And he was sitting there and then cut to like two years, three years later I was down in Malibu at a restaurant that we breakfast and walked in there Gabby and I had just moved there and he happened to live right up the street. And then him and I just started spending time together and you know, doing a bunch of crazy things. He just was an endurance monster. Right. and I worked out. anybody on a bike? Yeah. Yeah, he just was a monster. When it came to just, you know, suffering, he was a King of suffering, loves suffering (laughs). Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So that was the original crew, right? Yeah. down at the beach and then you guys would meet up there And his gyms. and, right? And his crazy gym he had a crazy circuit workout that take you two and a half hours and then we'd ride the bike, after to go eat breakfast and then I kind of brought all the water stuff to him. So, it was like, he swam 'cause he, you know, triathlons and stuff, but he never, so I got him into foiling and stand up paddling and all that kind of stuff. And we, so we started, you know, venturing into the water. Right. across America with him or at least part of it. Yeah, I remember that-- something happened, like halfway in and you ended up, right. run over by the opposing team's escort vehicle, broke my friend's leg. So that put us out of the race because we were trying to Don was trying to break the record. He just wanted to go break the record with a bunch of people that no one heard of. His like Forman team? it was. paddle boarding down the Mississippi or something like that? Well, I did the Colorado. I did the Colorado. I've been down to Colorado and standup paddle and but, you know, all that, Right. I think we are our best one was we did, I call it the Hawaii 500, but we biked every Island in Hawaii and paddled every channel consecutively. So we biked across the big Island like 120 530 miles from South point to the tip. And then we paddled the Maui. Then we biked across Maui. Then we paddled the Molokai. Then we biked across Molokai. We palled Oahu bike across Oahu and then paddled to Kauai. The last battle was 22 hours. So I peddled 22 hours on to Kuai. That's intense. Yeah. I did-- I did five iron mans on the five Hawaiian islands Yeah, yeah. I thought that was bad-ass but I wasn't paddling in between the islands (both laughing). I took an airplane. Yeah, I know, we-- But, so that was, we've had some, well I had some fun with Don, Don and I-- right? He passed at 85, right? Yeah. all the way, to the end. To the like the last month he just, he tapered off and that was it. He had some lung stuff with, I kind of feel like maybe it was attributed to all those hours on PCH you know, riding that bike. Yeah. with all those cars I think probably was in my mind, I was just like something, but he, but, you know, he went out like he wanted to, Like, he was good, solid to the end. I think we had done a helicopter snowboarding trip to Chile the summer before. So that was pretty. That was pretty great. Yeah. Yeah and I remember one of the guides we were down there and one of the guides said, &quot;How old, 'cause he was he would snowboard and he'd go fakie, which is when you flip around and ride the reverse stance, which you know, the kids go fakie, right? Yeah. Right. Yeah. (laughs) It's like, jackass, like Johnny Knoxville dressed up Yeah. Yeah, yeah, But it's Don Wildman. Yeah, yeah. So-- what did you take from that? I mean, other than like, he just never stopped? Yeah. Well, a rolling stone gathers no moss, you know, and a running car keeps running. So I think, you know, I looked at Don as someone that was a lover of life. Like he was really like, whenever, you know, I remember you know, we'd have dinner and he'd be like &quot;This is the best dinner I've ever had.&quot; And then a week later he'd be over at the house and &quot;This is the best dinner I'd ever had.&quot; And he would be, you know, his grandkids would send him some radical hardcore music and he'd be playing it in his porch and stuff. And you know what I mean? He was super, right? Yeah. and willing to, I mean, when you're 80 something you're still gonna, you're gonna be pretty Yeah. You're, you know, you're gonna you're, but he was willing to subject himself to he'd always do new stuff. I could get them if I said, you know, I go, &quot;Hey, you wanna go dive with the sharks?&quot; &quot;Oh yeah, sure, great.&quot; &quot;Hey, you wanna go skydive?&quot; &quot;Oh yeah&quot;, &quot;Hey, you wanna go sail on the Americans go.&quot; &quot;Oh yeah.&quot; I mean, it's like, I'd invite him on the most random stuff. He always said yes. Unless he had some other plans already and was willing to subject himself to that, you know, that learning curve. And his name was actually Wildman, you know? Which is the best part. People that look at me call him the Wildman. I go, well that's the thing (Rich laughs loudly) like Donahue Wildman. Perfect, you can't make it up. That's what I'm saying. You can't make that stuff up. So for me, I think to know him it was interesting 'cause I've had friends that have passed away that I had remorse for. And Don was one of the first guys that I'd ever I didn't feel bad about him, you know, I mean, of course I miss him and we think about him all the time and talk about him but I didn't miss him like I had other friends 'cause I didn't, there was nothing I felt like that No stone unturned, right? No stone unturned. That he was, it was all good. And he crescendo like he wanted to, he wanted to go out, you know, being the guy that you remember and not withering away. And I think so, I think all of that, I think that it really, it was like remorse levers. Like there was no remorse. There was no, which was pretty great, I'm like, if I can live a life like that, where you know, where people around you feel like there's nothing, you know, there's nothing remorse, okay, hey, you missed a couple of people you miss. And of course in some of this stuff that you leave behind people that are hurt, but, and that's gonna, there's no way out, you know (chuckles) Yeah. But that kinda lives on in what you do now with the pool work out, right? It lives on, yeah. And you know, I think for me, you know I always, I get bored easy and I think connected to the innovation and I don't, I try to get out of ruts. I like to try to keep learning and getting taxed, you know like getting taxation from the learning. You know, I told somebody when you ever, you know when you learn something, how sore are you? And then, you know, after you've done it for six months, how less sore are you? And when you've done it for a year you're not even sore anymore. It's like the first time you run a mile, you're like you feel like you're broken. And then you got to run two and then pretty soon you got another 10 and then pretty soon you got to run 50. It's like, there's no, you just have to keep building where. So I think there's something about that, about doing new things. And the pool really came out of my disdain for like traditional swimming. Like, you know, I'd be like the Orca with the floppy fan. Yeah. and make me swim and I feel like I need, you know, I love in the ocean and mask and fins and, you know, seeing and being moved. And so, you know, a lot of my pool, the pool stuff really was a marriage between the gym and swimming. Like how could I marriage, you know, Yeah. and swimming and which resulted in kind of a pretty you know, and then we'd throw in heat and ice and some other, you know, Other kinds of exposure stuff Yeah. And just always trying to change it up, just looking for you know, looking to make it new and interesting and try to stay out of those ruts, you know, Yeah. to get in and before you know it you're, you know, you're the bottom sit on the ground (laughs). And you can play around within the rut and think that you're innovating but you're still very much in the rut. That's something that I definitely plead guilty to. (Laird laughing) You know, and I'll convince myself that I'm working on my weaknesses, but I'm really not. Yeah. I don't wanna work on the weaknesses 'cause that sucks. Yeah. Yeah. 'Cause you're gonna not feel good. No, that's true. You know. But still, it all hearkens back to Hawaii because the original, you know, pool workout is carrying stones along the bottom, you know running along the bottom of the ocean. Absolutely. I've done it's not fucking easy (laughs). Absolutely, Well, and ultimately, when you think about that dynamic of stone carrying and running not a lot to do with swimming. No, not at all. It has a lot to do with breath holding and legs and legs burn the most oxygen. So whenever you incorporate dynamic leg in, you know, you know, from the monofin or anytime you're using getting the quads going, man, that That's all, yeah. the breathing goes way up. I mean, you look at long distance swimming. It's like don't move the legs (laughs) you know. Drag them. Drag them is gonna burn oxygen. Dag 'em has no forward propulsion is worth the amount of energy expenditure Exactly. Exactly. Unless you have some giant fins on. Right. discipline but so that a lot of it came out of that. And then just first of all being in the water, back to the water. So we're back in the water, we're in the water, breath holding, fear of drowning. That stuff is really powerful. That's right there with falling and being burned and being eaten by giant animals. Yeah. with that kind of psychology about holding your breath underwater and you can't breathe underwater no matter who you are yet. So, that's a big psychology, right? What that environment represents. And then you can be, you know, you're in a pool at my house, so it's pretty controlled. So you can, then we can kind of ratchet the, you know, there's some fear things that we can deal with in that environment that, you know, and then compression, you know, we learn about compression and blood flow through the lymphatic system. Yeah. like in an hour, your body circulates the blood through it. That normally it takes like 24 hours. So you have something Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then you can be really aggressive. You know, I take some basketball guys and we do a bunch of jumping work and all of a sudden their verticals increase. And you can take a guy that probably shouldn't jump a lot 'cause they're so giant but they can jump hundreds of times without all that impact. Yeah. all the injuries. Exactly. The momentum makes impact. Creates these like supportive tissue around you. Exactly. And it also exhausts you more than anything. I mean, there's something about whatever you're doing in the pool, man, you will sleep well at night. You will. Yeah. about, but you know. I can go out and run for hours or ride my bike. But nothing makes me as tired as being in the water. Well, you, I mean, listen-- It's a tapped thing. If they're saying a two and a half miles swim's worth 125 mile bike and a 24 mile run, that's they're telling you what the, you know, Yeah. like you're saying like two miles, two and a half miles is equivalent to these other things. I think a lot of it is temperature. Yeah. even if it's Well, yeah your water 70, even the water 70, it's still not 98. That's 30 degree, you know, 28 degree temperature difference. That's over time that, so I think there's that. And then the psychology and then the breathing, Yeah. but we love the water work for that. And for us, it correlates to our relationship with, you know, being in the big ocean and being in the big surf, you can move, you know, one of my theories is that that you will gain technique out of necessity, right? Because if you to, in order to swim a giant dumbbell across the pool, you're gonna have to be efficient. Like and I don't care what your stroke looks like and I can get a stroke coach and be like, well you should move your arm to do your thing. I'll go, here's a dumbbell swimming over there. Yeah. You'll figure it out. you're doing something right (Rich laughs). You're learning, you're knowing it's kinda like putting a giant pack on, you carry a huge pack? And you take it off probably gonna be faster, you know? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. When you add the survival aspect into it, right? Yeah. to the other side somehow. And you're gonna use all your limbs to do it. Anything you can to get there. Well, it's also, it's still like, it's not like anybody else's doing this, right? So that it's so open-ended in terms of like the innovation, I'm sure you're tweaking it all the time, right? it's not, that they're not, that it's not being applied. Had hasn't been applied, you know, it's like one of those things, like you'd think that, I mean and I know from what you know and we're always being creative now we're starting to be able to kinda combine stuff. So we have a couple different things that we put them together, make hybrids. So like circuit training like, Yeah. have all these different techniques and then you start to combine them and then you have yourself, some new, you know, there's always a new. Like a program. Do you make the, you have like an app, right? The XP. XPT so you make that available to people? But not the pool because the pool is so specialized. Yeah. The water is not something to go subject people to. Don't sue Laird. Don't (laughs) don't sue me. No, yeah. The cool we need, I mean we are very selective about we have trainers for XPT, you know, for the fitness stuff, but for the pools pool specific training we have very few people that we would that will license to become a because of the water. Yeah, dangerous. this isn't something to fool around with. Yeah. have weight you know. And throw in, you know, a 200 degree sauna in between sets, right? It is like. Yeah. those protocols into the actual workout itself. 'Cause you think of those as a post-workout thing, right? Or a pre-workout thing. But to drop that into the middle of the whole thing creates like a whole different kind of stress. Yeah, we've been doing some interesting stuff too, like 'cause we're always looking for ways to, you know, it's like, you know, run a mile, run two miles but you have to keep making the thing longer. 'Cause you get kind of better at it you adapt, you know, that we're sending adaptable creatures, we adapt quickly to things. So we shake it up but you know, one of the things that we've been doing, I mean, we put the, you know, we put the assault bikes in some of the other stuff in the saunas. But we do one of these protocols where we do, where we ride some sort of cardio assault rowing machine when it's something that you know, boosts your cardio. And then we go into the ice plunge and we do we go back and forth between those and that just has a pretty profound effect on you (chuckles). Yeah. a good hammering, but you know just when you think, we always say, just when you think it was safe to, you know, Right. and do the thing (laughs) you gotta, you know. Now it's gonna be this, right. But I guess we do that out of more out of our, kind of our interests are, you know, in our search, our discovery, it's more out of discovery. Like, hey, what if you do this? Oh, that's cool, let's try that and see, and a lot of it comes from that. It comes from that innocent, you know, that like that child, like, you know, why are kids so good with certain things? Like they get a you know, a phone and they're all of a sudden doing everything. Right. they don't just go, well, what if I don't know if I should? And you know, they just go into, and I think that's healthy, I think it's go about it, whatever you're doing, Right. or, oh, I didn't think that that curcumin would make that dish better or whatever. Just, you know, it's just, and that's the same I think in innovation is really, again, a formula it's like you can put it in whatever you're doing, it doesn't I don't think there's, I think the basic structure of it is the same, no matter what genre you're in, just change the backdrop. Like what is it fitness? Is it nutrition? Is it sport? Is it art? Is it tech? Is it, what is it? It's like (laughs) willingness to try things and then take kind of remote taking failure off the table. Right? It's not about that. It's like, we're just, we're gonna pull on these threads and see where it leads us. For sure. And failures are part of that process. Yeah. that's part of what you're doing. That's 56 now? 56? Like I'm 54. So, you know, it's like trying to figure out how to continue to stay fit, stay engaged, try new things. But are there certain things where you're like, ah, I can't do that anymore. I've noticed this about like how I'm aging. So I have to, you know, adjust like where are you at with all of that? Well, Most of the things I'm doing is not so measurement oriented. I don't have all those data stuff to use that against me. (Laird laughing loudly) There's some of that I don't have that. Well, I only ran that mile at a while. You know, I don't have all those numbers that would probably show some deterioration. I mean, I just think it's part of your nature. Yeah, but you are also so attuned with your own body. Yeah. Yeah. all those things. So, a lot of it is, you know, I guess for me, a lot of it is I'm just not doing a lot of the same things that I've been doing. And I'm more, you know, a lot of my training really has been not to hurt myself because in the past, a lot of times you get your training injures you and then you're kind of like, oh, that's not great. So, lately it's been more about that, right? It's a little bit more about okay, and you know, I think the holistic thing is become, I'm better at it. Like I'm better at my diet, my sleep, my workout that's not hurting me. My, you know, so I'm in a way I think, you know, whether are my performances are you know, I just don't have any real, tangible measurements of you know, hey, I'm not as fast up the hill. Yeah. you know if I go get my 18, you know, my 18 year old protege with me and I go up the hill, then he kinda disappears. I'm like, well, I might not have dis, you know, I might not be back here for when I was 18 let's just put it that way but. Is this guy Luca that's living with you? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I was hearing about this guy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So he's a young, big, Big wave rider. And you just took them in? Well, yeah, like Gabby's thought it would be good for me you know, since I'm in a house with all women. So she, She met him and he was, you know, young and full of testosterone and looking to be an aspiring, it looks like he's an aspiring Seal at this point. So he's aspiring to become a Seal. So I'm, I have a lot of friends that are in the Seal, so that are out and in. And so I've been exposing him to that. So he has a better idea of what that will entail. He's a big wave surfer. He's a little bit of a throwback, pretty rare type of person in this day and age. He's kinda like, you know, like 1950s Cro-Magnum man like a little bit like this is his, the way his mind works. And he has been good he's helps us. He helps, you know, helps us at our home with all the details because we have a lot of stuff going on when you have, you know, daughters and people and stuff, and just and train he's really been with us to train. So he's been getting, and it's been nice to watch him implement kind of our work and then see the results that it's had on him. And he's, it's made him strong. So it's cool to see, to watch him pull train, and you you know, do high X with gaps, circuit train, pull train do all this stuff, breath work and heat and ice and all that stuff. And watch it, watch him kind of, you know, kind of benefit. It seems like it's your way of paying forward, what you received, right? Like you, you, you know, you you've been the beneficiary of having like strong men in your life to be guiding forces from your stepdad and Don and et cetera, right? So now you can do that for this kid, Yeah. Well, I think that's ultimately, what do they say to at a certain point after, you know, March on the ladder maybe you, you either wanna be a King or a wizard, right? Or you wanna be, whatever that looks like. But I mean, and I don't mean a King in the same of but you're just not one of the soldiers fighting in the thing and that you can be, it's more about a wizard. I kind of like the wiz, you know, you're like the wizard and the guys come to see you. And I always thought that, like, when I was young I wanted to be like this, like a you know, a guy. The way you go see the wizard, he's in the barn over there. (Rich laughs hysterically) Like you go, It's like that though. You know what I mean? Yeah. This is pilgrimage up to your house. Yeah, yeah, yeah. (Rich laughs) Go visit the wizard he's over there. And it, you know, and not that I'm a wizard by any means, but I do like that 'cause I have been that right in my life. I've been like, hey, Jerry Lopez, you know I like go to Jerry and Jerry be there. And he's just ahead of you. He's lived more, done more. And then you go to him and try to get some insight. And it's good for me if I can bestow some knowledge that I've been, that was bestowed on me that helped me go along my courses. I mean, I think that, like you said, pay it back. And I think that's, I think at the end, I think that is really something that is that culturally we've lost. And it really goes back to, you know, the Wiseman that we you know, that they're supposed to be the wise men. I'm not, I'm definitely not me, not one of the wise men but they're supposed to be these people that you were supposed to look up to actually. Right. elders. for their elderly knowledge as opposed to dismiss them and put them in a home. Exactly. And maybe that's just 'cause they survived. That maybe that the knowledge is that they just actually made it long enough to it live that long. (Rich laughing) I'm just saying like, that might be, it might not be anything tricky. It just might be, hey, you can't be as like Wildman. That guy is 60. gonna be around the World for 85 years without getting some something. Something's popping up. And even if you can just observe the guy and be like, hmm the way he does stuff, maybe that's something that, you know. Hawaiian, Hawaiian. Hawaiian. Which is more tribal, which is more of how we, that the way the structure of culture has been in the past is that you had to have, you wanted to have some elders like the L whatever, the woman elder, man elder, these elders that help the youth. And because it, because I think that that's something that we're missing. I think the way we look at elders, we kinda, let's just like you said, put them in the, over there, out of our sight, let's not and not realizing that there's a lot to be learned. And you see people that have admiration for their grandparents and that go there and with their I mean, they're, those are special people, right? Yeah. usually that have that have but also, you know, I always say, 'cause you know in Hawaii we talk a lot about respect, right? It's always about, hey, you got to respect, hey, you didn't respect me. Well, I always say, yeah, but you gotta act respectfully. So act respectfully, and then you get respected. So, you know, I think it's important that the elders act respectfully and then they can be respected. But if the elders are not acting correctly. Not behaving themselves (laughs). Not behaving then it's no I'm just saying and that's part of the issue too, Right. Is the elders aren't behaving correctly, then it's hard to respect them because you're like, well you guys aren't even behaving correctly so we're not gonna. behaving well because they've been disrespected too. You know? And we have lost that. I mean, I, you know, I'm reminded of Julie, my wife's father, she grew up in Alaska. Yeah. He moved the whole family up there. And he was having the most success like in the very late years of his life. Like he, it got to the point he's like 89. He could barely see. And he would keep getting hired on these jobs because, Knowledge. respected him and they're like, we'll send, we'll come and pick you up. We just, we need you and we want you there. Yeah. Right? And even though he's like, &quot;I should be retired.&quot; Like he just couldn't quit. Yeah, but how great is that? beautiful about that. that you're the most needed at the end of your life? You know, we were talking because I was reading some Adlerian thing that I really enjoyed. And they, you know, they were talking about that sometimes the value is just the presence that the value is just the presence that just being there Right. 'cause people well, what value to they do? And I go, well, listen, at a certain point if the elderly can't do anything just their presence, that they're there, your grandma's there, your grandfather's there. They're just, they exist. And that can be enough to be a value, right? Yeah, beautiful. about everybody being a value and you're like, Right. They're there (laughing). Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, I wanna know how you live with all these women. Like I got (chuckles) two daughters around we got two sons. Oh, yeah, we get the same age too. They're older. Okay. Yeah. Girls? Girls were are trickier. Right? 'cause I've been going through different stages of it and you know, for I was describing my position is kind of like being a post in the house, like a giant post that holds the roof up. You just have to be there. You don't move, you hold the roof up so the roof doesn't fall down and that's your position. All the chaos (laughs). around you, but you're just standing like that. And you, and they need you to be there stationary like that. But one thing about, I mean, listen the only thing I know is I don't know anything. I know nothing when it comes to-- I'm coming to appreciate that to the girls. They're complex like, and I think one also two the, it's a complex time, you know, on top of it. I think it's not, you know, now the social pressures and I think. girl. because it's 24 seven, it's not just when you go to school at school or when you go to the playground at the playground, it's not just at these places. It's all day long every day. And I think that there's a lot of pressure on them. And, you know, I think I, you know, for me, I feel like I try to lead by example and I'm pretty, I mean, it's all about honesty like stop talking about, you know, I have this conversation with my youngest daughter about makeup, and then she's like, okay, make, I wanna get some makeup. And I go, okay, well, you know why you're gonna you want to put makeup on, right? And she goes, &quot;Well, because it makes me feel good.&quot; I go, &quot;No, you wanna put makeup on to attract males.&quot; Like, and (laughing) and you wanna you're trying to attract a male. And she's like, no one makes me feel good. I go, what makes you feel good because that you think it might help you be attractive. That's part of why you're doing it. So it was (indistinct) complicated than that because (Laird laughs) she's on social media and she's seeing other girls her age doing that. And you wanna feel like you're part of that or you can fit in with that. Yeah. a self-esteem thing that yes is about, But it's about attracting too. But it's also about signaling to the tribe and where you fit and all of that. No, but that's the complexity of it, right? It's like, hey, you're doing this to fit in, to do it to fit in with the girls that you're other girls to fit in to be attractive, because that's ultimately whether you're being attractive to the girls that fit in or not. I mean, that's all part of that pressure. I'm just saying that I just want her, I wanted her to understand that there was another motive than just her at the house. Yeah, I get it. Yeah. It's for, you're doing it for other people. Yeah. It's not easy man. I feel like Kids either define themselves by trying to model the behavior or the example that you set and and like kind of covet approval that way. Or they define themselves in opposition to who you are. Like, I'm gonna just contravene everything that you're about to create some distance. And maybe that's an attention thing. I don't know. But I'm dealing with a little bit of that right now where it's like everything that we're about not interested. By that you hate the beach. your daughter's gonna come to you and wanna ask about life advice. Like that's not happening (laughs). No, no, no. Not quite. I'm trying to figure out like what the right thing to do is, yeah. You model, you set an example, you model the behavior, but you have to have a very loose relationship with the results of that. And you gotta be able to roll with stuff that like you didn't expect. Well, I have a feeling that you're not gonna see the fruits of your work until they leave. That a lot of the seeds that you plant and a lot of the things that you do, you won't see until they go out of your house. And they have their, and because those seeds, whatever it is that you've planted those are growing, but you can't see them. And the thing that they're gonna turn into is gonna come after, it's gonna come after it's gonna come late. It's gonna come, I mean, I can speak for myself personally. Like how that later on or something like that, right? Yeah and then I have a 17 and 12, but it's like I think a lot of those fruits are gonna come later on. You're gonna see, it's gonna be, you know, they're gonna, you're gonna, you wish you would get to, you know, reap the rewards of it, but there's none of that. Right? There's none of that. There's none of that. That's deferred for who knows how long? Who knows how long? You just hope that they come, that comes out but, you know, I see it happen, you know, where the girls will go, well, you know, one of my daughters will go be with some family and then they come back and know the family would be like, oh, she's so amazing. So helpful. So great. And I'm like, I'm like. Was that odd? about the same person? Yeah (laughs), I know. You know, my daughters hate the beach. You know, like, all the beach, how I hate the beach. Hate surfing, hate turfing Hate the beach. Hate working out. You're eating that. Crazy. I have a couple your teachers. Yeah. Gabby doesn't like it when I say that, but I'm like, yeah. I said, your children were sent here to wear you out. And so you can die and they can take over. And then she's like, oh yeah, that's now that's (both laughing) And then my other thing is, I said, parenting is like building a samurai sword. You take the steel, you heat it up, you beat it with a hammer and you stick it in a bucket of ice. And you just do that over and over. And eventually it's the hardest steel in the world. I said, parenting, a parent you take the kids take you they heat you up. They beat you with a hammer and they stick you in ice and they do it over and then you're tempered, like when you're done parenting you're gonna be like, you're gonna be tempered, either that (Laird laughing) or you're done break. Breaking in half and you're done. Throw you back in the furnace. Right. So you've been, you and Gabby have been together for over 20 years. Yeah we around 25. We're coming up on 25. And you've kind of modeled this, you know, relationship in a public facing way, which is interesting, you know, like the way that the dynamic that you guys have figured out for yourself, I think is super inspiring in that. And you know, my wife and I are, you know, we strive to do this ourselves is that, you know, you're both very independent people. You're not defining yourselves, you know, by, you know, what the other person you're not relying upon each other to define who you are, right? There's a mute, there's a respect. You come together when you come together, it's quality but you both have your kind of independent worlds and you provide the space for you guys to have those experiences. And they're not loaded in the way that a lot of relationships are. Where it's like, yeah I want you to be that guy who goes out and surfs big waves, but only on my terms, right? (laughs softly) Yeah. And that's hard to get to that place. Yeah, I, you know, I think both Gabby and I probably our childhoods, the relationships that we saw around us growing up, or the lack of, you know, one of the two, I think that had a big influence on us. I, you know, I know that, you know, we talk about, you know, each of us are responsible for our own happiness, you know, that I'll go get happy. You go get happy. And then when you're happy and I'm happy you come back and we'll both be happy together kind of thing. Like not putting the pressure of, you know, I'm fortunate that she's, you know, and I guess she could say she's fortunate that I'm completely, you know, a fan of, you know, of Gabby's in her corner and support her in things that at times probably I wasn't exactly stoked about, that it was more important for me to be supportive of her than it was for me to vote my opinion or my feelings about it. I think that was a big piece of it that I would always and she's amazing that she doesn't ever put the like any of my passion or my draw as something against her. It's not taking away from her Right. oh you did, but it's taken away from her. And so, you know, the combination of but we, you know, it's funny 'cause we were, you know, we've talked about this before in the past that it's like her and I think we have enough, we were scared enough of each other that we're like, it's a cold war. You know, it's a cold, we have a cold war. We're just, we know that we both have nukes. We both could drop them. It won't be good. You could die from the fallout. Usually a sheer destruction (both laughing). It's sheer destruction for everybody, no matter who fires. Let's not fire that and keep that in. So I think that's been, you know, and we've had our you know, we've had our ups and downs like every relationship and every effort. And I think, I mean, every it takes effort in the relationship to make it, but you know, they did a study with 10,000 couples and they said that the only thing that was consistent amongst all successful couples no matter what the dynamics were was that the man respected the woman. And so for me, that was, you know, I have a ton of respect for Gabby as a person and then as a woman and then as a mom and as a, you know, just all of her as a person. And so, and I had also had a great relationship with my mother and I have a lot of respect Yeah. My mom was a hardworking lady and, you know, raised some children and some men too. And so I, you know, I have that, I think that and I can, I don't think that any, just any guy could be with Gabby. I mean, men have a hard time sometimes with women that are strong because they just, they either you're insecure she's pretty alpha. I would think that she checks the alpha box. You know and that many are category in your relationship. Yeah and which is great. And you have more that you can be more of the Teddy bear. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you call me in when it's, when you need some real dirty work done and you know (both laughing). You know what I mean? When the toilet breaks you call me Yeah, I get it. outside or can't help like (laughs loudly). But she's, I mean, she's a force of energy. Yeah. You've got to reckon with that. That's, you know what I mean? Which it's great. I think, I don't think I would be able to respect her if she wasn't. I don't think, I think that-- Yeah. I would be, it would, I mean I would respect her but it wouldn't be the same, like I do. Yeah. I wanna talk about Laird Superfood. Okay. You guys just took this company public, right? We did. I saw pictures of you like ringing the bell at the stock exchange and it's just like a fish out of water thing. Hard to believe. I know, it's wild. I actually got to ring the bell for Wildman when he, when Valleys when they, Oh, wow. But so I was able to, but I had Your second time. with it. This is a whole different thing. This has got my name on it. And the fact that we were in a position that the business has been, you know, built like it has been and run like it has been is the only reason why we were able to go public. So that was a an education. So I was in go public. It's no small thing. School. That's it. Well, just the whole process is it is amazingly elaborate, complicated, like it's a complicated, I wonder how come as many companies do, are like given all there is to do and the details. And I mean we're fortunate and enough to have great people that was, you know, that was taken care of. Well, I think it, I mean, obviously it suits you perfectly because it's so part and parcel of your ethos. It's really just a manifestation of you and your lifestyle. It's dying that's the irony (laughs loudly). I'm just saying, that's the irony, yeah. What's that weird thing like, Yeah, yeah, yeah. into something that you're not right? Like the idea that you're in New York city at all, Yeah. there when you were a kid but like that's oil and water. Yeah. the course of your career, like you're somebody who's done lots of deals and had licensing and you've had Yeah. and that product and some of them work, some of them didn't work. And I've always looked at it at an arms length from a distance and not really knowing anything, thinking like he just needs to get with the right partners 'cause this guy has got so much to offer and maybe he's not partnering with the right people. So I look at Laird Superfood, I clearly he's with the right people and this is working. And it's like, to me it feels like long overdue that you should have a win like this Like a long time ago. You know, again, it's all about timing. I think the timing of it, I think it's, you know, I mean, it's like anything, maybe you, I might not have been in a position to appreciate it like I am now. Like you are, right? You know, big if it was earlier or and maybe it just, it wouldn't have wouldn't be what it is if it, if it hadn't. So I think that's a big piece of it. It's like the timing of it. I, if I had to say, hey, when, you know, you get to choose whenever it was gonna happen, the way it's happened in the and the truth is that, you know, Gabby and I talked about this before, you know, we've been very cautious about who we align ourselves with throughout our careers Yeah. and is it reflective of our brand? And all those kinds of things and the truth is that we had to, you know, ultimately build a brand that was reflective of our brand. Right? and there were that's we were able to, but that's the truth. The truth is, is that You want to do it right you can do it yourself. Well, we just, 'cause there was no one there was no business that we could think of that really truly reflect reflected our, you know, our brand and like this does because it is our brand. So it's, So I think that's a big piece of it. And, you know and again I always look at ideas like all ideas and you know and Superfood is one of them that, because everybody's we're all so caught up in monte, it's all about monetary, right? My hand is, how many this and how much that and all that stuff. But I always think that it's about ideas, right? And so if you think about how big is an idea, right? What let's just say, how big is the idea of Facebook? Pretty big idea. Was this an idea? What was the idea of, well, I'm gonna connect people and the thing, and then you've got Facebook, right? So how big is any of these, how big is, you know, how big an idea is the Apple phone or how big of the idea is, you know, stand up paddling in my little world or how big an idea is, you know, whatever the idea is and the other stuff comes later, but the idea itself, you know, what is that like? What is the nucleus of the idea? And I think that's, determines the potential, Right? So with this the ideas, how do I get people eating better? How do I get people eating healthy? How do I get people excited about eating healthy? Please? How do I get stuff in people's diet that aren't? Like people are out there that aren't eating well, like they don't even have an opportunity to even understand Right. You never heard of tumeric, which by the way you promised Yeah. Ever (laughs). I'm just saying like, they don't have any idea or the resources or the availability or all those things. So I think that's, so it's really about that idea. And I think, you know, it's in our nature, especially Hawaii, where Aloha is really about helping about sharing, like sharing culture. I mean, we have other things about it, but one of the things that I was gifted when I was a kid was that I was shared with, you know, that you, that there was a lot of Aloha. That Aloha is sharing. Yeah, and Ohana exactly. So the, but that, I think how, you know, I think it's about ideas at the end that all of this stuff is about ideas. And then what, you know, and then seeing how big the idea is. What's the potential of an idea? It's like, I mean, everything we have going on right now every company that you see, I mean, our country, or just everything. Everything's about ideas and the potential of what they can be. And then, you know, trying to maximize that, how big, how, you know it's like the idea of towing and now you have Nazare, it's like, Right. to reflect a concept so. But-- So in this case though, you're not going into an office and managing people, right? Well that's not my skillset. Like you're formulating Right. So he that's his gift that we have and we're attracting where we attract good people. Like we just, it's the, you know how that is. I have a thing I used to tell Gabby that they can call it a honey line, which is, you know, when you see a bee, you follow the bee and then another bee. And then pretty soon you're at the hive. And that's where the honey is. It's like, so good people attract good people. So we have, you know, we have we're attracting really good people. You know, the majority of what I'm involved in is just, of course always products, like what we're, and then marketing because it's what we've done. Gabby and I've been marketing for our careers. We have to be self marketing 'cause our platforms were so tiny. You know, we talk about our the size of our platforms have been so, you know, volleyball and surfing. Those are little platforms. And so you gotta be pretty creative to survive in those you know? It's not like you know, NBA or NFL where you just, No, it's different. But you both transcend those subcultures. Yeah. you can both go by your first name. Yeah. and you stand for an idea that's much larger than your sport. Yeah, yeah and I think we've been fortunate to be able to do that too. Right? So there's, it's a combination that, you know, and I tell young athletes all the time I go, &quot;hey, listen &quot;if you, it's important for you to know how to talk.&quot; It's important for you to know how to behave in public in a way it'll bring you a lot more opportunities 'cause you can be great, a great athlete but if you can't talk and you don't know how to act, you're gonna have a limited potential. Sure. actually be not as good and have and be well-spoken and know how to conduct yourself. And you'll have a pretty good, you know, you'll have a better opportunity to actually, you know, make a living from it. I think young athletes intuitively understand that Yeah, well now. all about social media and developing this platform, right? Like it's not just, oh, I'm on this team. Yeah. they have to take responsibility for their career trajectory and they can be riding the bench and become the most popular-- Or important player because they've figured out how to get people to care about what they have to say. And that's new. seeing the chain racks too. They're also seeing the train tracks too. So they're seeing the boat. They're seeing the instantaneous failure of greatness and then they're seeing the success of subpar, right? Right. So they're having, there's a you know, they're getting a pretty good spectrum of you know, what not doing it right or what doing it right looks like. So there, you know, 'cause we're at the end, we always talk about monkey see monkey do, right? We're the, that's what humans are. We, when you see it, it's hard to be the monkey that doesn't see and does. That's always the trick but inevitably, you know, there's, when we say there's nothing new, just a new application of an old idea. Yeah. you're the first person to ever think of something or do something. I always find that pretty arrogant. 'Cause it's like, no, that's not honest. Honest is there's, it's probably a combination of, you know something or some other thing that's been done in some way. And then you're just making a hybrid Right. and you know (laughs). That's cool. On that note, you being the wizard and all these people making this pilgrimage to your house for the pool workout. (chuckles) that simple rule. I mean, there's some interesting cats Yeah. Right? And I would suspect that that's its own Manhattan project, right? Like you have a lot of really compelling people doing interesting things in the world that you're spending quality time with. Pretty amazing. I would suspect you've learned quite a bit from this cast of characters, right? Like what does that look like for you? Pretty amazing. Pretty amazing, you know, sometimes Gabby just, you know, shakes her head whether it's, you know, I mean, we, you know, I reading something or some book or something and then it's next week, hey, so-and-so wants to bring such and such the guy that wrote that book or, you know, this (Rich laughing) so we get a lot of that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. of that, but you know, I feel like again the honey line, or even in nature, when you're observing then you get to observe more. It's I think when you're interested in these subjects and you're interested in health and wellness and you're interested in fitness and you're interested in longevity and you're interested in performance and you're interested in morality and whatever you're, I mean, you're just interested in these things and you're, meeting people that are interested in them. Right, yeah, there's David Sinclair showing up today And then they know somebody that knows somebody and then you have those guys. And then so we get, you know, the truth is we get a really amazing array and diverse from generals to, you know, athletes, to perform as peep to doctors. You know, we're, I mean, we get mathematician. Right. it's like the spectrum because what you realize is that, that it doesn't, you know, I always tell, I always say to people I go listen, &quot;Being a surfer's like 'being alcoholic.&quot; Everybody's one. It's just whether you drink or not. Everybody's a surfer it's just whether you surf or not. So what I'm saying is is that everybody there's somebody in every field that's into health and wellness and learning and creativity, right? And no matter what field they can be lawyer, doctor the, you know, politics, whatever they, but there so that's your, what you have in common. And so once you start meeting those people and then you got you know, you got your friend Rick Rubin and he say he knows 38, like, hey you wanna meet this professor of so-and-so. Like, &quot;sure&quot;. Now I go down to his house, I meet the guy. And then the guy goes, &quot;Oh yeah, I have another guy.&quot; And he said, and then before, you know, you're like all of a sudden, you know, the world's a tiny world when you don't know anybody, right? I mean, the world's tiny when you don't know anybody when you know people it's like you're, it's your, it's the next door. It's the next room. It's like, it's even smaller. So when you don't know anybody, it's small when you know people it just becomes, especially like-minded people, right? So when you have all these, you know, when you have all these smart people that are interested. Because when you realize the common denominator in all those that group, learning. They all wanna learn. They're all interested and 'cause all the smart people are people that learn. That's what they do. That's why they're smart 'cause they're always learning and like, hey, what's this and what's that? Oh, you're doing that? Oh yeah, okay, you know, and you just see that and that seems to be the common thread, right? It's like, you never wanna, you never want absolutes and you don't want anybody that thinks they know. As soon as the guy says, &quot;Oh, I know&quot; you're like, right. Yeah. I'm sure you've had (Laird laughing) the guy who shows up who's full of VIM and vigor. And like he's gonna to Gabby, measuring contest. Gabby takes them into the deep end (Rich laughing). She takes them in the deep end. And, you know, first we give, first, you know, Gabby, a girl, a woman takes him over. So then they think, oh yeah, I'll have a real fighting cats. Not realizing that, you know, she was raised by dolphins. And so she's over it (both laughing). So, but yeah, you know, I mean, I always I think it's like a mirror, you know, he's like a mirror. If the guy comes with, you know, a little edge Yeah. him an edge. Right (laughing loudly). He's gonna get what he came for, right. For sure we won't let you down. Cool, man. Well, I wanna be respectful of your time Yeah. But maybe before we do that, given your unique skillset and life experiences and adventures and everything that you've, you know, experienced your whole life, you have a unique lens on the world. Like when you look at how most people live their lives it's very different from how you live your life. And, you know, being conscious of the fact that most people don't have the luxury of being involved in the kind of things that you are. What do you? Like what's the advice like if you could just reach your hand out to the average, Joe, who's, you know, doing the normal thing of, you know, working the job and paying the bills and raising the two kids, like what is it that you want that person to understand about life that perhaps they're myopic to or can't see? Well, that's a very tough thing. I, you know, I have a friend called me the other day and you know, and obviously the time that we're in is a heavy time right now. And some people it's real hard on and some people it's not as hard on but it's a real kind of time of uncertainty, right? Where, which they always are but this one is overtly uncertain, right? This is very overtly uncertain (chuckles). And he said, you know what, he just asked for some advice. And I'm like, I'm not in a position to give advice, but I said, you know, I did say, you know, be honest, work hard and try to have fun, like you know, like, but there's, I think there's something about remembering that there's still these foundation things about, you know, it's important to be honest. You just gotta be honest. We all have to be honest, honest, honest. I think honesty in relationships and friendships, in work and in life, I think there's, you know, and just all the things I think that that's and I and work hard. I think we've got the, I think there's no way to, I wish there was a way to you know, I mean, to work hard, you know, I always Wildman and I used to laugh 'cause he was retired since he was 50. And, but if the amount of work he did every day compared to people that work, you couldn't even begin. And then also you got to have empathy for the people that you know, that everybody's got a burden, right? So everybody has a burden. And I think we have to be conscious that we've got to, you know, lately I've been trying to operate more with more tolerance and more kind of, you know, just a more, just be aware that there's people are under a big thing, but we, and you gotta go you gotta figure out how to have fun. You gotta have fun. If we don't have fun it's all, it's not worth it. It's like, like I said, I'd just say, go surfing. But I meant like, just do things, do something that brings you some sort of enjoyment. Yeah. Yeah, it's there, everybody has their thing. And I think, you know, I think too, you know, when we're if we just can focus on the, you know, it's kind of like I mean you know this better than anybody, you know how when it's far what are you doing? You're just looking at the next step. You just keeping your eye. You're not looking at the distance and going, man that mountain is far away, you just look down and you just keep, keep, keep your feet going. And before you know it, you're like, &quot;Wow, I'm at the mountain now.&quot; But if you're looking and I think that's a big piece of it I think right now, I'm just, yeah. I mean, it's enough to try to just, you know, live sufficiently today. It's enough effort to just work today, do what you need to do today, take care of your family, the people you love today, just keep your head down. And that and I think that a lot of the stuff that I think less of the stuff will bother you. And then a lot of this stuff will be behind. Yeah. It's hard though when the pressure's on. And you're putting that one foot in front of the other to feel like you can adult yourself with play or having fun. I know that and that's why there's a balance aspect to it. I think that that's where you're looking. That's the balance of it, right? Because all that stuff, you know? And I don't, I mean, that's why people are, you know, going to bars is 'cause they're trying to get that release but you just have to figure out a way to get that release that's productive, not destructive. And so if you can just because that's the balance, the equilibrium, because if all work and no play makes Johnny a dull boy, it's just not getting you just can't. You have to figure out what that is whatever that, you know, I mean, tell people it can be as simple as just going to a movie. So they just get to lead there. Some were, you know, you do meditate, do some breath work. I mean, you'd go for a swim, go for a bike go for a Bingo, go for a hike. You go on the sauna and, you know, boil your brains go in the ice tub Yeah. Something, something, something just something to create some sort of now a little bit Yeah. of tilt on the other side. 'Cause all these other stresses are just gonna, they're just pulling us, they're pulling us down, you know? Yeah. Yeah, I get that. All right, last thing. What's the wave that still remains on surf? Like the metaphorical wave. Like what's still out there that you're thinking about right now. And you're laying brick by brick that maybe we're not gonna see it for five years, but it's on the brain? Well, I'm definitely have a project to go out in the, go out into some sort of, you know, stuff you see on you know, national geographic when the ship's going into the big, you know, whether it's down in the roaring forties or up in the North Atlantic or out in the Aleutians, but some project to go out into the big ocean and ride the big ocean out at sea. So that's something that's in my head. Has anybody ever done that? No. No, I don't, I probably shouldn't want to. Yeah (Laird laughing). (laughing) Just out in the North Atlantic in the middle of the ocean. This is some of the island that you need infrastructure, you know, you're not gonna just go out there by yourself. Wow. people and the right pieces. But that's something that I've been thinking about that I'd like to try to at least do that. That's pretty cool. Well, it's just the there. It's something there to be done. That'll be, I have a feeling it'll be something special when that happens. Yeah. It's epic man. All right, thank you, man. That was great. Laird Hamilton Surf. That's where you're at at all of the socials, right? Laird Superfood, Yeah, are you guys in whole foods? Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Yeah, world. I appreciate that it's all plant-based. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Simple well, you got to love it when you just see only Coffee creamers. you gotta love that. I've got a beautiful, Super protein right now. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, I'm enjoying it. Okay, good. And you guys sent me a bunch of stuff. Okay, perfect. That is see, I don't know anything. I'm like I'm on the, No, no, you're on a need to know basis. Yeah, I'm on a need to know basis, exactly. (both laughing) Yeah, they don't wanna do, Hey Laird, we need you to go ring the bell. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Get in here and ring the bell (Rich laughing). And they call me, listen they, unlike the, I do well like in disaster type stuff, like call it the flood call them in, the fire, call the fire, you know, they call me in for the, you know, the big stuff. Right, otherwise you'll be found off-shore. Of whatever I've been preparing to be able to be ready Yeah (laughing). called in, I can do it. There's always that, you know, it's like the fire department, you know, it's gonna happen but you just gotta, you gotta train all the time with the idea that this is not happening right now but it could any second, maybe tomorrow, next week or next year. Cool. All right, man. Thank you. All right Rich. and talk to me again sometime. I look forward to it. Peace.