Translator: Camille Martinez I want to talk about sex for money. I'm not like most of the people about prostitution before. I'm not a police officer I'm not an academic, I'm not a nun, either. Most of those people would tell you That no-one would ever choose to do it. That it's dangerous - In fact, most of those people would say And maybe that sounds reasonable to you. It sounded reasonable to me. Until the closing months of 2009 when I was working two dead-end, Every month my wages would just replenish I was exhaused Like many others before me, I decided sex for money And don't get me wrong, I would have loved But it wasn't going to happen and my rent needed paying. So I signed up In the years that have passed, I've reconsidered the ideas I once had I've given a lot of thought to consent and the nature of work under capitalism. I've thought about gender inequality and the sexual and reproductive I've experienced exploitation I've thought about what's needed to protect other sex workers Maybe you've thought about them, too. In this talk, I'll take you through applied to sex work throughout the world, and explain why they don't work; why prohibiting the sex industry that sex workers are vulnerable to. Then I'm going tell you about what we, The first approach Half the world, including Russia, South Africa regulates sex work by criminalizing So that's seller, buyer and third parties. Lawmakers in these countries that the fear of getting arrested But if you're forced to choose and feeding yourself or your family, you're going to do the work anyway, and take the risk. Criminalization is a trap. It's hard to get a conventional job Potential employers won't hire you. Assuming you still need money, you'll stay in the more flexible, The law forces you to keep selling sex, which is the exact opposite Being criminalized leaves you exposed In many places you may be coerced or even into having sex to avoid arrest. Police and prison guards have been documented to what can only be described as torture: threats at gunpoint, beatings, electric shocks, rape and denial of food. Another worrying thing: if you're selling sex in places a police officer can arrest you because condoms can legally be used Obviously, this increases HIV risk. Imagine knowing if you're busted it'll be used against you. It's a pretty strong incentive Sex workers working in these places between risking arrest What would you choose? Would you pack condoms to go to work? How about if you're worried the police officer would rape you The second approach to regulating is partial criminalization, where the buying and selling but surrounding activities, like brothel-keeping or soliciting Laws like these -- we have them in the UK and in France -- essentially say to us sex workers, &quot;Hey, we don't mind you selling sex, just make sure it's done and all alone.&quot; And brothel-keeping, by the way, is defined as just two or more Making that illegal means which obviously makes us But we're also vulnerable if we choose to break the law A couple of years ago, a friend of mine was nervous so I said that she could see her clients During that time, we had another guy turn nasty. I told the guy to leave And he looked at the two of us and said, &quot;You girls can't call the cops. You're working together, He was right. He eventually left but the knowledge empowered that man to threaten us. He felt confident he'd get away with it. The prohibition of street prostitution than it prevents. Firstly, to avoid getting arrested, street workers take risks and that means working alone or in isolated locations like dark forests where they're vulnerable to attack. If you're caught selling sex outdoors, you pay a fine. How do you pay that fine It was the need for money in the first place. And so the fines stack up, and you're caught in a vicious cycle of selling sex to pay the fines Let me tell you about Mariana Popa The street workers on her patch for safety in numbers and to warn each other about how But during a police crackdown she was forced to work alone She was stabbed to death She had been working later than usual to try to pay off a fine So if criminalizing why not just criminalize This is the aim of the third approach I want to talk about -- the Swedish or Nordic The idea behind this law is that selling sex and so you're, in fact, helping Despite growing support for what's often described there's no evidence that it works. There's just as much prostitution Why might that be? It's because people selling sex often don't have other options for income. If you need that money, the only effect that a drop is to force you to lower your prices or offer more risky sexual services. If you need to find more clients, you might seek the help of a manager. So you see, rather than putting a stop to what's often descried as pimping, a law like this actually gives oxygen to potentially abusive third parties. To keep safe in my work, I try not to take bookings from someone who calls me from a withheld number. If it's a home or a hotel visit, I try to get a full name and details. If I worked under the Swedish model, a client would be too scared I might have no other choice but to accept a booking if he later turns out to be violent. If you need their money, you need to protect If you work outdoors, that means working alone just as if you were criminalized yourself. It might mean getting into cars quicker, less negotiating time Is this guy dangerous or just nervous? Can you afford to take the risk? Can you afford not to? Something I'm often hearing is, &quot;Prostitution would be fine if we made it legal and regulated it.&quot; We call that approach legalization, and it's used by countries and Nevada in the US. But it's not a great And in state-controlled prostitution, commercial sex can only happen in certain legally-designated and sex workers are made to comply like registration Regulation sounds great on paper, but politicians deliberately make expensive and difficult to comply with. It creates a two-tiered system: We sometimes call it Rich, well-connected brothel owners but more marginalized people impossible to jump through. And even if it's possible in principle, getting a license or proper venue It's not going to be an option for someone who's desperate They might be a refugee In this two-tiered system, the most vulnerable people so they're still exposed to all I mentioned earlier. It's looking like all attempts to control or prevent sex work from happening makes things more dangerous Fear of law enforcement makes them and allows clients and even cops to get abusive in the knowledge Fines and criminal records force rather than enabling them to stop. Crackdowns on buyers drive sellers and into the arms These laws also reinforce stigma When France temporarily brought in ordinary citizens took it as a cue to start carrying out vigilante attacks against people working on the street. In Sweden, opinion surveys show that significantly more people want than before the law was brought in. If prohibition is this harmful, you might ask, why is it so popular? Firstly, sex work is and always for all kinds of unpopular people of color, migrants, people with disabilities, LGBTQ people, particularly trans women. These are the groups most heavily profiled and punished through prohibitionist law. I don't think this is an accident. These laws have political support precisely because they target people that voters don't want Why else might people support prohibition? Well, lots of people have Folks think that foreign women can be saved by shutting So let's talk about trafficking. Forced labor does occur especially those where the workers and this needs to be addressed. But it's best addressed with legislation not an entire industry. When 23 undocumented Chinese migrants drowned while picking cockles there were no calls to outlaw to save trafficking victims. The solution is clearly to give allowing them to resist abuse and report it to authorities The way the term trafficking implies that all undocumented In fact, many migrants out of economic need, to place themselves into the hands Many do this with the full knowledge that they'll be selling sex And yes, it can often be the case that these people smugglers coerce migrants into work and abuse them when they're vulnerable. That's true of prostitution, but it's also true of agricultural work, hospitality work and domestic work. Ultimately, nobody wants but that's a risk many migrants because of what they're leaving behind. If people were allowed to migrate legally they wouldn't have to place their lives The problems arise from the criminalization of migration, just as they do from the criminalization of sex work itself. This is a lesson of history. If you try to prohibit something whether that's drinking alcohol or getting an abortion or selling sex, you create more problems than you solve. Prohibition barely makes a difference to the amount of people But it makes a huge difference as to whether or not Why else might people support prohibition? As a feminist, I know of deeply entrenched social inequality. It's a fact that most buyers of sex and most sellers are women without. You can agree with all that -- I do -- and still think prohibition In a better, more equal world, maybe there would be far fewer but you can't simply legislate If someone needs to sell sex or because they're homeless or because they're undocumented taking away that option or house them or change their immigration status. People worry that selling Ask yourself: is it more degrading or seeing your children go hungry? There's no call to ban rich people or getting manicures, even though most of the people It's the fact of poor migrant women that has some feminists uncomfortable. And I can understand why the sex industry provokes People have all kinds when it comes to sex. But we can't make policy especially not over actually effected by those policies. If we get fixated on we end up worrying more of gender inequality, rather than about the underlying causes. People get really hung up on the question, &quot;Well, would you want That's the wrong question. Instead, imagine she is doing it. How safe is she at work tonight? Why isn't she safer? So we've looked at full criminalization, partial criminalization, and legalization, and how they all cause harm. Something I never hear asked is: &quot;What do sex workers want?&quot; After all, we're the ones New Zealand decriminalized It's crucial to remember that decriminalization and legalization Decriminalization means that punitively target the sex industry, instead treating sex work In New Zealand, people and employers of sex workers A sex worker can refuse for any reason, and 96 percent of street workers report that they feel the law New Zealand hasn't actually in the amount of people doing sex work, but decriminalizing it But the lesson from New Zealand isn't just that its particular but that crucially, it was written in collaboration namely, the New Zealand When it came to making sex work safer, they were ready to hear it straight Here in the UK, I'm part of sex worker-led groups and the English Collective of Prostitutes. And we form part of a global movement demanding decriminalization The universal symbol of our movement We're supported in our demands the World Health Organization and Amnesty International. But we need more allies. If you care about gender equality or poverty or migration or public health, then sex worker rights matter to you. Make space for us in your movements. That means not only listening but amplifying our voices. Resist those who silence us, those who say that a prostitute too damaged to know or else too privileged and too removed from real hardship, not representative of the millions This distinction between victim It exists purely to discredit sex workers and make it easy to ignore us. No doubt many of you work for a living. Well, sex work is work, too. Just like you, some of us like our jobs, some of us hate them. Ultimately, most of us But how we feel about our work isn't the point. And how others feel What's important is that we have and on our own terms. Sex workers are real people. We've had complicated experiences and complicated responses But our demands are not complicated. You can ask expensive brothel workers in Cambodia, and every girl on the roster and they will all tell you the same thing. You can speak to millions of sex workers and countless sex work-led organizations. We want full decriminalization I'm just one sex worker but I'm bringing a message Thank you. (Applause)