[Rollo yells] Tyr Neilsen: Rollo's You can turn, you can pull, and if it's used against it can be pulled up. There's lots and lots of tricks. Hi, my name is Tyr Neilsen. I'm president of the and a senior instructor at the Academy of Viking Today, we're going to be looking at ax-fight scenes in movies and TV. There's different ways to When you have two weapons, there's a different thought process. In this situation, I would use the ax with my lead hand, and maybe I would reverse If I preferred to use the knife, then I would hold the and try and cut as much I'd follow up with the knife, either in a forward dual wielding. Vikings, according to the Sometimes they hid the So, as you grip the shield here, you can hold the ax and so it wouldn't be seen by the opponent. And if you drop your shield you quickly have another This is very realistic choreography. He's using basic strikes. No sneaky techniques and no small, direct cuts. He's swinging with that intention. One of them could work. He only needs to connect with the guy's arm or wrist or fingers before you've created serious damage. The way they engage is You try and trap the hand If it has a weapon, you try and trap the weapon or the arm, and you use that to control the balance of the opponent. Lots of different styles and my father-in-law began to teach me glima techniques, which are based on the from the Viking age. These are passed down quite secretly, because Norway has been and occupied by Germany so their means of fighting hands-on combat were held pretty close to the chest. It goes into grappling, and It was quite brutal, Seven out of 10. It was a very tense and You want to control your and by grabbing your opponent's weapon, especially near the ax head, you can use it against the opponent. This is my favorite Viking ax. The toe edge would have been a couple of centimeters higher and then come to a lethal point, and the heel would have which would have been also lethal. And it would have been very, very sharp. This is a typical Viking ax. And then this is what because this part of the ax, they call the beard. And it has an elongated beard, and you can grip it here And it can be deadly when When you close up properly, you can use it as a knife There are many decorated Viking axes. Vikings like to decorate On the haft, they would be protected with leather, nails, or wrapped in metal, and there's some examples from the sagas. This would protect the Not always, because it's But it helps. It would be great if the producers got in contact with people that the people in the show because there's a lot of You can use that as a platform This was very exciting, quite realistic, and a great starter for the whole show. Rollo's using a Viking battle-ax, which is an incredibly dangerous weapon. The ax head goes through the shield. It can be a dangerous move. If the ax head gets stuck in the shield, it can be used against you. I have a Viking battle-ax, also called a Dane ax. And if you imagine my arm is a shield, you can hook over the top of and you can do it really quickly. This is just a small ax head. You can turn, you can pull, and if it's used against it can be pulled up. You can push forward There's lots and lots of tricks with this. And you can use the ax as a stick. You can use either this end or this end, or you can use it as a stick It's made to be maneuvered around. If you start here, you and then send it out quite a long way. He uses it with technique, strength. Seven out of 10. I believe Rollo, and, the I really wouldn't want Viking boys, growing up, and they would start wrestling, fighting with weapons. Every one of them was quite good at throwing axes, throwing knives. When we're doing seminars, we're not instructing people throw their weapons, they throw their axes, It's a very natural thing to do. I could throw the ax with I don't know if I would but I would imagine that that character could and would. And as he did, 10 out of 10, because he cut the ropes. I don't know anybody who or two-bit ax around their body like this. It would be too easy to It could get caught in material. It could rebound. It could be deflected. There's lots of things that I don't know the weight of the weapon, I don't know what type of but if you're living 6,000 years, you've had a lot of practice. You're pretty much invulnerable. You could do this. If you're showing off, if you're building up the might happen, but I wouldn't recommend it. And I think that this which is a ancient weapon from Crete, Greece. It was more of a ceremonial weapon than anything that they There's a lot of discourse about the pros and cons of this In a sacred ceremony, to sacrifice an animal, for example. The choreography is interesting. Because she didn't cut off any limbs, she gets 10 out of 10. [laughing] Hm. Well, I don't think anybody ever wants to be put in the position where they have to It looks like they're or something about this size. It weighs between 1 1/2, 2 pounds, it's really easy to swing around, and it's very lethal, and in a compact room, the way this is. I doubt that they're sharp. If we believe the scene, this is an incredibly scary situation. He's doing really good techniques, blocking, powering, moving You have to trap and lock it away. You have to make sure that where you can easily be cut by it. Maybe get inside the weapon. In glima, there's an we use to intercept, to trap, to hold, to maneuver the opponent's body weight in such a way that they so that they can use the weapon. I really can't find a fault or say if you did this it would be better, so 10 out of 10. He's using a long-hafted ax. He's going to have to do something to change the disadvantage of his height into an advantage, and this is a really good way of doing it. He can reach up high because I would suggest that he because that's easier. And if your opponent can't walk, then they can't run The way he's using the ax is and he's trying to kill with every blow. He wants to show that he's powerful with every single stroke. The problem with swinging is that you drain your You open yourself up if you bring it back in order to swing it forward. So, this is a regular modern tomahawk ax. And instead of it being in order to go forward, that would be a move. And this is quite sharp. The tips are quite sharp. It's heavy enough. It's got this at the end, and that would be doing quite And you don't really need if you understand what you're attacking. And when you chuck it.... And the way he uses it, seven out of 10. Chris Evans sells this so well. He's a good actor who can sell action. He changes hands, he goes from single grip to double grip, he has good turns and good angles, he changes levels. A good fighter will try and create as much space around them as possible. Try and use opponents' shields, move around them in a way that The most difficult thing of And then he does what he should do, which is attack the legs and try and get out of We don't play any defensive We don't fall; we're taught to land. And so no matter what you're going down with the intention to land in a way that will enable you to move out of danger Nine out of 10. If somebody has that much confidence and swings it around in such a they're going to injure themselves at all and you do not know where the what happens is it's hard Whichever way they begin the movement, there's many, many tells, from the neck, the shoulder, the bicep, There's lots and lots of tells. The way they move their feet, the way they move their head. But when that weapon is already in motion, you can't just attack or because it can suddenly change. It's intimidating. Where you place your feet, you can see what's happening Footwork is a major It's often neglected as twirling your weapon but being able to move at angles, move forward, move backwards, move as you change your height, it's so, so important. It's core. Balance is everything. They use their weapon to and control the opponent's weapon and the opponent's balance. If I can just show it here, the opponent's weapon, you can either pull and go forward or just go over the top and go forward. You don't need these big movements. So, over the weapon, force it in a direction away from you, and that's all you need. I felt it was really well done and it was scary and good technique. Eight out of 10. He leaves himself open but it works really well because even though he opens himself up, he knows exactly what to do to close it up again and attacking you. In this scene, Ajax cuts through a good chunk of metal with his ax. It could happen, maybe. I haven't tried. These are dangerous weapons, and they can cut through quite a lot. I think this is based on a fireman's ax. I've never seen one which There's different rhythms in a fight, and you can change rhythm in a fight. Instead of getting dragged you can break the rhythm. And then you change the by changing the speed of and getting them in A delayed swing changes everything. I'd give this nine out of 10. I really enjoyed it. I've watched this with my son many times. We really enjoy this scene. The way he moves is impressive. If your opponent can move quickly, if they know how to use a weapon, that's a game changer. The fact that you can as a weapon or as a counter Maybe going in and and trying to strip their But you also have a second attacker coming in with another ax. There's no sure way that but as a scene, it's inventive. We do train against multiple attackers and multiple attackers with weapons. One of the basic principles is that you want to be able and use that opponent to Use them as a shield, use their weapon as a I'd like to give this 10 out of 10. I just thoroughly enjoyed it. It is always enjoyable the way she moves in this scene. I think this was one long take. She's elegant. She's determined. And when you're using weapons, they should be an extension of your body, and this scene really I wouldn't recommend but if you're a person and this is your style, then you can make it work for you. I would not do this. The style that I train and teach is about making the best decisions in the shortest possible time. I think she's using a fantasy weapon. I don't know what it's based on, but the Vikings had a similar type of ax where there's a long beard, which is used for carving or cutting. If it has a long tang, which means that the goes all the way through the handle, then it could be really Nine out of 10. Thor's weapon, Stormbreaker, could be based on a Viking battle-ax, but it looks more like a poleax. You have bladed end of the head and a hammer-type impact on the top of a long pole at its core. It's believable. It's just gone into fantasy territory, but it's used the same way. There's many, many strange Not every ax, haft, or There's lots of curves, and some of them really long curves. Sometimes they used the roots of a wood, the natural curve, so that So, the opponent's weapon That's a really good thing to understand, that it's not something you just want to get out of the way of, but you can turn it on your opponent, and they show this really well here. Maybe closer to the ax Use force, maneuverability, balance, technique, whatever you can to try and change the There's not a lot of but the core basics are there, so five out of 10. Even in a street fight, people can get caught up in thinking that this is a contest of strength, and they both push against each other. People can freeze. There's