- [Jared] The Hindenburg that met its fiery death in the year 1937. Surprisingly, more than actually survived the crash. In this video, I want to of the inside of the Hindenburg. We'll talk about airships in general and why they are mostly (electricity crackling) The earliest airship that we know of was in the year 1783 in France. These primitive balloons were unstable, and steering was near impossible at first. A man by the name of Count and helped perfect the design of airships. At the time, passenger air so this was the fastest way It was about twice as Construction of the Hindenburg To this day, it's still ever to be built. It was built in Germany which is why the swastika is on the tail. Most of the space inside the ship is taken up by 16 large gas cells. If we remove these, you can The passenger areas are down here. There are two decks. The top one is the A deck, and then below is the B deck. The B deck is where the There's angled windows of the scene below, the kitchen, and the officers' mess. This room is the smoking room. It was pressurized so of any hydrogen leaking in. And yes, hydrogen is flammable. We'll talk more about this The stair here take us up to the A deck, which is where the passengers There are more windows on Here's the reading and writing room, and the lounge area, Normally, grand pianos can but that's a lot of weight This piano is made out of aluminum, and it only weighs about 356 pounds. The passenger cabins have two bunks each, and the dining room was on the other side. So now we've seen all the Let's see where the crew members could go. Ont the B deck, this hallway is called the keel corridor, which led to a walkway through the entire bottom of the ship. Towards the front of the ship is the mail room and the radio room. Right below here is the control car. This is the command center of the ship, which you can see from below. This is the rudder wheel, to the left or right by on the very back of the ship. This is the elevator wheel, which controls the pitch of the ship. Ideally, we want the to keep the passengers comfortable. This is done by the The officers' quarters are here, so that they are close to the control car. Along the keel catwalk, you'll find plenty of these fuel and water tanks. Here's the crew quarters, cargo areas, and this is the electrical room. There's more cargo areas here, and a few more down here. And then crew quarters for those that work towards the back of the ship. Along the side of the with propellers to help There was always a crew member at all times of the journey. This walkway is how the crew Along the keel corridor are so the crew members could climb up higher. These shafts were also This walkway through is called the axial corridor. These 16 gas cells are what The cells were originally but instead were filled with hydrogen. If we look at the periodic hydrogen is the lightest element, which means it will provide the most lift. Unfortunately, it's also highly flammable, so the intent with the use helium, slightly At the time, the United States had the best supply of helium but would not sell it to other countries, which means that Germany was out of luck. So the Hindenburg had no other Previous to the Hindenburg, there had been quite a Other countries had already decided that hydrogen-filled airships Germany, however, had a No passengers had ever been During the year 1936, the Hindenburg had many successful passenger flights, to the United States and to Brazil. The year 1937 didn't go so well. May 3rd, the Hindenburg begins its journey from Frankfurt, Germany. It was a three-day journey to The ship was only halfway Only 97 people were onboard. The landing was originally scheduled for the early morning of because of strong headwinds, This is the Lakehurst station. It has a hangar to park the This is the mooring mast. For a normal landing, the nose of the ship will be attached here On the evening of May 6th, on the ground, including and crew member ready to At 7:00 p.m., the ship made a first pass over the landing site for the final landing. At this point, the ship was 12 hours late, so there was an urgency to land, as there were many for the return trip back to Germany. For some reason, the a possible hydrogen leak. At 7:21 p.m., the ship for the ground crew below. Four minutes later, the at the top, in between gas (explosion) It took less than a minute for the ship to be completely destroyed and in ruins on the ground below. Of the 97 people on board, 62 Let's take a look at the explosion again. Right after it happens, The flames travel through and out the nose of the ship. Everyone on board is thrown off their feet with a sudden jolt. Since they're about to are already at the windows, As the ship gets closer to the ground, many were able to jump and run Others were not so lucky. No one knows for sure what Unfortunately, most of the The likely cause is from right before the disaster. One small spark is all it would take. The Hindenburg wasn't the It was just the first to be caught on film and widely seen by the public. Because of this, airship travel as a means of transportation Any airships that are still in use today will definitely use helium and not hydrogen.