Welcome to another Mathologer video. marathon in which Marty and I proved that e and pi are transcendental numbers I needed a bit of light relief. And maybe we'll have fun with some of the most materializing paradoxes, tricks and physics student Bill Russell from about a new type of vanishing paradox. He considering magnetic fields, spring object that features on the Mathologer thing over there. What is it? Well let's pretty cool isn't it? It's called a toroflux or Torofluxus or flowing torus. It's an amazing toy, a long flat ribbon special closed helix. When draped around seen to be essentially that of a bagel of the spring metal makes it cling to slowly start rolling down the rope. As it rope and around the circle at its core. animation taken from a great toroflux Daniel Walsh. The toroflux is also very say more about that at the end of this amazing property that Bill stumbled Alright, 13. Great. Now collapse the again. Okay count and what have we got? 14, one more than previously. What's going on here? Where did the additional coil come from? first let me tell you about some of my tricks and the mathematical magic that fun :) Okay, let's start with a classic 1+1 = 2, 1 + 2 = 3, 2 + 3 = 5, sick of it :), right? But, anyway, begin by say 8. Next make an eight times eight 8 x 8 Fibonacci numbers that come before 8 use 3 and 5 to cut up the square length 3 in this dissection down it's really crawling with these things. now rearrange those four pieces into a the three unit segments pair up nicely in nicely. For what comes next the square we started with in one picture. the square? That's a hard one? Well 8 rectangle? The short side is 5 and how next Fibonacci number. That means that Amazing, huh :) Just a little cutting and Where did the extra area come from? It all our cutting and pasting was based on neighboring Fibonacci numbers 3, 5 and 13. It turns out that similar magic can be created by any other Fibonacci number. and it's Fibonacci neighbors 5, 8 and 21. this square and rectangle here. Okay top that's 169. Alright and 21 times 8 at the bottom that's 20 times 8, 160 plus 8 is 168. What, time we've lost one. Are you amazed? (Marty and Michael) I am amazed. What's going on? To recap starting with an 8 by 8 square we gained 1 unit square. Then starting Well maybe you can guess. Starting with out that again we gain one. And after Okay, so what's happening here? Well first (Marty and Michael) What? (Burkard) You are shocked? My god! Of course, without be the same. Here's the rectangle drawn can probably guess now what's happened. don't quite fit together which was fact, the pieces leave a thin sliver sliver has exactly area 1, the extra jump from 64 to 65. Cheeky, hmm. In the next instance, where we lose a square, sliver by sliver, the non-cheating picture looks time, instead of a gap there's a very Let me highlight it for you by pulling just wiggle a bit. Okay so our Fibonacci really magical, really ingenious cheating. in a relaxing holiday video I can't just wave my hands in the air. I've actually real mathematical seatbelts needed for Okay, so here we go. As we've seen already, almost fit nicely together comes from, work, the fundamental Fibonacci fact sum to the next one. Algebraically the the difference between a Fibonacci two neighboring Fibonacci numbers. This Cassini's identity and is named after its and engineer Giovanni Domenico Cassini. space probe. Well it's the same Cassini. identity like this or, to be more precise, the alternating plus and minus like this. Fibonacci puzzle works and while really, really nice pictorial proof of share with you. Here we go. Start with a square next to it. Now place a square on obviously, 1+1=2. Now attach 1+2=3. Square on top Side alternating between attaching the There's 8 ... 13 ... 21 ... 34. is a very pretty geometric counterpart at two consecutive squares. And squares in two different ways. The first area of each square and sum. That gives Okay, for the second way, we the areas of two rectangles. Okay, there that's one with area 34 times 13. And have a look. It's area is 21 times 8. Almost done. We just have to rearrange a side and move to 21 times 8 to the left. look a little more symmetrical by Okay, what this says is that the two differ in a minus and the same is true differences. For example, repeating our gives this, and so on. And so we know that size, just alternating in sign. And so, difference is 1, which is completely proves Cassini's identity at all levels. in case you know some matrix algebra proving Cassini's identity based on the allows you to calculate the Fibonacci matrix on the right. Puzzle for you: this from Cassini's identity. What's that one comments. And here's one more challenge red rectangle in two different ways to Fibonacci identity. Okay that was a great course, it involved cheating. On the other you can make things appear and disappear Let me just show you one nice simple magic. Over there is an infinite half-plane. So what you see there is supposed to go on forever in this direction. Okay, this. Take the resulting infinite strip square there and make the cuts invisible original half-plane plus an extra square. making three cuts and rearranging the amazing when you think about it. Was this infinity works. As some of you will know much more impressive than our slicing highlights definitely check out the paradox and the Mathologer video paradoxes. Ok, back to a Planet finite and and there's still more tricks to 13 line segments. Now watch this. lines left. Where did that 13th line go? will have guessed the trick but the same Here it is using people instead of lines. with. Now watch this. Let's count the Pretty cool isn't it? Here's another example. The Get-off-the-earth paradox. swordsmen arranged around the globe. Okay there's 13. Now let's turn the globe and everything on it. Alright. Let's count the swordsman again and we get 12, one's gone missing. Okay let's make him appear again. There 13 swordsmen again. In fact, if we keep rotating in the swordsmen: 14, 15 well those guys there are getting a bit iffy but anyway. The Get-off-the-Earth puzzle was Erno Rubik of the 19th century. Sam Lloyd the creator of many puzzles that are His Get-off-the-Earth puzzle sold over 10 responsible for popularizing the earlier and a super famous 14-15 puzzle video. Many of Lloyd's puzzles were based disguised. His Get-off-the-Earth puzzle, our lines paradox and here's the simple or gets created. What happens is that segments above the red line and another recombined with the 12 above to form 12 ones we started with. The increase in barely noticeable but of course these exactly the lengths of each of the majority of geometric vanishing and cunningly disguised redistribution of the paradoxes that I discussed so far paradox. Remember, expanded like this we count 13 coils. Collapsed we count 14. It's difference. Remember that if you just of a nudge, it expands all by itself. However, the steel wire definitely does the coils must remain the same and so if not be surprised that we've also ended the other real-world paradoxes we've between the collapsed and the expanded you as strange? How can you possibly move continuously between 13 and 14 coils. Surely, either jump or you extra paradoxical about our toroflux you drape the toroflux around overall the toroflux will look like a name from, right). mathematicians refer to as a torus knot, a a torus. There are infinitely many examples. This one is not very knotty, ends joined together, okay. Alright then not so windy. It's called a trefoil knot (for pretty obvious reasons). Finally, here's an example that's very Okay, any torus knot can be pinned down total number of times that you wind travel around the loop. For example, for a this. Well moving from here to here we've number of times the slinky winds around points on the outer equator and that's trefoil knot this number is 3 and for number turns out to be 15. The is the number of times you loop around travel once along the knot. In the case revolutions is 2. Let's convince once around, here we go, and a second time and we're back to where we started from. Great. What about a slinky? Well, obviously, complicated knot this number is 7. videos ago I talked about the possible around a sun. I had the planet and the they do). On the other hand, if the angles to the orbit of the planet, the will be a torus knot. If we do this with orbit is our slinky knot. Nice, huh? So in knots our two numbers just count the planet and the number of times the planet orbits around the sun as the moon too difficult to see that the two relatively prime, that is, they don't have our examples this amounts to 2 and relatively prime, the same for 1 and and 15 for the complicated knot. prove this relatively simple relatively any ordered pair of relatively prime numbers as the knot's numbers. Of course, corresponding to the World's most boring in particular that the two numbers of a then are the numbers of the toroflux? number, the number of times the toroflux coils around the torus is, well, let's count it again, there we go, 13. Alright then collapsing the toroflux doesn't change the number of times the second number is what? Well, let's remind ourselves: 14. What this means is that when we count the coils of collapse we are really counting two very apparent if we perform the collapse The red markers on the toroflux torus knot number. I've labelled the across them if we travel along the the sheet of plexiglas that I've placed on toroflux by pressing down on the plexiglas plexiglas and will always form a circle, collapsed, like now. Okay, let me just show There they are. To count the coils in this radius. Right we would basically just do we also see is that all the coils that we circumference of the circle in front of from marker 1 to marker 2 along the it does. To be precise, it's longer by 1/13th of the circumference. And since all 13 distances between consecutive markers excesses add up to the extra 14s coil that's how the length redistribution for the toro flux. And this also explains discontinuous jump from 13 to 14 coils really just counting different things. I made the very nice torus knot pictures KnotPlot. If you're not familiar with it the toroflux looks like in KnotPlot. I different companies. The torus knot but for each toy it's two numbers differ a natural question to ask is whether it toroflux with a different difference, for here whose numbers are 13 and 15. What do you think? I could go on for hours talking about other amazing mathematical infinity, higher dimensions, and so on. But particularly nice trick, fully animated And that's it for today. Time for me to