Boom! Today I'm going to show you the 11 EQ mistakes I've made hundreds of times myself over my 25 year career in producing these mistakes and save yourself loads of better. Now, it's worth noting, it doesn't or which digital audio workstation you're using, to you. My name is Will from EDM Tips, over the bedroom music producers just like you get their some of the world's biggest labels like these go into these 11 EQ mistakes, let's just these mistakes and then listen to it after So, it sounds pretty good but now let's listen to it once we've identified Hear the difference? It's quite subtle but more professional thick sounding mix. Now, mistake so make sure you stick around for the whole the others. Without further ado let's hop into the video, please subscribe to my channel for tutorials mixing tips, you can download my free mixing guide Okay, so we're going to go straight for the jugular I'm guilty of advising people on. It is using EQ sweeps is really a useful thing for identifying guitar sound from a track that I've just released, Okay, cool! So, with an EQ sweep usually what you instance I'm using the FabFilter Pro Q3, great this to quite a high level and quite a narrow cue any resonant tones that just pop out and sound often do is they will do this too much and if you it's going to sound horrible. Like listen awful. So, the usual thing to do at that point and so it goes. So, then you might add sounding frequency but the mistake is, Oh, that sounds awful. We best dip that eight or ten times on every sound, what you end So, if we just do it a few more times, let's Oh, well that's horrible, isn't it? every frequency is going to sound horrible if loud compared to all the other frequencies. and, if you imagine doing this another is a thin and really sounding instrument, Now, having said that, as I've mentioned, got a vocal or a guitarist, and you listen a problem frequency, you just think: &quot;Okay, there's That's when you use the surgical EQ sweep and but not so high, perhaps like plus 10 or plus 15 resonant point, and then by all means you can duck this and you use it where there isn't a problem, and a bell curve is gonna sound horrible and then and ending up with a bad sounding instrument. So, we to cover it straight away. So, let's get on to EQ and low pass filters on pretty much everything. So, to dance music, but really all kinds of popular the bass frequencies and the low mid frequencies those frequencies. So, when you think of a voice going to be a lot of information down in that 200 need to make sure that we're cutting out unwanted you want plenty of room for your kick and your and we've got the drums in there as well, all of the low end, so we need to make sure going to end up with a muddy mix. So, if you look it sounds a bit tinny but that's fine because i've just taken out everything under about 110 take that EQ off, you can see there's that's completely unneeded. All and similarly if we go over to the You can see here, there's all of this low frequency and if we roll off all of the high end just all it is is muddying up our mix. So that's why on of the low end, so a high pass filter. The only off too high. So, for most instruments you can like that, without losing the body that you need, to be rolling it off too high, but when it comes instruments, you can roll you can roll it off up that's not needed, just get rid of it. Now, the So, there's a lot of information in the high end maybe synthesizers and stuff like that, so anything with the sound that's not needed is also they're quite low down strings. So I might see what I can get away with. Rolling off some of the high end. Now, this has low end because low end waves are much bigger but pass filters to make sure you've got enough room to shine through your mix. Okay, on to EQ mistake I don't recommend this for most people most of an acoustic instrument, like a vocal or a frequency that you don't like but only in a part be there for say most of the guitar but then you frequency is not wanted. Now, if you remove it with the energy that you like from the rest of the there are two parts to it: one part's lower and then we go up higher but you can hear here... Hear Hear!? You accidentally hit a lower note, so you So, if we were to apply an EQ to get rid of that, you can hear we're getting which is great, but if we keep that low it sounds a bit thin here, So, this note here sounds a bit there's a bit more body to it, and So you can hear if we remove that frequency for that low end energy. Now, what you can do at that you won't need to use this in most situations but and make it sound better at one point in the at every point in the take so in this example just for that high part of the guitar, after that part has happened. Now, mistake number not training my ears to be able to determine these some of the nuance in the last few examples that websites. Either one is great. You've got SoundGym.com and you've got the Quiz Tones Ear Training app. Now, both of these involve spending five or ten actually quite fun and they help you determine will help your mixing immensely.They also work and reverb, and I recommend these tools to my EDM Tips. Just a few minutes of using these apps at determining what frequencies you're actually number five is something that's often taught over there's more to it than that, and that is mixing cuts. Now, hear me out. Yes, EQ cuts are super the unwanted frequencies, as I just showed you If there's a low frequency there that you don't need to cut that to get rid of it but additive there's nothing that will get the job done rather high end sparkle or some body in the low end; but an eq mistake number six. Before we do that, let me comment below, give me a &quot;hell yeah&quot; or &quot;amen brother&quot; you struggle with with music production. I can't to try and if you're enjoying this video so far, second and it really helps me out. Okay, on to EQ parametric EQs. Now, don't get me wrong, these tools to cutting problem frequencies, as we already there's a parametric EQ, we can see the readout, We can choose exactly the frequencies and the of problems to only using this kind of EQ as to recommend, which are analog modeled EQs. See, we useful to have a look and see what's going on but we should really be learning to use our ear, which, we know we need to be cutting and boosting, and an EQ more like this, which is an analog model Our readout only shows the levels, it doesn't have to train our ears to use these but the second for boosts, is that they have a musicality to them the modeling also involves the circuitry, so smooth out that, and just sound a bit less tinny when it comes to boosts. Now, let me give you a I'm going to do an extreme example Let's just give a little bit just to give a little bit Now, we could do that with the parametric pro q3. Was that five kilohertz and how much let's just do a two decibel It's quite hard to hear the difference If we start boosting this more though, is going to be way too much and but it still doesn't sound too unpleasant. If we pro q3, which is a lovely So, let's just boost that up by nine decibels and now let's listen to it. It's a very subtle difference but it's a tinier are super digital and super focused in. There's it's a very subtle difference in this example, but track, you can really start to hear the difference. little bass boost with analog modeled EQ, and then just give you a more musical, smoother, more organic doing EQ cuts with a parametric digital EQ but the next mistake is an absolute game changer, not using spectrum analyzers. So, the spectrum Voxengo. It's free and it does enough of what you reason I really like it is that it's resizable. Now the trouble with that relying totally on your ears it comes to mixing. If we listen to the same loop feels like, you can start to lose track of what every good producer I know, will use reference So, if we listen to the mix down of my track, version of the project), you can see I've got a few Business. Now, I want to get the frequency spread house tracks in the same genre so I know what I a reference. Now, you can see here on this track then on my master channel I've got a Voxengo Span we now look at them, we'll play my track and You can see this is Tiesto's track. There's the and here's my frequency spread; and you can I pretty much got that match nicely. It rolls end energy is about the same as well, and then it's Now, I've used this reference whilst making the say with the EQ on the master channel, like ultimately important. Yes, of course you want to but your ears aren't perfect so using visual next EQ mistake is one of the biggest mistakes that EQ is going to solve just having the wrong I'm going to give you a little example here of difference, regardless of whether you this kick and I'm just going to switch it out let's just find a different kick. Listen to the difference. That's the new Just the kick and the bass. Just doesn't work. For some tracks So, regardless of what EQ or compression I was to sound bad and it's always going to sound weak And I think I made a video on this a few weeks Anyway, that's a really important tip. An absolute choosing the right sounds at the beginning. gain matching your EQ after you've made boosts increasing the volume or decreasing the volume, that's going to confuse your ears as to what the if it sounds louder, your ears are going to think you might think &quot;oh, that sounds worse&quot;. When really to apples. So, this is how you do that. If we've I'm going to add a bit of an EQ boost, as shown Let's open it up. Okay, now let's add the boost. So, we'll So I've added two decibels at five kilohertz, so that's actually slightly louder. because I've boosted these frequencies. Now, the way of your plug-in of your EQ and if it doesn't trim plug-in in Ableton. It's called the Utility Logic, I think. It's the game plug-in so and the way to do that is go to your mixer channel and see what levels it's hitting before you Okay, it's peaking about minus 6.6 So, if we turn Minus 4.7. So I need to now take this down Okay that's about right. So, now, Let's take the mouse and group them together. Now we've got a fair test. So, when has actually improved our sound or made it worse, now we're going to be listening to the same So, now I'm only listening to the difference having the whole volume increased. Very and that is not EQ'ing in context; and in the mix with everything else playing. Now, avoid making that mistake now as well. you know it kind of sounds a bit weak, and that's because i mixed it in context, it sits perfectly in the mix. making a sound sound amazing on its own if and not sound great. Now, as I said, I'll So, first let's listen to what the piano in context. This is what it would probably i'd probably have more low end, probably a bit of a boost in the low end, actually, like that. Sounds more powerful, right? So, just mixing it on its own, not in context. So, what so it's sounding good with nothing else playing. but then when you bring it into everything else, again, and it's usually going to involve taking sounding really good. Now, the way that you can So, if you mix the most important elements first, and the main vocal or lead synth, everything else good; and you can cut out everything that's not with those core elements. So, if you can get those everything else you can be really quite ruthless chopping up the frequencies. So mixing in Which takes me on to EQ mistake number 11 having an intention. By that I mean when you put an you already know what you want to be doing. Trust think &quot;okay, it needs boosting in the high end&quot; or &quot;it the low end rumble out&quot;, make sure you've got that Otherwise you're just kind of putting an EQ So, having an intention and this really applies from when you're experimenting with sound design achieve before you set out and get the tools to a picture on the wall, you already know that you you need, you know what size screw needs to go in and start randomly drilling holes in the wall. You same when it comes to EQ'ing so make sure you mixing tips, if you want some of my most powerful this video and I really hope you found this useful. some one-on-one time with me and to get to a join some of my other students getting signed to full-time for a living, then check out my Music all the details, you know, below this video and so much for joining me. Hope you found this useful,