Time to rock out with this chunky Nokia from the that unfolds to reveal a mini computer style on an AMD 486 CPU. It's one of the few x86 CPU the Nokia 9000, with a 386 CPU. The Fujitsu F-07C is one of many Android x86 based phones. The Nokia feature a memory card slot for holding files and out antenna, that's cool. Comparing this to the this Communicator, we can really see the design that this is actually two devices in one. A phone to try this out. But there is a problem. This though I don't have a SIM card that will work boot up. I can sometimes get it to partially sensitive to movement of flexing the phone. get glitching. And this seems to change when possible dry solder joints inside. This shows us the specs for this phone indicating that this getting very keen to see this working. Time There's four torque screws holding the it reveals the first glimpse of the insides. This is where we see a second board underneath This is an embedded version of the 486 such as a display interface and a to get the top section off We can now see there are four BGA, or Ball Grid board using small balls of solder underneath. This chips onto boards today. But as far as I can technology. Even the Nokia 9000, the predecessor side of this board has the keyboard underneath. is so thin it doesn't seem very rigid, and I years has cracked some of those tiny solder balls that's what I'm going with. The plan is to just joints in the process. I have done some of this practice and get another feel for it, I'm going more modern Nokia from the 2000s. It doesn't work feel for how much heat is needed for melting the temperature. I can see the chip starts moving and solder. I'm not actually going to remove the chips going to start with reflowing these three flash the solder might melt. I can always try again if taking the chips right off and putting new done this and it requires some stencils Putting the phone back together for I did try another reflow to see if that It's possible that my attempt out of position. I don't think I damaged So that's it, it's over. It's been a while since I filmed the first part of Nokia 9110 Communicator. This this one does with the first one I had to get something. And phone itself. The really good news is that with my up all the way to the graphical environment. It's of ROM-DOS. And the backlight also works. This is backlight. You just don't see these anymore and with up to 16 shades of grey. This is an amazing favourite greyscale LCD. I love this thing! And this is where having a memory card slot is a real to a computer using a dedicated cable and run have to find a memory card that works in here. should work. These are the predecessors to SD got two less pins. MMC cards work fine in SD card found these MMC cards were giving me card errors until finally I found this Siemens 32 MB card does and install it into the Nokia. And I'm going to Tetris, and it runs sideways. It might be a bit what's, what's going on? What's this piece? A This is a really weird version of Tetris. I'm With this the next game I'm running is Snake. It turns out that even though Snake was and Nokia decided not to include it in the have Snake on here. Nine Lives is an interesting party games that were made for this Nokia and the business phone there was no call for fun. Next is This can be used for playing games like Zork I approve. This would have been really cool back None of this software seems to be using the full it's nice but kind of slow. Which is odd because of running games like Doom. There's no port for get a bit further into this phone. Normally into the graphical user interface. And there's this phone is running on ROM-DOS and it turns out way to get access to a command line. It seems programs to run at boot time. One such example at boot and adds password protection, and also file in this phone is in ROM and can't be file called install.bat. This is how the My Flash that by adding command.com to install.bat, And wow is that text small! tThe 149 pixels per However there is no graphics driver available run text mode DOS software that only uses BIOS such as cpuinf (or chkcpu). This confirms this is a version of Freedos. I can also run Debug and possibilities to explore here. But most apps screen formatting. For example, 8088 corruption gets squished to the top of the screen. And when alt delete to reset. To restart the battery twice. Once to delete the install.bat bypass So that DOS can again be restarted. This makes I would one day like to see what this is like full hardware CGA capability built in. And the display 16 shades of grey natively. Also this CPU put this into higher speed modes from 33 MHz to 66 this runs at 100 MHz. But this would still need I tried playing some EVA format video on here looks like this player writes directly to video is distorted but visible. I also seem to be able this. This shows that a CGA driver would be quite option would be to reuse my favourite part from and electroluminescent backlight. This would be a touchscreen. I would love a modern device based the display interface. Still a very big project this phone back in the day. It was probably the Nokia 9210 Communicator. Which had a colour Should I make a video on this model? I do have one destroying it. I think that would be fun to try. its greyscale LCD more. What are your thoughts was made pretty much at their peak. Before colour washed out colours and backlights that just or know any more about them, then let me know.