very good Flower Girl Let me go. Let me go, let me go Hong is here parking Bastard quick rush Yes Yes Quick quick Bastard Lying down beat Go and rescue Sister Fanglin and Mei Ni. yes Let me go you beast Let me go Let me go beat Don't move If you move again, we will all perish together. If you go any further, I'll kill you. Jump before the car runs away Six Brothers Don't be afraid, Nizi Brother is here to save you Go fast Go fast Quick quick Come on, sisters, come on. quick bomb Run fast! Be careful, Nizi Six Brothers Go, Nizi! Six Brothers Brother Liuzi, wake up! Brother Liuzi, wake up! Six Brothers Six Sons Brother Hong and Sister Fang Lin are still in the carriage The last carriage Lao Hong Jump fast Six Brothers Brother Liu, wake up! Six Sons Six Brothers Six Brothers Brother Liu, wake up. Wake up. Liuzi, you can't die! Nizi Six Brothers I have good news for you. I killed Gao Jingzhai Master's revenge has been avenged Six Brothers I shot a gun for you. I can't drink at your wedding. Six Brothers Liangzi treats you well Wait for Nizi Otherwise I can't forgive you Ninini Six Brothers Six Sons Liuzi, have a safe trip. Six Brothers Six Brothers Sister-in-law, please be kind. Give it to stuttering For stuttering Who has extra food these days? Then I'll ask you about a family. Who are you asking? Fang Lin's family What are you looking for her for? She's a widow There is always trouble at the door of a widow I am her distant relative. Give her a message Go forward from here Passed that side Behind the courtyard is In front, right? good good Walk Go Go Go sister in law Where is Lao Hong? Close the door quickly Lao Hong What's wrong, Sister Fanglin? Not good A group of beggars came to the village My relative But I don't know them at all They are coming here. Let's withdraw Sister Fanglin, take this. What to use for self-defense? Inform Liangzi and others not to come to the meeting Let's go Good walk Quick, quick, quick, quick Quick, quick, quick, quick Search in. search It's Soso Tell Brother Hong later. Let's go together If I catch him, I will skin him alive. Look what happened to this beast. right come over What's wrong, Brother Qiang? Aren't you going to a meeting? There are Japanese troops Pretending to be like ordinary people Don't yell, prepare to fight. not good Sister Fanglin is in danger in the house Let's lead the enemy away. Good walk Walk Go quickly Go quickly Walk Chase quickly Chase quickly rush Chase fast Walk Walk Chase Catch him and don't let him get away Yes, fast quick Liangzi went to the village entrance to block him Yes Good walk fast Good walk fast stop Don't just stand there and throw a grenade at him. Why is there no sound? I'm talking to Sister Fanglin You said the cover of this grenade is not opened This string is not pulled. Do you think it can ring? This still needs to be pulled. Be careful with you If I knew I had to pull the strings This damn guy will definitely not survive today. Never mind, as long as you are okay Mother and Feng'er are still in the cellar Good go, move quickly I have warned you long ago, Matsuo-kun Don't be soft-hearted towards them. I'm going to mobilize all your troops. All people Don't be too anxious, Matsuo-kun No I want to massacre Miao Village immediately Speed up rush Give me Go! Kill Charge and kill Charge and kill Run fast, run fast, run fast Run, run, run, run shooting rush Go fast! Let me go, let me go, let me go shooting Bastard Stop and Run come out Your come out come out Please let me go Flower Girl Let me go hurry up hurry up hurry up Quickly Go bastard Walk Quickly Quick hurry up Quickly hurry up Bastard hurry up Quickly Go away, bastard. Go for a walk Go go go go go hurry up Hurry up, hurry up hurry up hurry up Hurry up, hurry up Hurry up! Dead, dead, there are bastards, hurry up Bastard Listen carefully If anyone knows where Fang Lin's wife is Don't say it The charge of colluding with the Flying Tigers Go fast Walk Go fast hurry up hurry up hurry up Stand still These people are from your area. They are in collusion with the Flying Tigers Specially against the Imperial Army Shot them all today Japanese Army My father was killed by the Japanese army You have to avenge us. Captain, you have to avenge us. My son Erzhu was hanged by the Japanese army. The houses and food were destroyed by the Japanese army. How are we going to live from now on, Captain? yes What are you talking about? If the house is destroyed, we will rebuild it. If the food is burned, we will plant it again. Anyway, I fought with them. Captain, don't worry about us. We can't fall into the Japanese army's trap. Yes, Captain. Folks I, Liu Hong, will definitely avenge you. Hong Hong A group of Japanese troops are heading towards Liuludian Shin Mao Captain Send me the Lancers yes Avenge us, Captain. beat get off get off Run Shooting directly in front of the target shooting shooting there charge Go! superior superior The Japanese troops from Laohonglizhuang also came Can't fight like this anymore I think we should retreat to the lake. It doesn't matter The terrain here is in our favor. It's time to destroy the Japanese army Has the political commissar returned from Weishan Island? Not back yet Go find it quickly yes Lu Han, please withdraw quickly. Lu Han, please withdraw quickly. Shin Mao Shin Mao Captain Shen Shen Mao, Shen Mao, wake up! Wake up, Shen Mao! attack quick Hurry up and catch up political commissar You're here, commissar. Lao Hong, please leave quickly You can't fight like this. Flying Tigers I can finally fight you face to face Prepare for battle Lao Hong, we are surrounded. We should retreat to Weishan Island immediately. What did you say, commissar? Shen Mao died Give me a rush careful political commissar Political Commissar Political Commissar Political Commissar Political Commissar Retreat quickly. This is the party's order. Quick retreat political commissar withdraw Go fast Come and withdraw quickly Go quickly, retreat quickly Your good citizen certificate open circuit This is my good citizen certificate This is my _Taijun This is my good citizen certificate Good citizen certificate This is mine The Asshole Lady Sir, I have a good citizen certificate. Taijun Taijun Go fast I have a good citizen certificate Good citizen certificate I'm at the bottom of the station. My man works on the railway. There's nothing to eat at home these days. I went to my mother's house in the countryside to borrow some food Pancakes inside CEO Let's try the pancakes No no Hurry up, hurry up, open the way well you Walk your Quick, good citizen certificate Good citizen certificate opened Feng, be obedient. Let's go home quickly Walk Mom, look! Are the clothes my grandma made for me pretty? You scared my mother Come Looks really good What are you doing? Mom is making pancakes Come get you one. Come and eat Come and take your clothes and go play with grandma Go ahead, be good, go ahead Everything is here. Brother Xie Shun, please be careful Xie Shun Who is that? It's my sister. Bring me dinner. You are on duty at night. yes Okay, let's go. Shunzi, I'm leaving first. Taijun Brother Hong is waiting so impatiently I wish I could fight the Japanese army face to face. That's addictive. This time you have to hold on tight. Go Go Go Get in the car! Get in the car! Please move forward Go quickly! Don't push, just walk away What's wrong with you? You're blocking the road. What's wrong with you blocking the road? Will you let us pass? Don't worry, borrow it quickly. Can we sit here, please? Hello uncle This child Thank you, Taijun Quick, quick, quick Thank you Taijun Go ahead Come come see you Let's go next Turn around Come on, come on. let me see Turn around Come and turn around What are you putting in here? This is a raw egg My wife is in confinement. Hurry up, hurry up, go, go, go, go Your Ticket Go Go Go Get on the bus. Get on the bus. Get on the bus. Get in the car! Get in the car! Don't push. Don't push. Slow down. Slow down. Don't push me. It's not like I can't get up. My seat Make way, make way, make way Don't push. Don't push. What are you pushing? Taijun Look at the wine And the roast chicken I just bought Really delicious Xiang Xiang Taijun, come and have a taste Try it No no Zaozhuang's famous food is very delicious Have a taste Come on Very good, your good citizen Come drink some wine It's okay. It's okay. Then drink, let's drink Good good good Dry eat Come and eat Come and eat Come get your ticket Good smell Come and drink well Come and do it Where's your ticket? Bastard I'm sorry, Taijun. Come drink Drink Come let me see Let's go, turn around. Come and get your ticket Okay, okay, let's go. Come let me see you Walk to the next Turn around Get on the bus Up, up, up Don't push. Don't push. Come on, don't push me. Come on. Go fast Come Is there anyone here, Taijun? Taijun smokes a cigarette Come and take a bite. Take one What do you do? Coal Mine My company is in Fengxian and Zaozhuang Then where are you going? I went to Yanzhou to visit a friend Taijun is very cute No, no, no, it's for your friends. Taijun is also a friend First time is new, second time is familiar Taijun is very cute Taijun Mixi Mixi very good Borrowed it Borrowed, borrowed, borrowed Don't squeeze Borrowed Borrowed Borrowed it Thank you. Thank you. Borrowed it, borrowed it, borrowed it Borrowed it Look at you Borrow it. Come on, come on, come on. Taijun Taijun I like sitting with you. My good citizen, very good Taijun, look Taijun likes wine Taijun, please try it. Come on, come on Good wine Our good friends Taijun, can I sit here? Thank you, Taijun Thanks Taijun Taijun Smoking Taijun, eat, eat Very good and fragrant Delicious and delicious Come and have a drink Take care on your way there. Don't worry I'm leaving Write a letter then. Okay, don't worry. Remember to eat the dry food you bring with you on the road Okay egg Okay, you should go back early too. etc. Be careful on the road Note Bon Voyage Take care You don't have to worry about anything at home. Gone Gone Drop me a message over there. Bon Voyage Don't worry. Don't worry. Let's go Taijun, eat it. Eat a lot. Eat a lot. this Very good, Taijun Flower girl, how do you know me? Unknown I don't know whose flower girl this is. Looks pretty handsome I really don't know you Taijun, I thought I'm lucky in love. Romance It's the flower girl who likes me Your peach blossom luck is great Good good good You're attracted to that flower girl. That's interesting. Come come come Taijun drink drink Taijun, this is called Tu Pipa Very nice I'll play a piece for you Okay I Play it quickly Can you come in and sit down, Master? Very nice Brother Hong and the others will be alright, right? The car should come. Don't worry, wait a little longer The Japanese Army was rampant Can China still be good? Yes, I worked hard along the way. Not easy Lugo Lu Ge, are you guys on a mission? Auntie, why are you here? It really cost me my life. I still want to ask you You all ran away without saying a word. Where is Peng Liang? Peng Liang is at the locomotive now. You hide quickly It's going to explode here soon. Your Romance Romance Girl, go have a drink with me. Come on, come on Drinking Drinking Drinking Drinking Don't worry about your Flower girl needs to get better slowly Yes, yes, it's embarrassing not to mention it. Come drink, come, come drink wine Taijun Very good and fragrant This is the famous Dezhou Braised Chicken This tastes so good Very good and delicious Taijun drinks Come drink Come Come come come This is also called Chinese Yeah, that's outrageous. Don't say it, they'll hear you. Keep your voice down. Liangzi, I'm looking at you now. Railway guerrilla driver Look at you Going Around Walk Who are you? Hello, Master. You are the Eighth Route Army. What do you think? Take something out and see Don't look at the Taijun now. No, take it out and have a look. Taijun is delicious Don't eat now, eat later Come and drink good Delicious and delicious If Taijun is delicious, you can eat it. The whole chicken is Taijun's Very good and big fragrance Drink, drink, drink drink wine very good Good citizen You see, I don't know. I don't know what card this is. Look at it well I put it in the middle. Which one is it? This one Very good. Very good. The commissar train is coming Send a signal quickly. Come closer later. Delicious open I want Missy Missy Good good good Okay, open it. Have you reached the Four-Arch Bridge? Open yours and I want Missy Missy I can't hold it anymore Why is there no movement? Brother Hong, look It's a signal to act. Get ready. Uncle Xiaopo then What's going on? What is the situation What's going on? What's going on? Come and help What's going on? This this What's wrong Get out of the way Run, run, help! Run Run What's going on? Run, run! Run, run, run, run, run Kill someone, run! Kill someone! Run! Run! Run, run, run, run, run, run Murder, murder, murder Kill someone, run! screw you Why don't you two take action and wait for the lightning to strike you? Go, take the gun. Run, kill people, run Kill someone, run, run Run, run, kill people Murder, murder, run! Pull him up Walk Give me a rush quick shooting charge hidden Grenade Don't use your gun, be careful not to hurt the captain Comrades, go ahead! search Political Commissar, look Open good Walk Lao Hong got the ticket money Going Around What happened? I don't know. I'm also confused. Who are they? I don't know What's going on? What's going on? Who are they? Lao Hong got the ticket money Let's withdraw quickly Good to go over there Come on up Ryoko Isn't that Liangzi? Ryoko Mei Nier, why are you here? I went to Lincheng for an interview It's just an interview. Why are you crying? Who told you to leave without saying hello? If you hit me, you can't leave. General Preparation Get on board Get in the car quick Get in the car quickly Fellow countrymen We are the Eighth Route Army led by the Communist Party Railway Guerrillas Railway Guerrillas They are the Railway Guerrillas This time we hijacked this train Mainly for Strike Japanese imperialism and eliminate the Japanese army Our action this time It has brought a lot of inconvenience to everyone. I represent the Railway Guerrillas I deeply apologize to you. I apologize to you. No, no, no No need to apologize. No need to apologize. Now our Eighth Route Army is heading north Already escaped from the Japanese encirclement Pulled to both sides of the railway I hope everyone Help your team more Drive the Japanese troops out of the motherland as soon as possible OK Good, good, good Well, the Japanese troops are coming soon. We will cover everyone and evacuate quickly Very fast Come on, comrades, hurry up! Move faster Hurry up and catch up Hurry up! Hurry up! Quick Hurry up, folks. Hong quick Go, go, go, go The Japanese armored vehicles are coming Don't worry The railroad tracks on both sides have been demolished. The Japanese army won't be here for a while. Go go go go fast Fellow countrymen, don't rush or panic. You move to the ravine. We guarantee your safety Follow up Political Commissar, I will go to cover the retreat Peng Liang, follow me. Mei Nier, help the political commissar organize the retreat. See you later Don't rush to get close before you fight. Prepare Target train direction shooting Mei Ni Er, stop taking pictures and go away How are you? Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go shooting Quick, quick, quick Quick beat Bastard shooting Come on folks Hurry up and catch up Come up quickly Hurry up and catch up Come Slow down. Slow down. All the people in Hongge have been evacuated safely. good bomb withdraw Bastard Political Commissar Hong and his men are back Lao Hong Political Commissar Lao Hong How are the players? There is no casualty. Did Xiaopo see Mei Nier? Mei Nier no Didn't you withdraw it? Menil Menil What are you doing? Hongge Mei Nier didn't come up I'll go back to her There are Japanese soldiers everywhere. They don't want to die. Even if Brother Hong dies, I will go Peng Liang Peng Liang Peng Liang What is going on? Who can tell me General The mixed vehicle was attacked by the Eighth Route Army All escort dog guards died on duty All the 80,000 yuan ticket money was lost This is the area where you are responsible for A greeting gift from the military police captain? Negligence of subordinates Report Lincheng Street Discovery There are slogans posted by the Eighth Route Army Bastard, are the Eighth Route Army in Beishan Have you escaped from our encirclement? This is impossible General Murakami Didn't we just take the main force of the Eighth Route Army? Is the encirclement and suppression in the Baodugou and Tianbaoshan areas? How do you explain this situation? Can you give me an answer? this Gangcun immediately launched a city-wide search Once a suspicious person is found, he will be killed without mercy yes team leader According to some passengers The gangsters who robbed the bus It is the newly formed Railway Guerrilla Force of the Eighth Route Army. Look The common people called them the Flying Tigers The captain is Liu Hong The political commissar is Li Zheng That's right That's right They formed a team after leaving the coal factory Specialized in sabotaging the Jinpu Railway You must be on guard in the future yes Refund Refund Have you heard? Last night, the bus service was booked. All the Japanese soldiers on the car were killed. Yeah, I heard that too. The Eighth Route Army is coming Their slogans are everywhere on the streets. My second uncle took that train yesterday They are so awesome In the blink of an eye, she flew into the car. That's amazing. I heard they were called the Flying Tigers Everyone Can Drive a Car and Walk on the Wall Can you run on the train? Yeah yeah What Flying Tigers? Yes, there is more. The rails have been dismantled. This time the Japanese army is doomed yes Great! Great! Great! Great! That's awesome That's awesome. That's great. The Flying Tigers are awesome. Get out, get out Run, run, run! Get out quickly Run!