The Authenticity of the Bible By Reuben A. Torrey Chapter 1 Is the Bible the Word of God? That is the If the Bible is the Word of God, if it is an of Himself, His purposes and His will, of and eternal realities, then we have a starting of the whole domain of religious truth. if it is the mere product of man's thinking, altogether trustworthy in regard to religious knowing where we are drifting, but we can be sure I did not always believe that the Bible is the was the Word of God. I doubted that Jesus Christ a personal God. I was not an infidel, but I was a I was not an atheist, but I was an agnostic. I If there was a God, I was determined to find that I was determined to find If Jesus Christ was the Son of God, I was If Jesus Christ was not the Son of God, I was If the Bible was the Word of God, I was If the Bible was not the Word of God, I was Well, I found out. I found out beyond a doubt Son of God, and that the Bible is the Word probability with me, nor even of mere belief, I am now going to give you some of the reasons I will not give you all the reasons, I will not even give you the reasons that are most upon my experience and are often so personal that However, I will give you reasons that will and unbiasedly seeking the truth and who desires reasons will not convince anyone who is determined it. If someone will not receive the love of the choice of error, given over to strong delusion if someone is searching for the truth, no matter he can be led into the truth. I believe the Bible is the Word of God because live in a day in which many people say that they do not accept the teaching of the whole Bible. but they are not sure if they believe what Moses said, or is said to have said, or what Jeremiah not sure about the rest of the Bible writers. but in reality it is completely irrational. we must accept the whole Bible, for Jesus Christ Book. If we accept His authority, we must accept Old Testament look first at Mark 7:13. Jesus had just just quote from the Ten Commandments, but He also He set the teaching of the law of Moses against In this verse, He said, You make the your tradition. He distinctly called It is sometimes said that the Bible yet here Jesus Christ Himself distinctly asserted then, we accept the authority of Jesus Christ, we Of course, this only covers the first but if we can accept this as the Word of God, of the Old Testament, for it is here that Now turn to Matthew 5:18. Here Jesus says, Till shall in nowise pass from the law until all be &quot;jot&quot; is the Hebrew character &quot;yodh,&quot; the less than half the size of any other A &quot;tittle&quot; is a little horn that the Hebrews that the law of Moses as originally given is letter and part of a letter. If, then, we accept authority of the law of Moses as originally given Look next at John 10:35. Jesus had just quoted making, and then He added, The Scripture His authority upon the absolute reliability and Turn now to Luke 24:27, and you will read that expounded unto them in all the Scriptures of that same chapter, He says, All things must be and in the prophets, and in the Psalms. Every (our present Old Testament Scriptures) into of the Old Testament), the Prophets (most of the that we call historical), and the Psalms or Sacred Testament. Jesus Christ takes up each one of these Scriptures and sets the stamp of His authority authority of Jesus Christ, we are driven logically In Luke 16:31, Jesus says, If they hear not Moses though one be raised from the dead. Thus, truth of the Old Testament Scriptures. not his [Moses'] writings, how shall ye of His authority upon the teaching of Moses as If, then, we accept the authority of Jesus New Testament Did Jesus set His stamp of authority upon it when not a book of the New Testament was He did so by way of anticipation. Turn to The Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom you all things and bring all things to your He therefore set the stamp of His authority by the Holy Spirit, but upon the apostolic The question is often asked, &quot;How do we know that Jesus Christ in the Gospels?&quot; It is asked, &quot;Did said?&quot; There is reason to believe that they did, material, and James (from whom, there is reason took notes of what Jesus said in Aramaic, and and that we have in the four Gospels the But whether this is true or not does not matter own authority for it that in the apostolic remembrance of what Jesus said, but we have the While the apostles might forget and report Turn to John 16:12-13, and you will hear Jesus but ye cannot bear them now. Howbeit when He, the all truth. Here Jesus sets the stamp of His as being given by the Holy Spirit, as containing His own teaching. He tells the apostles that but that they are not ready yet to them that when the Holy Spirit comes, He will If, then, we accept the authority of Jesus the New Testament writings, as being given through and as containing more truth than Jesus taught are crying out, &quot;Back to Christ,&quot; by which they or what John taught, or what James taught, or what back to Christ, the original source of authority, Very well. &quot;Back to Christ.&quot; The cry is not a hear Christ Himself saying, &quot;On to the apostles. The Holy Spirit has taught them all the truth. authority of Jesus Christ, we are driven to Therefore, if we accept the teaching of Jesus and the entire New Testament. It is either Christ There are some in these days who say that Christ of the New Testament. But there is no Any other Christ than the Christ of the New Any other Christ than the Christ of the New and whoever worships him is an idolator. Five Divine Testimonies He is accredited to us by five First, He is accredited to us by the testimony of other man lived. Let anyone take the four Gospels and he will soon be convinced of two things. of a life actually lived. No one could have unless the life had been actually lived. Much each one of the four making his own account of itself, but is consistent with the other three. To dreamed up the life of Jesus would be to suppose a He will see, in the second place, that the life human lives. It stands by itself and is clearly a Bonaparte was a good judge of men. He once said Gospels, which he had been reading, &quot;I know men Jesus Christ was not a man.&quot; What he meant was, Second, Jesus Christ is accredited to If anyone will study the teaching of Jesus Christ that it has a character that distinguishes it Third, Jesus Christ was accredited to not only healing the sick, which many others have the blind, raising the dead, calming the storm by thousand men with five small loaves and two small power are clear credentials of a God-sent not come to the same conclusion as Nicodemus: for no man can do these signs that You Of course, we bear in mind the fact that the supernatural element from the story of the resulted in failure, and all similar efforts this kind that was ever made was that of David David Strauss was a man of remarkable ability and a man of notable genius, a man with and a man of steadfast perseverance and untiring richly endowed mind upon the story of the life miraculous element contained therein. He spent If anyone could have succeeded in such an failed utterly. For a little while, it seemed but when his life of Jesus was itself submitted pieces, and today is utterly discredited. element in the story of Jesus feel that they must Strauss has come to nothing. Where David Strauss by any means, the ability and genius of of subtle imagination, of rare literary Renan's Life of Christ was read with interest fascinating skill. Some imagined that Ernest of Jesus naturally enough was discredited even All other attempts have met with a similar Let any honest person take the life of Jesus and he will soon discover that the life described been really lived, that the teachings reported as into the mouth of a fictitious person, but He will also discover that the character and the interwoven with the stories of the miracles. He the character and the teaching disappear, for the the miraculous element without a brutality of At least this much is proven today, that Jesus four Gospels. Personally, I believe that more than purpose. If Jesus lived and worked basically opening the eyes of the blind, raising and feeding the five thousand with then He bears unmistakable credentials Fourth, Jesus Christ is also accredited all subsequent history. Jesus Christ (1) He was either the Son of God in a unique (2) He was the most daring impostor who the most hopeless lunatics who ever lived. to be the Son of God in a unique sense, that as they honored the Father (John 5:23), that He and that He taught that those who (John 14:9). He was then either the divine Person impostor ever, or He was a most hopeless lunatic. influence of a lunatic? No one but a lunatic would the influence of an impostor? Only someone with deceit and fraud would think of saying we have only one alternative left: He was Fifth, Jesus Christ is accredited to I will later present to you the evidence We will see that the historic evidence for the in its character. The resurrection of Jesus facts of history, but the resurrection of Jesus Christ claimed to be the Son of God. He being put to death, He said that God would set His They killed Him. They laid Him in the sepulcher. They sealed that door with the Roman seal, and When the appointed hour came the breath of God swept through the sleeping God spoke more clearly than if He would This is My beloved Son: Hear Him (Luke 9:35). authority of Jesus Christ. As already seen, if accept the entire Old Testament and the entire New believe that the Bible is the Word of God because A school of criticism has arisen that is trying of Jesus Christ. They say, for example, &quot;Jesus was messianic, but we say that the eleventh They ask us to give up the authority and wanting us to accept their authority Very well, but before doing so, we demand claim of authority and infallibility of Jesus Christ presents His credentials. of the divine life that He lived. What We hear much about the beauty of the life of some desire to deny the claim, but we gladly put the Which suffers by the comparison? If there is is in the right, his doctrine cannot be in the it bears immeasurably more for the authority of any critic or school of critics. of the divine words that He spoke. What The words of Jesus Christ have and they shine with greater brilliance and glory stood the test of even twenty years? If one and that of any school of criticism, it will not Third, Jesus Christ presents His credential of seal of God upon His claims. What does this Absolutely nothing. It has no miracles except to make the preposterous appear historical. His influence upon human history. We all know how beneficial and how divine. Everything that is best in national, domestic, and individual We also know the influence of this school the power of ministers and Christian workers We know that it is depleting missionary funds. on every field where it has gone. I know this by This may not be their intention, and with but nonetheless, it is a fact. The influence while the influence of this school Fifth, Jesus presents the credential What does this school of criticism have to set establishes His claim. The opposing Therefore, we refuse to bow to the assumed and of any school of criticism, of any priest, pope, bow to the authority and infallibility of His authority we accept the entire Old Testament Chapter 2 Why I Believe That the Bible Is the Word of God the authority of Jesus Christ, we must accept the because He set the stamp of His authority on or no Bible and no Christ. that the Bible is the Word of God is The average unbeliever knows absolutely and this is not to be wondered at, for the prophecy. Even the average preacher knows The subject of prophecy is a large one, and to but it can be presented in an outline in to show the overwhelming weight of the argument. there are the explicit, verbal prophecies, We will first discuss the explicit, verbal 1. Prophecies regarding the coming Messiah 3. Prophecies regarding the gentile nations regarding the coming Messiah. We will only Isaiah 53 (the entire chapter), Micah 5:2, Daniel In the passages listed, we have We are told the exact time of His manifestation the family from whom He would be born, and the (a condition entirely different from that existing to all the probabilities in the case). We are (a reception entirely different from that which and details regarding His death (with the His resurrection subsequent to His burial, and Jesus of Nazareth fulfilled these An attempt has been made by the rationalists to Messiah. It is natural that they would attempt the case of the rationalists is hopeless. the coming Messiah from the fact that this chapter until its fulfillment in Jesus of Nazareth. drove them into the attempt to Furthermore, the desperate straits to which those shows the hopelessness of their case. When asked not the Messiah, the best answer they can give anyone who carefully reads the passage will The sufferer of Isaiah 53 is represented as His own sins, and those for whom He is suffering If the sufferer is suffering for the sins others for whom He is suffering are Israel, then You can bring the prophecies cited down to destructive critic ever thought of assigning before the birth of Jesus of Nazareth. How are we the power of looking hundreds of years into the things to come to pass, then, and that these These are facts that demand to be accounted for. might weave their theories out of their own but businesspeople must face facts, and here are of this. Any book that has the power of and predicting with exact precision as to person, occur at that remote period, must have for who knows the end from the beginning - God. man to look a few years into the future, and a general way some things that will occur. This It is not just a few years into the future, The prophecies are not general, but contain things that had observable and discernible causes were not discernible at the time, yet To a mind willing to bow to facts and evidence of the divine origin of the Book. the Bible is that there are often two seemingly that if the one line of prophecy were fulfilled, contradictory lines of prophecy converge and are Testament we have two lines of prophecy concerning Messiah, despised and rejected of men, a man of mission will end in death and shame. The other and definiteness an all-conquering Messiah How can both lines of prophecy be true? Before the best answer the ancient Jew had was that Messiah of the tribe of Joseph, and one a However, in the actual fulfillment, both Jesus of Nazareth. At His first coming He was the death upon the cross, as was so often predicted come as a conquering king to rule the nations. are even more conclusive than the specific verbal student of the Bible how much of the Old Testament &quot;Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, and the that there are also prophetic passages here However, if you asked a serious student is prophetic, he will tell you that the entire that its people are prophetic, and that its are prophetic. If you are skeptical (as you but you have no right to remain doubtful unless sit down and take you through the whole Book from of Malachi, and will show you unmistakable He will show you unquestionable foreshadowings Abraham, Isaac, Joseph, David, and Solomon. sacrifice and offering, in every feast, in every of the tabernacle, in its outer court, in the Holy in the golden candlestick, in the table of in the veil that hung between the Holy Place in its boards, bars, sockets, and tenons, In all these he will show you that every truth His nature, His character, His atoning death, His He will show that Jesus Christ is set forth in He will show you that every profound truth that was prefigured in the types and At first, this might seem to you to be just a after verse, chapter after chapter, and book you will be overwhelmingly convinced that this As you see all the profoundest truths of Christian and in this legislation that was established and as you see the perfect foreshadowing the Jewish people, and the church, you will be God. The modern critical theories regarding the Deuteronomy go all to pieces when considered in Testament. I have never known a destructive critic One cannot study them thoroughly that the real Author of the Old Testament, My third reason for believing that the Bible is Book. This is an old argument, but a good one. of sixty-six parts or books. It is often said This is partly true and partly false. but at the same time it is the most profoundly The sixty-six books that compose the Bible were They were written in three different languages composed over a period of at least fifteen hundred of miles apart. They were written by men upon the king upon the throne down to the herdsman, The books of the Bible display every form of of poetry - epic poetry, lyric poetry, didactic We find all kinds of prose as well - historic epistle, proverb, parable, allegory, and oration. parts, composed at such remote periods of we would naturally expect variance, discord, and what do we find? We find the most marvelous unity. of the Bible. One ever-increasing, ever-growing unity is most significant. It is not a superficial On the surface, we often find apparent discrepancy discrepancy and disagreement disappear, and the study, the more complete we find the unity to be. it is not the unity of a lifeless thing, like In the early books of the Bible, we have have the plant. Further on, we have the bud, and Revelation, we find the ripened fruit of Genesis. fact that demands accounting for, and as theories. You must deal with realities, and not who spend their time dreaming apart from the and simple way to account for it, and only one is that behind the forty or more human authors all-superintending, all-shaping mind of God. D.C. a temple that would represent the stone Some stones would come from the marble quarries of quarries of Quincy, Massachusetts, some from the some from the white marble quarries at Rutland, Berea, Ohio, some from the porphyry quarries below quarries near Hancock, Michigan, some from some from the gypsum quarries of the far west The stones were to be of all Some would be large, some small, and some medium. cylindrical, some conical, some trapezoidal, Each stone was to be hewn into its final Not a stone was to be touched by mallet or Finally, the stones are at Washington, As they build, they find that every stone fits It is found that there is not one stone too the builders' work is done and there rises before its naves, its arches, its hallways, its roof, its and in every detail. There is not one stone too stone left over, and there is no niche or corner been hewn into its final shape in the quarry from There is one very simple way to account for and that is that behind the individual who planned the whole building each individual quarryman his This is precisely what we find in that temple The stones for this Book were quarried in places and at periods of time fifteen hundred years sizes and shapes, and yet every stone fits until when the Book is finished there rises perfect in every outline and every detail. There and yet every stone was cut into its final How are you to account for it? There is and that is that behind the human hands who thought and gave to each individual You cannot get around that and be honest and fair. Four More Reasons Why I Believe I have given you three reasons so far why I First, because of the testimony The second reason was because of its for believing that the Bible is the Word of My fourth reason for believing the Bible to be superiority of its teachings to those of any other was studying in theological halls to compare the seers and philosophers, such as the teachings Epictetus, Isocrates, Seneca, Buddha, This is getting to be popular again. Anyone who in the same class with these other teachers must ignorant of the teachings of these ethnic seers case, ignorant of both. There are three points of the Bible and those of any other book. but it is truth mixed with error. There are gems of thought in these other writers, &quot;jewels picked out of the mud.&quot; For example, we beautifully how a philosopher ought to die?&quot; taught a woman of the town how to conduct We are also asked, &quot;Did not Marcus Aurelius clemency?&quot; He did. It is well worth reading, that it was right to put people to death for and being himself emperor of Rome, and having &quot;Did not Seneca,&quot; they ask, &quot;speak wonderfully but they forget to tell us that Seneca himself was the onyx tables alone in his mansion costing a whose influence the most infamous emperor &quot;Did not Confucius,&quot; they ask, &quot;admirably but they forget to tell us that Confucius also and he unblushingly tells us that he himself lied most devoted followers have followed so closely matter of lying. They have reduced lying to a fine The second point of difference is that these while the Bible contains all the truth. There is subjects that cannot be found within the covers The Bible is an old Book, and yet man in all written has not discovered one single truth on for substance within the covers of the Bible. and the Bible alone remained, we would suffer no However, if the Bible were destroyed and all other the Bible were just another book written by men, in my audiences to bring forward one single truth find within the Bible. It is quite conceivable for I do not pretend to know everything that a little over a quarter of a century. However, The third point of radical difference is that the together. You can go to all literature, ancient Greece, ancient Rome, ancient India, ancient pull out of it all that is good, throw bring together the result of your labor into book that will take the place of this one Book. why is it that in all the thousands of years books they have produced, that they have not to produce as much real and priceless The answer is plain: other books are men's books, My fifth reason for believing is because of the history of the Book and What man has made, man can destroy. However, determined assault have been unable to destroy The Bible had only just been given to the world First, they learned that it condemned sin. Second, Third, they observed that it laid human pride in they were not willing to renounce self, pride laid in the dust. Therefore, they People's hatred of the Bible has been most intense Book that they hated. Man after man has arisen Celsus tried it with the brilliancy Porphyry tried it with the depth of his it with the keenness of his satire, and he failed. weapons. He brought to bear against the Bible all empire the world had ever known at the height should be burned, but that failed. Stronger Bibles should be put to death, and that failed. has continued. Every method of destruction that human intelligence, human satire, human force, and have been brought to bear against this nearly all the great rulers of earth have been but still the Bible has more than held its own. affections of the best and wisest men and women If the Bible had been a mere human book, forgotten centuries ago, but because there is in but the hiding of His power, it has Heaven and earth shall pass away, but My Amid the deafening roar of the enemies' it has seemed to some people at times but when the smoke has rolled this invincible citadel of God's eternal truth without one stone dislodged from foundation Bible has simply served to illustrate anew the In a way, I rejoice in every new attack that weak-minded men and women who are willing to consensus of the latest scholarship, but for the successfully withstood twenty centuries of assault down before the air guns of modern criticism. is the Word of God is because of the influence of Every honest person must see and admit that there and beautify and dignify human lives, to lift A stream can rise no higher than its source, God that no other book possesses must have come In literally millions of cases, this Book has women in the deepest depths of iniquity and they were fit for a place beside Christ upon the but was dismayed and corrupted and demonized by to accept the Bible and the Christ of the Bible, in your Bible or your Christ. I am an agnostic.&quot; ruin, he threw his agnosticism to the winds and and by the power of this Book was transformed I know. What other book could do this? individuals, but nations, toward God. We owe in our political, commercial, and domestic life, attacks the Book is attacking the very foundation The person who attacks the Bible is the worst The seventh reason as to why I believe that the character of those who accept it as such, and Two things speak for the divine origin of sure that it is the Word of God, and Often when some man or woman says to me, &quot;I and when I look at the purity, the beauty, that there is in their character, I feel like saying, &quot;I am glad that you believe someone who lives so near God and knows God as is a confirmation of my own faith that it is.&quot; a self-confident toss of the head says, &quot;I do and when I look at the sinfulness or selfishness far they live from God, I feel like saying, &quot;I who is living upon the plane that you are living, doubts that the Bible is the Word of God, is Do not misunderstand me. I do not mean by this Bible is better than everyone who rejects the person who is living a life of absolute surrender God, living a life of devotion to the highest and of prayer, and I will show you every time a On the other hand, show me someone who denies Word of God, and I will show you someone who is &quot;all&quot;) a life of greed for gold, or of lust, or anyone to provide me an exception. I have been and I have never found one. An attempt to furnish but it is simply laughable to think of the people prayer, or to think of them as not leading lives surrendered to God is leading a life of self-will. know God best are sure that the Bible is God's are those who are living farthest from God and Suppose that a manuscript was discovered in by Oliver Wendell Holmes, but that there was great Oliver Wendell Holmes was the real author. Finally decision, and it was discovered that all those who lived in most intimate fellowship with thought were absolutely unanimous in their However, those who questioned it were those had the least fellowship with him, and Which group would you believe? criticism, much simpler than that which our such as who may be the seven different thousands of years ago, as is attempted in that the Polychrome Bible. This is the precise and know God best, all who are in most intimate in saying that the Bible is His work. Those who farthest from Him and know God least. and that is that the nearer people get to God, is His Word. The farther they drift from It constantly happens that someone who is a sinner argument and is also delivered from his unbelief. opposite kind, where someone was a sinner and a Furthermore, it often occurs that someone of nearness to God, and who enjoyed a serene and begins to prosper in the things of this He then drifts away from outright separation he drifts into doubt and into careless views about who become careless in their morals also become theology go hand in hand. They are twin brothers. that they are starting to doubt, I ask them Once while walking in a university town, I a young fellow whom I knew. I caught how are you getting on?&quot; With a self-satisfied Mr. Torrey, I am becoming somewhat skeptical.&quot; The poor fellow blushed and dropped his head. doubt. This is the history of the beginning of Where is the stronghold of the Bible? The unselfish home. Where is The stronghold of unbelief is the tavern, the Suppose that I would come as a stranger to your with a Bible under my arm, lay my Bible down upon &quot;Make it big.&quot; What would happen? The bartender would quite likely say, &quot;Excuse &quot;Yes.&quot; &quot;Yes, and make it large.&quot; However, suppose I would enter the tavern and lay Ingersoll or of Bradlaugh, or a copy of the Freethinker, or the most respectable atheist of whiskey. I would get it without a question or would expect. The Bible and whiskey don't go I told this story when I was in Belfast, and at laughing. He said, &quot;Just yesterday we had an afternoon Bible reading, my mother went into a She had her Bible in her hand, and without it into the bag that she carried. The clerk who hide it. The two don't go well together.'&quot; Three More Reasons Why I Believe In the three previous chapters, I have given is the Word of God. In this chapter, My eighth reason for believing is because of the inexhaustible depth of the However, twenty centuries of study on the part of unable to exhaust the Bible. Many men of strongest and of broadest culture have given a lifetime really studied it has ever dreamed of saying Indeed, the more profoundly one digs into the still unfathomable depths of wisdom beneath Not only is this true of individuals, but it is in cooperation with one another have delved into are still new treasures of truth awaiting each breaking forth from the Word of God. How are The human mind has been progressing We have outgrown every other book that belongs to we have not grown up to it. The Bible is not date. The best interpretation of the most recent If this Book were man's book, we would have but the fact that it has proved itself positive proof that the infinite treasures of A brilliant Unitarian writer in America has given was ever spoken or written from the standpoint He said, &quot;How irreligious to accuse an infinite that is so small!&quot; I submit that that is sharp edge of his Damascus blade could be turned origin of this Book that such infinite The Bible is not really a very large book (I yet that small Book contains such treasures by the world's best minds have been unable There is no one except God who could pack such My ninth reason for believing that the Bible in knowledge and in character, in wisdom The nearer I get to God, the nearer I get to the had the same experience with it that every careful I found things in the Bible that and other things that seemed difficult to part of the Book seemed to flatly contradict the clear to me that if one teaching of the Bible were be. Like so many others, I accepted as much of As I continued to study the Bible, and as I found that my difficulties were disappearing. and then by dozens, ever disappearing more and to God, the nearer I got to the Bible. What Two lines always converging as they draw near to a The nearer I got to God, the nearer I the Bible and I will meet. That is, the There is no honest escaping of this conclusion. and dangerous forest for the first time. a guide was brought to me who and had conducted many people through in safety, Under his guidance, I began my journey through a while, but after a time we came to a place &quot;The path to the right is the right path to take.&quot; what I could observe, indicated to me that I said to the guide, &quot;I know that you have been safely led many people through. Because of this, the present instance I believe you are wrong. My clearly indicates to me that the road to the left this forest before, and you have, and I know but they are the best guide that I have, and So I take the road to the left. I go about and I have to go back and take the way the guide but again we come to a place where two paths to the left is the road to take.&quot; But my reason indicates that the road to the right is the road I say to the guide, &quot;I know that you and have never led anyone astray. I have great common sense based upon my observation tell me Now I know that my reason and common sense guide that I have, and I cannot disregard them.&quot; a mile, and then run up against an impassable way the guide said. Suppose that this would happen and my reason and common sense based proved wrong. Do you not think that about the sense enough to throw my ever-erring judgment This has been my exact experience with the Bible. Time and time again I have come to the parting my reason and common sense seemed to say another. went the way that my reason and common sense and go the way the Bible said. I hope that the common sense enough to disregard my ever-erring The most irrational thing in the world is what to subject the teachings of infinite wisdom to the possibly be more irrational than that? It never have a good reason for saying or doing a thing One of the greatest discoveries that I me that God might possibly know more than I when to me He appeared to be wrong. Bible to be the Word of God is because of the To the one who puts himself in the right Spirit bears direct testimony that the voice that One will often meet a godly old woman who is not firm faith that the Bible is the Word of God. If the Word of God, she will reply, &quot;I know that the &quot;Why do you believe it is the Word of God?&quot; she you ask yet again, &quot;Why do you believe it &quot;I know it is the Word of God.&quot; Very likely you faith (have no fear, for you couldn't even if You are mistaken, for she is above argument. God's words (John 8:47). Jesus Christ also That woman is one of God's children and knows voice that speaks to her from the Bible is the and she knows that the voice that speaks to her I can tell any of you how you can come to that God's voice and to know that the voice that Jesus Christ Himself tells us this in John he shall know of the teaching whether it The surrender of the will to God opens the eyes does not demand that we believe without evidence, moral attitude toward God and the truth that There is nothing that so clarifies the human Some years ago I was lecturing to our students unbelievers. Our lecture room in Chicago is and it is often a varied crowd that Roman Catholic and Protestant, believers, At the close of this lecture, the wife of the late &quot;Did you see the man sitting near me as you a little conversation with him before. &quot;Well,&quot; she 'I wish he would try it upon me.'&quot; &quot;Well, there he is over in the corner.&quot; I did not left, he came to me and said, &quot;Mr. Torrey, but my experience contradicts everything that I replied, &quot;Have you done what I told these and guaranteed that if they would do it they and into a clear faith in the Bible as the &quot;Yes, I have done it all.&quot; I called my secretary over and dictated something difference between right and wrong&quot; (I did not was an agnostic and neither affirmed nor denied someone is), &quot;and I hereby take my stand upon I promise to make an honest search to find I find that He is, I promise to accept Him as my My secretary brought two copies of &quot;Are you willing to sign this?&quot; He folded one and put it in his pocket. I folded &quot;There is nothing in it. My case is very had been through Unitarianism, spiritualism, and was now an open agnostic.) &quot;Do you know for sure that there is not a God?&quot; not a God. Anyone would be a fool to I am an agnostic. I neither affirm nor deny.&quot; but that won't do you any good. Do you &quot;No. I do not know that God does not answer but I do not know that He does not answer prayer.&quot; prayer, but that will not do you any good. You are a graduate of a British &quot;Yes.&quot; The method of modern science is that if he should follow that possible clue to see what Will you adopt the methods of modern science in possible clue to see what there may be in it? if there is any God, show me if Jesus Christ is Your Son, I promise to accept Him as my Savior &quot;Yes,&quot; he said. &quot;I will do that, too, but there &quot;One more thing,&quot; I said. &quot;John 20:31 says, Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that John tells us here that the Gospel of John was is the Christ, the Son of God. Will you read &quot;I have read it again and again,&quot; it to you if you want to hear them.&quot; this time in a new way. Each time before you read, show me what truth there is in the verses I am I promise to accept and take my stand upon.' Don't try to believe or disbelieve. Simply be attention to what you read, and when you have &quot;Yes,&quot; he said. &quot;I will do it all, but there &quot;Never mind about that,&quot; I said. I went over and we separated. About two weeks later I was in the hall. At the end of the meeting, he came I replied, &quot;I knew that before.&quot; done what I promised I would do, it is just as along by the Niagara River, and the first I became a Methodist for the occasion and lecture at some schools in Massachusetts. and this man was present at the reception. &quot;Not too busy to speak to you,&quot; I replied. &quot;I cannot understand it. I cannot (mentioning a number of infidel and &quot;It is all nonsense to me now.&quot; that in 1 Corinthians 2:14: The natural man for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he You have taken the right attitude toward truth, He came out into a clear faith in Jesus Christ as If any of you doubt this and you will have a story of your own to tell. speaks to us from this Book is the voice of What of it?&quot; Everything of it! If the Bible is the and there is no salvation for any of us outside all our trust for pardon in His atoning work on and our lives absolutely to His control. Chapter 5 The resurrection of Jesus Christ is in many the Gibraltar of Christian evidences, the Waterloo certainty that Jesus rose from the dead, then Every essential truth of Christianity is involved then every essential doctrine of Christianity essential doctrine of Christianity goes down. A leading skeptic has recently said that there is The essential question is, Did Jesus it is easy enough to believe the other miracles. I am confident that this skeptic There are three separate lines of statements contained in the four Gospels First, there is the external evidence for the narratives. This is a completely satisfactory time. The argument is long and intricate, and it The other arguments are so completely as good as it is in its place. upon the internal proofs of the This argument is absolutely conclusive, We will not assume anything whatsoever. We will history. We will not assume that the four Gospels We will not even assume that they were is alleged to have lived, died, and risen again We will assume nothing whatsoever. We will start and that is that we have the four Gospels today, side by side and see if we can recognize The first thing we notice as we compare these four separate and independent accounts. This in the four different accounts. These apparent been impossible for four accounts to have been so many and so obvious discrepancies in them. but the harmony does not lie upon the surface. It It is the same kind of harmony that would exist people, each looking at the events recorded from that would not exist in four accounts that had manufactured in collusion, whatever harmony Whatever discrepancy there was would only but the case is just the opposite. The fact careful study, while the apparent discrepancy these four accounts are separate and independent another. A third account sometimes reconciles It is clear that these accounts must either or else they are works of fiction. If fiction, either independently of one another They cannot have been made up independently, for They cannot have been made up in the apparent discrepancies are They were not made up independently and were not that they were not made up at all. They are a The next thing that we notice is that these been derived from eyewitnesses. The distinguishable from that of one who is Anyone who is accustomed to weigh evidence in distinguish the account of an eyewitness from the Gospel records of the resurrection will Some years ago, when lecturing at an American as being a skeptic. I asked him what course of pursuing a postgraduate course in history with a you know that the account of an eyewitness differs simply telling what he has heard from others?&quot; I then asked, ''Have you carefully read the four He answered, &quot;I have.&quot; have you not noticed clear indications &quot;Yes,&quot; he replied. &quot;I have been greatly Anyone else who carefully and intelligently The third thing that we notice about these straightforwardness, genuineness, and to do with the supernatural, but the There is an absolute absence of all This is just a simple, straightforward It sometimes happens that a witness on the so straightforward, and so natural, without any testimony bears weight independently of anything of the witness. As we listen to his story, we say The weight of this kind of evidence is greatly we have several independent witnesses of this sort but with varieties of detail, one omitting reconciling apparent discrepancies between four Gospel narratives of the resurrection to have reflected at all upon the meaning or They simply tell outright what they saw, leaving the theorizing to others. scholar and critic, who certainly was not much &quot;Nothing can exceed in honesty and simplicity the after His crucifixion. If these qualities of ever being able to discern them anywhere.&quot; of Monmouth. Nothing decisive was known but when we laid them side by side, we found that furthermore, compelling indications that they were that honesty, simplicity, and straightforwardness somewhat disagreed in minor details, they agreed Even though we had no knowledge of the authorship absence of any other account say, &quot;These are exactly the case with the four Gospel narratives. one another, bearing the clear marks of having by an unrivalled genuineness, simplicity, and minor details, but in perfect agreement as to the honest, are we not logically driven to say, &quot;These The next thing that we notice is the unintentional details. It often happens that when a witness that he bears by words and phrases that he uses, is more convincing than his direct testimony but the testimony of the truth to itself. The One example is the fact that in all we are likely to understand that Jesus was when He appeared to them after His resurrection why this is so, but if we will think about it However, the Gospel narratives simply record If the stories were fictitious, they would never would have seen at once the objection that would to believe in the resurrection - that is, that Why, then, is the story told in this way? It is were not making the story up for effect, but This was the way it occurred, and therefore this of imaginary incidents, but an exact record of Here is a second example. In all the Gospel resurrection, there is not a single recorded Christ. All the appearances were to those who we can easily see why this was so, but nowhere If the stories were made up, they certainly If the Gospels are, as some would have one hundred, two hundred, or three hundred when all the people involved were dead and gone, Caiaphas, Annas, Pilate, and Herod, confounding is no suggestion of anything of this kind in the is already a believer. Why is this so? This is so that things occurred. The Gospel narratives are but simply with recording events precisely We find still another example in the fact that resurrection were only occasional. He would appear not being seen again for several days. Jesus was trying to wean His disciples from and to prepare them for the communion in We are not, however, told this in the Gospel ourselves. It is doubtful if the disciples the facts. If they had been making up a story to as being with them constantly, as living with them Why, then, is the story told as recorded the way that it had all occurred, and the giving an exact representation of the facts We find another very remarkable example in what at their first meeting. In John 20:17, Jesus for I am not yet ascended to My Father. We We are left to discover the The commentators have had a great deal of They vary widely from one another in Go to the commentaries and you will find that commentary gives a different reason, and so on. seen in any commentary, and I am but I have never been able to convince others that utterance of Jesus put in the Gospel record has taken twenty centuries to explain, yet it is Certainly a writer making up a story would not apparent meaning and without any attempt are made up for a purpose. Details that a purpose that is more or less evident. not been able to find out the purpose for why It is there because this is exactly what happened. This is what Mary told. Therefore, this is what but an accurate record of words spoken Another incidental detail that is introduced proof of its historical accuracy is found in John pierced the side of our crucified Lord with a but we are not told the reason for this. In There was no one on earth at the time who had known the reason. It was only centuries later The distinguished medical authority, Dr. Simpson chloroform, wrote a powerful brochure during his that Jesus Christ died from what is called blood,&quot; or in popular language, &quot;a broken heart.&quot; (of course, Jesus' arms were and there is a loud cry (such as Jesus uttered, &quot;The blood escapes into the pericardium and blood stands for a short time; it separates into blood). When the soldier pierced the bag This is the scientific explanation of the recorded No one then living knew it, and no Is it conceivable that a writer who made would have made up and inserted a fact fitting precisely into the various facts recorded, living at the time could possibly have known? It was because this is precisely what occurred, he observed the fact and recorded the fact as discovery to conclusively demonstrate Beyond a doubt, we do not have any fiction here, and was observed precisely as recorded. In examples and more remarkable illustrations of the the Gospel accounts of the resurrection of Christ. The Self-Evident Truthfulness of the In the previous chapter, we began &quot;Did Jesus really rise from the dead?&quot; We started with the well-known fact that we have the four have written them, we certainly have them. We to discover from the study of them whether they or whether they were fiction. We saw that it often that the unintentional evidence he bears by words, than his direct testimony because it is not the the truth to itself. We gave some examples of Turn to John 20:24-25: But Thomas, was not with them when Jesus came. The other seen the Lord. But he said unto them, Except I and put my finger into the print of the nails, and How true this all is to life! It is in perfect elsewhere. Thomas was the doubter in the apostolic by the testimony of his senses. Thomas is going again into Judea, despondently said, Let us It was Thomas who, in John 14:4-5, when Jesus Lord, we know not whither Thou goest, and how can I shall see in His hands the print of the nails, thrust my hand into His side, I will not believe. would require literary talent that immeasurably Look now at John 20:4-6: So they ran both and came first to the sepulcher. And he, stooping yet went he not in. Then cometh Simon Peter This again is quite consistent Mary, returning hurriedly from the tomb, burst in taken away the Lord out of the sepulcher, (John 20:2). John and Peter jumped to their feet John was the younger of the two disciples. We are from other sources. Being younger, he was faster. However, being a man of reserved and reverent but simply stooped down and looked in. but when he reached the tomb, he did not wait a up, or is it life? The person would indeed be a skill to make this up if it did not happen just as of local accuracy in the report. When one visits real burial place of Christ, he will find himself Now turn to John 21:7: Therefore that It is the Lord. Now when Simon he girt his fisher's coat unto him (for he Here again we have the unmistakable marks The apostles went at Jesus' commandment Jesus did not immediately appear. passion still strong in his heart, said that they would go with him. They In the early dawn, Jesus stood upon the shore, dim light. Jesus asked them if they had He urged them to cast their net on the When the cast was made, they were not able to In an instant, John, the man of quick spiritual Peter, a man of more-impulsive action, hear threw it around him, threw himself overboard, Is this made up, or is it life? This is fourth Gospel made this up, he would be the take down every other name from the literary Here is another example. Read John 20:15: Whom seekest thou? She, supposing Him Sir, if thou have borne Him hence, tell me Him away. This is surely a touch that surpasses Mary had gone into the city and notified Peter They started running toward the sepulcher. they easily outran her, but wearily and Peter and John were long gone by the time that the tomb of her beloved Lord had been Two angels were sitting in the tomb, one at the of Jesus had lain, but the grief-stricken woman why weepest thou? She replied, Because they have laid Him. She heard footsteps in the leaves behind She saw Jesus standing there, but blinded by Jesus said to her, Why weepest thou? Whom seekest talking to her, and she answered, Sir, if thou Him, and I will take Him away. Remember who it A weak woman offered to carry away a fully grown it is to a woman's nature that always forgets There is something to be done, and she says, &quot;I and I will take Him away. Is this made up? Never! We see another example in Mark 16:7: Peter that He goeth before you into Galilee: I want you to notice two words: and Peter. Why He certainly was. He was at the head was it said, Tell His disciples and Peter? but reflection shows that it was an utterance of who had three times denied his Lord. If the would have said, &quot;Yes, I was once a disciple, I denied my Lord three times on that dreadful However, our tender, compassionate Lord, through and tell His disciples, and whoever you tell, be Peter.&quot; Is this made up, or is this a real undiscerning that he can think this is fiction. is recorded only in the Gospel of Mark, As Peter dictated to Mark what he should record, eyes and a grateful heart, saying, &quot;Mark, be sure Turn now to John 20:27-29: Then saith He to My hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it And Thomas answered and said unto Him, My Lord and hast seen Me, thou hast believed: blessed are Notice both the action of Thomas and the to be attributed to the art of some master of at the first appearance of our Lord. A week This time, Thomas made sure he was present. going to be there. If he had been like some modern but even though he was a doubter, he was Suddenly Jesus stood in the midst. He said to hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it Thomas' eyes were opened at last. His faith, long to a higher height than any other disciple had yet the face of Jesus and said, My Lord and my God. Thomas, He said, because thou blessed are they (who are so eager to find, so that they do not wait for a visual demonstration, that have not seen, and yet have believed. record of facts as they occurred, or is it a Turn now to John 21:21-22: Peter seeing him saith saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I us see the context of these words. The disciples and Jesus had told Peter that he was going to started to walk down the beach, and He said to then he looked back over his shoulder to see what With characteristic curiosity, Peter said, Lord, Jesus never answered questions of mere but He pointed the questioner to his own someone went to Jesus and asked, Jesus replied to the question by telling them Now He points curious Peter away from questions points to Peter's own immediate duty. Jesus what is that to thee? Follow thou Me. Is Turn to other verses in the So when they had dined, Jesus saith lovest thou Me more than these? He saith unto He saith unto him, Feed My lambs. He son of Jonas, lovest thou Me? He saith unto He saith unto him, Feed My sheep. Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou Me? Peter was Lovest thou Me? And he said unto Him, Lord, Thou Jesus saith unto him, Feed My sheep. are the words, Peter was grieved because He said Jesus ask Peter three times, Lovest thou Me? Why times? We are not told in the text, but if we threefold denial of His Lord, we will understand Jesus gave Peter an opportunity to reaffirm his reminded Peter of that terrible night when he of Annas and Caiaphas. Peter was grieved because Is this made up? Did the writer If he did, he surely would have mentioned it. No, this is not fiction; this is simply reporting of the record comes out even more strikingly Two different words are used for love. Jesus, word of a higher form of love. When Peter replied, word, but a more tender word (I am fond of You). Lovest thou Me? and Peter replied the second time Jesus came down to Peter's level and used the Lord, Thou knowest all things; Thou knowest Notice again the appropriateness of the way in after His resurrection. To Mary, He simply Read John 20:16: Jesus saith unto her, Mary. Rabboni; which is to say, Master. What a delicate few moments ago, was standing outside the tomb Lord, even though He had spoken to her. She Sir, if thou hast borne Him hence, tell me where Then Jesus uttered just one word. He said, Mary. uttered with the old familiar tone and spoken her eyes were opened in an instant. She fell at up into His face and cried, Rabboni; my Master. Jesus, and this is the woman who loved third, or fourth century has produced such a face to face with reality, with life, and Jesus made Himself known to the two men who were Read Luke 24:30-31: And it came to He took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and they knew Him: and He vanished out of their sight. The evangelist gives no explanation, but it is explanation. In each one of the Gospels, emphatic There was something so characteristic in the so different, from the way in which they had an evident approach into the very presence of and unreality of others at such a time, that the their eyes were opened and they knew Him. To Thomas, the man governed by his senses, Jesus of the nails in His hands and the hole in His as at the beginning in the miraculous catch of narrative has a consistency and a truth to life Look at one more example. Carefully read John not lying with the linen clothes, but How strange that such a little detail as this no attempt of saying why, yet how deeply When I was studying in the theological seminary, from his Bible class quite disgusted. He taught years of age. He said, &quot;One of my scholars me if there was any significance in the napkin As if there was any significance in that!&quot; In but a stupid theologian, for there is napkin being folded and placed by itself. three nights, from Wednesday evening at His body lay cold and silent in the sepulcher, but at last the appointed hour came. The breath and in that supreme moment of His own earthly when Jesus rose triumphant over death and With that same faith and trust in the Father's with the same calm that He displayed upon shook Him from His sleep and said, Lord, carest of the tossing vessel and said to the raging waves so now again in this glorious, this wonderful from His face and throw it aside, but absolutely He took it calmly from His head, rolled it up, Was that made up? Never! Never! This is novelist's art. We read here the simple life that was actually lived here upon earth, cannot read it with an honest and open mind Someone will say, &quot;These are little things.&quot; gain very much of their significance. It is would disclose itself. Fiction displays its the great outstanding plots you can make fiction it closely and microscopically, you will soon However, the more microscopically we examine the with their truthfulness. The genuineness, the narratives down to the smallest detail Chapter 7 The Circumstantial Evidence In the last two chapters, we have been of the truthfulness of the Gospel story. In this for the resurrection of Christ. I suppose you Circumstantial evidence refers to certain that demand for their explanation the For example, a man was once found murdered. The blade that was found broken off in the heart. A knife was found with a broken blade. The jagged notches in the point that had been found in the both point and blade, and the traces of blood on the blade. It was considered to be proven Take another illustration. A bolt of cloth A search was made for the bolt of cloth. A bolt was his stolen bolt. However, the man claimed that the bolt came from an entirely was taken to the factory from which the bolt had cloth fit exactly upon the frame at the factory but when it was taken to the factory from it was found that the holes in the end of the bolt factory. On this evidence it was considered to the factory where it fitted upon the frame. to the certainty of the resurrection of proven and admitted facts that demand the 1. Beyond a question, the foundational church's history was the resurrection. This always proclaiming. Whether or not it is certain that the one thing that the apostles Why would the apostles use this as the very attested and firmly believed? Furthermore, they do not lay down their lives for a doctrine that had seen Jesus after His resurrection, and rather Of course, people can die for error, and they would know whether or not they had seen for error, but would be dying for a statement Furthermore, if the apostles really firmly from the dead, they had some facts upon which they would have related in recounting the story out of imaginary incidents. However, if there is no possibility of escaping the Also, if Jesus had not arisen, there would His enemies would have found this evidence, but He had been crucified and proclaimed right to the and no one could produce evidence to the contrary. fell asleep and the disciples stole the body People who bear evidence to what happens while Even more, if the apostles had stolen the and would not have been ready to die 2. Another known fact is the change in the day of From time immemorial, the Jews had celebrated rest and worship, but we find the early and also in early Christian writings, There is nothing more difficult than to change a and that is one of the most What is especially significant about the change general consent. Something tremendous must have asserted that what had happened on that day was that is the most rational explanation. In fact, it 3. The most significant fact of all is in the disciples. At the time of Christ's filled with blank and utter despair. We see Peter, his Lord three times with oaths and cursing. filled with a courage that nothing could shake. had condemned Jesus to death, and saying to them, of Israel, that in the name of Jesus of Nazareth, doth this man stand before you whole (Acts this council not to speak at all nor teach in the Whether it be right in the sight of God judge ye. For we cannot but speak the things A little later still, after being arrested and arraigned by the council, we hear Peter and the should be silent regarding Jesus. They answered, of our Fathers raised up Jesus whom ye slew and right hand to be a Prince and a Saviour, and we Something tremendous must have happened to moral transformation as this. Nothing short having seen the risen Lord, will explain it. and so conclusive that even atheistic and Jewish that Jesus rose from the dead. Even Ferdinand &quot;Only this much need be acknowledged, that the Strauss evidently does not want but he feels compelled to admit this much. indisputable fact that in the early morning of the the grave of Jesus was found empty. It is a second apostolic communion were convinced that Jesus are fatal to the rationalists who make them. conviction and belief come from. Ernest attempts an answer by saying that &quot;the passion of resurrected God.&quot; By this, Renan means that Mary Mary was grieving over it, and in the passion of where she had a hallucination that she had seen as fact, and thus the passion of a hallucinated However, we reply that the passion of a this task. Remember the makeup of the apostolic and Thomas, who needed to be convinced, and Saul The passion of a hallucinating woman would or a Jewish tax collector like Matthew. who could be imposed upon by the passion of a of a hallucinating woman convince a fierce and find some more reasonable explanation than this. whether the appearances might not have first of all, there was no subjective so far from expecting to see the Lord, hardly Furthermore, who ever heard of eleven men to say nothing of five hundred men having the Strauss demands of us that we give up one miracle Nothing can surpass the gullibility of unbelief. The third attempt at an explanation is that from the cross, that His friends worked They say that what was supposed to be the one who had never been really dead, but was only To sustain this view, argument has been made and to the fact that history tells us of one in the cross and nursed back to life. However, we events that preceded the crucifixion - the agony of the four trials, the scourging, and the left Jesus. Remember, too, the water and In the second place, we reply that His all necessary precautions against such Third, we reply that if Jesus had been merely would have been such an utter physical wreck that real value, and the moral transformation in the would still remain unaccounted for. The officer though he was brought back to We reply, in the fourth place, that if Jesus had friends of Jesus, who are the ones who are would have known how they brought Him back to case of resurrection but of resuscitation, the change in themselves, would remain is an explanation that does not explain. the greatest of all. If it was merely a case of off as one risen from the dead, when He was impostor, and the whole Christian system would possible to believe that such a system of religion precepts and principles of truth, purity, and No one whose own heart is not polluted by fraud and that His religion was founded upon fraud. suppositions. Only one remains - that Jesus really recorded in the Gospels. The desperate straits are themselves proof of the fact. lines of argument that point decisively to Some of these taken separately prove the fact, that makes doubt of the resurrection of Of course, if someone is determined not to him. Such a person must be left to his own but anyone who really desires to know the must accept the resurrection of There is really only one serious objection to and that is that there is no conclusive evidence sufficient answer to this would be that even it would not at all prove that Jesus did not nature was unique, His character was unique, His and it is not to be wondered at, that the end of such a life would also be unique. exploded argument against the possibility of the no amount of evidence can prove a miracle because are miracles contrary to all experience? To question at issue. They may be outside of your the experience of this entire generation, but of this entire generation is not all experience. things have occurred in the past that are entirely Things have occurred within the last four years previous fifty years. True science does not certain things are impossible. It simply studies It does not twist its observed facts to but it seeks to make its theories To say that miracles are impossible and that no is to be incredibly unscientific. Within the past discoveries have been made regarding radium observations regarding chemical elements but the scientist has not therefore said that Instead, he has gone to work to find out where The observed and recorded facts in the case and true science must accept that conclusion In the day of the great triumph of deism in the denial of the supernatural were the eminent These two men, who were put forward to crush had a conference together. One of them said maintain their position unless they disposed of alleged resurrection of Jesus from the dead Lyttelton agreed to write a book to show as is recorded in the Acts of the Apostles, if Gilbert West would write another book to show dead was a myth. West said to Lyttelton, &quot;I for I am somewhat rusty in the Bible,&quot; to which for he, too, was somewhat rusty in the &quot;If we are to be honest in the matter, and this they set out to do. while they were preparing their works. In one of there had been something on his mind for some time that as he had been studying the evidence, he was Lyttelton replied that he was glad that he had somewhat shaken, as he had been studying the Finally, when the books were finished, the you written your book?&quot; He replied that he had, evidence and weighing it by the recognized laws of of Tarsus was converted as is stated in the Acts and I have written my book on that side.&quot; The &quot;Well,&quot; said West, &quot;as I have studied Jesus Christ from the dead, and have weighed it I have become satisfied that Jesus really and I have written my book on that side.&quot; This Let anyone of legal mind, anyone who is yes, anyone with fair reasoning powers, and, study the facts regarding the resurrection of satisfied that beyond any doubt Jesus rose Suppose Jesus did rise from the dead? What then? Chapter 8 Resurrection of Jesus from the Dead Proves conclusive evidence that Jesus Christ rose independent lines of argument. Several prove the fact of the resurrection, but that makes doubt of the resurrection However, what does it mean that He rose from the everything that most needs to be proved. It proves First of all, the resurrection of Christ from the of the Bible is the true God. Every effect must cause that will account for the resurrection When Jesus was here upon earth, He proclaimed Isaac, and Jacob (Matthew 22:32-34), the He claimed that after He would be Isaac, and Jacob, the God of the Bible, would This was an astonishing claim to make, and people had come and gone. They had lived and that was the end of them. Jesus, though, claimed dying, and passing into oblivion, that God, the Jesus died. He was crucified, He died, and had claimed God would raise Him from the dead and thereby Jesus' astounding It was decisively proven that there is a God For centuries, people have been seeking for There is the teleological argument, the argument in the material universe. It is a good argument intelligent guiding hand of God in human and other arguments, all more or less convincing - provides us with a solid, scientific In the light of the resurrection, our faith in God resurrection of Jesus, atheism and agnosticism Well might Peter say, We through Him are believers glory (1 Peter 1:21). My belief in the God of It is a fixed faith resting upon In the second place, the resurrection proves that Jesus is a teacher sent from that He was absolutely inerrant, and This was Jesus' claim for Himself. In John but His that sent Me. In John 12:49, He says, I sent Me, He gave me a commandment, what In John 14:10-11, He says, Believest thou not The words that I speak unto you I speak not He doeth the works. Believe Me that I or else believe Me for the very works' sake. In Mine, but the Father's which sent Me. His claim This, too, was an amazing claim to make. Others between their claims and that of Jesus is that ever substantiated his. God Himself unmistakably Christ by raising Him from the dead. In the light that school of criticism that assumes to Christ as a teacher, and to set its authority ground upon which to stand. Even more, by putting to the demonstrated claims of Jesus Christ, that in the eyes of thoughtful people. Jesus Christ from the dead proves that He is the that Jesus is declared to be the Son of God and anyone who will stop to think will When Jesus was here upon earth, He claimed man was divine. He taught that while even the He was a Son, an only Son (Mark 12:6, note the were one (John 10:30). He said that all people (John 5:23). Jesus claimed that He was so a perfect and absolute incarnation of God that he This was a most amazing claim to make. This was a Jesus told people that they would put but that after they had put Him to death, by raising Him from the dead. The people of that day who did not caused Him to be nailed to the cross of Calvary However, when the appointed hour had come, the and God Himself, as Jesus claimed He would, set by raising Him from the dead. with a clearer voice than if He would speak from Son, the One in whom I dwell in all My fullness, In the light of the resurrection Unitarianism has absolutely no In the fourth place, the resurrection proves that there is a judgment day coming. On a day in which He will judge the world in whereof He hath given assurance unto all men 17:31), thus making the resurrection of Christ How does the resurrection of Christ give assurance He declared that the Father had committed all that the hour was coming in which all who were in Those who had done good would come forth unto the unto the resurrection of judgment (John 5:28-29). the claim, and put Him to death for making that of deity, but God set His seal to The resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, in the past, points with an unerring finger to an Belief in a coming judgment day is not a mere founded upon a proven fact. In the light of the person who continues in sin, flattering future day of reckoning and of judgment, is and every one of us must give account to Him for In the fifth place, the resurrection of every believer in Christ is justified from was delivered up for our trespasses, More literally, He was delivered up because of our and was raised because of our justification The resurrection of Jesus Christ proves But how? When Jesus was on earth, He said that (Matthew 20:28). The hour came, and He offered for us. Now the atonement has been made, but the atonement which has thus been offered?&quot; remained unanswered. Jesus was in the grave, the breath of God swept through that sleeping He was exalted to the right hand of the Father, &quot;I have accepted the atonement that Jesus made.&quot; and I died in Him. When He arose, He rose When He ascended up on high and took His place at as my representative, and I ascended in Him. Today I look at the cross of Christ, and I know that open sepulcher and the risen and ascended Lord, There no longer remains a single sin on me, have been. My sins may have been as high as the the atonement that covers My sins may have been as deep as the ocean, the atonement that swallows them up is as deep therefore, brethren, that through this Man and by Him every one that believeth is In the sixth place, the resurrection that all who are united to Christ by a If we believe that Jesus died and rose again, God bring with Him (1 Thessalonians 4:14). The that if Christ rose, we must also rise. If the For centuries, people have been seeking proof of the speculations of philosophers to encourage but the best philosophical arguments only In a matter like this, the human heart craves In the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the We get absolute certainty. We get scientific resurrection of Jesus Christ removes the speculative and the probable and places it into certain. We know there is life beyond the grave. are not at all sure that there is any life beyond But we can do no more than infer it from Thank God that this popular preacher is wrong. perhaps we could &quot;do no more than infer it but in the light of the resurrection, it from the moral constitution of the universe; It is scientifically demonstrated, and to regarding the resurrection of Christ, unbelief becomes an impossibility. In the I go out into the cemeteries where the sleeping and all my tears are brushed away, for I hear Your mother will live again. Your brother In the seventh place, the resurrection that it is the privilege of believers to have We are united not only to the Lord who sin and delivered us from the guilt of sin, but who ever liveth to make intercession for Lord who has power to save to the uttermost, power to present us faultless before the presence I may be weak, utterly weak, unable to resist infinitely strong, and He lives to give me hour. The question of victory over sin is not His resurrection power is always at my disposal. and what my risen Lord has belongs to me of Jesus Christ from the dead, failure in In His resurrection life and power, it is our Four men were once climbing up the slippery a second guide and a second tourist, were all footing and went over the side. The sudden pull and he carried the other tourist with him. Three However, the guide who was in the lead, feeling into the ice, braced his feet, and held fast. but the three men were safe because they were regained his place upon the path, the guide and on and up they went in safety. the first Adam lost his footing and was swept and the next, and the next, and the next, until the second Adam, Jesus Christ, stood fast, and although dangling over the dreadful precipice, Chapter 9 The profession of unbelief is very common in our as their reason for not being Christians that preachers, most excellent and gifted men, who that the proper way to treat it is to ignore it. I active enough, and destructive enough to demand the cause of Christ or the Bible has anything to communities are being greatly injured by it, and to point out its consequences, and to show its years than to be able to lead many people out and into the clear light and abounding joy of Causes of Unbelief The first cause, and one of the of Christianity by its professed disciples. There are misrepresentations in doctrine Let us look first at the misrepresentations preached as Christianity for generations in Mexico, and the South American republics. Of distortion of the Christianity of the Bible, but They suppose that the Christianity preached by Is it any wonder that they reject it and become as Christianity were indeed Christianity, I However, many so-called Protestant if not just as false, are still false. There is and the God of much of so-called Protestant Christ of much of so-called Protestant teaching, Bible and the ethics set forth in the pulpit. Christianity on the part of its professed daily living. The lives of many professed the life taught in the Bible that it leads Take, for example, the professed Christian who professed Christian employers are there today who Is it any wonder that these employees say that professed Christians in business who are dishonest and who use all manner of dishonorable means Is it any wonder that people looking on are led On one occasion, after the wedding of a I began to speak to him about becoming a to me about that. I work for -----------------. and we know how they carry on their I have no desire to be a Christian.&quot; up his millions and lives in lavish luxury You may say to me that these misrepresentations unbelief, that people should learn to distinguish and this I admit. Of course, a really intelligent counterfeit money in circulation, but many They do not read the Bible for themselves, is from what they see in the lives and They say, &quot;If that is Christianity, I do not One of the most well-known unbelievers inconsistent living of his own father, a Baptist Whether his picture of his father's character was he greatly misrepresented his own father (as I but I do know that beyond a question in many Christian parents have led their children of Christianity by its professed disciples in has done more to produce atheists than all the Voltaires and Ingersolls ever gave to the world. ignorance of what the Bible contains and ignorance of true science. The average He has heard about a few difficulties here and atheists, but he knows practically nothing I once asked a man if he would become a Christian. &quot;Why don't you believe the Bible?&quot; &quot;Well,&quot; I said, &quot;if the Bible is full &quot;It is full of them.&quot; you should be able to show me at least one.&quot; &quot;Then show me one.&quot; I handed my Bible to him so he could find in the back part of the New Testament. After I found the book of Psalms for him, he began &quot;If I had my Bible here, I could show it to you.&quot; meet me here at the close of the meeting?&quot; He and I was at the appointed place, but my precaution of asking him for his address, and I but I did not find the man. Months later, after me and said, &quot;Come here. Here is a man who I went over, and it was the same man. The man but I did, and I said, &quot;You are the man who lied Another smart, young infidel once said to me, &quot;I He replied, &quot;I don't believe that passage fire from heaven to destroy His enemies.&quot; passage in the Bible, he would not believe me. passage where it said, &quot;Cain went into the When I said, &quot;The Bible does not say so,&quot; he Colonel Ingersoll, the high priest of the is an illustration of this ignorance of &quot;There is not a single kind and loving sentiment least five hundred years before Christ was born.&quot; of Buddha similar to John 13:34: that ye love one another; as I have loved you, This is My commandment, that ye love one another, than this, that a man lay down his life for Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to In another place, Colonel Ingersoll said, &quot;If in His time.&quot; I would like to know what Colonel John 10:35: The Scripture cannot be broken, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass 7:13, where speaking of the law of Moses, He And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he things concerning Himself. . . . And he said unto while I was yet with you, that all things must be and in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning However, all intelligent people know this was simply parading his ignorance One of the leaders of English unbelief of the secularist journals, spoke of He knew so little of the Bible that he supposed meant publican in the sense of a keeper of a proponent of materialistic unbelief among the of Christian doctrine that he speaks of the virgin and one of the most prominent proponents The third cause of unbelief is conceit. Many people tell us that they are unbelievers cannot understand, and because there are apparent To say that something cannot be to think that God could utter nothing is the ultimate arrogance. It is to assume that I and that therefore God could not possibly To think that no solution to a difficulty can is to think that I know all things and that am God. Suppose I would take my little child &quot;Do you see the sun over there?&quot; &quot;Well, my child, that sun is more Then suppose the child would look up into my &quot;Father, I know that is not true. The sun is be a revelation of the child's wisdom, or of philosopher compared with the Infinite One is For us to challenge our Father's statements us to be philosophers worthy of admiration and be sent to bed. If we find difficulties a moderate degree of modesty on &quot;If I knew a little more, I might be able to us to say, &quot;This Book that contains a difficulty When I was in Birmingham, a man who parades infidels at the head of his notepaper wrote to of God because it was full of contradictions. but one or two would suffice since they could not easy to explain, and I wrote the solution to him. difficulties he held were unsolvable, he wrote examples before, but that now he would send me but this did not seem to suggest to him that would be just as easy to understand difficulties if he only knew a little more. This is the most common and most fundamental cause First, people sin and then give themselves There is no book that makes people so uneasy believe that the Bible is not true gives People tell you that they have many objections these people, their greatest objection to themselves and to others, is that it condemns Second, sin blinds people's eyes to the truth There is nothing that blinds the mind to truth unbeliever. I sat down, and he told me that was because of a difficulty he had with the He replied that he could not see where Cain if I tell you where Cain got his wife?&quot; &quot;But,&quot; I said, &quot;if that is your difficulty and if you are an honest man and I remove &quot;No, I will not promise that.&quot; I found out that his real difficulty was not about It is surprising how often young men who fall fall also into unbelief. Through conversation I have found that there are two specific sins My former colleague, Professor W. W. White, was of Ingersoll.&quot; At the close of the lecture, &quot;Professor White, you have no right to say and I am an unbeliever. I have just as much Professor White then asked him a The man replied, &quot;That is none of your Then Professor White asked him his name. The &quot;But,&quot; said Professor White, &quot;I The man declined to give it, and began to back gathered around who knew the man's name, and years from that time, that man was found dead who was not his wife, whom he had enticed into on unbelief. They were found dead together The statement of this fact will make own hearts and lives and see if there is I do not say that all unbelief comes from sin, that a very large part of the current unbelief The fifth cause of unbelief is resistance to unbelief. The Spirit of God moves upon the hearts but they will not yield to the Spirit the light that He gives to the soul is darkened, During one of my pastorates, there was a bitter opponent of Christianity. He did what he to town. I looked into this man's previous church of which I was pastor when he was under would come out of the world and accept Christ. I cannot be a Christian and succeed in my The light that was dawning upon his soul went out, exercising such a destructive influence of his fellow men. He lost his law practice, school to help support the family while he In one of our western colleges, there was college set themselves against it. They were together to meet on a certain evening and go They met at the appointed hour, but the and he was later converted. The other What he did in there, no one knows, but he came and he became a leader in one of the secular Oh, you men and women who are resisting the Holy most likely find you atheists, and if we see you find you alcoholics. In the city of Melbourne, who said that his fall was due to the Chapter 10 In the last chapter, we saw were (1) misrepresentations of Christianity ignorance of the Bible, history, and (5) resistance to the Holy Spirit. Now we will Consequences of Unbelief Unbelief breeds sin. There is no doubt of that. It is caused by sin, and in turn it brings about Sin first entered into human history through lead Eve into disobeying God, he began by throwing true. He first said, Hath God said (Genesis The devil was the first lecturer in unbelief. millions through that lecture. He saw at once and upon man's moral integrity. From that day to by sowing the seeds of unbelief in their that seed brings forth. When a young look out for their morals. Unbelief forms a A former president of the British known here in Bolton, who in fact was elected &quot;I have seen the dreadful effects that unbelief proof of its deteriorating effects in my own Occupying the position that he did, Joseph Barker and this testimony of his to its destructive The second consequence of unbelief is anarchy. It is impossible for someone who believes in French vagabond and anarchist Vaillant stood His unbelief and his anarchy went hand in hand. is reported to have said, &quot;When I was an infant, I rebelled against my tutors and my parents. When When I die, if there is any heaven and The acceptance of Christianity would do away do away with the oppression of the poor by the The third consequence of God has created us for fullness of joy, and He has However, the fullness of joy that God intends made in God's image, can only come from a and in the Bible as the Word of God. There may be surface happiness, but it is deep and satisfying. One night as I ended a sermon middle life walked in front of the platform as he me and scowled and said, &quot;I am an unbeliever.&quot; your face shows it. You are one of the seen.&quot; I received a letter from him the next Did you ever know a joyous old atheist? at least when they are around groups of people, overflowing joyfulness that is so On the day of the death of a noted American got to talking about him. He said to me, &quot;Every wife has said to me, 'Don't tell him that he is it does not make the aged Christian angry he is simply ripening for a better world. and suicide. Even the best of pagan writers Epictetus says, &quot;The door is open. When you want Mrs. Amelia E. Barr, who has made a study of self-destruction a crime.&quot; She further says that the Revolution caused the termination of the still further says, &quot;The great underlying the advance of lax or skeptical religious views.&quot; Ingersoll himself wrote an editorial in This editorial was followed in New York and the The man who wrote the editorial was and it is not to be wondered at that the editorial article was the logical outcome of his unbelief. Southern states came to Chicago at the time of so great that she was introduced into the best She was led into unbelief by an able advocate of was brief. She soon met a suicide's death unbelievers of America today meet annually brokenhearted father also died by his own hand. The fourth consequence of unbelief is a &quot;The pulpit has cast a shadow over the cradle it is a most remarkable fact that people, are so anxious to have Christian There is a gloom over the but the Bible dispels the shadow. If you throw but you do get rid of the light that illumines it. rays of light are those stolen from Christianity. delivered an address that was eloquent As he drew toward the close of that address, through the darkness, but he was not honest enough On the other hand, D. L. Moody, at his brother's Looking into the grave, he quoted 1 Corinthians where is thy victory? The sting of death law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us Two men died the same year in the acknowledged leader of American unbelief, and Compare the deaths and funerals of these two men, death or the agnostic's death is the gloomy one. without a ray of cheer and brightness, his funeral loved him, could not bear to have the body taken it an absolute necessity. It was all they had, The scene at the crematory, as described the heart of anyone ache, no matter how little unfortunate man who had passed into eternity. Moody were triumphant in every detail. Early on his oldest son was sitting beside his bed. He and he leaned over to listen. These receding. Heaven is opening. God is calling.&quot; &quot;No, Will, this is no dream. I have been within The family was summoned. Mr. Moody rallied. and he was heard to say, &quot;Is this death? This This is glorious.&quot; &quot;you must not leave us. We cannot spare you.&quot; my life away. If God has any more work but if God is calling, I must up and off.&quot; to arise from the bed and walk over to the window. He began to think he would recover, and to pray for his recovery. Then, beginning to sink As he was sinking, his daughter knelt by the bed &quot;No, no, Emma, don't pray that. God is calling. looking forward to it,&quot; and the heroic warrior At the funeral, all was triumphant. &quot;Remember there is to be nothing of sadness in the The body was carried to the church by students It lay in an open casket in front of the pulpit. Right in front of it, with unveiled faces, sat his faces to the words that were spoken, and joining When others had ceased speaking, the oldest son and the power of his faith. gloom over the grave? Is the Christian's grave the Who ever heard of a Christian repenting on his at all uncommon, though, for unbelievers to repent The fifth consequence of unbelief is eternal ruin. is baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth He that believeth in the Son hath everlasting see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. forgiveness is by the acceptance of the Sin-bearer unbelievers and reject Him, we have no hope. Jesus saving people from the power of sin here, so who will prove capable of saving people However, there are many people who do not claim but are practically so. All who reject Christ As Ethan Allen, a brave soldier but hopeless she turned to him and asked whether she should and the humbled man advised her to accept The Cure for Unbelief The great cure for unbelief is Christian There is no argument for Many skeptics and unbelievers have been merely intellectually believe in Christ, As Robert McAll lay dead in his coffin in stood by his coffin weeping. The crying &quot;No.&quot; &quot;He saved me.&quot; &quot;He said nothing,&quot; replied the former anarchist. shining out in a Christlike I was once asked to call upon a woman of &quot;There is one thing I cannot get around, and by the power of the truth as exemplified deeper study of the Bible, she came out as In the second place, the cure for unbelief is a Jesus says, Whosoever willeth to do His will, he shall know of the teaching, whether it be of Anyone afflicted with the malady of skepticism can Nothing clarifies the spiritual vision as much surrender of the will to God, many people have When I was in New Zealand, a well-known and said, &quot;My friends want me to speak to you. I am I told him that I thought that I could, &quot;What do you believe?&quot; I asked. &quot;Do you not believe that there is an &quot;Yes, I do.&quot; &quot;Will you take your stand upon the right &quot;I think I am doing that now.&quot; take your stand upon the right to follow it He said, &quot;I will.&quot; &quot;No, I do not know that God &quot;Well, here is a possible clue to knowledge. Will if there is any God, show me if Jesus Christ I promise to accept Him as my Savior &quot;Yes,&quot; he said. &quot;I will do &quot;John tells us in John 20:31, These are written, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have John and read it? Read carefully, slowly, and not try to disbelieve it, but simply be willing kneel down and ask God to show you what truth and promise Him that whatever He shows you He agreed to do this also. He then left, Some weeks later, in Dunedin, this man's wife my husband that I do not understand. He said I he thought he was converted, but he was not quite to me and to the minister, but not to anyone He afterward came out fully as a The third part of the cure for unbelief do not need to study books about the evidence for Let anyone who honestly seeks the truth, and is willing to obey it whatever it costs, become convinced that it is the Word of God. my church who had a brother who lectured on Sometimes he would lecture on the contradictions church came to me and asked if I would pray I agreed to do so. A while later, she came to me and said that he had become a Christian. In this &quot;I have been recently studying the Bible, and It would have been good if he had studied and the alleged contradictions In another one of my pastorates, I had a friend agnostic. Though he was an agnostic and I was for I believe that a Christian and a Christian I do not believe at all in the division of society should be a man among men. How can we expect to Our Master was not too good to associate even the most depraved and outcast. Are we that Christians are the salt of the earth. How preservative influence upon the meat if we put all This man and I were good friends. We often standing together on his front lawn as the sun was I am sixty-six years of age. I cannot live many and I cannot take it with me. I would give I replied, &quot;That is very easy. I can tell you wife for a sheet of paper. I wrote upon it the absolute difference between right and wrong for this man was an agnostic, neither affirming to begin where a man is), and I hereby take it carries me. I promise to make an honest search I find that He is, I promise to accept Him as my Having written this out, I handed it to He replied, &quot;Why, anybody should be willing do what my own conscience tells me I should &quot;Will you sign it?&quot; I asked. &quot;Anybody should be willing to sign that.&quot; Still more earnestly, he said, &quot;Anybody &quot;Will you sign it?&quot; He never signed it. He died as he had lived - He went out into the darkness of a Christless did not take one penny of his money with him. They Christless eternity, but whose fault was it? A way way that he admitted his own conscience told The same way has been shown to you. Follow it, others. It will lead you out of the uncertainty unbelief and into the certitude, the joy, intelligent faith in the Bible as the Word of Reuben A. Torrey - A Brief Biography conference speaker, pastor, evangelist, Bible was born in Hoboken, New Jersey, on January 28, and from Yale Divinity School in 1878, when he in Garrettsville, Ohio. Torrey married Clara In 1882, he went to Germany, where he studied Upon returning to the United States, R. A. being in charge of the Congregational City Mission to lead his Chicago Evangelization Society, Beginning in 1894, Torrey was also the pastor of the Moody Memorial Church. He was a chaplain and was also a chaplain during World War I. evangelistic tours, preaching to the unsaved. under his preaching. In 1908, he helped start which continues today. He became dean of the and was the pastor of the Church of the Torrey continued speaking all over the world Asheville, North Carolina, on October 26, 1928. winner, speaking to people everywhere he went, in to lead the lost to Jesus. He authored more than How to Pray, How to Study the Bible, How to Obtain as well as editing the twelve-volume book The Fundamentals. He was also known preaching, writing, and his entire life Thank you for listening to by Reuben A. Torrey All rights reserved. are taken from the KJV. Used by permission.