(bell dinging) (upbeat techno music) - Hey guys, are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken and thank you for 300,000 subscribers. I am super grateful for all of you. So recently I received about this BoltzPro device which claims to be the and performance booster. Well, we'll just see about that. Of course, now I'm curious and I want to dig into the Now, before we continue, some &quot;Wait, Ken, you already did isn't this just the same thing?&quot; Well, in a way, yeah, but with the BoltzPro brand. There's a lot of other that's not just about the Namely, the video ad. The ad starts with saying, &quot;there's a 90% chance your with this,&quot; and then they cut to a shot of the BoltzPro product. - [Narrator] There's a is already infected with this. - That's terrible editing. What, is my phone infected Not a good start. The narrator claims this product is reversing planned obsolescence, or as their website says planned and smartphone companies are in the United States. But then they show unrelated CNBC footage of Apple testifying against Epic, which has nothing to do Then the ad claims this device into a lightning fast that will last a lifetime. It achieves this by using that overrides your Then they mentioned the and claim a depleted battery in just 11 minutes, of the battery, making Easy now, Ken, your Zen Ken now, don't rip these guys apart Then they pull this BS They claimed this device was created by a former Apple engineer who was present at the creation of the The ad continues to say are disguised as planned obsolescence to make your phone act up. Then the ad says other people in her quest to fight against this. Then it ends with a low All right, and that's it. Now, do I have permission Let's do it together. (dramatic swooshing) First off, the claims are way out of whack. Not only do they sound but they're not even consistent in the ad. One part claims an 11 minute charge, while another part shows 20 And this likely fake review from 10% to 98%. Pick a number. More inconsistencies In reality, the Quick Charge 3.0 standard can generally charge a The last 20% charge is to the battery. Also the Qualcomm Quick isn't supported on all devices, so I would prefer advertisers use caution when touting such features. And just for fun, I searched Qualcomm's and BoltzPro and MultiVoltz Well, hey, you'd think this would at least show up in there, right? And on top of that, the battery healing claims The wear and tear in your Parts of the battery And there's nothing that to magically pump fairy to make it heal itself. It just doesn't work that way. I do dive into this topic more so I highly recommend you check that out. Next, the claims about the BoltzPro overriding the operating I'm not 100% sure how this but in the iOS world, or override the operating system. Accessories can communicate but they can't just plug into the device and start automating whatever they want and bypassing the iOS security. That doesn't work, especially when the like what they show in the ad. No iOS accessory can plug and have it automate stuff, like that sounds more like So that information is completely bogus. Also, I tested it. I have the BoltzPro accessory right here and I tested it with my iPhone 12 Pro. And on my iPhone, I have under face ID turned off, which means if your phone is and you plug in an accessory not just charging capabilities, you will be prompted to unlock your phone to use the accessory. But in this case, that didn't happen. Charging occurred, but the further proving that there's that is actually interacting It's just a cheap charger. Now we get into the dramatic backstory regarding this so-called Apple to start BoltzPro. So who is this woman? Her name is Mayuko and about tech, careers and life. To my surprise, she actually according to her YouTube but it doesn't specifically In fact, her video descriptions Patreon and Netflix. So I believe that evidence that this Apple engineer but I didn't stop there. The ad's footage of the isn't recorded at Apple They showed a drone shot of the exterior to help establish the setting, but the interior is a None of the architectural in the real Ring Building. Well, that's great Ken, but what if they're at and they have different Possibly, but I looked into that too. My analysis concluded because at one minute and 55 seconds in one of Mayuko's videos, in the background and he worked at Patreon around this timeframe before And in Jarvis' A Day in the Life of a Software Engineer video, which is very similar to the Also Jarvis attributed Mayuko so this is pretty airtight. So she didn't work at Apple and this ad was just lying, big surprise! Keep 'em coming. Oh yeah, they don't call me (hip hop music) Then we get to the software update part where the ad talks about your after a software update. And again, they talk about this planned obsolescence conspiracy. This is a clever move could potentially cause a performance dip, but it's not due to a So let's just take our tinfoil hats off. These advertisers are using Before we talk about performance dips, I wanted to address this speed comparison. The right hand phone was That's because the right with a faster processor than the 11. It has nothing to do with Now, here's a couple First off, newer software can sometimes run a little slow. Newer software has new and sometimes those and more processing power to run properly. We wouldn't expect in 1987 Mackintosh SE to run the modern macOS in 24-bit color at 60 frames a second. Yes, that's a bit of an exaggeration, but it helps illustrate my point. Generally speaking, with newer hardware, especially major software updates, that hardware starts to get and that's why certain hey, this hardware is not but they still do a great Look at iOS 15. It can still run on But on the flip side, and here's the other thing there are some freak cases where kind of like what happened with Apple's infamous Batterygate. In 2017, Apple reported the maximum performance of due to chemically-aged batteries. If the iPhone system on a and the battery couldn't supply it, the phone could unexpectedly shut down. So to prevent that, Apple so it could keep running. Now, applications may but at least your phone isn't However, Apple wasn't So Americans band together and They sewed the hell out of 'em. (patriotic music) Apple apologized for the poor the out-of-warranty down to $29 temporarily. Since then, Apple has battery features, including your battery information And in July 2020, eligible by this problem were allowed Congratulations? So yes, that did happen, but don't let these relatively Don't let advertisers take to manipulate you into buying something. No smartphone company is perfect. Remember the Samsung Wow, yeah, the FAA got Anyway, back to the ad. The ad wraps up with two classic a 50% discount, and a &quot;we in stock forever&quot; claim. And then it ends. But sadly, it goes deeper than that. But before we continue I just want to thank Mr. research this episode. Thank you very much. All right, let's take a look Like other scams I've busted, as a news article on websites The web page is full of reviews, which I'm guessing are fake with the product. This review talks about a monocular and that it's good for birdwatching. Oh yeah, I just love birdwatching I do it all the time. Give me a break. The funny thing is the monocular they're likely talking about which was another scam I busted. That was a good one too. Another fake article, this talks about MIT graduate Lisa Phan, who they claim is the infamous I've never heard of this person before so I Googled the crap out of her. I searched her name and I found no connections. The most popular Lisa Phan I could find is a YouTube vlogger, a university in Massachusetts, which she talks about, but it's not MIT. See the advertisers are using Sneaky, be careful out there. So with all of this evidence here, it seems pretty clear but of course I wanted so I went ahead and bought one. Just kidding, I actually didn't. This is from the MultiVoltz episode. It's the same OEM product and I already did test it but hey, if you wanna check it out, I recommend it because one it's hilarious, but also that other episode age with time and I think when talking about this kind of stuff, so feel free to watch that one. And despite the BoltzPro on the physical product, it's likely just Photoshopped show the regular Quick just like what happened in And you can buy this unbranded on eBay or a buck, 85 each in Yet these scammers have the charge 37.99 for it huge red flag, do not buy this stuff ever. You will be completely disappointed. I'm getting a little heated, but the good news is with my Blaux Portable AC, Also doesn't work. This is my life now. Anyway, let me know what you think about these scammy devices and about cheap stuff you've experienced, feel free to tell me those And if you wanna help and other crap for me to take feel free to pledge to my Patreon and you'll get some awesome perks too. Thanks in advance for your support. And feel free to subscribe for more tech episodes all the time. I love making episodes new tech, and of course, scam tech. And, hey, if you like this Thanks, and I'll see ya next time. Catch the Krazy and pass it on. (upbeat techno music) (bell dinging)