- [Stefan] This wooden spear was found in Lehringen, Northern Germany. It's about 120,000 years old and was found amongst of an extinct species of elephant, the European straight tusk The creator of the tool and the hunter of the elephant was certainly a Neanderthal, modern humanity's distant cousin and part-time lover who roamed Eurasia between roughly 400,000 Lehringen is a contender for the furthest North So is this as far north Almost certainly not. There's something strange about the position of Lehringen. There are no major natural barriers immediately north of here. No mountains, no huge rivers, no deserts, and depending on the time period, no ice. So could Neanderthals have and if so, how far did Neanderthals ever reach Scandinavia? I had the opportunity to speak to a team of scientists trying to Trine, Emil, and Peter of Using a combination of modern technology and good old fashioned they're trying to push the limits of what we know about Neanderthals, push the limits of the Neanderthal range. Seems like a simple question to ask but answering it is actually Very tricky. And yeah, I can't wait to If you're a nerd about I think you're gonna find it interesting. (curious intro music to set the tone, a curious tone) If you Google &quot;Neanderthal range&quot;, you're going to end up with a map something like this. This is an okay map but it has two major drawbacks. First, it's based on the Not even just artifacts, human remains. This blob down here is a result of the Teshik-Tash Neanderthal. Over here, this blob is because of the Neanderthals There are obvious gaps, of course, where there's no Neanderthal like this big stretch across central Asia, this little patch in Bosnia. You know, if Neanderthals are they almost certainly lived in Bosnia too. You'll find out later in the video that Neanderthals would and not just because of the Slivovica (best drink ever). I'm sure you can recognize the problem with this map. The archeological record is incomplete. It always will be incomplete. Not everything is preserved for tens of thousands of years, hundreds of thousands of years. Of the stuff that does get preserved, of course, we haven't found it all. So although the regions in this map were definitely part of are they the entire range? Almost certainly not. The second problem with this map is that it's static. - [Trine] Historically, archeologically we're working with static And that's also what we that you see a map and maybe and then you see a distribution. But obviously real organisms And you cannot build in time in terms of trying to understand how a species is adapting and changing and environmental adaptations. - You can see the problem here. We've got a static map to represent hundreds of human evolution. This is where the team Funded by the- - [Robot Voiceover because I said it wrong] Independent - How do you say hello in Danish? Hey Denmark. - [Translation] Hej Danmark. - That's so similar to English. I dunno why, I wasn't expecting that. Their aim is to understand at the northern edge of this boundary, to push the limits of which is not easy to do. The further north you go, the harder it becomes to At least when you go And that challenge is all because of ice. [Ad break] Did Neanderthals go bald, guys? I dunno, but I am and I think you are too, judging from the fact that Keeps wants to sponsor my videos again. Going bald is a bummer. It affects two outta three men by the time you are 35. And it's just our evolutionary curse. It's hard to avoid, hard to avoid. But if you don't wanna go bald, you don't have to. Keeps provides professional haircare from the comfort of your home. Simply fill out a question to get started and they will match you if that's necessary. These treatments are scientifically proven to work, okay? It's not fairy dust, this is all FDA approved But more than that, they've got thickening shampoo, conditioner, pomade, or hair gel as we would call it in Britain. Pomade, am I saying that right? They've got it all. One stop shop for professional hair care. They've got thousands and thousands and thousands of five star reviews, they've helped over a million They've helped a million Neanderthal to this Neanderthal. Orders can be shipped in 3, 6, 12 month installments, You can adjust it or For a special offer to get started, go to keeps.com/stefanmilo, helps the channel, helps you get your hair back or go to the link in the description. That's keeps.com/stefanmilo. Alright, let's see how far Wow, it's bright. Bad day to be bald. [back to video] 25,000 years ago, the world experienced what scientists call or LGM for short. This was the last great The ice went as far south and northern Germany. These glaciers totally - [Emil] So a glacier is that's just all goes through - [Stefan] Valleys became wider, deeper and more U-shaped, like these valleys in Glencoe, Scotland. Other areas saw huge amounts like these small oval Glaciers are just a very slow but very powerful geological force. They can obviously easily destroy an archeological site. You're reshaping a whole valley. What chance is there of Very little. This problem up north is exacerbated by the lack of caves too. Further south in southern Germany, France, Spain, Italy, we learn a lot about Neanderthals The caves shield a lot of and obviously they shielded Neanderthals from the elements too. That's why there's so Again, further north, there just aren't these great cave sites. Neanderthals would've been living out in the open much more. These open sites are hard to find under the best conditions, nevermind after a glacier - [Trine] So that means that what defines our northern but the finds are probably highly biased, both in terms of geology, Because we have areas where there's just been and people have been surveying and looking for a much than they have in other places. So we need to keep in mind that the range that we have right now but we also see that it or it has the potential to change with just one single find. - So with all of this in mind, how can archeologists determine if Neanderthals made it this far north? This is the research paper that inspired this whole &quot;The Neanderthal niche 145,000 years ago to 30,000 years ago.&quot; What Trine and Peter and Emil have been trying to do is understand that ecological niche the Neanderthals filled. - [Peter] So you can look for example, like the temperature range or precipitation range to get an idea of what for them to survive in and what temperatures are too hot for them to survive in. Or what conditions are too wet or what conditions are too dry. And using that, you can constrain the areas that are based on what sort of how hot it is, or how wet it is or cold it is during the winter. To get an idea of that environment space that a species lives in. - [Stefan] So what Peter did here was use two big databases, to try and reconstruct this The first was a database This was compiled by the Roceeh program, Role of Culture in Early They're trying to gather together all this archeological into one database, one location, so that archeologists can use data to answer big questions, you know, use data from many, many, many, many sites in their studies. So now that you have all the into your database, this was then combined with 800,000 years, another 800,000 years of Ecologists and biologists have to understand the range of But by combining these two sets of data, archeological, climatic, we can start to untangle the niche, the environment of an extinct - [Peter] So these are the types of ranges that we're thinking about where temperature and precipitation and net primary productivity So you can see that it's like from about 250 to about 1500 is where we would predict Neanderthals to be with the best habitats I don't know what that is, 700, 800 millimeters? And then we can look at temperatures since you're talking about like, how cold-adapted they are, right? And you can see that a above freezing for their but beneath 20 degrees And that's a relatively And when we're thinking that they would've liked, which isn't too far off from what we see during humans during the holocene. And we can contextualize of habitats existed in Europe, in your Western - There is no perfect modern analogy for the climate and the environment that Neanderthals lived in. But based solely on average their ideal habitat would perhaps be similar to the Balkans. Sarajevo is maybe the modern city that most closely and rainfall levels. What I find interesting about that though is that the Balkans are quite warm. They do get harsh winters 'cause they're far away from but it's quite a warm environment and yet, I think when we think of them as cold adapted humans. - [Trine] And question is that were they cold adapted or It's a super interesting question because it's obviously the answer it's both, right? Because it depends on or what your frame of reference is. So Neanderthals developed in probably Western Eurasia, at least on the Eurasian continent. And they did so in the And so, in that sense they're cold adapted compared to equatorial humans because that's the environment But when we look at the through the more than 300,000 years that Neanderthals existed, we do see a preference and climates and places. So in that sense, they're warm loving, but they are still cold adapted, but they're not hyper Arctic and they're also not only adapted to warm interglacial environments because we also see that they adapt to other types of environments, cold periods and places. So what is really special is that they somehow adapt to these changes. Sometimes it also doesn't We have episodes of bottlenecks and we have episodes where, or places where we probably but overall they are adapting to these things over time. - Once they've determined the parameters that Neanderthals are living in. Peter could go back to that climatic data and just see where that regardless of where any You can kind of begin to separate their range from the limits of archeology. This is what you're looking at. This is a map created projecting the environment, the ecological niche onto a map of Europe. The green is their niche space. The blue is the expanding and contracting ice sheets It's not a static map, it's not based solely on the presence of archeological finds. It's looking at the environment they liked and just seeing where it existed. One really interesting is around 120,000 years ago. Look how far the As far as central - [Trine] You see here that and also east. So you have principally suitable environments in large parts of southern Scandinavia and also into Eastern Europe. And it's really interesting that when it peaks right here, you really have a large expansion. And we also know archeologically that Neanderthals are present in the north and east European steppe, which is really close to the corridor into the Jutland Peninsula which is where we are - Okay, case closed. Neanderthals could have all we have to do is find the sites, blah, blah, blah, bada bing, Not quite, unfortunately, not quite. As with everything, lots and lots of nuance. - There's another issue with this period. What we don't see in this map, is yes, 'cause the ice sheets are melting, the water has to go somewhere, so it goes into sea and that means that the sea level rises quite massively during the Eemian. - Scandinavia at that No ice caps at all, much, much higher sea level, no doubt a very, very wet landscape. - So actually, this might have created boundaries in the landscape during the peak warm period. - There is some evidence that Neanderthals made short water crossings. Neanderthal style tools which has been an island for So for the entire time Crete has been an island, and yet seemingly there are Neanderthal style tools there. So a short sea crossing barrier for them. But if we, you know, if we are being strategic and our targeting for Trine thinks a slightly later time might give us better results. - But as soon as you have a slightly cooler situation, which is still warm, so that would be at the end of the Eemian in the first interstadial And they are coming up you actually see that to be tied up in the ice again, which means that the the sea level lowers, but we still have warm periods and that means that we actually both have extension of landmass, but also warmer climates in the regions that we're interested in. So these are actually the periods where it's most likely that you would have Neanderthal expanding into latitudes higher than 55 north. - This Neanderthal sweet spot is maybe around 100,000 years ago. Little bit later, ice sheets sea levels have dropped, Sweden is once again joined to Denmark. The area would've been full no doubt animals expanded and they could have been followed by hungry Neanderthals very easily. Another factor to consider, another piece of nuance is just how many Neanderthals were there? Full stop. - I mean, of course we have one big issue is population density, right? So we're assuming that Neanderthals are very thin on the ground. - [Stefan] Estimating the size of extinct, prehistoric populations is of course, very hard thing to do. But it seems there weren't at any one time. Based on genetics and maybe between 5,000 were alive at any one time. - [Trine] So it's not, there's no high population pressure. And of course this really what would drive, you know, expansion into the potential niche. - [Stefan] If we go back to that map paused at 120,000 years ago, there's this huge habitat Does that mean Neanderthals before the ice sheets It's so tricky to say. The presence of Neanderthals at Denisova Cave suggests they could spread far when they but we don't know how range to the north. So we have this target of How do we go about finding sites in Scandinavia, in Denmark that are 100,000 years old, bearing in mind the pressures and damage caused by later glaciations? How do we do that? How do they do that? When you look at a map it seems that the entire region was fully covered in ice, For the most part that is true, but it does seem like - Only very little part of southern Scandinavian was not covered by glaciers And that's also the corner where focusing on that, we might have some remnant - [Stefan] Lakes do preserve archeological remains really well. They're muddy shores, muddy banks, just gently burying things, it is really perfect. - [Trine] We have sites Neumark-Nord, Grobern, Taubach, many sites not that far away, that many of them are found and preserved due to lakeshore where there's good preservation, but also because that's probably a very active place - [Stefan] Finding these is a challenge, is a big challenge. - Today in modern day Today they do not seem as much, like they're still very flat and oftentimes they're filled with modern bog like wetlands. So no one, nobody goes or a road or anything. They just lay there and they have been drained for fields, agriculture. So those depressions is really what we are looking into now to see if those modern bogs they hit, into glacial lakes underneath them. - [Stefan] It's not simply a question of finding a bog at the right age with sediments at the right age. These sediments, these layers, they have to be accessible too. If they find a Pleistocene lake but the layer that's 100,000 20 meters down, that's such a challenge to excavate, basically an impossible So Emile isn't just trying to find lakes at the right age, they also have to be close where an excavation is actually possible. I imagine that is quite a challenge to find that sweet spot. It is quite a challenge. - Yeah, yeah. Usually I put it that I'm looking for the haystack. Then we have to look for the needle. [laugh laugh laugh] - But I think it's always, because that's very true, but I think it's always a we've been in similar situation Where certainly one find or one object kind of changed everything. So you need to be able to in archeology in order - As far as I'm aware, the team is still searching that perfect location. A lot of work in this study is going into site selection just to try and maximize There is another place though, where we can look for evidence of Neanderthals in the far north above that 55th parallel north. But it's also a challenging environment to excavate in for The lost land landmass of Doggerland. This is a small fragment that was given the name Krijn Krijn? Krrrijn? They lived about 50 to 70,000 years ago, ate a diet of meat and fish were a pretty sturdy chap, it seems and they had a benign What's kind of special about is that he was dredged up off the coast of the Netherlands. In all likelihood he wasn't swept out to sea or anything like that. He lived in what is now the North Sea. - [Trine] And on the other hand, when the sea goes really low, then you have also this land mass, so what we call doggerland, connecting the British And that would probably have met what we call the Jutland Peninsula. So this large area would probably have been very suitable for animals and of course also humans during these periods. - [Stefan] If we're where Neanderthals traveled far north, this would be an excellent The only problem is it's now so deep underwater. Doggerland sank beneath the waves around 8,500 years ago, causing Britain to become an island, the original Brexit - [Trine] And that means that there is a lot of potential out there, but it's more tricky to because of course it requires a completely different - [Stefan] One of our best chances to find evidence of Neanderthals in these regions, whether it's in doggerland may not be archeological evidence, but genetic, environmental DNA sometimes called sedaDNA, This is DNA that is preserved in sediment for thousands upon thousands of years. It's basically just tiny poo, lots of old poo. [quick, wet, cheek wobbling fart sound] These things of course are full of DNA, chock full of DNA, they're just sitting in the sediment and we can access those, we can test the dirt for DNA. - [Trine] Because if we are able to actually identify any Neanderthals in places based on DNA instead then we can actually to use for this model as well. Of course, this is yeah, these samples and this work but that's definitely a - One question I really from the sites we do have, like those in Northern Germany, what can we actually say about at the northern edge of their range, the northern edge of their environment? What do we know about how they're living that far north? - Well, one big difference about the northern landscapes and the more Mediterranean landscapes is that it's an open environment. At least on the north European we don't have caves so it's really flat and the forest that we have So it's an open environment compared to cave-like landscapes, right? Or mountain landscapes. So this creates a fundamental in the open environments that you're highly dependent on, the animals that are also present in these types of landscapes. So big herds of, it could be reindeer, in periods that are but there's also bison and of course megafauna. - [Stefan] There's obviously than an elephant. And as we saw at this very start, Neanderthals were hunting The hunting of elephants to Lehringen though. Archeologists have found several sites with the butchered Perhaps the most interesting is a site called Neumark-Nord. Here, a total of 57 elephant It's of course very, very difficult to say how many hunting trips this involved and how long it took to There's evidence at this site for about 2000 years of occupation but it certainly shows deliberate hunting of these large animals. You can see all the They seem to have a Maybe these are the to find isolated and on their own rather than in a family group. There's just absolutely these elephants are on There's something a little Neumark-Nord, though. All of these elephants at Neumark-Nord were hunted during that warm period around 125,000 years ago, when the Neanderthal far north into Scandinavia. At this time, Neumark-Nord of one of those Pleistocene lakes we've been talking about. Pine forests, birch forests, as the climate warmed, deciduous oak forests. The environmental record lots and lots of trees. But around Neumark-Nord, According to the environmental record there at this site, it was much more open. The pollen record is and plants that like a This open environment of charcoal in the Lots and lots of just tiny fragments of charcoal mixed into these sediments. Seemingly according to fires were sweeping through the landscape clearing the forest. Now the dating of there's always a margin of error, there's always nuance, all of these things but this open landscape seemingly existed for the 2000 years that the and ended when they apparently left. So were Neanderthals They were certainly and having fires. The archeological record of Neumark-Nord shows lots and lots of evidence of Neanderthals using fires in their day-to-day life. So were they deliberately because it created the environment that they liked to hunt in? It's just so hard to say for sure, right? It's almost like a Did the Neanderthals at to attract the prey or were they attracted to the land because of that fire already? You know, which came first? Hard to say, very hard to say. But if it is true that whilst Neanderthals and became forest again once they left, that's kind of odd, isn't it? That would strongly suggest that Neanderthals were responsible for it. If true, that just says so much about Neanderthal's ability to shape the world around them, plan ahead, understand the environment Yeah, just another fascinating there's something going on I should have had this guy Living in the north were would've required Neanderthals and clothing of some sort. - And because we're in the open area, there's also the wind factor is an issue. So shelter and potentially clothing, we assume that they would've had, would've needed this to but the evidence is indirect. So we have scrapers of hide working. So we know that they're processing hide, the hides from the animals potentially to create various types of draping of fur and skin. But we just don't know exactly how this would've been manufactured. - Abric Romani in Spain is home to some fantastic wooden this trough shaped object. Just to be clear, the top is a reconstruction based on the imprint that a wooden object left behind. There's another site in France which seems to be a Neanderthal campsite and it's enclosed with suggesting they're building But these sites are just so rare, so rare. We only get the tiniest glimpses into this aspect of Neanderthal life. Absolutel no leather has No hides, no clothing, nothing And of course, Neanderthals They are extinct. We did interbreed with them and we all have a small percentage of Neanderthal DNA within us. So in that sense, they are not extinct in that sense, truly. But this form of human this type of human truly no longer exists. I wanted to ask the team, what does the environmental as we get closer to 40,000 years and they disappear from Was there anything going on there? - [Peter] So ignore all the other lines except this gray line in the background. So this is just counting all of the green cells from the animated GIF for each millennia, right? And so you can see after under 40,000 years ago, the size, the niche the potential niche space, is expanding all the way up to MIS5e. And so when we were looking at a 100,000 years ago, a little beyond a 100,000 years ago, this is that time period we're talking when the potential niche was at its largest. Then we enter that glacial period where it again contracts and western part of Eurasia, and then another period of expansion. - [Stefan] As you can see, over the 100,000 years gradually declined from its high point around 120,000 years ago. It's a really clear illustration of just how variable the climate Neanderthals had to adapt to huge changes in the environment. Climate would get colder, but they would cling on, it would recover and then colder again and they would cling on, cold again, still holding on. So when they go extinct yes, their preferred but why didn't they recover this time like all the other times? There has to be another factor and that factor kind - [Peter] And then right after that, the niche space is contracting again. At the same time that are moving into the region as well. - Perhaps Neanderthals could have adapted to these changes given enough time, but with new groups entering the region, bringing new technologies, was the pressure too much for them? Was it this one two punch and the climate getting Was this pressure just too much for them? What I really love about this study and chatting to the team here is that they've, you know, combined so many different archeological, climatic, geological, to try and push the to help archeologists select better sites, push our understanding of and hopefully find them Who knows how far we'll - But should we get more sites or if we wanted to expand like all the way to East Asia, right? It would be relatively easy to do because all of this data So updating it just means and then it'll just run and print out the new results. So it's really updateable, we're really hoping that where it's a constant test and reassessment of the results we have. What do new finds actually that we made in this paper? - It's so exciting to be studying all this We're really living in a golden age. And yeah, if you're watching this from Denmark, southern Sweden, you live next to a bog, keep an eye out for some some Neanderthal remains or Emil at least, doing some coring in your street. They're almost certainly out there. Thanks so much for watching, everyone. Huge shout out to the as always. Big thanks to Moesgaard Museum for letting me use Tom shout out to Ettore for And yeah, Trine, Emil and Peter were so lovely to speak to, so helpful with making this video and donated their speakers fee to UNICEF. So they were just great, I can't wait to see I can't wait for us to get a better idea of the Neanderthal range, try and find them somewhere. It's great, it's great. Thanks so much for watching, guys. Maybe watch another video, that'd be great, bye.