The moment you take control in Just Cause Against the stark white background of a snowy goes into overdrive at the sight of red; the The story implores you to move forward, but You maybe also mess around with the grappling the sparks fly. You jump on a piece of metal and surf it along going that in other games would demand your less and what's more, you get the feeling This is the Just Cause you've come to know The franchise that, since its inception and has allowed, nay encouraged you to do whatever Other games want you to handle this objective How about you try blowing everything up instead? Each instalment since the first has placed ethos, providing players more and more methods boom, with the latest in the series providing you to customise loadouts with the kind of the developers opened the debug menu and said Hell, you can even control the goddamn weather The possibilities for causing untold destruction, All of which begs the question: why, after I come away from the game feeling so... bored? Why, despite giving me options other games strangely anachronistic, like a relic of a Why is this game, for all of its best efforts, It's more than the game's wild technical saw the game hard crash more than 60 times For a lot of people it speaks to a wider issue variations on the phrase "so much to do game in the franchise thanks to their almost nor reason to the activities you're doing. And while, as someone who has put a substantial agree with that assertion, I think the problem I think it's the way the missions themselves propping them up, that are the main reason in the pantheon of open world franchises; and more "so much to use but no reason to See, open world mission design is kind of As a genre, you think of open worlds as bastions of linear progression. But missions (perhaps the most obvious way almost always necessitate a movement from Of course some games handle this divide between less subtly than they could, but many games start and end points are through dialogue tools to get through various obstacles. In terms of that last point, Just Cause 4's on top of the pile in terms of open world Like in Hitman, for example, where you're as clockwork AI clusters, Just Cause 4's world in a fundamentally different way. It's not about taking and driving any car are about taking a car and changing it into flying ball of death. Actual fighter jets are rickety piles of pixels aren't threats, they're projectiles. Explosions in video games usually cause things way, whereas here the wreckage is proudly structure it was so forcefully removed from. Real world things become pure artifice--means The potential of such a shift in viewing the Imagine the possibilities these tools could need to get to the mainland quickly to stop aren't working and all you have is a crate. You're defending a position without guns; the materials around you to fend them off. You know, the types of mission that could systems and hope for the best--at the very at your disposal, and at best making you feel solution that actually works. But unfortunately, missions rarely play out The reason is that they aren't so much individually mission placed on different parts of the game's There's an enemy base and you've either bigger thing, escort prisoners from one section while someone else hacks something. Setting aside the fact that this template restrictive crossover of escort mission and as a developer, you're not really providing too constricting. You've simply provided an instance, a temporary in which players can experiment with the tools In that sense, it doesn't matter that every of mission because with the sheer amount of you're hacking the things or whatever else Well, no, because in the same way as the missions thanks to their inconsistency and lack of afforded by your experimentation starts to Your experiments are a useless means of traversal the cacophony of explosions already on show; You might see your balloon modifiers and rocket in Breath of the Wild. However, where that game established its rules to whatever crazy contraptions you could come you that eureka moment, because a sneaky workaround suddenly have a completely different outcome out of control. And I do mean comically; it's funny to see it's going to cause the game to crash. But again, unlike Breath of the Wild where time or give you a leg up in combat given you were, Just Cause 4 negates the need for up--whatever wacky scenario you could come - a more effective, reliable option. You could attach balloons to a crate and use use boosters to turn your car into a rocket... hook which isn't only more reliable, but almost any car (many of which have nitro boosters Managing to use your retractors to surf along of the fact it's a particularly useful means the game's unpredictable physics decided You could attach a couple of balloons to a cursor and wait for them to slowly move over the balloons and hoping they moved close enough could just use the always-available guns and are they more precise, they're arguably of creating the kinds of explosions the developers When I discuss the perils of allowing an optimal Gear Solid's tranq guns or supply drops, don't use them". But I feel like telling someone to ditch Rico's bit like telling someone not to swing in Spider-Man; is such a core aspect of the series' identity, sequels feels like so much fluff. More than that, however, the game's missions mess around with this detritus. They try to create pandemonium by throwing entirely determined by their numbers and inability from as opposed to their intelligence. It forces you to react quickly for sure, but from a different perspective; making things a Rockstar shooting gallery--explosions everywhere, the same time all feeling so predictably dull. Missions give you everything and require nothing; your many different options for fear of being and the game more or less plays itself. And so the biggest threat in the world, given explode without warning, is often yourself. It doesn't seem like there's any kind the surface seems like a restrictive feature actions in an open world any kind of weight growing intensity and challenge to your chaotic while giving the game a means of resetting to start all over again. In Just Cause, enemy encounters outside of so easily escapable and so lacking in consequence upon the world reeks of a kind of "make wears thin when you realise there's absolutely It feels like you're the king of a toybox stuck smashing action figures together until You've eaten your mission-shaped vegetables In retrospect, the most fun I have in Just begins to bend under the weight of its own mess, two rogue pixels will collide and suddenly to get from one place to another has their pieces. An NPC's pathing is broken? Why not stick a retractor in their torso and A mission-specific ancient boulder has disappeared You could always just chuck some balloons it was a goddamn space hopper. It's a similar scenario when the game's Sandstorms hinder movement and render your get creative with your grappling hook, or where it will. Lightning will strike down enemy helicopters you to move quickly while maintaining a perilously a weapon less of a viable option. And despite said weather effects only appearing small amount given how prominently they featured start to see a pattern. In a game that presents itself as some blank will on, these scenarios see systems intersect that require some kind of lateral thinking. Moments where the game isn't encouraging to navigate its chaos which always ended up where I'd simply fill things with lead and with every predictable explosion. But then you begin to realise that these aren't have carefully placed in your way. Instead, the game is placing you in a position mission objectives are supposed to just work your job to fix them. And even then, like so much else the game easier method to overcome it, where you're the many checkpoints and starting fresh. A mission where you're meant to sneak land and you're forced to fend off enemies while all while the game still thinks you're being it only occurs because the developers placed of all the other available hangars I might you inevitably get spotted even before the mission. It's all chaotic, sure, but it's not too you'd find in any number of b-games where at any minute leave you as curious as you Just Cause 4 merely has the gall to turn that its USP. With options like the ones Just Cause gives thanks to the hands-off approach taken by even close to realised. And it all comes back to the seemingly contradictory in an open world, it isn't enough to give gets used. You have to impose even light restrictions Give players the freedom to do whatever they gravitate towards the most effective route Place unique roadblocks in their way, limit and that's when you'll start to see those So I hope you enjoyed my piece on Just Cause If you did and feel like supporting the show like these wonderful folks currently on screen, soundtracks and patron-exclusive written pieces. Your unbelievably generous support is absolutely thank you enough for that. Special thanks go to Mark B Writing, Rob, Ali Almuhanna, Timothy Jones, Spike Jones, Migas, Travis Bennett, Zach Casserly, Samuel Jessie Rine, Brandon Robinson, Justins Holderness, Ross and Charlie Yang. I'll be back with my game of the year round-up this has been another episode of Writing on Thank you very much for watching, have an you next time.