I need a toolbox in this truck. I had this tractor supply I made it work for a few years, essentially made out of garbage, I didn't have a crazy loaded That's just tinfoil. So I've had this laying in my yard for like ten years It got a little melted one time when I. I had it a little too close to a fire once. That works I would like if it was a lower profile that's not bad. that's not bad. That going to hit metal? That drill bit is bent The washer just falls off stick that there and we put a washer on and it stays Not staying open any more Use a hammer often That's for towing different trailers like the farm Jack The rake goes under here Jumper cables Use these often Tire chains seems heavy on there for some reason I guess I take some. So this has been clunking when you rear drive shaft here, you see? See that movement bad universal joint When you buy your sockets. Make sure you don't get the 12 point ones. Get the six point ones. Wow. It's that tight? extension out of here. I got the bigger battery That is why we are changing this. Why is it getting stuck? I had this rebuilt in 2016, July 2016. I think they did it for free too, I think they have lifetime warranties Oxi should be green. That mark means reverse treads and they do that. So you can't mix up the oxygen I'll cut this side off too Thats one there's little bearings in those Very easy to screw up this project very careful this can go down in there This one can go here and very important. Make sure these are in all the way. That needs to go down I don't quite have it Ill press it without that thing in the bottom I ruined that cap Usually when I do this job, because I always ruin one of those caps. This side has to go to go down they never go down enough. Needs a hair more. All right so that's a little stiff They're a little worried about that. But all the clips are in all the way So you can see how this side moves. There's no slop in that. So that's good. What you got there, buddy? Can I see that? Can I see the Frisbee? I see it. Oh, let me have it. I'll throw it. If you give it to me, I can throw it Blue, get the frisbee I got it Lets put it how it was It was like this No, no do not strip them Turn this so there is more room. See, that's how it is. Make sure it starts like that. Should go in easy. I get them all started before tightening anything Turn it around. All right. And that's a new U-joint. No slop. That's good. Now, while the truck's up on a lift, of everything. Well, for cracks, springs, leaking shocks, Any grease fittings on this? These are tight. All right. Doing some maintenance So this is broken, and that repair failed. I'm just going to weld these these things but they just have these little C clips And look, they both just look at that. I've been driving the truck a few miles before It's very noticeable And then just slightly let off the gas, And it was kind of frustrating. Now I'm off the gas... on the gas... off the gas. Pulled over here to check it. I just wanted to make sure It's a touch warm, not even really. That's cold. I want to drop warm but I feel good about that repair. Here is my pile right here. Check this out. They got these things cranes slings. fix that certain little puppy. Where are you? Hey Blue, come here buddy Do you know anything about this? Did you chew that wire? You done being a puppy and doing stuff All right. Lets fix our cordless remote what we need so What happened? Is this because of you? Slid this over it I don't love how it got covered with tape, Let's fix this. I don't think that it really stuck in there to begin with Blue, you're not going to chew that again, What do you guys think? That looks safe right? This section of road Okay, a couple of things on the inside This radio I put in worked for a while. I was teaching someone how to drive She stalled the truck, radio stopped and I was really bright, I didn't like this one. It didn't work very well. Even when it did work This was a little more money, hopefully that translates Not a piece of junk. I may get lucky here Is this the same? Oh yeah. Look at that. Hopefully the pins do the same things. No smoke came out of it Awesome. All right, That saves a ton of time. That fits in there pretty good. Does this not line up? that's not going to work because it puts it at the wrong angle Lets make a bracket. So 4" by 3" Cody, is it snowing? all right? Yeah, That's a piece of my old toolbox. Cody, what are you doing buddy? trim that a drop more Is there a Frisby Right there? Would that be a Frisbee? I mean, you have there's like four more out there buried in the snow. There it goes, that looks way better. Hammer in the sharp corners Look at that brand new radio. How exciting. How does it work? Will this fit here? It does not need that Initial setup: I'm all right with that. As long as it doesn't do this again, No 96.9? Ok 101.1 That's a good one. Oh, you skipped it. No, don't pass it. Check out this other thing I got here. Let's clean off this dash so the issue is here. The dashboards and these dodges where the sun ruins it or extremely brittle and that looks a little bit bad. I think we got a solution. That fits like it's not look at that. That is professional. Let's just clean some stuff. And this is nice in here now it's got this microphone That's easy Mic, right there Mic wire come over here They want you to glue this on. But usually whenever you're gluing it means you're not putting it together very good. so much better. you see how that's like All right, check that out. That is a luxury truck right now. if a certain silver Look at those chew marks in that And he chewed this one a drop. That was like hard plastic. Cody and blue. Oh, you guys are right there. Okay. Yeah. You guys find more deer bones? Okay, Blue. Well, you don't. You know about this blue? I just watched on the dog collar app. They went for a long walk, And the guy, they're far away, And they found a bone. I just had all those radiators But one thing, look here Hear that sound around 12 psi boost. I think there's a loose clamp Clamp is completely loose. It's turning but it's Maybe the nut is stripped. Got the nut off There's a quarter inch fine threads mesh up perfectly and it's the same diameter. I can just tell the threads are a little messed up in that compared compared to a new one. I couldn't get the nut started cleaning up the threads on this clamp. You know, The dog collar app Blue is just crazy. Far away. That was very far All right, let's see if Cody comes back You abandoned your friend. You couldn't talk him into coming back? Feel good about that On the side? That's tight, though. Okay. All right. Okay. Is Cody walking towards us? He is visiting Mimsy. Cody. I had to go get Cody. Were you not going to come back? I waited Had to go get you. This isn't been running perfect. It had a weird idle Here is the new one. Hopefully that runs a little better. Where's your Frisbee? Go get your Frisbee. Bring your Frisbee. There's another Where is the other one? Blue, where are the Frisbees? I knew it was here. I do not like how that hose clamp is hitting that washer tank that's going to put a hole in that. right there. tight. Okay. Look how much cleaner This thing feels like a new truck. With this dash Look how nice that looks. Radio is working. Good, nice and clean in here. What do you guys think? Now I want to get up to was about. Yeah, that sound is gone. You know what the boost seems to build quicker too Yeah it doesn't you know what it was leaking before What's that? Right there? Ready? Oh, too quick, buddy. Let me see that I'll just make Cody jealous With Blue pets. Oh, All right. This gap right here is a little bit much Not latched, though, but the reason is these were the wrong latches. They were missing when I got this truck Yeah, that's one much longer. That is. does look like that. M10 x 1.5 Yeah, that's it. You can tell me sink in like that All right, cool. All right. That's latched on both sides that's looking good This toolbox. has been nice, But you go to open it. It just does that. So, plus, these hinges kind of broke Let's change these things. Hopefully that fixes it. all right. Well, that kind of works. Look at the hinges here. So you can see that It's just junk plastic Has anyone else been having issues where you buy something That's been way too common for me lately. So it's pretty frustrating. This was used, but that design is garbage Like, that's just thin plastic, you know, Of course it's going to break. So let's try to do something I'm trying a new tool here. Oh, I see. Okay. These are all different coils. Small read manual. I don't think so. So this is a induction heater It's meant to heat up bolts Oh, this is stainless steel that does nothing to stainless steel. Yeah, I guess it wouldn't because it's non-ferrous. Oh, it's facing that way I like it to catch on both sides that is latched on both sides It un-latches. All right, cool. Let's stop Anyone can recommend a toolbox Like for for people Meaning heavy stuff is in it Bouncing around off road and it doesn't break for no reason. So after doing all these repairs I did another video covering, Happy with how that turned out. Look for that video soon. And I've got plenty of jobs So hopefully this thing I mean, luckily So it's got 250 on it. But the thing, you know, the diesel engine and standard, Definitely want to try to keep this truck cab it's a lot of these trucks are hard All right. Well, let's get right to work.