&quot;Dongura&quot; is a restaurant This time, I would like to introduce &quot;Motsuyaki&quot; (beef tripe dishes) that Fresh beef tripe and sweet onions. Thoughts put into the dish. I also covered the history of how it has been passed down. Of course, there are plenty of dishes this time as well. There are many scenes that areirresistible for 50 minutes, full of deliciousness. Please take a look to the end. &quot;Dongura&quot; in Yakuin, Chuo Ward, Fukuoka City. Preparing beef tripe. We stock fresh beef every morning. This meat arrives here before rigor mortis. The freshness is quite good. &quot;White beef tripe&quot;. &quot;Red beef tripe&quot;. Cut the beef tripe. The white beef tripe and red beef tripe here are called &quot;Guiara&quot;. Also called &quot;red omasum&quot;. Guiara is the part of the cow's stomach Its surface is smooth and glossy. Other parts of the body have Guiara does not have that odor. Rich taste and chewy texture. It is a particularly popular part Miyazaki's knife handling is also skillful. Miyazaki works at headquarters. He is in charge of purchasing and supporting each store. He comes to Dongura several times a week. Eri, the proprietress. Today they are preparing by themselves. Work progresses steadily. Eri's knife handling is also light. I'm not good at it, so please don't shoot videos! Chef of Dongura. Dai. He is preparing beef tendon meat. It's only been about a year and a half he is in charge of the kitchen at this restaurant. At first, I was in a store called &quot;New Comatsu&quot;. But that store was closed. After that, I worked at Parlor Comatsu in Tenjin. It wasn't until January that I came to Dongura. I feel like I'm finally getting used to it. JKT) Are you in charge of most of the cooking? I mainly devise it with the proprietress. The new menu will be decided This job is fun. Dai has a serious and gentle impression. Put the beef tendon in the pressure cooker. Boil the meat until it is soft and tender. It seems that the preparation of offal is going well. Dongura is a Japanese beef restaurant The store was originally run by a male owner. COMATSU Co., Ltd. took over the business in 2022. It still retains the taste of its predecessor. It's just the same recipe as before. JKT) Are your personnel and management policies based on that's right. I'm looking forward to it. yes! Are you flapping your wings? yes! Miyazaki seems to be a mischievous person sometimes lol. The preparation has progressed quite well. I'm hungry... I have high hopes for both of them. I hope that it will become the foundation of Is this okay? (Laughs) I want them to pursue the magnificence of humans. Hurry up and get ready. Dai is here! can i use it here? yes! What is that reply! (Laughs) Please reply in good spirits. Like &quot;Yes sir!&quot; This is Ox tongue. This is called &quot;Sagari&quot; and is the diaphragm. When this meat arrived, rigor mortis had not yet started, Let it rest in the fridge so it will firm up and cut. Cut the tongue into parts. the tip of the tongue. The lower part of the tongue and the bottom of the tongue. There are 3 parts. The tip of the tongue. The lower part of the tongue This middle streak is used for the stewed beef streak. Dai was originally a Japanese cuisine chef at the hotel. The delicacy and sharpness of his technique are outstanding. JKT) Is there anything What do I care about? It's still fresh, so don't lose that freshness as much as possible. So that it can be delivered to the customer Because I want our customers to smile. I want to become a chef who can not only cook, JKT) Do you actually do it? Also serve customers. yes. I go to serve food to customers. I also make Motsuyaki right in front of the customer. JKT) Did you have any customer service experience? Almost none. After joining Comatsu. I had an image that customer service was difficult. But I can experience things I thought it would be great When I served the food, they would say things like, &quot;This looks really delicious!&quot; JKT) That would make you happy, wouldn't it? I am very happy at that time. When I hear that kind of voice, I think I'm glad I did it. Preparation of Motsuyaki. JKT) Red miso and...? Secret and secret (laughs). It's a secret (laughs). I'm going to be mushy. JKT) It smells really good. JKT) It already smells good. JKT) Ah! Mr. Miyazaki! JKT) Thank you for your work! Please do the rest! Please do your best to be happy today. From here on, it's preparation for two people. Now vacuum it up and let it sit overnight. JKT) Is this inherited from previous recipes? I inherited it from the general and proprietress. At the time of inheritance, I still do it with the same taste. Depressurize the pressure cooker. Remove excess oil. Secret miso sauce. It is very tasty. I can confidently say that. JKT) You were immediately JKT) This is a great opportunity, isn't it? I agree. I am very grateful. JKT) How was it when you first heard about it? I was nervous. How can I say... I thought, &quot;Can I do it myself?&quot; But if I had the chance, I wanted to do it. JKT) Did you have any concerns? I was filled with anxiety. (laughs). JKT) What were you worried about? After all, what should I say? "Maybe I don't have enough experience," I thought. The taste that I made will be served to the customer as it is. It made me feel more responsible. I'm nervous every day (laughs). JKT) But it's rewarding, right? It's very rewarding. The best time is when I serve to the customer. There are quite a few customers who say, I am very happy when I meet such a customer. This is the store that the predecessor has continued until now. I want to inherit it. I think it would be good I think so. I entered with the recognition When I first met the president, he was very friendly. I was surprised (laughs). The people at Parlor Comatsu, the first store I entered, I had no experience with western food. I entered without knowing the basics, But they also taught me very carefully. Even if I failed, I was very grateful that they said, JKT) A year ago, when you were thinking about JKT) Have you ever imagined becoming a head chef? No, I didn't think so. An unexpected sequence for me. JKT) But you're so happy, aren't you? I am really happy. I never dreamed that this would happen. It's fun. I never feel like I don't want to go to work. JKT) What kind of person is the proprietress? What kind of person? But I think she is amazing. I have very little customer service experience. I didn't know anything about how to treat customers or how to run a store. I have a lot to learn from her. Good teacher. She treats customers very kindly. And she is.... You speak ill of me, don't you? I'm not saying anything bad! JKT) I was just asking, i am a scary person! It's scary (laughs). She is so kind. This is the pot used for Yakimotsu. It has a strange shape. JKT) Is this a custom order? that's right. Only here. People often say, &quot;It's like Genghis Khan hot pot.&quot; Designed only for Yakimotsu. Made by a foundry company. Excess water and oil will drop from here. It has a fragrant finish. Even before the opening, Eri made Yakimotsu. This is the first person. It smells incredible. This is shocking. I wish I could convey the smell. JKT) It smells really good. It is an irresistible dish for who like beef tripe. JKT) wow amazing. steam. When it's done, Eri will kindly take care of it. I honestly don't know how to describe this. It's so delicious that I'm at a loss for words. JKT) How old was predecessor? He is about 65 years old. JKT) So he said, Matsumura, the president of our company, At that time, it became such a story. The predecessor said, It seems that the predecessor decided JKT) So he said, &quot;I'll do it.&quot; yes. I worked with the predecessor and the proprietress It was open at 5:00, but everyone usually came around 2:00. The owner and proprietress came from Kurume, Be ready from 2:00 to 4:00. For one hour from 4:00, Sweet bread I bought before We talked while we ate it together. I made an effort to set aside time so that It's been about a year since I finally joined the company. JKT) Is that so! When I was at my previous company, The person I worked with at my previous job I was invited like, &quot;Would you like to come in?&quot; However, it has a history of 25 years. I thought that the predecessor and the proprietress At first, I couldn't get close to the proprietress. It seems that the proprietress still wanted to continue. JKT) She had mixed feelings. that's why. The time to eat bread while drinking coffee JKT) Little by little, you worked hard to earn their trust. JKT)That's the reason why you set up that kind of time. I think that the predecessor thought so and did it. At first, I couldn't really close the distance. The proprietress on LINE on the last day. &quot;Though I have no children.&quot; &quot;Thanks to everyone, I was able to spend warm days &quot;If you don't cherish this restaurant, I won't forgive you.&quot; Saying that, she left. I really have to inherit her thoughts properly. Gradually, as the days passed, the number of chats increased. Now we also do LINE from time to time. &quot;I'll be at 00 today&quot;, Eri carries the thoughts of many people. Beef sagari. Dai grilled beef sagari. thank you very much. Smells like delicious sauce. "Indescribable" is exactly that. It's done. JKT) This YouTube shouldn't be watched I agree. I'm sure I'll regret watching this I can only sigh. I ate it all while saying. Thank you for the meal. They will be open soon. JKT) What kind of person is Dai? Eh, something... what should i say.... he is a really reliable companion There are many chefs who are like, &quot;My job is to cook!&quot; But he really often goes out to the hall and serves customers. Her charm is also very good. I'm happy to hear people say, JKT) he has a good personality. That's right. I would be a little surprised if he was a bad person. JKT) The food made by person like him JKT) I understand that he must be someone I agree. Can you see it? this. here. This mouth on the bottom right. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, Then there was me too. Does that happen? I thought.(laughs) Eri's self-made menu. JKT) Handwritten? Handwritten. JKT) It's cute. I can't stop messing around with something like this. I can't stop once I fix it. It takes about a month until the design is decided properly. Isn't this a little too cute? This design might suit this restaurant. This one fits better. JKT) You two decide on this, too? I always ask him. &quot;What do you think?&quot; Because He accept anything. There was a customer who made a reservation soon. draft beer! The counter quickly fills up On this day, the table seats were also full of reservations. A wide variety of drinks are available. A lot of draft beer comes out at first. This customer gave me permission to shoot. Thanks for your cooperation. Stewed tail. Stewed premium wagyu beef tail Wow! good! Senmai sashimi Beef aorta sashimi. beef Sashimi. delicious dish. Alcohol is also going on. Seafood pancake. Domestic grilled shrimp. The aroma of sesame oil will whet your appetite. delicious! Kyaa! I was secretly filmed! This is lemon squash. Eri's proud drink. It's a proprietress's special. Oh, it's about to spill It's about to spill. It has a whole lemon in it, so it's a bit bitter. I call it &quot;adult lemon squash&quot;. JKT) It's included with the peel. it's recommended! A little adult lemon squash. JKT) Non-alcoholic? It's non-alcoholic! But if you tell me to put alcohol in, I will put it in. Good reputation, right? (laughs) Really good reputation. There are so many people who say it's delicious. They have a lot of orders for beef Sagari. Oh! looks delicious! 2 pieces? Eh! looks delicious! correct? How to crack this egg (laughs). It looks delicious! Delicious! A gentle dashi soup made with meat tofu mackerel and dried sardines. complete. Early hours are very busy with many reservations. Alcohol is coming out more and more. Shall I drink the foam part and clean it?(laughs). Butcher snacks. This is a dish using beef aorta. It is elastic and becomes very fragrant when baked. It looks like it's going to go well with alcohol. Next is &quot;stone-baked garlic rice&quot;. Stone-baked rice with eggs, garlic, and beef. I can't get enough of the sound. Also make charred rice. done. looks delicious. Fried round intestine. pig's feet. The counter has entered the main course dish. The most popular dish is, of course, the Yakimotsu. Eri makes it carefully. Since they are two people, they are quite busy, but Eri is particular about making Yakimotsu Thanks to that, customers can enjoy their time without stopping the conversation . If your reservation overlaps, the time to make Yakimotsu tends to overlap. She will have more time to concentrate on making Yakimotsu. In the meantime, Dai will do his best to back her up. One person handles customer service. Operations that cannot be done I feel that this breathing is the strength of this restaurant. The customer at the table seat also ordered Yakimotsu. I was the same, but when you see Yakimotsu in front of me, you must be just stare at it. Everyone was eating really deliciously. Not strong at all. It's surprisingly kind taste. Onions are delicious! delicious! motsunabe. Motsunabe, a specialty of Hakata, is also very popular. Eri will also carefully make this for you. This style is eaten with ponzu sauce without garlic. You can fully enjoy the original taste of offal. I'll enjoy having this! Gentle taste! Eri is preparing dessert. Chocolate art written by Eri. Can you guess who this is? It's a comedian! This is a caricature of a famous Japanese comedian. she will create an anniversary surprise. It seems that the customer was also happy. Eri will see them off until out of sight. Dongura's night continues. After this too they have a reservation. A customer who made a reservation came at 20:00. The customer in the foreground is said &quot;Tanaka-Rokujugo&quot;. Popular pure rice sake made in Itoshima, Fukuoka. A refreshing and soft scent reminiscent of grapes. Yuzu Chinese cabbage. This customer also gave us permission to shoot. assorted beef sashimi. Customers are already smiling good. Red omasum and cucumber mixed with mentaiko. I thought I'd try cooking something unique to Hakata. Good, right? Then there was the regular customer. It seems that he sometimes comes from Tokyo. I have been in Fukuoka since yesterday. First and foremost, it's delicious. The atmosphere is nice. Be friendly. The staff are also very nice. Sorry I made you wait. It's a little roasted. It's a very luxurious way to spend time. What is this... I'm not very good at it (laughs). I'm not very good at it. I'm not cut out for this kind of thing (laughs). The center is a little raw, so when you turn it over, it becomes crispy. Make the popular menu &quot;cooked offal&quot; of the shop. A hot pot where you can enjoy I'm not good at it, so it might be better not to shoot. JKT) Then, I shoot when you put it. I agree! I think that's good. JKT) I really want to use this kind. (laughs). Please don't look (laughs) I used it lol tongue and Beef Sagari also ride. Please don't look at me like that (laughs). Everyone is silent and everyone is watching. Everyone is in the mood to drink and talk. The rising steam gives off a nice scent. Cooked motsu is about to feel good. Please enjoy it with yuzu pepper if you like. Yakimotsu will be ready soon. I'm getting hungry... Eri sometimes says things like this without thinking. Please enjoy it with your favorite seasoning. Sorry to keep you waiting. Is delicious. A plentiful meal of Yakimotsu + rice! JKT) Yakimotsu and rice seem to go really well together. I agree. Some people eat like that sometimes. So soft, isn't it? Yeah soft! The offal ingredients have a great taste. It was a night filled with delicious food, sake, and smiles. Let's go! We are looking forward to seeing you! Here is a customer who is addicted to her. (laughs) What should I do if this part is cut? Thank you for your cooperation despite the sudden shooting. This time I introduced Dongura. Carefully selected materials and careful work behind them. I think I was able to deliver scenes that you can't usually see. The innocent smile shown by Eri, the proprietress. Dai is kind and firm. Warm people surrounding them. Eri is always facing customers and does not have time to take a break. Because She concentrate on the customer in front of her, She sometimes find herself busy. However, this restaurant also has Dai. He says, &quot;I have no customer service experience,&quot; but the smile he showed to customers was very bright. Every day of challenge and trial and error. But they are never two. Many people are around them. They have inherited the thoughts left by their predecessors. Hospitality is done with sincerity. Once again I feel the importance of it. It was a fun shoot with lots of laughter, but it was a great experience and I learned a lot. I'm really thankful to you.