(dramatic orchestral music) Narrator: We all know it. Walked it everyday. But none of them were like these. (dramatic orchestral music) The world's most dangerous ways to school. Freezing, climbing for hours, bailing nonstop, all for the chance of a better life. Spectacular and sometimes simply beautiful. The world's most dangerous ways to school. The Sierra Madre Occidental in Northwestern Mexico. Here, scattered in the mountains and far away from civilization live the Raramuri. The way to school for the children of the Sierras is a dizzying hour-long march. (subdued orchestral music) Their goal? The boarding school in Cerocahui. It is one of the most dangerous and longest routes to school in the world. For their dream, the children overcome a more than 1,000-meter change in altitude, and often trek until they're on the verge of exhaustion. But their hunger for education is stronger than the fear of tumbling down the narrow, steep slopes. (subdued dramatic music) The children know that school gives hope and is their gateway to a better life. (dreamy ephemeral music) (pensive music) Monday, half past five in the morning, in the village of Repichinari, a plateau in the midst of the vast Sierras. It's freezing cold here 2,300 meters above sea level, (rooster crowing) where at night it often falls well below five degrees celsius. Like everyday the six year old, Teresa, first makes a fire. (children laughing) This is the only way for her eight-year-old sister, Ankara, her mother, and the nine-year-old Filomena, to warm up. (tranquil acoustic guitar music) Like most Raramuri, the family lives from its corn corps and their life stock. The parents' cows and goats spend the winter in the warm valley below. Only the chickens are kept on top of the plateau year-round. Interpreter: I feed the 10 chickens everyday. And then I'm happy to go to school. Narrator: The class starts at nine o'clock in Cerocahui. The girls are always especially well-dressed for school, in their traditional outfits of self-made flowing skirts and brightly-colored blouses. (children laughing) On their feet they wear thin sandals called huaraches, their only protection against the cold ground in winter. Interpreter: Barefoot, it's really cold; with the huaraches, it's better. Narrator: A quick comb to their hair, and out. School begins in three hours. Interpreter: Take good care of yourselves. (emotional music) Interpreter: Bye bye. Narrator: The Raramuri speak their own language with the same name, Raramuri. This makes it impossible for them to find work in the city. The 25-year-old Aniseta sends her daughters to school so that they can learn Spanish, even if getting there is very dangerous. (emotional orchestral music) (speaking in foreign language) Interpreter: My thoughts are often with my children when they're on that difficult path. They could get hurt, and I imagine them sitting somewhere, crying. (speaking in foreign language) I miss my children during the week. I could really use their help with the housework. Narrator: That is why not all the Raramuri children go to school. Without their help, many families in the Sierras simply could not survive. (soft tenuous music) Like most children from this area, Teresa, Filomena, and Ankara stay in the boarding school during the week. The route through the Sierras is too strenuous and dangerous to do every day. While the girls have long been on their way, 1,000 meters below, in the valley, the day now slowly begins. Hidden in the middle of the Sierras lies Chapaturi, a small village with 30 inhabitants. None of the simple huts made from stone and mud have electricity or running water. (birds chirping) Shortly after six o'clock, Lorenzo wakes up. His mother died giving birth to his little brother. Since then, his uncle and grandmother have taken care of the six-year-old. (speaking in foreign language) (Lorenzo laughing) (speaking in foreign language) Lorenzo is not happy. He doesn't like the way to school. (water trickling) For breakfast, there's fresh spinach and homemade corn tortillas, a rare feast. The family just barely survives on whatever their garden will produce. Crop failure has caused a family to go hungry more and more recently, and there is just no money to buy food. (contented stringed music) Interpreter: I like going to school. There's always something to eat. Narrator: That's why many parents send their children to boarding school. Three times a day the students are fed, and it's free. The Mexican government pays for boarding school. It's half past six, and Lorenzo now has a two-hour walk through the Sierras ahead of him. Two long hours. The six-year-old will have to navigate through paths of loose stones, leading over steep slopes. Lorenzo's uncle would prefer to accompany the boy on the dangerous path. (speaking in foreign language) Interpreter: The entire route is difficult. There are many rocky and steep places. Of course, I want to go with him, but I have so much work in the field that I have to stay here. (speaking in foreign language) Narrator: Lorenzo won't come back until the end of the week; during that time he sleeps at school. (rocks clacking) After half an hour, Teresa, Filomena, and Ankara have reached the edge of the high plateau, the easiest part of the path. In the red bundle Filomena carries fresh clothes for the week. Interpreter: We live so far away from school that we leave our books there. They are much too heavy to carry back and forth. That would be too difficult. Narrator: The three girls don't have much time to learn at home, anyway. They need to help with the housework when they are there. If need be, they even miss several days of school. The girls' destination? The elementary school of Cerocahui, the only one within six hours. As the crow flies, there are only one and a half kilometers separating the girls' home from the school, a seemingly short journey of a few minutes, but only seemingly. Interpreter: We must walk down the slope here, then through the forest, then up the other side again, to the school. Narrator: Ankara, Filomena, and Teresa must climb all the way up this ledge, a single cliff of 300 meters. (dramatic percussive music) But first, they must navigate the way down. Classes will begin in two and a half hours. It is a trek over the harshest of terrains, just to get to school in Cerocahui. It's just before seven o'clock, and Director Genoveva Cruz-Cruz is preparing her lessons. She teaches the first and second grades. The six and seven-year-old children all sit in the same room. (door creaking) Genoveva lives in the neighboring town. It takes her six hours by car to get to Cerocahui, as long as it's not raining or snowing. That's why she sleeps here from Monday to Friday, as do many of her students. (speaking in Spanish) Translator: The routes that some children take to get here are very long, and, at times, really, very dangerous. All sorts of accidents could happen. They could fall, for example, or be attacked by an animal. A lot could happen to them on their way here. (speaking in Spanish) Narrator: In Mexico, education is compulsory, even in the far reaches of the Sierras. No one really knows just how many children in the mountains work with their parents instead of going to school. An estimated 40% of the indigenous people in Mexico are illiterate; among the Raramuri, the rate is even higher. (soft peaceful music) For Mexico's indigenous people, such as Lorenzo, education is free, from primary school all the way to university, but only few children make it to university; they are needed at home to work. Lorenzo has been on the road for just about half an hour, and for the six-year-old there is only one direction: up. To get to school, he has to climb 1,000 meters. Each step is carefully considered. One slip, and Lorenzo could sprain or break his ankle. Except for some grazed knees and shins, nothing bad has happened to him yet. The Raramuri live scattered across the Sierras. Lorenzo only rarely sees people in the area. On average, less than two people per square kilometer live here. It is one of the most sparsely-populated places in the world. If something were to happen to him here, it would take days for someone to find him in this deserted place. (tranquil music) Teresa, Filomena, and Ankara have been on the road for a little less than an hour. They've made such good progress, they can even take a short break. The girls have a treat in sight: an apache pine tree, one of only a few to be found on the steep slope. The three have plans for the seeds. They are perfect for the small snack in between; but getting them is not that easy. (dynamic piano music) Chew, and spit. The girls just want the juice from the seeds, one of nature's candies. They taste like pinenuts, only slightly more bitter. Translator: The long trip to school makes us hungry. That's why we eat the seeds. The juice in the seeds tastes really good. Narrator: The students can use a little refreshment. The first dangerous obstacle of the descent lies ahead. (tremoring tenuous music) The last part is easy going for the students. But to get to the valley, the three must first descend an extremely steep slope. It's exactly this spot that their mother begs them to be careful about, each time they depart. (tremoring tenuous music) Lorenzo has been on the road for less than an hour, and the temperature is soaring. The climate in the Sierras is similar to that of the desert. At night it can easily cool down to freezing, while during the day the thermometer can rise to 25 degrees celsius or more. (relaxed electric-guitar music) Put the jacket away quickly, and keep going. Under no circumstance does Lorenzo want to be late for school. He's happy that he can soon play with his friends. (relaxed electric-guitar music) Translator: Down there, the way is easy. I have no problems there. But from here on, it gets steeper, and, above, there's a really difficult spot. Narrator: The difficult spot is this ridge. Extremely steep, full of boulders, and not more than half a meter wide at the narrowest parts. (dreamy aural music) Step by step, Lorenzo works his way from the valley, up to school, constantly checking his footing. No risks taken here. (dreamy aural music) The last few meters, and then Ankara, Filomena, and Teresa must face their first challenge: this bluff. They're beginning to feel the strain of the day's early start and the long road. Teresa, the smallest of the three, falls behind. (dramatic percussive music) Just over the ledge lies the real difficult part. Their mother once broke her arm here. The morning dew makes the rocks slippery. And it's shady here the entire day. Interpreter: This is a dangerous place. Or, as our mother always says, we need to be especially careful here. (dynamic determined stringed music) Narrator: The sisters don't take their mother's warning seriously. Instead of going carefully, step by step down, the girls prefer to jump down the stairs. (girls chatting) For them, the Sierras is more like a large playground than a dangerous place. (girls chatting playfully) Interpreter: The hard part is behind us. It gets easier now for awhile. Narrator: While the girls have fun, Lorenzo has been going uphill for an hour now. His feet and legs are tired, and he still has dangerous passages before him. (dramatic percussive music) This is a very draining hike for Lorenzo. But if you know where to look, even in the barren Sierras, you can find something to eat. (optimistic music) Lorenzo plucks the leaves of a creosote bush. His people believe that it possesses healing powers. Interpreter: I eat the leaves because I'm hungry. I pick out the soft leaves; they taste good. Narrator: Lorenzo eats as much as he can. The leaves need to give him enough strength for the rest of the way to school. (soft uncertain music) Even if he might be late for school, the six-year-old takes a break. His feet need to rest. Interpreter: There I have a blister, from walking, and it really hurts. My shoe rubs there constantly. And here it also hurts, here in front, by the big toe, because my toes always hit the front of the shoe. (soft uncertain music) Narrator: Lorenzo must continue with his sore toe. There is not doctor for miles around in any direction, nor disinfectant or blisters bandage. (soft uncertain music) Filomena, Ankara, and Teresa's school begins in an hour and a half. It's not unusual at all that girls go to school. The Raramuri have always held men and women to be equal. (calm stringed music) Despite playing around, the sisters are making good time. But Teresa has fallen behind again. Her sandal has broken. The huaraches are simple sandals made from old tire rubber and leather straps. They can be repaired easily. Interpreter: These are my old shoes. They break often. I need new ones. Narrator: New sandals cost 200 pesos: two days' wages, approximately 13 US dollars. When the harvest is over, most men have to leave their families, and work as day laborers to earn some extra cash. The money they make goes for staple items, such as food like flour and corn. New shoes are usually at the bottom of the list. (soft stringed music) Around 100,000 Raramuri inhabit the Sierras. They are the largest and poorest indigenous group in Mexico. The majority live below the poverty line of $1.25 a day, as is the case with Teresa, Ankara, and Filomena's parents. Their livestock and crops are not enough to survive. Other family members like the grandfather of the three girls must also be fed. To make money, the mother weaves baskets. The 25-year-old sells them in the neighboring villages or exchanges them for food. It's not unusual that such a young woman already has three children. According to Raramuri tradition, you reach adulthood at 15, and may then drink alcohol and get married. Accompanied by her father, Aniseta looks for new materials for the baskets. This can take hours. Although he is a man of advanced years, he has no problem keeping up. All Raramuri are good runners. Interpreter: As a child, I walked barefoot, without the huaraches. Then we began making them from cow leather, and now from old car tires. I used to do running races here in the Sierras, and won twice. I still travel a lot these days when I do the shopping, down into the valley, and back up the mountain. Narrator: Raramuri means: those who run well. This indigenous group is famous for their long-distance runners. They can run hundreds of miles at a time without a problem. With their villages scattered all over the mountains, the Raramuri are forced to be constantly on foot. Their settlement of this rough terrain was due to the arrival of the Spanish Conquistadors, 500 years ago. Only in the seclusion of the Sierras could they live almost undisturbed until today. (cheery stringed music) For the baskets, Aniseta needs the leaves of the sortori. The tree grows almost exclusively on rocky overhangs, which makes cutting the blades extremely dangerous. (speaking in foreign language) Interpreter: This spot is very difficult and dangerous. Take good care of yourself. You better not slip off, or you will go crashing down. (speaking in foreign language) Interpreter: What else can I do? I need to make the money. Narrator: In order to make the basket beautiful, she needs the bright green leaves, all the way at the top. For each basket, Aniseta makes the equivalent of $3. A bit further, in a small valley, Lorenzo reaches his biggest challenge. (suspenseful music) The narrow path leads Lorenzo directly along the face of the cliff. Anyone from his village who wants to go to Cerocahui must pass along here; there is no other way. (dramatic orchestral music) In some places the rock path is about two meters wide, but in others, it is only 50 centimeters. One last deep breath before he takes on the most dangerous challenge of the day. Lorenzo doesn't like this part of the trip, at all. Interpreter: If I fall here, I will fall very far down. I'm quite scared; that's why I go very slowly. I'll be happy when I'm in the boarding school above. Then I won't have to pass here for another few days. Narrator: The abyss under Lorenzo is 300 meters deep. Every step, every move must now be right. (rocks clattering) The rocks here in the Sierra Madre Occidental are a mixture of limestone and volcanic deposits, an extremely porous and brittle combination. At any time, one of the stones could break away under Lorenzo's feet. (suspenseful music) Without a safety rope, Lorenzo climbs up the steep narrow point. Luckily, until now, no child has ever fallen from the wall. (dramatic orchestral music) (rocks clattering) Lorenzo has been on his way now for one and a half hours. His legs are getting heavier and heavier as the road gets steeper and steeper. The six-year-old must remain vigilant. Many people have been injured on their way here before. (dramatic orchestral music) This one last ledge, and then Lorenzo can leave the cliff behind him. (Lorenzo speaking in foreign language) Interpreter: I'm glad now that I made it up here, but further up there is, again, another difficult part. (tenuous orchestral music) Narrator: The way over the ledge has taken a lot of strength, but he can't take a break now. Lorenzo still needs another hour to get to school, which lies all the way up, just behind this mountain peak. Shortly before eight o'clock, the girls have managed more than half of the way. Now comes the best part: the break in the river. It's almost dry, at the moment. (girls giggling) Interpreter: If it rains a lot, the river gets so high that we cannot cross it. Then we have to go back home. (gurgling) Narrator: When the water level is high, the students could fall into the raging river. None of the girls can swim. (stringed music) Today, the students are lucky. They made it across the river without any rain. The weather can change in the Sierras from one moment to the next. In the dry season it almost never rains, but when the rain comes, it comes with a vengeance. At times, it can pour the entire day. Lorenzo can't continue when it's raining; the rocks are then too slippery and muddy to get up safely. He must wait in a cave for the weather to get better. Rain is not the only danger in the mountains; wild animals, such as cougars and coyotes are also lurking in the Sierras. Interpreter: Here on the road I once saw a coyote. I was really afraid it will bite me. Narrator: Today, Lorenzo won't be able to make it to school by nine o'clock anymore. The valley where the girls are has been spared from the rain, but the road is hard enough without a downpour. A 300-meter-high rock wall still separates them from school. (suspenseful music) Should it rain, it would be all that more difficult for Ankara, Filomena, and Teresa to reach that high. The rocks, too steep, too smooth. It will take the girls about half an hour to get up there. They have to watch out what they grab onto. The bushes can hide poisonous snakes. They've made it. It's just after half past eight, and the girls are in Cerocahui, with 170 inhabitants, the largest village within a six-hour walk, and the only village with a school. Despite their pauses, the girls arrive just before classes begin at nine o'clock. Around 100 children attend the school, all Raramuris. The students from the village and those with an easy way to school are often there an hour before classes. They use the time to play. The rain has stopped, and Lorenzo begins again to make his way through the mountains. With every step he takes, his destination, the school, gets closer. He has 700 meters below him, 300 meters still to go. Weather permitting, the six-year-old will make it to school in half an hour. But first, he has one big final test before him. Interpreter: I always have to go up this steep incline to get to school. This is a very steep and difficult part of the way. Even if it rains, I have to go up here. There's no other route to the top, so this is the only way for me to get to school. (determined music) Narrator: Lorenzo is not the only student who must travel along this passage; sometimes, he meets other children here, but he prefers to face it alone. The sun has dried up the way quickly. Now Lorenzo will no longer slip as easily. Nevertheless, he has to be careful that he doesn't get his feet caught somewhere, lose his balance, or fall. He's made it. Lorenzo's feet are hurting again, but he takes the pain in stride to meet his dreams. (speaking in foreign language) Interpreter: When I grow up, I wanna be a teacher, maybe. Or I could have lots of animals: cows, donkeys, and chickens. I would like that. (somber piano music) Narrator: Just one more ledge, and Lorenzo is in Cerocahui, 1,000 meters higher than when he started. Today, it took him just short of four hours, almost twice as long as usual. But, more importantly, Lorenzo has made it unscathed through the sierras. (wind whistling quietly) While Lorenzo walks the last meters alone towards the school, classes begin. (school bell dinging) Maria Sanchez, the school director, rings the bell to begin classes. On Mondays, school always starts at nine o'clock instead of eight. Many children have a long way to school, and often come late. (school bell dinging) Filomena is in the second grade, which shares a classroom with the first-graders, as well. First subject of the day is Spanish. (speaking in foreign language) Interpreter: Please take your books out. If there are no questions, we'll begin now to read the novel. Narrator: The children need to read a text in Spanish, and then answer questions from the board. (instructor speaking in foreign language) It's Filomena's turn. Her question: &quot;Where do we find literary texts?&quot; A classmate helps Filomena, and spells the solution. The student scribbles the word novella on the board, a novel. (speaking in foreign language) There are now only a few meters left for Lorenzo to reach the school, and they are very easy. Interpreter: I'll be glad when I have the way here behind me. I'm already looking forward to school and my friends there. Narrator: The schoolyard. Lorenzo has reached his destination. It's just after 10 o'clock. Lorenzo has only missed the first hour. (door rattling) The classroom door is locked, although it is normally always open. (door shutting) Has the teacher locked the door? (door rattling) (door creaking) Finally, he has cleared the last hurdle. Since it was cold and windy outside, Senora Genoveva had locked the door. She simply ignores Lorenzo's late arrival, and continues with the lesson. Social studies is now on the lesson plan. How Cerocahui used to be, and how the village has changed today. Lorenzo puts great effort into copying what is written on the board; it seems to come easier to the other children. (speaking in foreign language) Interpreter: Already, there are huge differences in their learning levels. The children who are always here make good progress; among those who are only sometimes here, you notice that there is no one at home pushing them; there the learning stops. The children from in town simply learn much faster than the children who come from far away. Narrator: Four teachers work here in the first six grades of the primary school, la primaria. This is followed by three years middle school, la secundaria. And those who want to go to college must first finish three years of high school, la preparatoria. 12 o'clock, lunch time. During the week, students get breakfast, lunch, and dinner. The food is free for all children. It's an attempt to combat hunger and malnutrition, which is a major problem here in the mountains. (metal utensil scraping) Today, there's a sauce made from canned sardines, with potatoes and peas and tortillas. The pita bread is the staple food in the Sierras. Interpreter: Fish with potatoes tastes good. (giggling) (relaxed stringed music) Narrator: The lunch break is two hours long. Classes then resume at two o'clock. Teresa now has art, where the children can paint what they want. (children speaking in foreign language) Teresa likes drawing bears the most. Lorenzo has something like tutoring in the afternoon. The students do their homework under the supervision of a teacher. (Lorenzo speaking in foreign language) (speaking in foreign language) Four o'clock. School's out. The girls have something special to do today. They're going to the Corn Beer Festival in the village. They'll be serving goat meat, a feast that the girls get only very rarely. (lively festive music) Everyone who comes will get something to eat and drink. Sharing is a Raramuri tradition. The Corn Beer Festival is a mix of ancient rites and the Catholic faith. The Raramuri celebrate it only on special occasions, such as birthdays or weddings. Today, they pray for rain. The colorful costumes and dance are meant to please the gods, because water is scarce. The average rainfall is only about 400 liters per square meter annually. (rain quietly pattering) And, indeed, after 10 minutes, it starts to rain, and becomes bitterly cold. The hot soup with goat meat is exactly what is needed here. (relaxed stringed music) In this cold wet weather, the girls would normally prefer to return to boarding school, but the prospect of getting a bowl of meat soup, tonari, is just too tempting. The students are among the first that manage to get something to eat at the feast. The children find refuge by a wooden shed. It offers little protection from the cold rainy weather, but at the moment, that's not important. Interpreter: The meat is very good, but it's just too cold. Narrator: The ceremony is over at sunset, and the girls are not allowed out later, anyway. Lights go out at eight p.m. They must all be back at boarding school by then. (children squealing happily) Around 40 children sleep at the boarding school. Interpreter: No one gets to leave anymore. All children inside. Everybody in his or her own quarters. Let's go, quick, come on. Narrator: Sleeping quarters are a simple welded metal hut. It's a temporary solution until the new dormitory is completed. Until then, the girls sleep on six bunkbeds, often, three to a bed, just like Teresa, Ankara, and Filomena. Interpreter: Lie down. Soon the lights will go out. Let's go. Lie down now. Narrator: At night, it can get down to zero degrees celsius without any heating. Then, the thin blankets alone are not enough to keep warm; so all the kids go to bed fully dressed. Interpreter: Good night! Narrator: After the girls, it's bedtime for the boys. Like the girls, several children share a mattress. Even Lorenzo sleeps with two friends in a bed. (peaceful orchestral music) Interpreter: Are all the boys here? All here? Narrator: Lorenzo is the first to fall asleep. The long and dangerous walk to school through the Sierras and the lessons were just too exhausting today. Now, like all children in the boarding school, he dreams of a future with no worries or poverty. (emotional orchestral music)