Lin Nuannuan from today onwards Let you be defeated Who are you beggar rest assured I will be responsible for you I had sex with a stranger Ah, push harder, push harder. Be careful The child's head has come out. Use more force, use more force, okay Since they are twin boys Ms. Lin is so amazing There is another one Hey, keep trying. How many twins are there? 1234 Congratulations to Ms. Lin on her twin baby Come Show Mom Let's get in the car, darlings. ah Set off Healthy Safe and sound It's fate Let's get off. Let's get off. Wow mommy look Quadruplets This is too life-like. The one wearing a white dress Straight hair The woman with delicate features must be a mother. Not only looks sweet The temperament is still so outstanding If you don't know, you might think it's some big star. Report 123 Born Good health Safe and sound You four should remember what mommy said. Get along well with the children in kindergarten Got it? Got it, Mommy Especially you Kangkang You must not fight with other children in kindergarten. Remember? Don't worry, Mommy. I've always been the best. Mommy, don't you have to go to an interview today? Hurry up and don't be late Yeah, then you guys go in quickly. Um Well, it's your turn. Um Then the teachers will trouble you. Goodbye Mommy In time Now is the perfect time to go to Jiancheng Group for an interview oh oh Who is this man in the wheelchair? Such a grand occasion You're new here? This is Bo Jianchen, the CEO of Jianchen Group. In conclusion You should avoid him in the company from now on. If you mess with him That's a big trouble. It's over. It's over. Traffic jam on the road I'm late for the interview. Why are there so many people? Are they here for an interview? Wait wait wait wait The Regency Union Where have you seen it? When are you going to get up? I'm sorry. My hair seems to be tangled Don't move Pig head I didn't expect that the goldfish boss who has been as still as a mountain for thousands of years I was teased by a little girl I admire you. You call me a pighead, stop right there You are the pighead You're all pig-headed. Apologize to me right now Dear Ms. Lin Please allow me to apologize for the offense I just caused. Excuse me Excuse me Too much of a jerk. It's over. I almost destroyed the world. No. 15 Lin Nuannuan Is Lin Nuannuan here? It's here, it's here Let's go Come on Lin Nuannuan! You can definitely Hello, this is my resume Please take a seat You don't have to sit. Lin Wanting Soft Why is it you? elder sister Cooked meat How does it feel to sleep with a gigolo? Hahaha It's you Drugged me for a man Lin Nuannuan, you only have a high school degree You are not worthy of coming to our company. I am interviewing for the front desk position in your company. I remember your company's front desk There shouldn't be any academic requirements. Although Director Lin did not finish college But I graduated from Yancheng University in my junior year. And he speaks four languages They are all level 8 Indeed capable Jiang Li, rules are rules. A high school student can join our Jianchun Group If the president knew this I'm afraid it's hard to explain. In this case Ms. Li I'm sorry. Manager, please give me another chance. You can see my ability first. I don't need to be paid during my internship. Ms. Lin, I personally think you are really excellent. But you don't have enough education This is company regulation So sorry We can't record Did you hear that? Take your resume and get out of here! What positions are the HR department recruiting for today? front desk Let that pighead stay Yeah, you What makes that Pighead left to clean the toilet When did Mr. He start to care? A small front desk job is recruiting Mr. He, you are really wasting natural resources. The little girl is so pretty Looks smart at first glance But I went to clean the toilet How can you tell he is smart? Obviously stupid as a pig He is only suitable for cleaning toilets If you don't want to be like him Let me do this myself. Hey hey hey hey Yes, yes, yes, Mr. I don't know how to be gentle with women. No wonder I'm still single after 30 Manager Wen Interview later. But you must keep your eyes open Don't recruit just anybody into Jianchen Group. Too much bullying This kind of company is not worth staying in Hey wait a minute Hey Miss Lin I just received a notification The company is still lacking a cleaner Monthly salary 4,000 Food and accommodation included There are five insurances and one fund I don't know if you're willing Of course I would Manager, why haven't I heard of it? Our company is still short of a cleaner. Manager Li, if you don't believe me Feel free to ask But I want to remind you This is the person Secretary Yu personally selected. Even if you are the HR manager, you have no right to interfere. How could Secretary Yu ask for someone in person? If you are willing Please report to the company tomorrow. Thank you, Manager I will do my best Well, if there's nothing else, I'll leave first. good It's just a cleaning job. If there is no other way, you should get out of the company. Yes, I really stayed in Jiancheng Group today. What a fool. Mr. Bo, if you really want to keep him Why don't you let him be your secretary? The little girl had to clean the toilet. I can't dislike him. Why OK That's great haha Babies Mommy I have good news for you. Mommy found a job Mommy Then can you pick us up from school later? I'm sorry Cheap Mommy I will have to work a second job in a villa later. You bring your brothers and sisters. Go back with the landlady first. Is it good? Mommy, don't worry. I am the eldest brother I will definitely take good care of my brothers and sisters. My baby is so obedient Then wait for mommy to get off work Bring you your favorite strawberry cake Oh my god, such a luxurious house If one day Me and my babies I wish I could live in a house like this. How come he looks so much like our little one? Good to work Done I heard that the owner of this house is a disabled person. He will definitely like what I made. Mr. Bo's villa has been cleaned in advance. You can rest there tonight. This new hourly worker is so ignorant. How dare you touch the things in your room? I'll get rid of it now Wait a moment Sir, flowers can make people feel better. Please don't throw me into the trash can Stay first Sir, I cooked some porridge for you. Remember to eat it I've always been very picky about food. I didn't expect to finish the porridge. Hands are missing You didn't tell The housekeeping company asked the hourly worker not to touch this photo No I told him not to leave. The boss of Wan Neng Housekeeping said Found a smart and capable girl This is just one night I'm going to be fired, right? More than 300,000 yuan was changed in half a year Mr. Bo, you are really perverted Can this newcomer, Mr. Nabo, stay? Can the newcomer Mr. Bu stay? Have the housekeeping company warn the part-time worker Don't come again next time. Thank God There will be next time Otherwise, all the hourly workers in the whole well will be replaced. Mommy Mommy Mommy Mimi My dears, why haven't you slept yet? Of course I want to wait for mommy to come back and sleep together I see you're waiting for this. Fragrant and sweet strawberry cake, hahaha Who wants to eat I Go away, little devil Hahahahahahaha Mommy will definitely work hard to make money Let you live a better life And called me a pig head Don't let me meet you again Otherwise I'll beat you into a pig's head No way Is it possible that I will be fired on my first day as a part-time worker? Hey, Mama Wang Miss Lin's boss just called me. Let me remind you not to touch his things in the future Is Boss Wang not very satisfied with me? Who says you are not satisfied? I just want you to remind me not to touch anything. Then I bought it This means I can go back to work next Wednesday, right? Didn't say no I think it means you should continue cleaning. OK, OK, Mom, I get it. Thank you. It's over. It's over. I'm gonna be late Girl, are you okay? fine What's wrong Master, our car was scratched by an electric car. Don't waste your time on this kind of thing. Yeah Excuse me I'm really sorry. I didn't see the road. My entire body cost me 1,800. I'll give you all the money. It's him Wait a moment Mr. Bao, I don't think the girl did it on purpose. Otherwise, let's just leave it at that. Ask him whether he wants to make it public or private. this If it's public, call the traffic police. If it's private How much is a piece of paint? At least 50,000 or 60,000 Then let him pay 10,000 yuan. The young master and the young lady said that his entire body was worth 1,800 Do you want me to pay for it? Girl, our master said I have to pay 10,000 yuan Not a cent less What ten thousand? How about I write you an IOU first? I will pay it back as soon as I get my salary. You should ask our young master yourself. gentlemen I want 20,000 yuan, not a cent less Then call the traffic police. Oh no It takes at least one or two hours to wait for the traffic police to make a decision. I was late on my first day at work. He will definitely be fired from the company. Oh, ten thousand. I'll pay 10,000 Are you deaf? I mean 20,000. No, you just said 10,000. How can you change your mind just like that? I want to change. Any questions? I have no money No money So what? Say something nice 2,000 per sentence ah Ten sentences 2 thousand If I say 10 sentences, then I don't have to pay back the money. If you say a few more words, you might make a lot of money. Hey, you keep your word. Um Uncle, you have a lot of money Are you a pig? girl Our young master is only 29 at 70 Ahaha yeah? How come he's the same as my boss? Considered a wealthy person When you curse people, you only curse pigs. boss Boss, I was wrong. I shouldn't have hit your car. Boss, I'm really poor. I have an old father to take care of. There are 4 hungry children below. Adults have a lot of Please let me go. snort Boss, please just look at my cute stupidity. Please don't argue with me. He is really good at making up stories about four hungry children. 6 sentences left Good night, you look so handsome The wife must be very beautiful. The child must be cute Stop talking. Stop talking. Uncle doesn't even have a boss. Not allowed to say Boss, you are so nice. There will definitely be quadruplets in the future. Two sons and two daughters They are all extremely smart That's the man in your elevator. 20,000 yuan will be deducted from your salary Not a cent less Humph, bastard Why are you deducting my money? Who do you think you are? Is he the boss of our company? My name is Bo Jianchen Bo Jianchen takes care of you Bo Jianchen Hou Jianchen He Jianchun, President of Jianchun Group What is the old man still doing? yes 50 RMB will be deducted for each late arrival. Boss, I admit that I spoke too loudly just now. Just give me a chance. Deduction of 50 RMB for each late arrival You're gonna be late. Thanks Xiaoxiao tied up 50 yuan Xiao Nuan Hechuan It's really you 5 years gone Don't talk anymore Thank you. I still I have work to do so I'm leaving first 5 years gone There's nothing to say to me. I'm sorry. I really have something else to do. I'm leaving first No I have XiaonanXiaonan open Xiaonan These five years Where have you been? He Chun, you hurt me Sorry I I'm so excited He Chuan, I still have work to do. I'm leaving first Can't Xiaonan, I have been looking for you for 5 years I will never let you leave so easily Xiaonan In these five years Do you know how much I miss you? Let me go first He Chun, don't let go I called for help. You call me and take me to the bedroom Everyone in the company knows My Hechun's fiancee is back brother Do you miss me? He Chun, our five years are over. I beg you to wake up. good I don't believe you have no feelings for me We are finished in Hechuan I just want to work hard now Stop bothering me Kid Kid you This stupid woman is so brave How dare you look at me with such hatred? Don't you want to mix? Or She forgot so quickly that she still owed me 20,000 yuan In this company Who dares to move my wheelchair? Just left like that Ignorance is fearless Mr. Guo's 8:50 morning meeting is about to begin Secretary Ming Bring me that woman back. The Woman Which woman? This early morning Who messed with this living devil? Mr. Bo, please give me a kind reminder The woman you are talking about is That's the pig head. Pig head Mr. Fu, what do you want from me? May I have your name Lin Nuannuan Same last name as Lin Rourou If Mr. Bo has nothing to do, I'll leave first. I'm quite busy I think so You have something to say to me? Yes, I do have a question for you. continue I want to ask if your car can be insured. Why do I have to pay for it? And why are you teasing me? I promised you one sentence worth 2,000 yuan. Why don't you say anything? You are a big boss. It's fun to tease a little girl like me, right? This matter If others knew that you are a CEO Bully me, a little girl Just waiting for your reputation to be ruined Buddha, although I am poor But I have backbone I would rather die standing Kneeling to live So don't bother firing me. Resign voluntarily OK, I agree. I agreed to it so easily. If you want to resign Then pay me back the 30,000 yuan you owe me. What 30,000 Not Bo Did I hear that correctly? It was clearly stated before that 20,000 How did it become 30,000? I am a victim I should have the final say on how much compensation to pay. Sign him up Why do you need me to pick it up for you? After such a long time I have long forgotten what Hijikata looks like. I must be crazy Only then will you feel Luo Jianchen is the man from five years ago He Chuan, you don't want to be this project manager anymore, right? This customer is a long-term customer of our Jianheng Group I'll give you three days to get this customer. Otherwise, get out of here. I discovered such a big secret How dare you treat me like this? My legs are fine. Why do we need to install residual inspection? Nuannuan, are you looking for death? Let me go I warn you If you dare to reveal a word to the outside world I am speechless Did you hear what I said? You'd better sign it now. Otherwise, it will definitely grow on me I promise I'll tell you one day. OK What are you going to do? What to do you do not know Let you go Who are you Who are you Don't worry I'm not that impatient. No, I'm leaving As long as you don't target me on purpose in the future I promise I promise I will never tell anyone. How could I do this to him? Sign it and get out Is this a legitimate company? I'm just A small cleaning lady almost encountered life-threatening situation. If we continue doing this You will suffer a lot if you die Start now For every minute you hesitate, you will get an extra 10,000 He Jiancheng, are you sick? Sick to me Everyone in Yancheng knows I'll remind you You don't have much time left Sign if you want Lin Nuannuan crashed and lost her car A Maybach After negotiation between the two parties Lin Nuannuan agreed to compensate 50,000 yuan, but Lin Nuannuan couldn't come up with the money. So every month the salary is deducted Wang Jiancheng What is the situation How did 20,000 become 50,000? You are worse than a loan shark Why Look at what is written, it is negotiated by both parties Have you negotiated with me? Aren't we negotiating now? Kill but not humiliate Unfair Terms I won't sign It's okay if you don't sign. Sausage bar for one night 200 I'm a gangster. How could Lin Nuannuan have the same habits as the hourly worker? I like to draw a love heart next to it. If there's nothing else, I'll leave first. Lin Nuannuan, I need to remind you Now that you know my secret Then you are not allowed to leave without permission If I knew you left the company secretly Even if you run to the ends of the earth I will catch you back myself. Miss Li, you talked with Mr. Bo for so long What did you say? Signed a contract to sell Indenture Secretary Lin, aren't we going to have a meeting? I must have seen it wrong. How could this cold-faced devil of mine possibly laugh? And called me a pig I think you are the pig. Still a big stupid pig that can laugh Lin Rourou, I'm busy I don't have time to argue with you. If you have nothing else, leave now. Don't disturb work Where is President Lin Nannan? I want you to clean up his office. Remember the Bodhi tree on the president's desk? The president's favorite You must remember who to call. It's a good time to take advantage of Bo Jianchun's absence. Sweep his office Otherwise, if you offend him, you will suffer a great loss. Dare to steal the river from me I will definitely get you out of the company The leaves are yellow If you don't take good care of it I guess he'll die in a few days. Lin Nana, you moved this Bodhi tree Angry, I took it away I wonder who can save her this time. this This pot of Bodhi tree But the Buddha's mother left behind Previously, an employee just changed the water. The Buddha was furious Fire the employee on the spot For no reason This is over. Since I can't raise Why do you still need to raise it? What if I were to raise you? I will definitely keep you green and fat. Your master called me a pighead. I think he made you a big pig. Oh, stop talking. My little ancestor When did Luo Zongfu come? I won't say bad things about him behind his back. He heard it all, right? Lin, wait, since you are so good at it How about I give this Bodhi tree to you? He heard it Mr. Wu, what I said just now was all nonsense Don't take it seriously. If there is a destiny first If you don't take good care of it You're dead. What if I raise it well? Mr. Guo Should there be a reward? Lin Nuannuan You are the first person who dares to ask me for a reward sorry When I said nothing If you can take care of yourself, you can be my secretary. Be my secretary I don't want to die I've decided to be your secretary. Forget it Are you rejecting me? Hey Mr. Luo I have limited abilities I am not qualified to be your secretary. Sweeping the floor is more suitable for me When I was mopping the floor, I heard the cleaning ladies say Secretary Xu is punished 28 times a day by Bo Jian Being her secretary Better to be a cleaner If Mr. Bo has nothing to do, I'll leave first. Lin Nuannuan, I told you to get out of Jiancheng Group I mean what I say Since you have been kicked out of Jiancheng Group From now on Don't show up in front of Brother Hechuan baffling What do you mean I was kicked out of Jiancheng Group? What did you say Mr. Bo didn't fire you. You mean Mr. Bo? Of course he didn't fire me. He just asked me to be his secretary I do not agree This is impossible I clearly saw you move Mr. Bo's Bodhi tree He didn't drive you away. He also keeps you as his secretary. This is impossible What do you mean Lin Rourou It was you who deliberately asked me to touch Mr. Bo's Bodhi tree. It seems you are not stupid Lin Nuannuan must have not seen it this time. You're lucky. You won't be so good-tempered next time. This Lin Rongrong is really Why did I believe his lies? And the one who can't see through the heart You tease me all day long Ran to the rooftop to scold me My babies, mommy misses you too. Mommy Could it be that this pig-head is already married and has children? Don't worry, babies. Mommy had a good lunch today There are fish and beef ribs There is also a big shrimp. A day of physical work This woman just eats the leftover buns and mineral water from the morning Is she that poor? Even if you save money to raise children Is it possible that the child's father did not pay child support? Boss, I'm really poor. I have an old father to take care of. I have 4 hungry children below. You have a lot of Please let me go. Could it be that what he said was true? Husband died young He has to support a whole family by himself. So I don't even have money to eat. Mr. Guo Honey, mommy has something else to do. Just hang up first Bye-Bye When did Wu Jianchun come? How come there is no sound when walking? Mr. Guo is quite clever. If there's nothing else, I'll leave first. Wait a moment Buddha What are you doing Shouldn't I be asking you this? I'm sorry. Get out of here, you're gonna crush me to death I'm leaving first Lin Nuannuan, you did it on purpose It was just an accident Besides, how could I have done it on purpose? Isn't it because I saw less of this book? This is Pull me up There's no one here. What are you pretending to be? Just get up by yourself Unless you don't want to pay me back sooner Start now Every time you complete one thing for me other than work I'll give you 100 yuan True or false Pull me up first that's all Help me over Is your hand okay? fine Start Today You are responsible for my lunch and dinner. I'll give you 100 bucks for every trip. A meal 100 200 per day 6,000 per month Isn't it higher than my salary? Then it won't be long before I can pay you back. Hey, you keep your word. Um That's OK Rice porridge 100 What dishes do not cook But I'll say this up front. If I am not satisfied with the food Don't take a penny. Add my WeChat I'll send you my sign. Okay, I'll sweep you or you sweep me You do it yourself I won't want If there's nothing wrong, I'm leaving. I'm leaving first. Babies, mommy is back. Mommy Mommy Okay, okay. Do you miss mommy? Yes, I do. I'm sorry My dears, Mommy is back late again today. I didn't have time to pick you up from kindergarten. It's ok, mommy, sit down. We give you a massage OK Mommy, are you thirsty? I'll pour you some water good Thank you, babe Mommy, are you hot? Mom will fan you. Mommy will be cool soon. Baby is so good Mommy, let me help you put these things in the kitchen Mommy, why are you injured? Mommy accidentally fell Mommy, let me blow it for you. Oh my god, our baby blew it. Mommy, the pain is gone immediately. Okay, okay. Are you hungry? Mommy will cook for you. good younger brother The wound on Mommy's hand is definitely not caused by herself. She must have been bullied by someone. Found it There is a new friend in my mommy's phone recently Bojian Village Pighead himself Do not eat onions, ginger and garlic No MSG Do not eat pork Eat grapes but not raisins Eat tomatoes without ketchup Don't eat any food that smells bad Do you eat this? Bo, this is Secretary Lin, look at what this expression means You really don't know what this means. This is obviously just some poop. Hahaha, are you sure he doesn't mean to be friendly? Of course not. Uh, that wave I'll put the file here first. If nothing happens I'll go out first. Do you eat this? If you like I'll ask Mommy to bring you a bucket tomorrow. The voice of a child is warm and warm You're crazy, bro? This guy is Mommy's warrior. But does his mother still have a good life? At worst, I won't do it. Mr. Huo, I don't allow you to bully my mommy Did you hear that? What does Mr. Huo mean? If I find out you're bullying me Mom, I'm not rude to you. How can you be rude to me, little friend? First of all, I'm not a kid. My name is Lin Kangkang My mother said I am a big forest with all kinds of birds Lin Jiankang Secondly, I am serious Because my mom said We don't cause trouble But not afraid of trouble Don't cause trouble, but don't be afraid of anything I have known how to protect my mother since I was a child. It seems that Lin Nuannuan has educated her children very well. They misunderstood us. He must be afraid of us. It should be like this Come out to eat healthy We'll be there soon Healthy Didn't you guys agree to video chat with grandpa? What are you two doing? Mommy, I've already video chatted with grandpa. I just had a question that I couldn't solve. Let me teach me I'll go out to eat after I finish asking this question. real Of course it's true That's pretty good. But learning is important Eating is more important Come out and wash your hands and eat well This chat record must be deleted What if Mommy knew about this? Xiaonan I know you're here. He Chuan, what do you want to do? Come have lunch with me at noon. I'll take you to eat something good. How's the canteen? I can still afford to eat without meals. Then go to the cafeteria to eat Go to the company cafeteria Mr. He Secretary Lin Ask Lin Nuannuan to buy me lunch right now Ms. Lin Louder Ms. Lin The president asked you to buy him food right now. What would you like to eat for lunch today? I am just the food of Wangjiang Pavilion I want you to go in person Wangjiangge Fresh City's most upscale restaurant One dish costs hundreds of dollars. But it's past 11 o'clock now. You can also buy three dishes and one soup Tell me my name No need to queue Okay, okay. Guaranteed to satisfy you How come this person has a harder time than our family's health and safety? Um, please get out of the way. Xiao Nuan Lin Nuannuan, I give you three minutes Bring the meal right away. Coming, coming 37 minutes 21 seconds Did you crawl over there? I'm sorry. The road is a bit congested Delayed for a while Don't do it again I went to buy food without eating. Still think I'm slow What a capitalist who exploits his employees Lin Nuannuan, did I tell you that I don't eat onions? Is there one? Then I'll pick it out for you. When did you finish choosing? Then I'll buy you another one. My money comes from the wind Yes, yes, your money is not blown by the wind. Drinking the water that the shopkeeper brought me No mess No, don't make any noise. This doesn't work either. That won't work either. So what are you going to do? This food cannot be wasted You eat all these dishes. Let me eat all the rest. There can't be any left. Eat them all Mr. This is not good. These dishes cost 500 yuan. Park Jianchun is so picky I didn't expect it was cheap. Save the food and take it back for health and safety They must be happy Thank you, Mr. Bo. This woman won't keep the food again Bring it back for the kids. Wait a minute, it suddenly occurred to me To prevent you from secretly throwing away the food you can't finish. Eat here I really ate it want to take hand Finished eating After eating, there is nothing left It's all in my stomach. Is it tasty It's delicious. The food in Wangjiang Pavilion is really different. By the way, Mr. Bu How about the meal money this time? Total is 588 You see, I'm looking for financial reimbursement. Or give me the time? I didn't expect that people still use cash these days. Mr. Bo, give me this cash I can't find it. Here is 1,000 yuan Thank you, Mr. Bo. 500 yuan is your meal money Another 500 I want to know your relationship with He Chuan President Park's non-work related questions Can I choose not to answer? But why do I remember that you still owe me 50,000 yuan? As long as you answer this question I'll give you another 3,000 3,000 Trust Me One month's salary Mr. Wu, this is my personal matter. No Comments If there's nothing else, I'll leave first. He Chuan was your former fiance You investigate me Don't misunderstand I don't mean to like you It's just that I'm the president of Jiancheng Group. I have a responsibility Responsible for every employee of Jiancheng Group Including cleaners Okay, since you know all this. Can the 3,000 yuan be offset? Wishful thinking This is what you said I don't necessarily dislike it. Did you say that on your own initiative? Just say no. Why Lin Nuannuan looks at people smartly I don't know if I'm also diligent. Why does Mr. Bo target others every day? Mr. Hu, you have something to talk to me about? Well, the part-time worker Let him clean the villa once a day. Wages remain unchanged Thank God Finally, I don't have to change hourly workers anymore I don't know what this new guy did. The blogger treats him so specially. Don't be angry. Don't be angry. No one can replace me when I get sick Anyway, I didn't spend a penny Had a great meal I'm not the one who suffers. Me, Ms. Lin? You are so lucky. The owner of Bishui New Town I'll let you clean up every day. It's the same price as before. 500 per time I really find it weird too. Although this boss is generous But he is notoriously difficult to serve. I've never worked part-time for more than a week. Mother Although I have never seen the owner of this house But I think he should be pretty good. At least he can feel my kind concern Not a bad person Fine, fine, as long as you both are satisfied. Oh, that's right. The boss said Let you clean the villa from today Keep this in mind. Go after get off work Don't forget it. Don't worry, mom. I won't forget it. Thank you, Mama Wang I'll treat you to dinner some other day Found this long-term part-time job Life will be more comfortable in the future. It can also give you a better living environment. The money from seeing Bo Jiancheng can be spent earlier Could it be that Lin Nuannuan's luck is about to change from now on? Isn't this a suburban villa area? Who is here for me? ah Do you have eyes? How to drive Are you okay, brother? Hechuan You follow me Are you crazy? What if I get hit? Sun Nan Let's start over, shall we? We can't go back Why did you clearly say that I was your first love? You will only love me in this life You are single and not married now. Why did you reject me already? Let go, I'm living a good life now Stop pestering me. I still have work You should go back and find Your reasons I can help you Haven't you always wanted to be a designer? As long as you promise to start over with me I can use all the connections in the company to make you You want me to sell myself as a lieutenant for fame? No, really. I just said you were right I do dream of becoming a designer. So I would rather be a cleaner and stay in Jiancheng Group Just to be a little closer to my dream But Lin Nuannuan will only rely on her own strength Become a designer Xiao Nuan Stop following me. Xiao Nuan Bamboo Hand Have vision No one in this world can refuse the food I cook. Even the babies said I'm a delayed top chef but How come this word is so similar to Bo Jian Cheng Ti? Impossible Impossible I must be thinking too much. What should I do? I just remember that Bo Jianchen likes to eat light food. Or make beef brisket stew with potatoes Oh, I must have been lately. I was put into a trance by Bo Jianchen I will do anything I want. You're done! Wait another 40 minutes and it will be done kill me Pink slippers I didn't expect this hourly worker to have such good skills. At least it suits my taste. Sir, is the food to your taste? Remember to give a five-star review Really good Five-star reviews Sir, is there anything else you would like to eat? Wonton noodles then Oh yeah Friendly reminder to Mr. Don't eat too much at midnight snack In addition to growing flesh It's not good for your body either. knew How can I think of people? Dreams are the goals of success in life I just want to have ideas and personality Looks like a part-time worker with a dream Secretary Lin asked the company to hold a fashion design competition For the whole society All walks of life Anyone with ability and talent can participate May your dreams come true Have you heard? After a while The company should be oriented to the society I held the autumn and winter fashion design competition I also heard However, unlike previous years, This year's design competition is divided into adult wear and children's wear When was this game released? Just these few days. I heard that the bonus also requires a ban The first place will not only receive a prize of 100,000 Can you come directly to our company to be a designer? 100,000 yuan to pay off the 50,000 yuan debt There's still a lot left. The most important thing is that I can still be a designer here Does &quot;facing the whole society&quot; mean everyone? This should be the meaning. You're not going to participate in this competition, are you? Isn't it for everyone? Of course I want to try it Just in case I heard correctly. Even for the whole society Not just anyone can participate. You are a cleaner Just do your own thing. Have you done your part? It's work time Not working well Don't you want to do it anymore? Wait a minute A big customer from Germany will come to the company soon. Go clean up the meeting room. Good wave Ling'er, what are you doing? Freshly mopped floor Lu Delang, you dare to push me It's obviously your fault for being lazy and not mopping the floor properly. German Kung Fu is coming soon In case I offend them Just wait to be kicked out. Let go of you You dare to attack me? court death sir does the inch moving go one bit see the bitter in the shore ass inch can hit the washing kind of Zombies find one bitch in Boston okay is that okay yeah it says Tron okay Don't be fooled by my mistakes. What negative impression did this customer have on the company? What's going on? I'm sorry, Mr. Wu. Brother Yuan, what's wrong with you? you How can you pour dirty water on Mr. William's shoes? I see you can't even do this little thing. It's better to quit early. It's obviously you Mr. Luo Just fire him. Mr. Luo, please let Mr. William go in first. It's impolite to stay outside for too long. Mr. No Practice Mr. William Then let's get started I believe we Before the sound group Abe escaped Uber hobbed Kindan tone in man Copyrvan Mr. Wang, it should be that the replacement detector of your colleague is broken. I'm contacting maintenance now But it takes a while for them to come I'm afraid there's not enough time. You mean we don't have a translation? The simultaneous interpreter is broken too, right? yes Yes So how do we communicate with customers? I don't know either. Hundreds of people in the company Is there no one who speaks German? Mr. Guo, I'll take it. Lin Duanchang knows German Oh yeah I remembered His resume says he is a member of the Death Society One of them is German And you saw his expression just now. With his ability No worse than a professional translator I believe he can do it. no We must not let Lin Nuannuan show off in front of Mr. Bo. The leader asked you to go out first. What are you doing? It is like this What about German customers? He wants to drink sparkling water No more in the company Go out and buy 10 bottles first. The company needs sparkling water to receive customers That should be the job of the purchasing team. Why did you suddenly send me to buy it? What are you still standing there for? Customers are waiting Make customers unhappy Can you afford it? Then you give me money first If you don't have cash, go first. I'll come back and reimburse you. Customers are waiting That's sorry. I haven't finished my work yet. I see you are quite free. Buy it yourself Lin, are you deliberately going against me? Go wherever you want So much nonsense Manager Lin Where do you want Lin Dengdeng to go? Manager Wen Lin Nuannuan is now holding Don't go. Follow me first. Hey Lin Nuannuan Lin Nuannuan was not fooled I'm so mad Manager AyeAye Where are you taking me? The company's centralized translation system is broken You should go to the conference room and serve as an interpreter for Mr. Guo. Hey, what are you doing with this? Arrange your work for others Your task today Just be a good German translator Do you understand? Oh, go away. zehan Uber hopped kinda loose of an answer to Suzanne this beats boy enjoy above water sign on an elevation of standard hb in ubis the full time h has a high zazing of good cooperation Mr. William said Happy cooperation Happy cooperation hey Bo is this Adama in her poots cuffed Bo Zong Mr. William asked me if I was a cleaner in our company. yes He is our company's cleaner. that is correct escht ZS national hoops zone on Al escht builder from Christogan deuts the seats of elves as hetates the ristic Avalatofono Mr. William said Not only good-looking High quality Also knows German It's a pleasure to work with us. Lin Nuannuan, can't you translate blindly? Are you sure Mr. William said that? That's for sure. Sensitivity Don't think you did a translation yourself. How amazing! I tell you As long as I am in the company for one day Don't even think about getting ahead in the company. Li Rongrong, don't think I don't know You just asked me to buy sparkling water just to be content What on earth do you want to do by targeting me again and again? I should say this. You were obviously engaged to Brother Hechuan back then You're still going to vote with another man Do something like this How dare you show up in front of Brother He Chuan? You are talking nonsense You know whether I'm talking nonsense or not. Do you dare to say that you haven't slept with other men? Now, these are all thanks to you. It was you who gave me the devil. You have evidence Lin Nuannuan, you are so reckless that you did such a thing Are you going to frame me? Our Lin family is really two ungrateful wolves. What are you looking at here? Mr. Bo, did you hear everything? I didn't mean to target Lin Nuan. It's just that people like him who have corrupted their morals You don't deserve to stay in the company. So Mr. I suggest firing Lin Nuannuan Expulsion is so serious Lin Nuannuan just gave our company Win a 300 million yuan contract I don't think Lin Nuannuan has such great ability Can get 300 million orders It's the strength of Baozong That's true. This Lin Nuannuan looks honest. I didn't expect that this person is such a person in private. I'll stick to it. I don't like you. Now I feel like I can't do anything with my life This time I'm dead Get out of here How does it feel for my sister to sleep with a gigolo? Haha Birdie I trust you so much I didn't expect you to be this kind of person. I am here to cancel the engagement on behalf of the He family. Yes It is like this Lin Nana, are you okay? You go, I I'm leaving. What I just said is true. So, he doesn't deserve to stay in the company. Enough, I don't want to work in Jiancheng Group anymore. Seeing such rumors If you do this again, get out of Jiancheng Group right away Li, wait, come with me to the office. What is the relationship between Lin Nuannuan and Mr. Bo? Mr. Bo is clearly protecting him Have you got a meal yet Luo Jianchen is concerned about me Thank you Mr. Luo I have eaten Are you really going to fire me? How is it possible? You still owe me money How could I fire you? Besides, do you think I am the kind of person who doesn't distinguish between companies? I never listen to this kind of one-sided statement. It's because he was always mean to me before I met him. It turns out to be quite humane. Well Today a company signed a big order of 300 million To reward you Come on, I can promise you a request. real That 550,000 yuan Not a cent less I want the designer's advice. No, you don't have enough education. How did he know I wanted to be a designer? Could it be that he is the worm in my stomach? Otherwise You be my personal secretary The personal secretary not only has to accompany the president on business trips I also have to take care of the CEO's life at the same time. In contrast I still feel that sweeping the floor is more suitable for me Why don't you want me to leave? I feel my abilities are limited Internship period: half a year Salary unchanged After internship Annual salary: 300,000 There are five insurances and one housing fund There are also company benefits There is also a year-end bonus at the end of the year but In order to live up to your expectations I will do my best Oh my god, such a high salary For a better life for children Just die People die for money Birds die for food Ladies and gentlemen Stop what you are doing Announce something First things first Today the company signed a big order of 300 million Lin Nuannuan deserves credit Now promoted to Mr. Bo's personal secretary Applause and congratulations Keep working on it Thank you Mr. Guo Okay, the second thing You have all worked hard during this period. I always want to reward everyone I left work early tonight and went to Wangjiangjun for dinner. Then we went to sing at Kaleidoscope good Okay, everyone, follow me and get ready. Wait a minute, Mr. Bo I'm afraid I can't go tonight. Secretary Ming, this party is specially organized for you. Love to go or not Mr. Bo also has a secretary job Can I not work overtime? You know what you're talking about I know My request is a little too much. But I actually have a part-time job Just take a little time every day Hey, can't you be flexible? Oh, Mr. Luo I don't want to make more money. Pay your debt now. You think I did it for the money? No Forget it, as long as I work overtime You two One of them stayed As for who You decide I am not you I really have something to do today Hard work, hard work Kick on you My dears, is mommy back? Mommy Mommy Mommy Okay, okay. Wow, mommy bought so many things today Did you get rich? Mommy is not rich Mommy has something big to announce Mommy got a promotion Wow, mommy is so awesome But what is a promotion? My sister's promotion means my mom has become very powerful Can make a lot of money After Mommy got promoted Annual salary: 300,000 Then we can move to a bigger villa. Can we each have a room? Yeah Yeah Yeah I have a house too. I have a new house shake hands yes I didn't expect the secretary to ride a rocket car It's quite easy. Lina, Mr. Bo will go to Hong Kong on a business trip tomorrow. You go with him. What did you say I just took office. I don't know how to do anything except pouring a cup of coffee. Why would you let me go on a business trip with this devil? I don't know much about the secretary's job. If I do something wrong, Mr. Bo will suffer. So the secretary Can you go with Mr. Bo? That's what I told Mr. Bo. But Mr. Bo specifically asked you to go. Call me to go I wasn't crazy just now Deliberately making things difficult for me Hmm, that's it. Mr. Luo didn't come. On the boat, what about you? Just do your job well. Oh yeah I will send the notes for business trip to your mobile phone later. ah Well, well, how many days will you be away on business this time? Yeah, three days Three days Then my introduction job will definitely fail. Hello Mom Could you please talk to your boss? Is it okay for me to go to their house and clean it once a week? Are you stupid? You clean seven times a week and that's 3,500. But my current job requires overtime during the day If it doesn't work out, I'll just have to quit this part-time job. Then let me ask for you. Thank you, Wang Ma. Thank you for your help. What do you mean once a week? OK I see Forget it, just die. Mr. Bo seems to be very happy recently. I haven't cursed anyone for three days. If not now, when? Bo Zong The hourly worker said he wanted to change the cleaning time. Clean once a week Um You let someone tell him that he cleans it a few times a week Price unchanged Oh oh ok I'll reply now Do you think this hourly worker is a fool? Two hours of work for 500 yuan He actually asked to clean only once a week What a pighead A-choo Who scold me? It's really here May your dreams come true Is GC the name of the owner of this house? If Guo Jianchen knew I wanted to be a designer You will definitely scold me for daydreaming. Wonton Noodles It seems that the owner of the villa wants to eat wonton noodles tonight This is my best Sir, there is a reason. I won't come here for the next three days. Your house is actually quite clean. Cleaning once a week is enough Thank you sir for your encouragement I will definitely keep trying Strive to become a qualified designer And Mr. I bought some fresh ingredients for the fridge The total is 120 yuan You must give me money I'm really poor Keep the change, please Mr. Guo, these are the first three strokes of the word Zheng. Probably a part-time worker Record the number of times you clean your home I'm afraid I'll mess up. These days when mommy is away You must listen carefully to your grandfather. Did you hear that? Mommy, you must come back early from your business trip. Okay, okay, don't cry, don't cry If you cry again, mommy will feel bad. Mommy promises you I will definitely think about you guys. Warm You can travel with peace of mind Dad will take care of the kids for you. No problem dad This time, it's all thanks to you. I'm really busy. Oh, silly child What are you sad about? You call me dad I've been your dad all my life. Watching Be safe on the road Come back soon Secretary Lin, I'm already at the airport. You seize the time Mr. Wang The hotel has been arranged. Please follow me Wow, this hotel is really nice Mr. Guo, this is your room. If you have any questions, please call us at any time. Mr. Guo, this is your room. Then where do I live? The event organizer only provided one room You have two options Either find a new hotel yourself or I'm unfamiliar with this place. What if you encounter a black shop? Besides, how much does it cost for one person to stay in a hotel? I can't bear it Or live with me Live together Buddha Can't you give me another room? Didn't you hear what the manager said? The hotel rooms are full The sofa in the living room is so big I can sleep in the living room. Go get ready We're going to Fashion Week. Why aren't you wearing any clothes? Lin Nuannuan, I'm going to take a shower What's your favorite dog's name? I didn't expect that I look pretty good in it now. Lin Nuannuan Did you hear what I said? I'm going to take a shower Now that I heard Then you remember Giving me a bath is the first lesson I have to take. Did you hear clearly? What did you say Give you a bath He is obviously pretending to be lame Still ordering around all day You have to let me run the bath water for you I'll turn it all into cold water for you in a moment. Freeze you to death What did you say Boss Liu Mr. Wang I'm sorry. I really didn't mean it. You didn't mean it The bath water is ready for you. I'm leaving first Don't be so stubborn, you did it on purpose I really didn't mean it. I walk I am cunning Don't move Buddha can come by himself You really didn't mean it. It really wasn't intentional. Aren't you going out yet? You want to rub my back? No No Little fool Bo, I'm ready. Let's go You wear this to Fashion Week What's wrong, Mr. Bo? There's still time I'll take you to remodel it. These clothes are so beautiful. Tens of millions 100,000 This dress is inlaid with gold Mr. Wang That's Him I'm in pretty good shape Mr. Wang, rest assured Leave it to us Ms. Lin Aida is a world-renowned clothing brand Agents in Hong Kong Ami These two are famous image designers in China. Azhen and Ahua Hello, Ms. Lin Hello Mr. Luo knows that my image is not very good This store is too dark. We can change the store It's getting late Get started What a circus! Mr. Guo How about this one So-so This set Mr. Guo You have great vision. This set is new in our store The global price of one piece is 2 million 2 million, Mr. Guo, why don't you just forget about it? Bo Zong haven't seen you for a long time haven't seen you for a long time Mr. Wang and Mr. Li haven't seen you for a long time This this Uh Bo You guys talk first I'll look somewhere else Bo Zong Our last project Mr. Li is here today Let's talk about this. Then you be careful Oh my god, is this backstage at fashion week? This dress is the main model of this fashion week Now you've splattered it with ink We'll be on stage in half an hour. What do you say? Mr. Xiao I really didn't mean to get ink on you. I'm really sorry I don't need you to explain to me now I need you to deal with this matter immediately. otherwise I won't wear this skirt that you tore Going on stage Teacher Chen is cooperating with a fitness company New summer products If you can't stand the stage It's like giving up automatically I can't afford this loss. This piece of clothing was actually launched by our fitness group If not resolved The company will suffer considerable losses. Teacher Bai Xiang Please calm down first The most important thing now is to solve the problem Who are you? Did You Know How important is this dress to me? I spent months preparing for this show. Now due to a staff member's mistake All in vain White Elephant Teacher I am Mr. Bo's assistant. My name is Lin Nuannuan Can I see the dirty spot? You are Mr. Bo's assistant. Well, you see. Ink all over the clothes What else can I do? This little secretary really doesn't know his place Take everything on yourself Now there's a good show to watch Teacher Bai Xiang This skirt should be salvaged Would you like to modify it? Altering clothes in public Did I hear that correctly? You are a secretary To modify famous designer brand clothes If this dress is ruined in your hands Who will bear this loss? I'll take responsibility I'll take responsibility I'll guarantee it Bo Zong Lin Nuannuan is mine I'll vouch for him. Bo Zong Are you sure you want to do this for your secretary's big words? Are you here to bear the loss of tens of millions? Miss Bai, if you really don't believe me I promise you If this skirt doesn't end up on our job We, Jianchen Group, are willing to take all risks Hu Jianchen actually believed in me so much Then I am Miss Bai Can we start now? Since Mr. Bo has promised it himself Secretary Lin, I'm leaving this skirt in your hands. Teacher Aisan Please believe me This skirt can definitely be salvaged. I didn't expect Mr. Bo's secretary to be so capable. After his trimming He actually created a This elegant work is truly a true person without revealing his true self The person who appears is not the real person Oh my god, is this the same dress I wore just now? It's just so beautiful. Miss Bai, now There is no need for our Jincheng Group Did I make any compensation for you? Next up is the fitness group's new summer wear Please wait and see Oh my god, Jiancheng Group's summer clothes are really good this time Especially the one on Baixian It will definitely become a hit this year Hello, Secretary Zhou Hurry up and prepare a cooperation for me Tomorrow morning I want to see the cooperation with Jiancheng Group Order 50,000 pieces per item Especially the one on Bai Xian. I want 200,000 pieces The same style as Bai Xian I want to order 500,000 pieces Remember, it is 500,000 pieces Secretary Li, thank you so much today. I didn't expect you to design this skirt It was sold out immediately. It's not all my fault. You're good at walking on the catwalk. Okay, stop being modest. So today I will treat you to a good meal. Let me have some fun with you Not very good Miss Bai, Secretary Lin and I haven't finished get off work yet. He has to go with me. Let's go, Sister Lin Miss Bai, I still have work to do. I'll have to make an appointment next time. Well, then we'll have a chance to meet again. Hey Mr. Guo Fashion Week is over Any other work? You played an important role in saving the crisis today. It's worth celebrating. celebrate You did a good job today oh Bo Zong I can't drink. The wine is not good either. Can I just drink a little? Can I've heard of a cup pouring Never heard of it stuffy Warm and warm I'm going Can I sing a song? 2 Tigers The two tigers ran fast. One without ears Sing now You don't have to sing it yourself I'm leaving. You are so good looking Do you like me? Forget it. How could you I like me, I only know money every day You know I'm poor. It cost me so much money. You're just an asshole Chicken eggs, rotten duck eggs, big devil I can give you the answer right now In fact, I Oh grandma, I really owe you give you what you want The story Is this an antique or a cell phone? Mommy, did Mr. Huo bully you? If he dares to bully you I'll help you beat him up. Beat me Can you beat me, kid? Who are you and how did you take my mom's phone? You are not Mr. Bo, are you? Yeah Uncle Wang, you just heard it wrong I wanted to thank you for giving my mom a promotion. You know I'm the president. Will please me It's exactly the same as Lin Nuannuan My mom is not only good-looking The cooking is also delicious She also designs beautiful clothes As long as you are good to my mommy How about I ask my mom to prioritize you? good I'll think about it What are you considering? My uncle takes one and gets four free Get one get four free Okay, kid. Don't worry I won't bully your mom. Why did I suddenly remember what happened five years ago? Could it be that Lin Nuannuan was the woman that night? I remember that woman had a scar on her back What are you doing I'm telling you If you dare to bully me I will die with you I kissed you I'm fine if you don't kiss me Mr. He Your head is bleeding Two stitches You are warm. I don't want to see you. Please go away. Sorry, don't go. I really didn't mean it. This can't be entirely my fault. I told you everything I don't listen You don't listen So, according to what you said It's my fault you hit me on the head So what do you want to do? The mistake you made this time You will bear all medical expenses You have to take care of my food, clothing, shelter and transportation Until my wounds are fully healed Dear dear I'm hungry Mr. Guo ate the wonton noodles I just made. It's hot, please try it. Why does this taste so similar to that time? Maybe wonton noodles all taste similar maybe Are you okay? Didn't you have breakfast again? Doctor Doctor Mr. Fu, I may not have a stomachache. Not a stomachache Where does it hurt? I'm having my period. Menstruation My stomach hurts when my period comes. Where's your aunt? I sent someone to stop her. Not that auntie. Yes, my good thing has come. Good things What good thing do you have? Mr. Guo I'm menstruating Could you please buy me three things? good Buy me a pack of painkillers Two pairs of underwear Two packs of sanitary napkins. I know You promised me so easily. Why do I feel that Guo Jianchun has become much gentler recently? Is it my illusion? Thank you, Mr. Wu. I should have taken care of you. Sorry to bother you again. You know I'm troubled by not taking good care of myself. I asked the doctor. Don't take painkillers frequently This can also relieve pain Children have to grow up sooner or later If I could find someone who really loves me The man who loves me is by my side It's actually a good choice Secretary Lin, you have quadruplets, right? oh What's wrong It's so hard for you to raise a child alone I don't think about finding a father for my child. Mr. Park, what do you mean? Yeah, I have a friend He is particularly outstanding I was wondering if I could introduce something to you. OK, since Mr. Park is willing to introduce me I couldn't ask for more. So what do you require? Tell me about it Requirement Requirement Only one What is No wheelchair users Buddha Do we have to take a walk in the park this late at night? Good good good I won't say anymore Secretary Lin, have you ever been to Haicheng? I have lived here for more than five years. Five years So long Mr. Luo, please Let's go somewhere else. Secretary Lin Have you ever kissed someone? What about President Park? How many girls has President Park kissed? a lot of I haven't kissed any of them. WTF Is the wound hurting again? There is clearly no scar on Lin Nuannuan's back Why would you be with a woman from a few years ago? Gives me the same feeling But insist You are a lunatic Lin Nuannuan, I am a patient You really stand still Go away, let me go Are you okay? fine Uncle Wang Are you okay? This is not Uncle Wang He has been serving the old man. How come you are here? Catch it quickly Stop now I stand in the wind You come with me Stop, stop, don't run Captain Lin has probably come to see me these days. You go first. Yes, go, yes Where did the two of them go? Something was wrong just now The window is open here. He must have escaped from here. They seem The vice president is already at this time. You shouldn't first consider who sent this person. I don't want to know who sent them. I just want to know what you think Mr. Bo, I have experienced your gentleness. You let go first Secretary Lin Now that you have learned Then I compare myself with your previous husband Whose technology is better? Mr. Bo, please respect yourself Nothing happened between me and my husband. Nothing happened Now, I can still pretend that nothing happened. I didn't even graduate from college. The parents don't know who it is. Pregnancy before marriage I don't know who the father of the child is. What qualifications do I have to be with Huo Jiancheng? Mr. He You and I are from two different worlds. Why do we have to get together? Now this is good for you and me Secretary Liu Return to Yancheng tomorrow morning Uncle I Find out who sent the man in black tonight. The report is always what you expected It is indeed The old man's As expected It should be Bo The old man mistakenly thought that Secretary Lin was your girlfriend That's why he pretended to kidnap Secretary Lin Just want to see what you mean I see I'll handle this matter. in addition I don't want anyone to know Any news about my legs Yes By the way, Mr. Bo The latest mobile phone you asked me to buy It should have been delivered to your room. knew Mr. Wang It's not convenient for us to be alone in the same room. Just in time for the hotel to process the room I'm staying in that room today. As for the room rate I live by myself If the sanitary napkin hadn't been forgotten in this room I'd rather sleep in the hallway Shoes will never step in again Otherwise, forget it. I insist on this point Maybe he's already asleep. Secretary Lin What do you want from me? I'm back to get something No, Mr. Hu What are you doing What to do Secretary Lin Didn't you just keep your distance from me? Why are you knocking on my door in the middle of the night? Wearing so little Are you here to seduce your boss? There has been someone sneaking into Mr. Bo's family. You misunderstood. Misunderstand Secretary Lin, aren't you short of money? Don't you still have to raise children? You sleep with me I can give you 10 million Mr. Bo, please be more respectful I really lack money. But I won't sell my dignity to pay the money back. rogue Rogue Nana Tell me what you want to say You better tell me something big. Mr. Bao Just now, the gossip about you has become a hot search again It's only been a dozen minutes. The number of views exceeded one million These pictures are composite Do you think it needs to be handled by the police like before? No more No processing of Bo Zong Do as I say I know how to bully when I build it Return 10 million Wait till I pay back all the money. I'll definitely stay away from him. Hey Hechuan, what's going on? Xiao Nuan finally answered my call Calling for you Just want to tell you The thin sword car is not as good as you think You must stay away from him. He Chuan, you called me just to tell me this I'm hung up I know you don't believe me now. You can find out by looking at Weibo. Pu Jinzhen hates these scandals the most There's no way he didn't see it. But why didn't you send someone to handle it this time? Could it be that this person is really related to him? Now, I can still pretend that nothing happened. Hello I'll check out. I opened a new room yesterday. I'll pay for the room Ms. Lin The room you reopened yesterday I've already paid for you. Paid Yes, it is a gentleman named Bo. OK, I know. Thank you Is it done? It's done. let's go Wait a moment Secretary Lin, give me your phone. Why As the secretary of our country's city construction Using this outdated mobile phone I can't afford to lose this person. This new product launch also contributed greatly This is your reward. award Secretary Li I remember you have a girlfriend, right? right Then tell me how to make a girl happy Bo always asks me how to chase girls Which girl in the whole company doesn't have a crush on Mr. Bo? Is there any woman who doesn't like Mr. Bo? Mr. Bao wants to chase a girl first step It is to let this girl think of herself all the time. Just like in the TV series You sent a token of love or something? Let the girl see this thing I can think of you Hello Secretary Lin, come to my office. Okay, Mr. Guo, wait a moment. Mr. Bo, what do you want from me? Secret Book From now on, this Bodhi tree will be in your care. Now you take it to your workstation. Good Bo I thought it was something else. I was scared to death Secretary Lin You have to take good care of it Don't worry, I'll take good care of it. The second step is Increase the amount of time a girl spends with you and the number of times she meets you Make a girl feel that she is everywhere in her life Secretary Lin, pour me a cup of coffee Good Bo Bo Zong Your coffee Secretary Lin, please remember this I don't drink soup with sugar Hello Mr. Luo I'll make another cup. WTF Why Secretary Lin Coffee requires 70-80 degrees of water You can only soak at 30 degrees. Secretary Lin Don't you know Using this kind of glass to brew coffee will affect the taste Isn't it just a cup of coffee? What cups are different? I am a person with a heart and brain Is it banned? Oppose me everywhere I'm sorry, Mr. Peng. I'll make you another cup. In this way That girl will never forget it. Next, just need to exude some more masculine charm Make sure to take down the opponent Mr. Wang, your coffee Sorry, Mr. Wang, are you okay? fine I'm going to change my roommate's clothes. I really brought this upon myself. I should have known not to let you warm up Bubble coffee at 20 degrees Come and give me a slap on the face It hurts so much Mr. Guo, can you squat down a little? Can't you raise it higher? It's true that the higher the official, the more powerful he is. Not to mention Guo Jiancheng I don't know how many levels higher than me. Now That's it. What's wrong I'm sorry, Mr. Fu. I won't collect debts. Otherwise, you should come by yourself. It's okay, I can teach you Have you learned it? Lei Mi Mr. Guo, I will never fall in love with you If you do this again I can only resign. Whether you like me or not is your business It's my business whether I pursue you or not younger sister Can you give me a chance? no Why Am I not even qualified to pursue you? No, Mr. It's me I'm not worthy of you Mismatched Do you think I care? A suitable person? Lin Nannan I've never wanted a woman so badly. I sorry yes I'm too impulsive You go out first Will you do me a favor Hello Secretary Li Go to Factory 1 and get a sample from Director Chen. Oh good blogger Why are you in such a hurry to find me? What's up? This is a long story. I'll keep it short What Okay, we grew up together. I helped with this. but It's rare to see you care so much about girls. Mr. Hu, these Brother Jianchun You clearly said you like her. Why haven't you married yet? Um Yes or no fine You are so disgusting You said I, Wan Yao, am for your happiness I'm going all out today snort Brother Jianchun But you just said you liked her. What's this? I just said the same thing to my secretary. It turns out that none of the rich men are good. I almost believed Bo Jianchen's lies just now Wang Jiancheng I killed your assistant. rest assured It's all my wishful thinking Yo There are women who don't like you. You don't like me either That's because I don't like you, okay? What else do I need to do next? Listen to you I'd like to say I can't just come here once. It's best to come here every day from now on OK That's settled then. Lin Nuannuan is such a high-class and rich woman And fitness are just for fun with others What have you figured out? Secretary Lin, what do you want to talk to me about? Mr. Luo, this is the sample you wanted. I'll give it to you. You can go to Secretary Lin for such trivial matters. I have something else to do so I'm leaving first Sir, your curtains are dirty. The quilt also needs to be washed After my company's May Day holiday Can I come to your house to clean during the day? Even a part-time worker is so attentive I've been acting for so long. Lin Dongnan This woman doesn't care about me at all Don't know to find me Hey wait wait wait wait a minute Hey hey hey Secretary Lin will start from tomorrow You are also responsible for my breakfast And I have to clean my desk too. You must be at my work tomorrow Clean all the sanitation I also put my breakfast on my desk I know I have 4 children. But let me buy food Let me clean up Zhu Jianchen, you bastard Boss, did you hear that? That Mr. Huo is bullying Mommy again This matter really can't be ignored I want to hack his company Look how arrogant he is. Bring the third child with you. Fourth, we need to make it clear to everyone in the company. Mommy, the four of us protect our master Who dares to bully Mommy? Hou Jiancang's today is their tomorrow I have a plan Tomorrow is OK Just do it Hello In a few days. It's my 60th birthday. Bring that little girl back to me for a look. What does my business have to do with you? Don't let me catch you touching my people again. Jianchen Jianchen Grandpa Don't lose heart The young master is just being stubborn I believe he will come back one day. It's all my fault. This kid blames me. It should be Luckily, he has someone he likes now. This girl Must see Huo Jiancheng You are so ridiculous So uncomfortable Just for this one People who drool when they sleep I'm sorry, Mr. Wang I'm so sleepy What do you want? Do it yourself My grandpa wants to see you. This is probably not my job scope. You are the president's secretary. Buy gifts for your boss and give them to him when he visits his elders Why is it not your category? Clean up I'll see you later Bo Zong Bo always laughs, so you should talk to your grandfather. There's nothing good to see. I asked you to pretend to be my girlfriend so I could deal with my grandfather. Sorry, Mr. I can't solve this errand. You can't go find your girlfriend. What girlfriend? Too many girlfriends I can't remember which one it is. I have so many girlfriends. Why do you have to keep pestering me? Is it because I look easier to bully? That vicious woman. That child You are jealous Mr. Guo Hey, it's 11 o'clock. I won't go home again My four little guys are coming to visit me soon Secretary Lin, you are just jealous. But it doesn't matter if you don't admit it. My brother hangs the kiln Mr. Guo You better answer the phone right away. What if someone has something urgent to ask you? Secretary Yu You'd better report something big to me. Oops, Mr. Bo The entire company's network was hacked Now the entire building's system is down. Our company is losing tens of millions of dollars every minute. Who did it? There are 4 children Four kids hacked into my company's network Let me go, you bad guy. Back my company's network Who told you to do this? Uncle is healthy Safe and sound Mother of quadruplets Why They look almost exactly like me when I was a kid. Hello Uncle Wang Mr. Wang, this is our welcome gift to you. How do you think? My little ancestor, please stop talking Secretary Lin They are all your children yes You are sure and certain that they are your children It's him Will Lin Nuannuan It will be the woman from five years ago I don't allow you to look at my mommy You can't bully my mom. You're going to bully my mom The bad guy bullied my mom again I asked my brothers to eat your dog. I'm sorry, Mr. Bo. If there's nothing else, we'll leave first. Mr. Bo, don't you think that Secretary Lin's four children It's just a smaller version of you. Block the relationship first No sound can leak out Especially the old man. Got it? Oh yeah That's right Please help me check those things. A list of all the guests at the hotel that night Check it out for me yes He stood up for me Hey, you four are finally back. Where did you go so late at night? I'm so worried. Warm Look, we finally found these kids. What are you doing? Dad, do you know What did those little bastards do? I am afraid that our company will hack into our network. If this company is held accountable We can't afford it even if we sell everything we have. Grandpa, that bad CEO, always bullies Mommy We couldn't stand it anymore so we wanted to teach him a lesson. My brother is right. We just want to teach you a lesson. The bad guy who bullied my mom What about you two? Are you doing this to protect Mommy? Hey, hey, hey Look The kids are not fooling around. They are standing up for you. When the time comes, Yao Zhen will ask for compensation We admit compensation Mom knows you are doing this for my own good But I can't be so impulsive anymore. Do you know knew Bo, this is what happened back then List of guests checking in at the hotel Lin Nuannuan was also there that night But the room you booked is next to mine. Did Lin Nuannuan walk into the wrong room that day? Secretary Lin Go to Secretary Lin's house tomorrow Help me get the hair of Lin Nuannuan's four children Secretary Xu, why are you here? Oh, let me see you. Come see your quadruplets Oh thank you Secretary Xu, was it President Hu who asked you to come? Yeah Not uh I heard you have quadruplets. So I came to see you and the kids. You don't have to hide it from me. Yes or no Mr. Bo asked you to come and talk to me about compensation. May I ask how much the company lost? Maybe she's the president's wife. How dare I let you lose money? The company's network was hacked. Lost tens of millions overnight But the final compensation Or should Mr. Bo speak personally? What about me I just came to see you and the kids. Tens of millions Even if I learn that, I still can't pay it back. Mommy, who is this? Oh, you must be Kang Kang. Hey come Uncle Kang Kang, give me a hug Hehehehe This uncle Do you want to pursue me? Mommy Kang Kang, you can't say this casually Your mom is Bozu's favorite. How dare I have such crooked thoughts? The results of Mr. Bo's paternity test are out. What are the results? The paternity test results showed Secretary Lin's 4 children The probability of your infringement is greater than 99.99999% It conforms to the laws of genetics haha Speak human language Those four children are your own. Beichen goes to Secretary Li's house No wonder President Pu has not been interested in anyone in these years It turns out that the luggage was already taken. This person turned out to be Secretary Lin Hey, this is good. Overnight My wife is pregnant The child is born Still four Everyone can make soy sauce Bo Zong You said your legs are anxious Hidden for so long Don't let others know easily. I can't care so much anymore Even if you don't do it for yourself Then you have to consider Secretary Lin. What's the meaning What if Secretary Lin is scared away? You are right. If Lin Nuannuan knew I was the irresponsible man all along. Will definitely hate me Maybe he will run away far away Mr. Bo, why are you here? Secretary Lin You always planned to keep me here. Would you like me to come up and sit down? This is still not known. Not only does she speak so gently Still smiling at me Secretary Lin Oh Fu Head Office I didn't expect that Lin Nannan and the children lived here. There is only boiled water at Mr. Bo's house No coffee Don't mind How come? What about the children? They went to kindergarten and were not at home. Bo Zong I heard that the company's website was hacked yesterday. Lost tens of millions That's right I will pay back this money even if I sell everything I have. You don't need to pay back that money. As long as you promise to be me Pretend to be my girlfriend To deal with the loss of tens of millions of dollars for my grandfather's company Write it off real real That's great Hello Teacher, what do you say? I'm going there now What's wrong, kid? What happened I can't explain it. I have to go to the kindergarten. Sit back and I'll go with you. What happened? What happened? Why would you fight in kindergarten? Are you injured? You are the parent of these four bastards. Look at your children. What happened to my baby? You have to give me an explanation today. My child hit me. When you four hacked into the company network yesterday I haven't settled the score with you yet. You got into trouble again in kindergarten today Is mommy too busy recently? I don't have time to care about you. Lawless What is going on? Mommy, one person does one thing I was the one who hit that kid. Don't blame your brothers and sisters. Mommy, don't blame your brother. It was that kid who scolded us. A wild child without a father My brother couldn't stand it anymore so he took action Mommy Don't draw ears. Mommy, it was that bad boy who made An An fall down Egg small bag An An taught him Did you hear that? These bastards are really Mouth admitted Beat my child They are really some bastards who have no father to teach them. Parent, please watch your words. It was obviously your son who started it first. My son just started I think you should discipline your son. Mommy said We don't cause trouble But we are not afraid of anything Do you know who my husband is? Today I give you two choices First compensation Second dropout otherwise I will make it impossible for you and your children to stay in Yancheng. Mother Lin, why don't you pay some money? This is what happened. Don't tell me I don't have money now Even if I had money, I wouldn't pay this bastard. They have to pay the compensation Compensate you My husband is a project manager for a fitness business. One sentence You and your son can no longer stay in Yancheng. You dare to touch a hair of theirs? I thought who it was. He's just a cripple. How come you are the father of these four bastards? It's really like the top beam is not straight and the bottom beam is crooked Oh, your leg might be lame. How dare you hit me? Do you know who I am? well I think you guys are drinking wine but don't accept it. Hello, husband Someone is bullying our baby here. Come here quickly Bring it here Manager Shen, right? I give you 3 minutes to appear in front of me. Otherwise you will regret it You all can't leave Wait for me here. When my husband comes, it's not as simple as compensation. We're not done today. Okay, I'll save your dad. My dear, you are finally here. These are the people They not only beat our children And slapped me This is the president of a fitness group. My Third Young Master My immediate boss You want to kill me Three Young Masters Mr. Wu, please show some mercy. Leave us alone. Right, right, right, we are the ones who fail to recognize the great man. We all know we're wrong Ms. Lin I'm sorry. I was wrong. I didn't discipline my children. You will be merciful Please ask Mr. Bo for us. Let him let us go. Mr. Guo This child is still so young Otherwise, just forget it. You can let me go if you want. From now on If you appear in Yancheng again It's not as simple as it is today. Thank you Mr. Guo Thank you Mr. Guo Walk fast Fu Zong This time thanks to you So how are you going to thank me? Uncle, you helped us today. We'll be friends from now on. OK Uncle, you were so handsome just now If you were our daddy If you were our dad If someone teaches us to act as children Mommy won't be so hard. I actually came here Come here What does he look like today? Mr. Luo's childish words are innocence Don't take their words seriously. If I say I am the biological father of the quadruplets This blogger is crazy about wanting to be a father. Mr. Bo, there is no me in this world Anyway, this kind of kindergarten Not suitable for children to go to school How about this? I'll go to Yanxi's bilingual kindergarten tomorrow. Yanxi Bilingual Kindergarten That's a noble kindergarten. The tuition for a child is hundreds of thousands per year. But I have 4 children How can I afford such an aristocratic school? Mr. He, are you kidding me? I know what you're worried about. That kindergarten is owned by our Jiancheng Group. As long as you nod I can contact the principal immediately. Arrange your admission Tuition Fee Free Thank you so much, Mr. Bo. Originally, children went to kindergarten. The child's father should be responsible You are not a child Your father also helped so much. Thank you so much I am I see your potential. I hope you can work well for the company in the future Create better value for the company Value only this real Uncle Wang, you are not married yet. Nope If my mother were still alive Seeing that I have a son and a daughter, both of them are smart and cute I don't know how happy I will be. Uncle Wang, what do you think of my mommy? born My mom can make a lot of delicious food like this every day It's good That's it. If my uncle missed this village, there would be no such store. The eldest, the third and the fourth Have you forgotten How did he bully Mommy before? Not everyone can be as smart as me. But isn't Uncle Bo good? Uncle Bo is handsome and rich It's not about having money. But I think Mommy likes Uncle Bo Uncle also likes Mommy Why can't uncle be our daddy? I don't care, he's not our Daddy With my mother, we were born This is our Daddy Kangkang Mr. Wu, I'll take them back first. If you have anything, I'll find you later. Goodbye Uncle Wang Goodbye Uncle Wang Goodbye Uncle Wang I'll pick you up tomorrow. Pick me up grandpa good Built You are finally back This is Secretary Lin Chairman Guo Hello, my name is Lin Nuannuan Little Warm Please take a seat Just call me Nuan Nuan Warm I don't need to be nervous Just call me grandpa like Jianchen does. I didn't scare you last time, did I? The last time was when you were almost kidnapped in Yancheng I didn't expect it. I, your grandson, would even sacrifice my life for you. I just knew it The position in his heart is different The person last time was sent by you. Um This one was given to me. Hope you like it Like Like This is the most sincere gift I have ever received. Just as you like This is what Jianzhen and I picked for you. He said you would like it Lei, don't say it's not necessary Flower snake group Warm I know you have done a great job for the company. My grandson It's a mediocre wood The brain must be wronged. This is a return gift from your grandpa on behalf of Jianchen. Grandpa hopes Can become a unique helper on the road to building the future Whether in life or work Admission notice from county university Grandpa is Thank you, Grandpa This one This is Jianchen's grandmother's favorite bracelet. He asked me before he left I must personally hand it over to Jianchen's wife. Now I hand him over to you. I can't accept this from you Too expensive Since he gave you Just take it. Then I'll keep it for you first. I'll return it to you later I can only think of a way to return it. Jian Chenna Now that your leg is healed That was the thing back then shut up You dare to mention what happened back then? If you hadn't protected your other son How did my parents die? How did I become like this? There's no way I'll let him go. It's impossible to forgive See the body Since people have seen Gifts were also given Please wait, we are going Now that you have found the right person Then just get married. As long as you get married I will pass the position of chairman to you. Bai Haitian Don't think I want your position as chairman. I won't forgive you either. 5 years It seems that Jianchen still doesn't intend to forgive me Lao Wang You said I really made a mistake. Grandpa You have to take care of your body. Mr. Zhuo, you can't drink anymore. If you drink more, you'll get drunk. Give me the wine No Mr. Zhuo What happened between you and Mr. Park? Why do you hate him so much? Why do you want to know Then answer me a question If the biological father of the quadruplets suddenly appears Will you be with him? How is it possible? Answer me Will you or won't you This is impossible If he wants to come back Why It must be Mr. Luo's meaningless question now. Don't ask anymore. Please answer me now Mr. Luo If this man It appeared when I was just kicked out of the house. I might let the child meet him. But definitely not now And I will never let him near my children. son Keep your voice down. The children are asleep. Drinking so much If it wasn't for the fact that Secretary Yu's phone call couldn't be reached I won't take you back to my house. Forget it, I'll leave this bed to you. You go sleep on the sofa Open up Let me know I want to take your sin home You woke up The honey water is ready for you on the table. You drank too much yesterday My stomach must be upset. Drink it and you'll feel better. Healthy Safe and sound Get up and eat Ants Morning Uh, Mr. Buddha I usually eat these at home. If you are not used to it No, I like it very much I'll eat here later. Don't worry I don't eat in vain 500 for a meal But you have to run here every day How inconvenient! Um Don't misunderstand me. I I just like a girl She is also in your neighborhood I want to be closer to her. Besides, did An An call me daddy yesterday? Right? Mommy, just promise Daddy. Favorite girl Is it Wan Yao who was in the office that day? Or fall in love with someone else Hey, Mr. Buddha, please don't be polite. The matter of sticking a pair of chopsticks Eat Eat Eating more carrots is good for your eyes No carrots, no raisins Eat tomatoes No ketchup Do not eat mango Because of mango allergy coincide It must be a coincidence It's over. It's over. I'm late for school. Hurry up. Uh, let the driver take them. There will be a meeting soon Help me make a record Okay, okay. I am meat The bigger the car, the more comfortable it is. Hum, Mommy, I won't ride in his car anyway. I want you to send me Kangkang You don't want to be deducted a red flower for being late. How about letting Uncle Bo's driver take you this time? Okay, brother. Mom works and takes care of us Very hard Listen to your mother Go to school now Okay, then when mom gets home from school You must come pick me up early. good When Mommy gets home from school I must pick you up from kindergarten early. Then I will send you to school. Mr. Bo, how can I let you do these jobs? Just leave me alone. It's okay, it's all done. Go get ready. I will take minutes of the meeting Okay, I'll go now. I hope I can integrate into their lives soon. Perform well So when the truth is revealed Lin Nuannuan can stop hating me so much Please sit down, Secretary Lin You can sit here Let them all see you Mr. Luo, why are you at Secretary Lin's house? He is my secretary. What's wrong with me at his house? Luo Jianshan never goes to the opposite sex's home He actually allowed Lin Nuannuan to stay by his side. Still so contemptuous Could it be that I, Jianshan, am interested in Xiaolan? I should have thought of it earlier. Manager He Sales channels in Africa I decided to send you to follow up. What are the questions? Mr. Hu's project in Africa The company has always had a ban Why did you suddenly send me there? The company considers that you have experience in China's porcelain industry in Africa. So this project is handed over to you. Tomorrow you will leave for Africa to follow up on the project If I say I don't want I just found the factory manager. You can't leave easily Otherwise there's no chance. If you refuse Then you resign voluntarily. The company does not need disobedient employees I quit I quit now that I am no longer an employee of Jiancheng Group. My Sword City I know what you are thinking This time We compete fairly Mr. Guo Do you really want to fire He Chuan? He resigned on his own initiative. alright Don't think too much Thanks for your hard work Did I not wake up? Wu Jianshan actually poured water for me personally Thank you Mr. Guo If you are not in the company in the future Our relationship is friendship right friend friend I didn't expect it These two words can come out of Guo Jianchen's mouth Sure enough, men who are just beginning to fall in love are different I am also considered to have been hit by the double leak. Thank you, Mr. Thank me again Bo Zong You may not know I was adopted by the Lin family since I was a child. So I have been living a life of dependence. Every day is washing and cooking Do the most and eat the least I am afraid that if I do something wrong one day, I will be disliked by others. But fortunately, I have already left the Lin family I won't live like this again. rest assured These days will end. As long as you are willing to forgive after knowing the truth I won't let you live like this again. Yes, I will rely on my hands. Let my children live a good life Secretary Lin I mean if Uh, the child's father suddenly appeared. He is very rich. I am willing to marry you Let you live the life of a rich wife Would you like to Mr. He, you are joking again. Even if the kids' dad is really rich I won't marry him either. No matter how good the things given by others are I don't feel at ease holding it Only earned with my own hands Only then can you hold it firmly I didn't expect you to be this kind of person. I thought you still thought I love money so much Encountering such a pie-in-the-sky good thing I'm sure he agreed happily. But Mr. Even if I love money I will not accept charity from someone for no reason. Don't look at me now. I am just a small secretary. But maybe one day I will become rich overnight Live a good life good I believe you will live that kind of life Mr. Luo I'll open the door first. What do you have Qualified to call mom Where is Lin Canghai? My dad is really not here. I'm not You think I don't know You can live till now It was all helped by that old man Lin Canghai. I think you are deliberately trying to deceive our Lin family's wife. I don't have me Little Yellow What are you doing here? So you are here When Rourou told me, I didn't believe it. So you've been helping this bitch. Your elbows are bent outwards You gave our money to an official for nothing. What nonsense are you talking about? I divorced you a long time ago What does it have to do with you who I help? You hurry up and leave me Want me to go OK This bitch has been raised in our Lin family for 18 years I heard that I'm in the same company as Rourou now. Since you have money, Then you give me 1 million Just consider it as the child support for these 18 years Get Money What 1 million 1 million Now Nuan Nuan has nothing to do with the Lin family You still want 1 million Do you still want some shame? Don't tell me you have to give me 100 today. otherwise otherwise Otherwise I'll come here every day to make trouble I'll see if you give me money or not Get the man for me Hey, who are you? Why let me go? This is your shot So what if I hit you? He is my foster There is this dead girl I won't even kill myself ah Since you want to settle the account Then I will settle the score with you on Nuan Nuan's behalf He has lived in your home for 18 years. Not only do I have to do your laundry and cooking, I also have to take care of your family's food, clothing, housing and transportation. Calculated based on the salary of a normal live-in nanny You still owe him 1 million I'm not snort No children And raising children? I tell you I gave him a bite to eat He does my laundry and cooking for me. That is the natural order. As it should be I have no idea If it weren't for me He would have starved to death on the roadside. Shut up How dare you ask Nuan Nuan to raise a child? kindness If I hadn't insisted on keeping him You sold him out a long time ago. What if I sold it? She was a wild girl picked up from the roadside. Don't expect to raise I am a salesperson for Jianchen Group. You don't know I also have President Jianchen's phone number. snort Fire me You are the president of Jianjun Group. You are the one in front of me Start Today You have been blacklisted from all industries under Jiancheng Group They will never care about you Bo Zong Bo Zong Please don't fire me. Please give me another chance. More than that If you dare to mess with Lin Nuannuan's family again I'll let you stay in this dust. Please forgive me I'm leaving, I'm letting you go I take away I go I Is it still painful, kid? What's wrong with this person? Why are you yelling so affectionately in front of dad? Thank you, Mr. Bu Today, thanks to you If you weren't here I really don't know what to do. How I want to tell you We are a family You are welcome But it's just a piece of cake Not worth mentioning Xiao Nuan Come here for a moment Dad has something to tell you Nuannuan, there is nothing going on between you and Mr. Bo, right? Dad, what did you say? Mr. Bo is the big boss of our group company. What can we have Warm You can't hide it dad Dad watched you grow up. I can see This Bo is special to you. We are just an ordinary family. Just find someone who is a good match for you. I know what you said When I was young I also dreamed of marrying a rich man. Live the life of a rich wife But now I'm this big I've been through so much There are 4 more children I just want to live a down-to-earth life Good dad is going to introduce a few to you this time. Look, the kids are all grown up now. You should think about yourself too. Good dad, enjoy it Then I'm relieved The weekend is the weekend, so I will go meet them. Should I pick up the child? Yeah dad Then I'll go pick up the kids from school. Don't worry, I will pick you up tomorrow. good Healthy Safe and sound Mommy is here How is mommy? How is your adjustment in the new kindergarten today? Very good mommy this kindergarten It's much bigger than the kindergarten we went to before. Really, mommy, the food here is also very delicious There are shrimps in here. My babies are so good. Wow, what cute quadruplets! The one wearing the skirt is the mother, right? She's so beautiful. The man in the wheelchair next to him is so handsome He must be the father of the quadruplets. Ping Ping, is that your daddy? He is my daddy and mommy Pingping's dad is so handsome Yes, Pingping's mother We'll leave first. Talk later Secretary Lin, did you hear that? Just now An An said I was his father An An, he is not your father. He is Mommy's boss. Don't talk nonsense I don't care about Uncle Wang Can you be my spy? If someone asks me later if you are my spy Can I tell them you're my spy? sure la la la la Hum, a bunch of traitors I will never recognize you as my daddy This Kang Kang's temper is exactly the same as mine when I was a child. It seems that I want Kang Kang to recognize me There is still a long way to go. Bo Zong Thank you today You helped me so much. I'll treat you to a meal. Let's go out to eat Mommy, is it okay to eat hot pot? Mr. Bo can't eat spicy food I can Secretary Lin Is this hot pot edible? Mr. Bo, if you can't eat it It's still time to go now Who said I can't eat it? You don't know how spicy I can eat I'm afraid of eating it. Qianqian, let's have dinner tomorrow. Mommy, this is my brother Bo. Brother, I stand by your side. I'm sure I can beat my brother. Mommy, who do you support? Guo Jianchun is really unlucky this time Kang Kang is one of the four children. Noodles are the best for spicy food This time I support Kang Kang Then I support Sister Bo I consider you as a guest. I'll boil some duck intestines for you Duck intestines Duck intestines I'm leaving, so forget it. Wow Mommy Sure enough, the spicy hot pot flavor of duck intestines is the best Not interesting enough. Hey, don't say go Mr. Huo, are you okay? Kang Kang, don't act like this again next time. Do you know Mr. Huo, although I still don't like you But not so annoying anymore I have a daddy I'm not a wild child daddy Kangkang Don't be afraid, Daddy is here. I am your real father. Mr. Luo, the children are already asleep. Why don't you go back first? Shoulder pain It's been a problem for many years. You are only 24 years old This is an old problem. It fell when I gave birth to quadruplets. Dong Ge I took care of the four of them. Suffered from many postpartum diseases Postpartum disease Then go get treatment. Are you short of money? I'll warm you up You don't have to hide it Daddy watched you grow up. I can see This Mr. Bo is special to you. We are just an ordinary family. Just find someone who is a good match for you. Dad is right. Bo Jie said that he cares about me so much now But it was just a whim Not just me He will definitely find one later. Not me President Park Don't you think Have you been paying too much attention to my life lately? Whether it is the transfer of children today Or you help me deal with my adoptive mother I really appreciate you but I hope we can maintain a superior-subordinate relationship I'm just Mr. Luo I appreciate your kindness. It's quite late. Please go back. We also need to take a break. Honey, we're home. Honey, we're home. I love you Nuan Nuan, your blind date I've already made an appointment with the other party. Go meet him tomorrow after get off work. If possible, I will help you discuss the engagement. This isn't my phone. Could it be that I got the wrong number from Mr. Bo? Hello Secretary Li, I feel a little uncomfortable Please come to my house. Hey, motorcycle No car, no car It's over, nothing will happen, right? 120 Fighting 120 President Park Secretary Lin, why did you arrive just now? Mr. Luo Please get the medicine for me. Mr. Hu, do you really not need to go to the hospital? I don't have the energy to feed It's so hot, secretary, can't you blow it first? Is it okay now? Mr. Bo, why do you eat spicy food when you can't? Bo If there's nothing wrong, I'll leave first. Secretary Lin, do you want to leave like this? I don't necessarily post it because of you You have to be responsible Mr. Wu, you don't look sick at all. I Guo Tiancheng, don't go too far. Lin Nana, you clearly have feelings for me Why push me away? I can't believe you didn't see that I like you I don't know what you're talking about wait Wait, promise me you won't go on a blind date How do you know? Mr. Lu Sagittarius's personal affairs have nothing to do with you Secretary Lin, don't you want me to let you go? Yes, as long as you promise not to go on blind dates I'll let you go Mr. Luo If you interfere in my private affairs again I can only resign. Lin Nuannuan You just take advantage of me liking you Threatened me with resignation several times I mean what I say Bo Zong This is the bracelet your grandmother gave to your future wife. I have been wearing If it doesn't fit, I'll give it to you. Give to Grandpa I will explain it to him personally. Since this bracelet has been given to you It's yours If you don't like it You can throw I always I'm tired after you left Lin Nana, do you really not want to have anything to do with me? Secretary Lin Come in and get me a cup of coffee Lin Nuannuan You are awesome Haven't seen you for a few years Your methods of seducing men are getting better and better First, Hechuan Now it's Mr. Bo You really make me admire you. Lin Rourou, this is the coffee that Mr. Bo ordered. Are you sure you want to stop me? Don't use Mr. Bo to pressure me. Even if he has a crush on you now You're just playing around What kind of man is he? No one in the company knows He won't be on a woman. Waste so much time What do you want to say? I just want to remind you Don't end up like you did back then. So I advise you to give up this idea as soon as possible. Lin Rourou, I am different from you I won't blow it backwards and forwards like you for five years. Abortion for him But he still abandoned I, Lin Nuannuan, can only rely on myself Lin Nuannuan you bitch Pay for your coffee how Lin Dazui, do you have anything else to say? Mr. Wu, I want to take a day off tonight. Of course I will order dinner for you. You don't have to worry about this I was smiling so happily at my phone just now When talking to me, I hug my face no If your house hadn't caught fire today Don't think about taking leave If you don't allow me to take leave, then I won't allow me to take leave. Your house is on fire The words are so harsh It's true that a dog can't spit out ivory Please take time off to go on a blind date. How do you know? I know Secretary Lin You don't have a high degree Still have a bad temper With 4 children Only a man like me can stand you Look, which man can stand you? Buddha, what do you want to say? Don't go there, dear. It's useless for you to go. Waste of time, waste of energy, waste of feelings You accompany me to work overtime in the company like this 200 per hour It seems that Bo Jian really will not approve it no matter what. Don't waste family matters Deserved for hatred Get busy I can't do anything to you at work Wait until after get off work to see how I deal with you Brother Lin Xiang I'm sorry. I may have to work overtime tonight I might miss the appointment. It doesn't matter I also have to work overtime at night I might be there until 12 o'clock at night. How about we make an appointment another day? How about this? I'll pick you up downstairs of your company after get off work at 10 o'clock. Is this all right? This mouth opens and closes What are you saying? Secretary Lin, please sign me up for a lip reading class someday. Then I'll try to be early. What are you doing if you're not here? No phone calls allowed during working hours Especially for blind dates There will be next time Mobile phone confiscation Please clean up I'll give you 5 minutes to go meet a client. Meet Clients Now What about mobile phones? I'll give it back to you after meeting the client. Bozi, I'm already here. Can you return my phone to me? That's all. OK sir, please wait. Secretary Lin, do you want a man so much? What did you say? I just made an appointment with Lin Xiang Let people wait in vain How rude! Lin Xiang is really sorry I have to accompany the president to meet a client today. I just can't spare the time. Let's make an appointment another day. I'm really sorry Sir, this is the couple's meal you ordered. Please enjoy it slowly. Couple Package Buddha It's not appropriate to order this couple's meal when meeting a client. oh Forgot about me The customer cannot come due to some emergency So there were only two of us having dinner. Childish You're playing tricks on me again This 5,000 piece of steak How did you turn it into 5 yuan? This is a 5,000 piece Um He is indeed the president Have a meal It's enough to support my quadruplets for two years. Lin Nuannuan marry me I can take you to eat delicious food and drink spicy drinks every day You know I don't have anything Just a lot of money Mr. Huo I am a secretary Please stop making fun of me. I mean it. Mr. Luo, I think I need to remind you You have a girlfriend separate So soon I'm a woman like Yang Wenyang. Can't help trembling Will lose interest What's more, it's me Lin Nuannuan Be my girlfriend I will never treat you and the child badly. Mr. Luo, I am no longer at the age where I can fantasize For me, suitability is more important than liking. So you like me Mr. Guo Since the customer didn't come How much is this meal? we 13,800 Why do I have to ask what can I do without money? That's good. The whole family can drink the northwest wind. Hmm, Mr. Can I pay in installments? As long as you watch a movie with me Meal is for me alone How about it make a deal Okay, don't look at it. I don't like being disturbed when I'm watching a movie. So we booked the place. There are only two of us in this cinema The movie is about to start Be Serious I'm leaving. I'll take the girls to the movies after dinner. Must watch horror movies My current girlfriend and I We got together after watching the movie. My girlfriend gets scared and she crawls into my arms Ha ha Secretary Yu, I will trust you one last time Uh uh uh hey hey Secretary Lin, this movie is so scary, aren't you scared? What do I have to be afraid of? I knew this Secretary Yu was scary. Is it possible that I am always afraid of watching horror movies? How could I harm Fear How could I not be afraid? I was a kid. I'm just afraid of ghosts and stuff like that. Why It's terrible Yeah Oops! So scared. So scared. Other Secretary I'm so scared So scared. So scared. Mr. Bo also watched this movie I also ate Can we go back now? Secretary Lin Are you not going on a blind date today? I'll go find him tomorrow. yes Lin Nuannuan Did you know I don't know how many women are lining up to see me. I know what it has to do with me. It's 12 o'clock. I'm off duty Park Jiancheng, are you crazy? This is outside Are you worried about me I don't worry about myself without you. You're just worried about me Just don't admit it. Tomorrow morning at 8 o'clock Come with me to France This must be to prevent me from going on a blind date. That's why you wanted to bring me out on purpose If you don't go Go by yourself good Since you don't want to go Then don't go I'll take you home Need not I take a taxi myself The key is to let me go Keep shouting Let everyone know my secret What are you doing Fasten your seat belt I can do it myself Don't you live next door to me? You don't go up Nan Nan I want to explain it to you clearly I have nothing to do with Wan Yao. I don't have a girlfriend either. Wait till I return home I want to tell you something Why is Pu Jiancheng so weird today? What on earth does he want to tell me? Jumping for others Secretary Yu Xu Why didn't Mr. Wu come to the company today? Didn't Mr. Wu tell you? He went abroad last night. Going Abroad Tomorrow morning at 8 o'clock Come with me to France Warm I want to explain it to you clearly I have nothing to do with Wan Yao. I don't have a girlfriend either. It turns out that Bo Jianshan was not joking yesterday If he really wants to go abroad Do you know why? It seems to be because of the last batch of clothes you designed There is a problem with the supply Once improperly handled A few billion may be used as a watch A company as big as Jiancheng Group Wouldn't there be a problem with the supply? Someone must have tampered with it. Secretary Lin, what about this? It's not something we should consider. next week The company's clothing design competition is about to begin Taking advantage of the time when Mr. Bo is away You can prepare for the competition. How about meeting after get off work tonight? good I always look at Secretary Lin I looked at Secretary Lin and there was nothing unusual good Second Uncle Haven't seen you for a few years. The means are becoming increasingly low-level. Our investigation was correct. Your legs are already healed. Always pretending to be lame I just want you to let your guard down. The old man has always wanted to protect you Trapped me in France Don't let me go back Hahaha Today you deliver it to your door Second Master, you said the opposite. The old man asked you to stay in France to protect you. OK I'm coming to see you today I'm not talking to you about these old stories. Jianchuan Group's latest new products Did you do something? Haha oops My nephew likes to get straight to the point. good It's me who moved my hands and feet What can you do to me? That's easy. In this case New and old accounts are settled together I will make you powerful in France today. All gone Hahaha You dare Wang Jianchen You don't really think your leg is healed. The old man will take away the qualifications of the country's leaders Put it in your hands Five years ago Your parents died You lose your fertility Now I am the only one who can keep the country going Luo family will be mine sooner or later You dare to touch me You can try See if I dare I can't feed you well. All of our industries have been attacked. About to close down Guo Jianchen You dare to touch my property? I tell you You can't leave here intact today. Someone come All the people outside Mr. Guo have been dealt with. no Intentional injury Plus the lives of my parents. I want you to spend the rest of your life in jail. Secretary Lin, you got off work so early again today. Yes, I have to attend the engagement party tonight. So I asked for leave and left work early. Engagement Banquet Whose engagement party? mine I'd like to trouble Secretary Lin to attend. Finished This gun neck I must kill me Hello Bo, something bad has happened. Lin Yun is getting married Next, take a good rest keep Avoid fatigue and harm to your body So hard Mr. Guo, you can obviously wait for a while longer. Slowly explore the power of the second master Why take such a big risk? Since I want to marry Lin Nuannuan I can't put him in danger. My second uncle has been eyeing me Don't follow him rest assured What did you say Book me the earliest flight back to Yancheng immediately Mr. Guo, the remnants of your second uncle have not been completely eliminated. It's too risky to go back to Yancheng now Let's wait for Yang Haoshang to come back. I can't care so much Return to Yancheng soon yes oops Why hasn't the kingdom arrived yet? I'm definitely dead now. Lin Nuannuan, I've only been gone for a few days Is it so happy to be engaged to someone else? Hello My dad, you finally answered the phone. Mommy is getting married Come here soon, although I don't like you to be my daddy But I don't like that uncle even more Take Mommy away! This way Mommy doesn't have to marry him. To Uncle Hurry up, mommy wants to go. Kids, it might take me a while to get there. I need you to do me a favor. I'm close to you You must hurry up hurry up oops Why hasn't Mr. Bo arrived yet? I'm definitely dead now. It's going to rain Lin Nuannuan is getting married Can I, as an outsider, bear this? I don't allow He Chun Cortana Follow me Why are you letting me go? Who are you? Let go of Cortana I am his fiance Who are you? I have only known Xiao Nuan for 10 days. Divorced with two children What qualifications do you have to marry her? Don't think about it. Talk to her Hechuan, we ended 5 years ago Today is my engagement party If you want to attend Of course I welcome it But if you're here to cause trouble Get out of here right now Otherwise I'll call security. Xiu Nan, have you forgotten? I was engaged 5 years ago I am your fiance I haven't forgotten He Chuan. I know it clearly. I remember that you were the one who proposed to cancel the engagement 5 years ago. Xiaonan Xiaonan I Hechuan Where's your face from? Dare to bother me? Xiao Nuan because of your indecisiveness You killed my two daughters. Uncle Qin, listen to me. I always thought I liked Rourou It wasn't until I was with him that I realized I have always liked small Don't you think it's shameless to say this now? Now immediately Get out of here right now Call the police immediately Xiaolan Xiaolan listen to me Let me go mommy You bad guy How did they get along with Bo Jianchun when he was a child? Looks exactly the same Xiaonan You found the biological father of 18 babies I think they are security guards. Xiao Nan Xiao Nan, trust me. Xiao Nan, I know who the biological father of the quadruple fetus is. Sun Nan wanted to ruin the engagement party What is this? Long live the imperial capital. Kangkang, you go back first This way Mommy won't marry this weird uncle Okay, okay. Don't let this unexpected episode It affected our engagement party. The ring is missing Yes, God is helping This means I'm not destined to die, haha Forget it. Warm Aren't you guys going to that Yancheng Resort? You two go first. Looking for a ring Just leave it to me. In this room anyway Then let's go first Warm Healthy Safe and sound You guys have to be obedient. Mommy, can't you stay a little longer? Mommy has already made an appointment with your father Lin Xiang. Listen, yeah Why hasn't Mr. Huo come yet? Mommy is going to leave with this weird uncle soon He is not ours. Okay, Nan Nan Just go with peace of mind. I'll take care of the kids. Let's go, Nan Nan Li Nuannuan Zhuo Jianchen, shouldn't you be abroad? so You're the one who went behind my back to marry another man, right? We have something else We're going to the resort. Lin Nana You are so impatient to find another man Resort Why can't it be you? Let me go Guo Jiancheng Lin Xiang is my fiance We are engaged Do you know what he did behind your back? Hey Nan Nan No, no Listen to my explanation, Nan Nan this But you put me down This is your home What's wrong You take me to your house what are you up to You don't want a man I'll complete it tonight Is there anyone like this? Don't be like this. How far have you and Lin Xiang developed? Did he kiss you? Or You and he have been frustrated. Shut up I won't let other men touch you. Did you hear that? Why Why should I listen to you? Because I am a child Luo Jiancheng Luo Jiancheng How did Luo Jiancheng get hurt? Wu Jiancheng, what are you doing? I thought I thought you were gone Don't use so much force Be careful, the wound will open again Sit tight What happened to your injury? Didn't you go abroad? How did you do it? fine Minor Injury Gunshot wounds are minor Huo Jiancheng, I don't care what you want to do. Can you take care of yourself? Um Listen to you Warm Let's get married What I don't want to wait any longer As long as you want Everything I have is yours Then are you willing to give me all your property? I do Mr. Huo, please stop joking. Why did you marry me when there are so many beautiful women around you? Do you need a reason to like someone? Hey, what do you want from Amy? Amy, are you asleep? Brother Li Mother I seemed to hear a man's voice Where are the men? No no no Mommy, Count Aqiya is going to work at night Oh yeah Count Ji is going to become Otjedi Pippi also likes Earl Ji Mommy is going to sleep with Earl Ji. Healthy Safe and sound Hello I'm going to marry your mommy, don't worry Mr. Bo, I haven't agreed to you and Mommy being together yet. So I am not pursuing your mommy What nonsense are you talking about? Honey, mommy is hanging up first. Mr. Bo, is your wound opening again? Just kidding Mr. Bo, you said before that you had something to tell me after you return to China. What is actually I am the parent of quadruplets. I am the father of the four babies. Five years ago I was given drugs by my uncle who had adenocarcinoma Had sex with a strange woman I can't remember what that woman looked like. I only remember that she had a sea of flowers I had that scar removed by laser two years ago. So the idol back then was You are me How is this possible? Warm We've lost a lot of time. Don't reject me anymore As long as you want Willing to protect you forever Thought I'm actually with my boss. Just like a dream This bracelet This bracelet originally belonged to you Now that you have worn our country's heirloom bracelet Then you are the lady of our country. I haven't agreed yet. I'll keep trying, though. You should stop answering the phone He will hang up. Hello What did you say Health and peace are gone What happened to the child? Today I went to pick up the kids from school They said the children were taken away by an old man. He is the children's grandfather. My husband, Ping An, is missing Don't worry I should know where the child is. Is it fun? It's fun. Thanks, Grandpa. Hey hey hahaha They're all grandpa's. What a great grandson! I thought My uncle's family is going to be extinct. I didn't expect it. My uncle's child Everyone knows how to make soy sauce, hahaha As for Second Uncle Jianshan You reap what you sow Originally, I planned to let him leave an heir to the Bo family. Unexpectedly He even thought about the qualifications to be in power Don't let him stay in jail forever. Mommy What's wrong with you? Why did you run away with someone else without saying a word? Do you know how worried I am about you? Mommy, we won't do that next time. fool Take it and look at it once That's true. If you want to use my child to threaten me Let your child go I tell you If you dare to touch them, At your own risk Wait a moment This is the badge of the country's ruler. Start Today You are the future ruler of the country. I have only one request Let the children come back more often I go into town knew grandfather Lin Tiancheng, why are you always so anxious? Get the certificate We got the certificate that we love each other Are you in such a hurry? Of course Good Get closer A funny one Health Healthy and safe Why are you here? You and Dad earthquake How could we not be here? You are the smartest That's fine. It's just right for us to take a family photo. Okay, come on. Come Look at the lens