- [Todd] When Mansour growing up in Iran, he made He visited the church to firm up his plans and was met by an unassuming older woman. Her kindness convinced Mansour - [Mansour] That woman was She did not share the gospel by telling me the fundaments of the faith, but she directed me the right direction. - [Todd] Later, Mansour and three people behind him - [Mansour] I felt the I closed my eyes, and as in the middle of their humming, I started praying loudly (dramatic uplifting music) - [Announcer] Jesus never an easy path. In fact, he told his disciples that the world would hate them. He sent them out as sheep among wolves. Jesus' words came true in and are still coming true today in the lives of his Join host Todd Nettleton as we and learn how we can help right now on The Voice of the Martyrs Radio network. - [Todd] Welcome again to The My name is Todd Nettleton. We are in our studio this week with Pastor Mansour Khajehpour. He is the pastor of a He is also one of the leaders and we are going to talk about that work. Pastor Mansour, welcome to The - [Mansour] Thank you, Brother Todd. This is an honor, a great joy to be at and the VOM Radio and also What a joy. - [Todd] Well, it is an Back to the beginning, how did you come to be a - [Mansour] So when I was 14, the revolution in Iran took and we had a lot of freedom. In fact, Iran was the strongest ally of the United States in the region and a very westernized society until the revolution happened. When the revolution I mean, many people were in the streets shouting against different nations, including the United States of America. At that time, I was excited to be a part and I was just kind of excited to follow the directions One day in 1981, I saw a cross on the top of a building in a A couple of weeks before that, I, along with two friends the three of us have that belong to the Mujahideen, an opposition group to the government. So I decided to do the same thing. At night, I went and and I told them the story. The three of us rode our to the church. As we arrived the church, I rang the bell and an elderly lady with a pale face and appeared at the door and with And I say Christian for they know that Iran if and only if it is Armenian or Assyrian, traditional Christians. Otherwise, people like me, the are not recognized as Christian. And she, with a very thick accent, said, &quot;How can I help you?&quot; And I said, &quot;I am here I didn't know the term &quot;pastor.&quot; And she laughed, and she said, &quot;Well, our pastor died, and All of a sudden, I felt bad that, and people are in painful situation. Even a Muslim has empathy, has compassion. And this woman, whom I never &quot;Yeah, that's okay, but don't worry; there is another church just They are all Farsi-speaking people, and their pastor is alive. Go and see him.&quot; That woman was the She did not share the gospel by telling me the fundaments of the faith, but she directed me the right direction. We went to the other but at least who wants So when we saw the other sign as we entered that little alley, we saw a huge sign in yellow saying, &quot;The Presbyterian Church of Mashhad.&quot; And then underneath there was a cross, over that cross, &quot;God is love.&quot; I still, to this day, that When we entered that little alley, I started feeling a little bit weird. So we knocked the door; a young man opened the door and he did not have that Christian accent. He said, &quot;What can I do for ya?&quot; And I said, &quot;We are And he said, &quot;He will be here today is not Sunday. Go; come back on Sunday at 5 PM.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay,&quot; and he said, books that he was carrying, I said, &quot;How much?&quot; He said, &quot;Nothing.&quot; So I said, &quot;Yeah, sure.&quot; So I read the entire New Testament. On Sunday I went to the church, people came with neckties people were talking or And then a man came, started 20 minutes of non-stop talks. And then, at the end of the service, a couple of beggars came I read the gospel; it I went to worship; it I went to a question and and sat down and asked He said, &quot;I will answer come next Sunday for next question.&quot; He dragged me into the In the course of the next three month, I forgot about the whole burning. I was more eager to kind of corner him. We had three French Catholic missionaries who were medical missionaries. We called them shusters, little sisters. That they came with educations and calling to serve as missionaries in the lepers hospital of Mashhad. Leprosy is considered to the Old Testament, among Muslims. So these French ladies who had skin disease in our town. These three ladies were coming At the time of fellowship, one of the ladies, one of these shusters, was carrying a tray with plates. The other person a cup of tea, and the other person a piece of pastry. These elderly, foreign ladies were serving the local It rejects everything In my culture, the The locals serve the foreigners. It was the vice versa that helped me to constantly watch them. Right in the middle of they were humming one of the hymns without using their words. They were just humming the music. I felt the Holy Spirit came and as soon as I closed my eyes, in the middle of their humming, I started praying loudly with a loud voice and I gave my heart to Christ. Long story, but God's story. - [Todd] God's story, amazing. We are talking this week on Voice of the Martyrs He is one of the leaders of I am interested, Pastor Mansour, in the changes that happened in Iran because you mentioned, you but there were still churches open. - [Mansour] Yeah. - [Todd] What changed over those years to now today, as I understand it, there is no above-ground churches in Iran. - [Mansour] For the Iranian people. For the Farsi speakers. How did that transformation happen? - [Mansour] In 1980, when the war between Iran and Iraq took already Western missionaries, Americans, Brits, Germans, et cetera, Majority of the Armenians and Assyrians have already left Iran. It was not a good place to live anymore. The remaining people in the churches, like the church that I went first, were a few remnants of the Armenian and Assyrian backgrounds, but with a lot of and growing group of Iranian or Farsi-speaking, or Muslim-background To search, to study, it was a new era. A sort of enlightenment took place in Iran after the revolution. People became more educated, started reading more, et cetera, including questioning Now, with that, the church It was a different feeling, Brother Todd, up until the end of the war. When the war ended in the late '80s, then Iran started challenging Christians and other opposition In 1993, they martyred several people. Three of the names are of Voice of the Martyrs: the Reverend Mehdi Dibaj, and also, Bahram. Two of the other names is the and also Reverend Hossein Soodmand, who was the first person by the Iranian government for conversion from Islam to Christianity. - [Todd] And we have had Pastor - [Mansour] Rashin. - [Todd] - has been on So you can find that find Voice of the Martyrs Radio wherever you listen to podcasts. We have had Rashin, the we have also had Gilbert, - [Mansour] Sure, sure. Both. - [Todd] So we have had some on Voice of the Martyrs Radio before. What are some of the things before they laid down - [Mansour] I used to I was going to the Assemblies This is Reverend Soodmand's, On the second floor, he was living. The first floor, as you on the left next to the wall, with one book and one pen, And that book was the Bible. The Reverend Martyr Soodmand that I saw for the honor of and reading God's Word. - [Todd] Wow, so even as he studied it... - [Mansour] As he studied it for himself. - [Todd] ...write his sermons or whatever. - [Mansour] Now, here is the second story. One day we were both of for two different purposes. It's just about 600 miles travel and normally we would have getting to Tehran early in the morning. So it happened that I was We didn't plan this together. Said, &quot;Hi, hi,&quot; when we saw each other, and he was two rows ahead The entire night, Brother he had a little flashlight holding down and reading his Bible. The entire night, he did not sleep. Maybe he didn't like but this is the best thing that can happen in any Christian's life. When you read the Bible, the Word of God becomes not just a source of encouragement for your faith; faith comes by hearing and but, also, it will be &quot;Your and a lamp to my path.&quot; The Word of God will become the source of understanding who God is. The Word of God becomes a clear answer at what the destiny of man is. The Word of God becomes clear. What does transformation mean? And all these things. The more you read, the more your whole life is being kind of poured with the Word of God, the When I was in prison, following of reading a lot of his When I was in prison, but I had a lot of memory verses, and I was repeating in my heart, in my lips, I was singing songs to the Friends in the United States of America, listeners to The Voice please memorize one more verse today. Please memorize one more you will need those. - [Todd] Amen. How did it affect your faith when pastors in Iran start - [Mansour] Friends, that there will be an even on Christianity in the than what it is today. When persecution happens, the The harder you push down the farther height it will go, the stronger it gets. Christianity is not a normal It's a flesh and blood And when you are filled pressure and persecution and also growing both Persecution is the cause and unprecedented growth Today, when we see that the religious city of Mashhad, in that city we used to have four churches before the revolution and Today I want to encourage there are more churches in than mosques in that city. - [Todd] Wow. - [Mansour] That's a major Do you know why I know this? Because churches are not In every corner, at every little alley, there is a couple of house churches. In 1981, when I gave my heart to Christ, my dad kicked me out of home, Today in my family who follow Jesus Christ. - [Mansour] With the Bible Society, we used to receive one to send them one copy of the Bible. Today (laughs), Brother Todd, this is God, this is God, and when God is in control, the more pressure on us When persecution becomes more intensified in the United States of America, church will be more purified - [Todd] Amen. We are talking this week on Voice of the Martyrs He is one of the leaders of How did you get involved - [Mansour] Around four years after I gave my heart to Christ, a pastor came from the to our town Mashhad to I said, &quot;Who is the pastor Said, &quot;Oh, that's Pastor Sepehri, and the girl next to him She has the entire Bible memorized, and whatever you tell Nahid, she will answer that with Two years later, I was to study business management. So as I walked in that huge crowd, all of a sudden I saw in Mashhad that knows the Bible, right? So I ran to her and said, And she said, &quot;Salam.&quot; I said, &quot;Do you remember me?&quot; She said, &quot;No.&quot; And it was just kind of but I didn't give up. Brother Todd, five years later, I went on my knees and I asked that lady, &quot;Would you please pray And that woman is my wife of 30 years. At that time, she was working Before we got married, the Bible Society of Iran was confiscated and closed by the Iranian government. February of 1990, the function and confiscated The passion that Nahid did have and continues to having for to be visible in her life. In 1996, we came to the as refugees. Following two times and through Greece, we And a few years, we were serving the Persian Church of the Good Shepherd, and then in 2001, right took place, on the day Nahid and I were in a little small closet and Nahid and I were recording the entire New Testament into Farsi. Right at the time that it happened, we prayed for the situation, the terrorist attack on our nation. - [Todd] Wow. - [Mansour] And at that time, from the Lord that these they need not just a they need the entire Bible in Farsi. A few weeks after September 11, 2001, Nahid called a few other people, former colleagues of the and American Bible Society, and they started translating into the modern language of Farsi, which we call it Mojdeh Bible, or the Good News Bible in So she started that process in 2001. In August of 2007, a group of church representatives pastors, church organizational leaders, bishops, archbishops, they studied that word, they and they laid hands and inaugurated. They dedicated that word, to the glory of God. So Nahid felt her ministry is over. But by the end of that evening, all the 5,000 copies Today is 2023, 22 years later; she's not complacent that There is more Bible needed, and that's what she does for What is the name of the country, the only country in the world that allows any language Bible, to be distributed in that country, except the national language? What is the name of the country that Bible is allowed to carried, to be owned in any language And what is the name of the country that, along with the other an active Bible society, The answer to all those The Islamic Republic of Iran of Farsi Bible into Iran. Now, let me invite you by just telling you a true fact. What is that by God's grace and God's mercy the Bible Society of Iranian or 100 or 1000 copies of the Bible safe and secure within one week? And that is, again, Iran. - [Todd] And as you say, the They want it. They see it as Christians want to have it. And even in your case, you wanted to go to and help them see the error of their ways. What better way to help a Christian see the error of his ways than to study the Bible? - [Todd] So we hope that is happening. Brother Mansour, as we finish up, we always try to equip listeners to pray. - [Mansour] Amen. week, how can we pray for the - [Mansour] Hallelujah. Jesus to reign over that country? - {Mansour] Friends, October 2022, a major movement in Iran took place. People came to the streets They were shot by the Iranian government. Among them, I have a lot of pictures that people in the for women, life, and freedom. They're wearing T-shirts I have pictures of people that they have cross necklace sticking out of their T-shirts. They need your prayers as in the government from the that the devil is spreading its dominion over the people of Iran by Let us pray, because you know what? Christ is the answer to all, women, to the life-seeking people, and the freedom-seeking people. Jesus Christ, the Lord of the universe, appeared to women first on Throughout the history, there following Jesus Christ than men. Let us pray for the women of Life? Indeed, Jesus Christ He is the truth. He's the life for everyone, The people of Iran are being killed by the Iranian government. The people of Iran are being saved. Their lives have been salvaged Jesus Christ. - [Mansour] And the third one is freedom. Wherever the Spirit of Whenever Jesus comes, whenever people experience freedom. And not just the political freedom, they are being freed from the dominion of the darkness of Islam. And there are millions There are millions like me We have a mission. We need your prayer. We need one more Bible in Iran, when we call it one more lamp. When one lamp lit the heart of Mansour. Nowadays, 40-some years later, we have a pastor serving We need one more Bible inside Iran. Contact Voice of the Martyrs and support The Voice of the Martyrs to send one more lamp into Iran. - [Todd] Amen. If you come to our website, vomradio.net, you can hear this entire conversation. You can also share it with a friend. I would encourage you to do maybe with another Christian And if you click on the Donate tab, you can give to send Bibles to hostile and restricted nations, So I want to encourage you; Pastor Mansour, thank you so Thank you for sharing your passion. And we will, our listeners We will join you in that prayer. Thank you for being our guest this week on Voice of the Martyrs Radio. - [Mansour] Thank you, brother. - [Todd] It has been our pleasure. Again, our website, vomradio.net. You can also find The wherever you listen to podcasts. I would encourage you to do that. And again, pray for the Islamic More lamps, more lights, And join us again next week right here on The Voice of the Martyrs Radio network.