(electric guitar music) - Hi, Steve Stine from GuitarZoom here. I just wanna say thank for everybody that's music theory guitar theory videos. It's been awesome. I'm so excited that you and you're actually realizing how important it is to learn It's not a scary thing and go to six years of college It's not all that and I'm glad that you're now realizing that. So in the first video, what we did was we set up the scenario understanding how all actually work together, we The second thing that learning how the major scale works and how all the keys of the the same structure over and over and over, it's just as you move from that pure key of C, more sharps or more flats in your key, and then we learn how to So now the next thing we need to do is start learning some basic chord theory. Now you probably know and a D chord and a C but you might not know what's And of course the question always is well why do I need to know? Well you don't need to but the trick would be is tell you what notes are being which can really come in if you're trying to write a solo or you're trying to write a melody or you're trying to all kinds of different Instead of just knowing shapes, if I know that this G chord is actually generating these notes, (electric guitar playing) it can give my whole musical as opposed to just going this is the chord or the having any relationship between So that's what I'm gonna So if you look at my white board here I've got chord theory basics. What we're gonna do is learning what a chord really is. The root of a chord, the The first thing we need The term triad, which Chords always start off as triads. In music theory, a chord and then we can expand into other things. We can make that chord bigger. We can alter that chord, do all those kinda things in the course, but let's talk about that which is the root, the Those three notes make up When you play a G or a D or a G7 or whatever it might be, everything, from a to a demented to a major or minor chord, it doesn't matter what with this essential core triad. Now, we've got our key of C here. These are our roots, these So when you're in the key of C D E F G A and B, and the key of C has no sharps and no flats. This seven note scale is individual, independent chords. Every key will. The beauty of this is you're gonna know all the chords for all the keys, it's pretty cool. So let's take a look We have to have a root, and we're talking about the So we have a root, which is C. If we go up a third, so we're at one, two, three, we add on the note E. If we go up a fifth, we go C is itself, it's one. One, two, three, four, five. We look at the next chord, we have D. Well D, one, two, three, D F and A. One, two, three, four, five. The shortcut I have is every other note for So E, FG, AB, and you E, FG, AB, all spastically like that. E, G, B, that's how I is I would just sit there and it would give me the So F A C, F, GA, BC, root, third, fifth. G B D, G, B, D, remember C is C is C. So you don't have two Cs, C D E F G A B, on and on and on. So your chord is G B D, A C E, and B D F, those are the notes. So when you play chords, these are the notes that you're playing. Now, we're not done, we have So the next thing we need to do is we need to talk about the intervals for each one of these chords. You gotta follow along, a piece of paper and a pencil, or if you don't, pause the and come on back because So C to E, what we wanna learn are the distances between each one of these. The distance from C to E is a third. The distance from C to G is a fifth. Root, third, fifth, but the truth is what chords really are are stacked thirds. C to E is a third, E to G is a third, then we'd add another third and we'd add another third, Extending chords, we just keep stacking on another third over and over and over. D to F is a third, F to So let's look at the distances C to E, let's think in terms and again we'll get far more in depth in the course, but let So C to E, how many is it from C to E, and C to D is a whole step, So this is two whole steps, and again this gets far deeper, but show you the basic and then you can start using And then E to G, let's What's the distance in terms of whole steps or half steps from E to G? And your answer should be one and a half. It's one and a half steps. If we look at the next chord, D to F, what's the distance there? D to E, E to F, what do you think? The answer is one and a half, So you'll see these two they're different from each other. This first chord, two over That's the definition of a major chord. Is two whole steps over The next one we see is and that's the definition Now when I say two, I gotta turn my marker there. When I say two, I'm talking about what we refer to as a major third. It is a third, we just talked about how these are stacked thirds. The bigger one is called major third. One and a half, then is of So what you're dealing is a major third over a minor third. A minor chord is a minor third over a major chord or a major third, excuse me. So what's awesome about this and then again, when you've got some time, and you wanna work on this a little bit, grab your piece of paper, grab a pencil or a pen and take a look at this, and if you've got one now E to G is one and a half, G to B is two. That's a minor chord. F to A is two, A to C is one and a half. That's a major chord, Here we've got two over one and a half, that's a major chord as well. We'll take a look at this A to C is one and a half, C to E, is two. That's a minor chord. Now, check this one Take a look at this last one. What's the distance from B to D? One and a half. What's the distance from D to F? It's one and a half. That's kinda weird. So when you get one and a you get what's called dim- It's hard to write at an angle. You get diminished, this Now this is the point, Not that this isn't important, and we're gonna study that but let me show you this, We know that the first chord is major, because it's two over one and a half, or a major third over a minor third. The second chord is minor, so I write it with a small Roman Numeral. The third chord is minor. The fourth chord is major, The fifth chord is major, The sixth chord is minor, and the seventh chord is it's a seven chord that's diminished. Now the truth is, is in popular music, whether it's country, rock, blues, pop, metal to a certain degree, the seven chord really You use it a lot in jazz, we just don't really use it that often and when it does occur, a lot incorrectly in terms of its theory. Now, again in the course, I'm gonna talk about all those kinda things. In the theory course, I that don't fit theoretically as well, which is what I call real world playing, or non-logical playing all those kinda things to get out of this is that your one, your four, and your five is major, your two and your three and six are minor, and then of course your Because your half step and from the last video is the outcome is the same for every key. If you're in the key of is still gonna be major, is still going to be minor, and your seven is still going to be diminished. That's what's awesome about you will learn all the What you need of course is and that's why I'm doing these If you understand the chromatic scale, you can create the major which is what we did in the From there, we can create these chords, and we can create this chord that the one four five is major and now we know why, and are minor, and of course So if we knew that the key of we just go G major, A minor, B minor, C major, D major, E If we knew that the key of D gets an F sharp and a C sharp, and it does because of the video we well then we got D major, G major, A major, B Boom, it's that easy. So it's not that it takes you have to just take things Again, if we start with the white board, if we start with we're trying to do, we get then we can go to our guitar and we can start applying these things. So the last thing I wanna if I can find my guitar pick, there we go, is I want to apply this so you can actually start using this and move it to any key you want. So let's head up to the C here. So we've got C D E F G A B C, and remember we talked about that last time. C D E F G A B C, well from we're gonna put a chord onto that. Now, we need to know our bar chords, so that's gonna be important. I'm just gonna be playing to show you this, but you could play this anywhere on your fret board. So on this C chord or on the note C, I'm gonna play a C major chord. (chord plays) And the major bar chord, by pressing on all strings with my first finger across the eighth fret, and then I add my middle finger on the third string, ninth fret, and I add my ring finger on the and I add my pinky on the That's a major bar chord, I'm on C. Now the next one I've got is a D minor. So I'm gonna move up a whole step to D, and I'm gonna make this minor by taking the middle finger off. Now this is pretty cool, think about this. The major was two over one and a half, the minor was one and a half over two. The note that changes is the third. If I had a C chord right now pay careful attention to This is a theory tip, of those in the course as well. This is two over one and a half. So right now I'm playing right here, that's what If I wanted this chord to be minor, all I would have to do is take this E and move it back to E flat, which would make this one and a half, and this two. And the way we do that on our guitar is we just take that finger off. This note right here is the So if you ever have a major chord and you wanna make it minor, all you do is flat this middle note, you Here's another major chord, Here's another major chord, And, of course, on the this middle note, this excuse me, is the note that's the third. This is that note that So I take that off, and it becomes minor. Pretty cool, huh? So again, there's lots of There's lots of different cool things that we're gonna talk about in detail so you don't question So let's keep going. We got C major, we got D two whole steps, or excuse we're gonna go E minor, so On the fifth string, we're gonna do an F major fifth string bar chord. So I'm barring over the bottom five, I'm using my third finger to press on the second, third, and fourth strings. At the tenth fret, that's move up to my five chord, and then my six chord which is minor. So we have C D E F G major, major, and then or yeah A minor here I'm barring over again and I'm gonna put my ring finger on the fourteenth fret of the fourth string, my pinky on the fourteenth and my middle finger on the sorry about that, and there's my minor. So the awesome part about this is if you know your bar major, major, major, right there, my two, three, and six are sitting right there, So here's one, four, and then two, three, six are all minor, and then I've got my over here, which is done by playing fourteenth fret of the fifth string, fifteenth fret of the fourth string, fourteenth fret of the third string, fifteenth fret of the second string. With that, we can play a Now again, I'm not worried it's the other six I want So I've got major, minor, because now I could head and I have major, minor, Think about how easy that to be able to transpose in any key. Or somebody says oh and it's in the key of No big deal, you find you put all six chords Now, there are changes, right? There are fluctuations, that happen in music all of those kinda things in this course, but this is a great place for you to start to begin building all of this. So, please remember, again thank you for all the responses we've been getting on the Facebook community page. Any time that we can discuss these things and make them make sense We're here to help you, So if you go to Facebook, community page, you sign and we can talk about any of these things at any point in time, so Don't feel like, I because people should already know that. People shouldn't already know anything, that's how you learn, you So in the next video, we're gonna learn how to take the major convert that major scale into minor and see the foreshadowing So good luck with our chord