today we are gearing up for another journey to visit Samuil to check on how he's doing and bring him some much needed food supplies Samuil lives about 30 km away from the nearest village to get there we have to cross a river and the roads this time of year are pretty rough so we have to prepare well just in case our vehicle freezes and we are stuck out in the heart of the vast Taiga forest with no way to call for help you might be wondering why would anyone choose to live in such a harsh Place? Well, I agree. Living in one of the most challenging environments on Earth is not easy and every day is a battle against a relentless cold but there is something truly special in this place... The pristine beauty and serenity of this mighty land becomes a part of who you are... it's a bond that can never be broken. while we continue our journey Samuil's days has already started he began his day by reading newspapers and listening to the radio his only connection to the outside world in his isolated home even though samel has been living alone for two decades far from civilization he's still carefully reads each article often more than once. These newspapers keeps him entertained and serve as precious treasures he brought with him from the village. Samuil will not only read the Samuil will not only read the newspapers but he also uses them to decorate his house despite the challenges of living in such a remote place without the conveniences of city life he strive to make his home cozy and tidy... the life in the coldest place on Earth Wilderness is beyond extreme. Samuil faces daily challenges head-on. Even the simplest task can turn into a difficult feats. Every day he must figure it out how to get his food. Unfortunately Samuil lacks the hunting skills sometimes he set traps to catch hares but success is rare, happening maybe once a month during the summer Samuil spends his time fishing in the nearby lake however as the weather gets colder securing food becomes a much more difficult challenge today he decided to take a chance and ventures to a nearby lake hoping to catch some fish I'm standing on a bog its so dangerous Look how deep it is Look, my stick goes straight through Look its so deep I think it's even deeper than me! That's why I'm always afraid to come here But I need to get some food Looks like it's frozen Well, well, well Let's see if I caught any fish today Alright Can you see any? Oh no! Only 3 tiny fish! Look, only 3! And no more! Okay, let's throw it back Maybe i'll catch something tomorrow Alright, let's go Ah, I almost fell down! It's so dangerous! I'm so afraid But I have no choice! I have to find something to eat So When I want to eat some fish I come anyway sadly today the fish don't seem to be embarks on the long journey, often nearby village. the locals often lend stories of his life in the wilderness and During the summer It usually takes me around 4-5 hours I come here from the village its fast But yesterday... The roads were terrible There were huge paddles everywhere And snow sticks to your boots So my boots became very heavy They become very big I couldn't walk properly I left village at 5 pm and arrive home only at 12.30 am Gosh, it's 7.5 hours Mhm... Today with a stock of meat from Samuils is planning to cook a simple he stores his food in his self-made permafrost, a naturally occurring frozen layer of soil that never melt, even during summer. Gosh, so much snow It might put out the fire Samuil cooks his food outdoors, especially when it's not too cold, as he doesn't have a cooking stove at home. He prefers food that's been prepared outdoors. Food cooked outside in the fresh air always tastes better. However, when temperatures drop to -50 degrees Celsius, Samuil has no choice but to cook inside on top of his heating stove. Samuil typically has just one meal a day which he generously shares with his only friends --his dogs. A steaming bowl of soup is the ideal food to keep him warm and nourished throughout the harsh Siberian winter. Soup is very good for you Oh, did I put salt in it? to get drinking water and keep clean on his roof which melts and flows into a barrel but if he has a choice he prefers to drink the melted ice from the lake to wash and keep clean he carefully warms water in his trusty stove patiently with resourcefulness born outdoor shower using gasoline containers while he may not have a traditional Bathhouse Samuil's creativity knows no bounds. This summer I harvested some firewood I will get them from the forest this winter To build a small bathhouse I will probably start building it next spring It's not hard, I can easily build by myself by the time Samuil prepares his lunch, our team have arrived at Samuil's house. with a heartwarming smile Samuil greets us warmly it's a perfect moment for our arrival bringing with us much needed supplies. despite the challenges he faces Samuil is very kind and welcoming as we sit down to share this meal captivating stories from his life in the of his remarkable journey and the enduring spirits that keep him going in this harsh environment When I've first got electricity in my house My life completely changed Thank you guys I feel like I'm living the city life now This solar panel you installed It feels like magic I can put the light on all day Now I'm dreaming about getting a TV My life improved so much It's getting better and better