Hi, and welcome to this course called Excel from learn how to use Excel using six projects that you and I've been a teacher for computer science what you're about to see are applications been successful with other students in the past. Code Camp has given me to present this to you. with success with students from high school to part of what I've done in class. And I'm glad to look at some of the projects that we'll build in to use six projects, the first one, and it'll be imagine if you were a company and trying to pay So that's what we'll do in this first project. The doing computing on percentages, we'll be finding Also we'll have a factor decision tree factoring would be best based on what we prefer, what the spreadsheet will help us determine how to make a sales database. And so I will give you a bunch who are the best salespeople what their commission called a car inventory project where we'll create have a large number of data again, and we can show and how to make reports with this. And then six different problems that we're going to solve. show you how something is done. And then I'm going where I give you a half of a solution. And then the previous courses to see if you can solve the as well as a practice where you can put things the things you'll learn throughout here. So some how to enter data, how to navigate through a to show you how to set up formulas because using such as how to compute overtime, or how to get on commission, or to simply do averages and to formulas will create charts. So you'll have pie charts, Excel is really easy and creating charts, And it does it for you. Also, we're going to So relative and absolute references is used want to use and other parts of the spreadsheet. We're going to do imports and exports of the internet. So maybe your bank statement comes And it says we produce these items in CSV So I'll show you how to use this. And so you can we're using something called v lookup. So v through a menu to find the right item for your pivot tables are summary reports. So if you have it to a very readable decision, this is kind of and concatenate text. And so you can modify So that's some of the features that were ahead please let's continue on with the first lesson. with something called payroll. And you can see we're going to give them some fake numbers, with fake numbers, how many hours they worked, some simple formulas to fill in these columns Also, I'll show you shortcuts so that large there are shortcuts in Excel to make it work fast. an Excel so this particular lesson on Excel the over a million times. on my YouTube channel, so great way to start using Excel, we're going to use We're going to launch the program and start assignment that we're going to do with Microsoft that you see in any spreadsheet. First of all, the cells. Just like in the game battleship where you numbers, you can identify cells such as this one cell, you simply click it and start typing. press Enter. And you notice that this cell, it is only in a one. Now let's use Excel as hours that our employees worked this week. And we need to put some column headings last name, and then first name. And then I'm the selection moves to the right, hourly let's say January 1, and press enter. Over here, And this is their total pay. So I'll just put column by clicking between the column headers like The next thing you need to do is you need to about 20 names, maybe 15 for your employees. I've invented names, last names and first names. each person makes a route $15 or so. So I'll type numbers, they are right justified when you type they are left justified. That's just a convention letters versus numbers. Now one of the items that These are all hourly wages, I'm going to select The first square is actually highlighted even what I want to do is change them into a currency. And you notice that they all become dollar signs. Now let's invent a number for each of The average workweek for a full time person is I'll create the number of hours that After giving each employee a number of ours, over here on this line, this square in number a calculated cell. If a person gets How much do they get paid? Well, fortunately, on my keyboard, I'm going to press the area called the formula bar, we have an equal Now I'm going to click on the cell that has the letter C four is entered into the Now I want to multiply 1590. So I'm going to press And then I'm going to click the 40 the dot So my formula is equals to c four times the it'll tell me that this person gets $636. If we added an hour here and I type 41 and press When you double click on a cell that has correspond to the cells that you clicked. And D four is in red. In a press ENTER Microsoft Excel has a nice feature where you on this cell and choose Copy. And then I it'll automatically calculate the next line. You and paste, it will fill down where all of those railroad tracks where a bunch of pound signs, it's in this in this cell. So I need to make the column Another way to fill down if you want to, you can dot. And if you click exactly on the corner and values in that column. And so now I've quickly One more thing we're going to do with this formula I want to know who is the maximum, press enter, average pay, and what is the total pay these labels. But over here in this column, I'm going has hundreds of formulas that are predefined. And then you type the word MA X, you notice that that this is one of the formulas that Excel parentheses, which is the shift key and nine. And till they come to the very and press Shift and zero to do a close it will give me the maximum of all is getting $45 an hour. And so you can see in this I'd like to know who the minimum is. So I'm going open parentheses and drag my mouse across a After I press Shift and zero, enter, and the looks like it's Paul Smith. Now what's the average And you see there's a bunch of formulas for I'm going to choose average. close parentheses, and press enter. Okay, let's take this range here of right click it with the mouse copy. I want and pastes. And now you see that we have the number of hours that are being worked. Now you they're actually not dollars, they're number of change these formattings back to general numbers. number formatting area, there's a small arrow that shows all different types of formatting for Now, why does this number have so many decimal computing an average. It would be nice if 10th the 10th place or the hundreds place. So decrease the decimals that we're rounding to so now we have the number of hours maximum minimum for column E, we could also find the min the So let's highlight this group, I'm going to select And it fills to the right now and shows me that the minimum dollars and the average. Once more, So let's change these to the dollars format. So And now we have the average the maximum and the So now we've created the maximum the minimum and D, and E. We haven't done anything yet with a total number of hours worked was. And let's find is. So for the word sum, we type equals su m, and nine. And then I'm going to select a range close parentheses and Enter. And you'll see Now I'm going to fill this to the right, and shows for my wages this week, I'm going to change The last thing we should do is put our name type in your name, press enter, save the with assignment number one for Excel. Welcome we're going to extend assignment number we had created earlier. What I'd like to using the if formula, and also adding the So you notice here in column D that we have the first employee worked 41 hours, we're going to So I'm going to start by inserting a column the entire column is selected, I can right click And it will now give me a new column to work with. Now I'm going to say this is the overtime hours. come up with a formula that will tell us how many it would seem simple, we would just say equals the And that will tell us how many hours of overtime But there's some errors. If you have less than 40, see that when we come to Paul Smith in row number it's a negative hours that he's worked, that rather give is Paul should have zero hours of the formula a little bit. So let's go up to here. with the word if if is a command that says let's either an equal sign greater than or less than, that test is true or not. And if it's false, we'll The question is, if his hours worked, the value if it is greater than 40 Comma, and if he worked less than 40 hours, which would be zero hours of overtime, I So he still gets one hour of overtime. But the people that worked less than 40 hours gets negative numbers. And so this is the correct how about the pay? What does that do? Let's go you will see that this formula takes the number That's great, but now we give them a bonus for column and call it overtime bonus. Now in this the number of overtime hours they worked. So I'm point five times their hourly wage, so we're going number of overtime hours they worked. What that and a half, or one and a half times for each hour john Kern earned one hour of overtime, we give him pay for one of those hours. Let's fill this down Some of the people have zero. This one got no of these people worked 40 hours and still got zero hours beyond 40 that we're calculating. So they Now, how about the total pay, let's put equals to their regular 40 hours of pay And let's use the fill down option. Some of the and this is their total pay. Down here at averages and totals. For all of these Calculate the totals now and see we can see Welcome to assignment number three with Microsoft a final version of the payroll spreadsheet, you most of these are copied and pasted. It's an In the gray area here where you see hours only were concerned with one week of pay. And this pay. And we were you will use calculations to find and then here in the blue area, their total that we did before. And we'll simply extend Well, first of all, what we need to do is add I'm going to right click and choose Let's do this a few times. And will give us some Now starting here in column E three, I'm going date that we chose was January 1, you can either use a calculation, let's use a calculation plus seven. And now it starts at January 8. Now several more columns. And Next, I'm going to invent some more be approximately 40. They can be a little But it doesn't matter really what the numbers for each employee. Now we've reached hours for each employee. It looks like I've so I'm simply going to remove it by choosing Now let's go to the overtime hours. We're going once again, I'm going to insert some columns. You time. If you highlight four column row headers and I'd like to add seven to the date that's in Now let's add some overtime hours. Now I want to Well we've already done this in the previous if d four is greater than 40, then give us the I can take this entire block and copy it, And I'm going to right click on So now it's calculating the overtime Let's double click on this cell. And you notice from this blue square the 42 hours from January column letter. This is using cell e4. I'm pressing notice that this cell was using this cell D for and paste, Excel automatically assumes that you in the spreadsheet. So if this is one cell to the I'm going to copy and paste again. So I'll Copy and Paste again. And paste again. So now we Now when you start to get a lot of cells looking at so many numbers. So Excel allows These cells here that I'm highlighting now are all Let's give them a color. Let's So now you can see that they For overtime hours, let's paint them you can choose whatever color you like. But I'm And now we're going on to calculate their pay. This pay here really is the pay for January 1. So Now I'm going to calculate the pay for every week. And let's do once again equals And then fill that formula to the right. I'll fill this one to the right. Now, how do we their hours and the wage hours worked, which was new here. If we just simply copy and paste these I'll show you what happens in a minute. And a Now why in the world is everyone What happened? Well, let's double click on First of all, you notice is very difficult we can actually zoom out on our spreadsheet. And we can make it easier to see the We can see the whole spreadsheet now Let's choose something else. I'm going just the cells. Click on zoom and choose fit on the screen. So now I can see hourly now let's go look in this cell here. What's going cells D four and multiply by E four and give me we were in the previous week, we were taking the the relative referencing is saying well let's take So we need to make a modification This actually on the keyboard. And I'm going to delete all and choose clear contents. What I need is what's modify my original formula here. It's telling me d four. And I know that I'm going to copy it to to do is keep referencing the hourly wage, wage. In C four times the number of hours worked, is there a way to tell Excel not to use relative what we're going to call it anyway, I'm going to I'm going to simply type in $1 sign in front of means that every time that you think about sales, For the first week, nothing changes, all of But now when I copy this range of cells, let's take a look at what this reference you notice that it is still referencing cell referencing says let's move to the right one hourly wage times the hours from January 8, or Now I'm going to highlight this whole range. This I'm just going to use the fill right option, using It feels right. And all of the wages You see it's using their proper range, it's number referencing c four. And so now their overtime, calculated correctly. Well, let's give this range So I'm going to highlight this section here. bucket. Let's see it's time I like green, green Now we need to calculate their overtime pay. Well, we've we need to have some more weeks. So let's insert Let's put in a date for each of these this one's going to equal the first cell And so we have all of the weeks for January. Once more, this is going to be a problem. If we The overtime pay is correct for the first week. If problem, we're going to have numbers that are way you see it's referencing overtime hours. But not the wage that we're expecting. It's have to change this formula to use absolute clear these highlight and choose I'm going to double click on this formula. And as dollar sign c four. And I'm going to copy Here's another way to copy and paste through the then highlight the entire place where I and all of the formulas now show the Okay, the last thing we should probably do is pay as a color such as I don't know what Pick blue is looking good. Now for the total, First of all, I need to zoom out total wages. Well, the total wages right pay plus the overtime bonus looks this is going to be January 1. And once more we And we're going to use a few more weeks of this. with using relative cell referencing five, I'm going to double click on that cell titles Let's check this one out. If I double click looks like it's adding the pay from the first bonus for the second week. That's exactly what I'm going to pick this one randomly chose one cell. So in this case, we don't want absolute relative referencing work just fine. Let's add one a darker gray. One more thing that you might I'm going to actually highlight this section We calculate the totals the maximums One more thing you might want to add here is the And I'm going to put in this equals sum, formula five of these with a closed parentheses. Let's Double click again. So we're adding up And then fill this down for everybody. You can I'm going to copy this range, paste it earn $8,000 this month that looks like this line scroll to the left and see who that is second Now when you print, you're going to have a Fortunately, Excel gives us a nice way to print and choose Print. Now down here, it says no sheets of paper to get everything printed. First of all, we can turn the paper sideways. That helps a little bit now it's only four pages we can fit all of the columns on one page or Okay, it's very small. It seems to work though. Let's save it and print it as this size. The next And you can see that the grade book is not just a called conditional formatting. That's what those who are the top students in your class and who as you can see on the right side. And so several that we haven't done before and you'll have a What you see on the screen in front we're going to give them a series of a company philosophy tests, a financial skills employment based on their testing level. So And they are testing after their job interview. from scratch and build it one place at a time. workbook. Let's start by giving this a title and we're going to keep people's names in here. Now you can see that I've typed in the names spreadsheet, you can just copy and paste these names, you can, but we're going to use up to line the company test. Now you notice that I put the The first test is called safety test. The next The third one is the financial skills test. these words all run into each other. Let's do a I'm highlighting all four cells. It's called orientation. I click it. And each of these cells is written vertically. Now, how much is each test worth? Well, let's points possible. That'll show us what Let's say the first one is worth 10. The next worth 100. And the drug tests we're just going to Notice that I need to make the column E a the square very well. Now, all we have to do next many points did john earn and so on? Now, you can employees. So the maximum is 10. Nobody has more But then over on this side where it says drug a zero. So there were two employees that got Next, let's calculate the percent that I want to take the titles and copy them. right click on one of them and choose area over how about column H. We'll start with and the percentages? Well, you would take and divide it by the points possible divided by Actually I wanted to say 1%. So I'm going tab. And you'll find in here the formatting So on the safety test, john Kern earned 100%. Now all the percents are shown for this assignment. Now there's a problem. This one says divide one's is 90 90%. And this one says 100%. It should would. Let's double click on this 100% do you see divided by C five. Really what we want to do is divided by the points possible. And so referencing error. It's counting back two need to use absolute referencing here to get the try again going to right click and choose clear the cell here of the points that john earned I want to absolutely choose row number two every And so now when I fill down, it's going to always And so Indeed, we get the correct answers, because Trent earned in 11 points. Now, I should or use the fill command and calculate Notice the drug test is either 100% tests are all worth different points, Now, it would be nice to tell at a glance which doing extremely well and which ones are failing. first one here. And I'm going to do conditional cells according to the numbers that are inside. So And in this case, I'm choosing icon sets. it's got red, yellow, and green, and then a black who's in the top set percentages and who's lights show up immediately, with the top test failing, and then there's a black one for an that with the next row. Let's highlight the next and icons and choose the traffic lights again, see once again, that Karen is having difficulty You have to do these all individually, because If you try to format them all at the same the traffic lights, again, for our financial This time you notice right away there's she's not so good at financial skills. And for the Under icons and feel free to experiment with data bars, interesting things you can see on And so now we have little traffic lights, can see there's four green lights for john, are Now let's also make a rule that we want 50% on any test. So a quick way to find out who scores and their percentages. Let's go back to the first one called highlight cell rules. So in this in, we want to find out who is So I can put point five in here. And then the red text, you can choose different options, but And right away, you can see that at a glance, less than 50%. For Karen, less than 50% on a less than 50% on financial. And so we have Now since I have a concern about who should be fire employee with a question mark. And then We're going to use a formula that asks this If so, then we should fire them, So the formula we're looking for is called the or in a parentheses. This means that we're some number less than another one? And if so, I'm going to say or is this score and I'll put a comma. And then I'll ask another Is this less than point five? And then finally, less than point five. So I all of them asked the same thing is this number it says false. None of these scores are less will see that some of these scores are less than Once more, we can see from this side from this Let's do a conditional formatting on this conditional formatting. And this time, is this question equal to true, I can spell all the ones that are true are highlighted Lastly, let's put some numbers Let's go down to here and use Let's just use three max min and average. So be the maximum of the range that's above it. So And let's do the same for minimum equals min, parentheses, what is the average score And then we can use the fill right? option, We're going to copy all these and put them Now since these are percentages, it would Let's create a chart that shows all the graphs going to highlight safety tests. And now let's go a column chart, the column chart, we'll just Slide it over to the side. Now we're missing double click where it says title, we We also need to know who are the people taking So it'd be nice to change that. After we have the actual names of the people as well as the we just have employee numbers at the bottom. let's Now when it says here, horizontal axis labels, what is the label range, it's asking us for or we can just simply go over here and click on I do that, it's telling me that from sheet one, And click OK. And click OK again. And so now So we've created a test, graph the safety test. Let's do another graph. Let's do the company up to the Insert button or the insert options. And and slide it down below this Let's call it the company philosophy tests. Once more, we need to add these labels of the numbers. So let's choose Select Data And we need to slide over to select the And okay. And Okay. Let's close this menu here. One more graph, the financial skills insert the charts and choose a And let's give the names at the And let's slide this one in Okay, that brings us to the finish of this of print it once more when you print. Be careful that says we're using six. So maybe I'm exaggerating. so it's sideways. Let's see if we can fit this to you can see all the graphs neatly arranged and In this lesson called decision maker, we're going a job. And we're going to weigh different factors that are out there in the job market, how much various factors. And then based on your opinions, should choose. Welcome to excel assignment number create using Microsoft Excel. Let's assume that factors, we're going to consider several jobs here lead you to decide to go into that field such would mean the likelihood that you'll be hired the your talents, how well are you at doing the be schooling, how much time is invested to get to lead you to a decision that probably is one of Are you going to work at. So let's start from a blank one. And let's start by giving it a title. we're going to call this the job column. And you So I've placed a few jobs here in column A, Now let's have a large variety of types you might have different ones. Now let's decide on one of these, obviously, I've placed other factors into the chart as well. talents and your schooling that's required. So a five or some number large is the best that So a McDonald's manager that's put him down pretty well. Let's give him a for NFL it's as pretty good as a three and a truck driver might market. Likely you probably can get a job there. guaranteed a job. NFL Probably the worst of gets to that level. Engineers, they've got very are doing well as well as well. How well would so much, doctor if that's your passion. So make And so I filled in each of these categories of the each of the factors. Now, it lines here. So I'm just going to put su And then we'll fill down to see So this is telling me that number 19 is the However, there's more to the decision than just every factor is equal, such as the amount of pay job market. Well, in fact, job market might paying job. But if you can't get it, then than you thought it was. Let's add some new We're going to insert a new columns. the letters at the top the column headers, What I want to do next is add what I would these categories. For instance, job market, I if I can't find a job, then there's no sense in probably enjoy it, I'm going to give it as a for is. So I'm going to say that's not as important do as much school is I have to, and then pay Now for each of these, let's take a formula to relative importance of this times the factor a absolute reference. So where it says dollar of the four, because I'm going to reference after I fill down. So filling down here is somewhat moderated now, it's got less of So let's copy this section here. and paste it into the next area. And continue on. Now let's readjust this when I do the final add up each of these factors. So I'm And then I will fill down in the last So once more 65 shows up as the most important of One more final touch might be to color code each of these areas so that they stand Now looking at the last the totals, let's do highlighting the numbers, I'm going to choose highest ranked item. And so 65% 65 is the highest on top. Engineering, by the way, is what the Let's see what you have prints your work, put of what your career will be. In this lesson a large amount of data we're going to have lots of sales people are in our department and We're going to use some data from some sales What you see on the screen in front of database. on sales for a store, you can see that you don't have to type all these things in, I'll just manipulate what's already there. So you can there's a few blanks that we're going to the bottom and you will see that has, I think all the way to December here, you can see the little bit of data about each one. The store cost Sale Price is what we sold it for. And then we the commission, and then we'll do some reports salesperson is in our store. Well, let's do to encounter when we work with sales data. on the formulas that we're going to use and some text to columns, which we'll use to split these name and column I we want to split them into if formula. You've seen that before. The next you can pick certain areas or certain items to This is a database really more than a spreadsheet. and filtering, a new concept that you'll see of like the number of sales that each employee by making a pie chart. Let's start by making Right now they're all compacted together. So let's text wrapping allows us to see So now you can see in column B, C, and each that Let's start with the item called text is to split these columns so that they have first So to do that, we're going to need to insert click on column header j, and choose Insert. Let's go to column I. And we're going to the What this will do, it will allow the computer there's two options if you use fixed width. That or seven or whatever you want to choose. But in that's between these names. So I'm going to choose are your delimiters a delimiter is a divider. a tab, a semi colon a comma or space, it will above. So I'm choosing space. And so a space Now let's change these headers now since and then last name for each of the the next item is to calculate how much profit transaction 1001 was a pool cover. The product use is based on the maybe the manufacturer's code. item for $98 and it costs you $58 to buy it from this square here, which is F to subtract E to $40.10. Now you might have to format that using the dollar sign. Now how about commission? How for selling this pool cover? Well, here's the by If he sells an item that sells for more So let's go and make a formula using if this sale price, I'll click here is greater more profit than the less. So the Let's make it 20% of the profits actually. shift an EIGHT and a decimal two, so that's 20%. then let's take the profits and So that's the rule that tells us the commission per center. So the commission for this item is of the profits of the store. So Charlie burns earn Now, let's just highlight these two squares, and and drag down. That's a little bit hard to fill to fill down. I'm going to hold the shift key on and then slide to the bottom of the spreadsheet. the Shift key and click at the last area, you is selected, I'm sliding back to the top and the region selected, where I want to fill these fill down. If I click on home, way over on the click here, I have down right up and left is it automatically fills the entire range. So it down using this little item in the corner. Now you can see in some items such as this one gallon of muriatic acid, it costs the company was $3. And Doug Smith earned 10% on that sale, scroll back to the top. Now the next item if some if allows you to add together a range something more specific. Let's go to the bottom. three different sums, I want to do the sum of valued more than $50. And the sum of items valued Column F, which is the profit or that The easiest formula is just the sum formula. range, I'm going to type the range this time since letter F and two, and a colon and then the word that there's a blue rectangle surrounding the press enter. So in this year, the store sales were those items were valued at $50 or more? What is we use now is called sum if So type equals sum in here. It's called a range and a criteria. So gives me this the range of all the sales and the I'm going to have to put a quotation mark and what that will do is it will sum only the you can see that $16,088 is the sum of Well, let's use the same formula. But this time, less. So that is equals sum if the range will Now this time, I'm going to put in And quotation and a parentheses. So now I can items that are $50 or more, hopefully, these two Okay, let's scroll back to the top and see what in most database work is with sorting, and Go to the Data tab. And right here you see sort would think it would work. Let's choose sorting the first, we can sort by the last name of an have been rearranged so that the last name is first, and then Hernandez starts at row number you can resort again, and this time, choose the sale location. So if you're looking for all the items that you sort by sale location. And so all the Arizona New Mexico. And then finally, the last items let's see it one more time, I went to sort back way that the spreadsheet was sorted. So the last The next item is filtering. If you want to use the Next button filter, what are we going to titles automatically have a little arrow next to as sales location, I can unclick certain items. If I leave a checkmark there and click OK. And so It's only one screen full. All the items have However, don't be fooled, the other items are row numbers, we start with to jump to eight 913 Just because we sorted or we filtered by the sales Click ok. Try filtering by other columns. Let's I only want to see Helen. I'm looking at her Yeah, remember, the other items are still So that's filtering, sorting and filtering are data like you have here. The next item that I Pivot Table is a way to summarize a large group that I'm going to work with here. I'm going to down to the other corner of my spreadsheet. all the way to the bottom to row number 172. It's this data I don't want to include the summary that's over on the right in column M. So after I and I'm choosing a pivot table. Pivot Table So you can see the selection here is from a one it's going to create a new worksheet. Up it's always been called sheet one, as you you will see now I have a new sheet. This one Now what are we going to put in a pivot table? you're going to add together or make a summary of? for each of my salespeople. So I'm going to You notice that we have a little When I click those, the computer guessed what I of the last name and choose the sum of the sales together, you can count them, you can average you can experiment with other items, you can You can do filtering. There's a lot to do with I want to leave this as the sum of the values and Let's format these as dollars And now you can see that the best salesperson in Hernandez needs some help. To show this visually, Let's go to insert insert. And a pie chart would I like three dimensional pie charts. Let's the last name of each salesperson and You might want to show some data on this graph as Add Data Labels. So you can click here. And it employee earned. Adjust the colors and the we should do is print to worksheets. So let's put you go to print, make sure that it fits on one preview that I have two pieces of paper here, it's a horizontal landscape. And And click Print. In this lesson called card advanced features of Excel, you can see that we're going to find out how many miles they each So we can combine two fields together and split and create some charts as well. So let's get assignment number seven. This is a database of all This is a rather extensive spreadsheet. So we're You can see the lesson contents on the screen. create a text file into a spreadsheet. The second middle and right. We'll use v lookup We'll review the if formula. We'll use the we'll work on a pivot table. And lastly, we'll Your company fleet manager might have a computer to do some analysis now on the cars that are you a database, you have a few options. You can or perhaps what you're more familiar with is aspect of how Excel works today. You'll see that cars that we own in the company with some IDs their numbers the principal driver and so we're using Excel. First of all, you won't get a what you get is a text file. And so what I have on text file. If I double click this, it looks ugly, at least not yet. This is what you get from or your insurance company or your bank. These any, they don't have any spreadsheet, graphs, they But Excel knows how to work with these very These are all separators, they show the different I'll show you how to work with this. Now I'm Now instead of starting by working with the going to the word file. And I'm going to this text file, I have to go find And let's browse. And let's navigate to the And it doesn't show up. Why not? Well, remember, just looking for spreadsheets right now. So I'm on the desktop. And then scroll through it again. Now when I open it, it's going to ask me some Are these like, text files that are equal Well, these are all separated by commas, as you stick with the delimited idea. Choose next. And Are they separated by tabs, semi colons, commas, separated by commas. And as soon as I click comma, as they are intended. And so that looks like And so now I have the start of my spreadsheet. spreadsheet, let's take you through some steps closely. There's no room for creativity on this here. First of all, let's change the columns so the entire title. So we'll use text wrapping, the new formulas that are able to handle text, you For instance, whoever invented this car ID for the into the ID as possible. And so we used m T, G, four Mustang. And 001 is the car try to squeeze data into a field like this, come up with a few ideas on how to separate I want to take the first two data items. So the first two letters is And if I chose if I choose that, you notice the I'm going to choose this as my text. And the Well, in my database, it looks like the first two a close parentheses. And sure enough, you can see of the database. Well, let's fill All the way to the bottom, how And so you can see we have two letters for each Okay, let's create a new formula. And we're going like to put in just the word Ford. Or down here Honda car is Chrysler and ah y is Hyundai. We're a lookup table. Let's take these items and GM, and f, d. These are all our manufacturers. Okay, you can see that I've created a small with the full name. To make this work, though, So I'm going to highlight these, just and sort them. So I look for the data command, I want to sort by the first column, and click this next process is not going to work. Now look them up. I'm going to look up f d the computer function to do that is called it's going to look through a table vertically, and then return the second column, which is Ford. And let's follow all these options through First lookup value. So fd is the lookup value, put a the table is the little set of data at the and then a comma. Then it says column index contains the real word that you're looking for second column contains Chrysler, Ford General and a comma, and then actually, this is the parentheses Now press Enter, and scroll to the top Be careful, there's still one error with If I fill this down, you're going to notice everything stops working after the third row. It has this na, which means not available or if I double click on the second item, you'll see And you notice down here that that should send an alert to your mind to say, instead of absolute references. So if I I'm going to modify this. So I'm going to put in So that means that it's always going to use those now it looks like it's creating the results I And you see that we've created a new field in Now the model is the second item. While the model So we can just use the left command like we did item called mid command. So in this case, we have So let's, let's pull out some letters. Well, to two letters and so we use the left command. middle of the text. So this one is called the mid return the characters from the middle of a text So let's put a parentheses. The first item that And then a comma, the start number where So it starts at position five and the string and Well, these all have three characters in each The And now we see MTG. So let's fill these down other items. FCS must stand for Ford Focus, Let's see what some of these others are. Scrolling you can see that we have some of these others. Now as follows mt G is for Mustang. FSC is for Toyota Camry and a Toyota Corolla are next. Honda Odyssey. And what's next here, and then the Honda Elantra. So these are we were going to do the exact same process of all of these manufacturer model names, Okay, I'm finished with typing in all of these car table only works if it's alphabetized. So I'm and sort by the first column, which is D. alphabetical order. Once we have that done, use the exact same lookup as my model. I'm It doesn't seem to be working right? What's going on, I'll double click here to Now that's almost there. The only problem extend this one all the way to the bottom, Now it looks like it's finding Mustang correctly. absolute references, we have the dollar signs so we'll fill down and we'll have the Almost there. Let's open this a little light This one says not accessible or not available. somebody in their stupidity, typed in a zero So let's fix that. Up here at the top, we have an extra zero in there. So let's delete that typo was fixed. So when you get text from that people didn't enter the data correctly. This is going to use the mid command again, we're But a comma, it's going to start at position two letters, and we get 06. That one seems And now we'll pull out just the year, a Now we need a formula to calculate the age. How What would you do? Given that I'm creating this take 14 and subtract the years that come So a 2006 car is eight years old. seems to Most of the time it works except for here. Now if you look closely at this, this is an So once more, somebody thought that it was an O in here. So let's delete that Oh, and put The same happened here. Let's go back to this row Let's continue to fill down and see Oops, there's another one another value that Ah, oh, and then a 05. So we've had Now, this formula is very simple. It's actually Where did that come from? Well, that was called for every year, it worked until we switched 16 years old. And it gives us a negative 84. minus the value in cell B nine f 19. Well, it's but it doesn't serve our purposes, we want to So let's readjust our formula. Let's erase if if the difference between 14 then I want a formula for all those 90s and minus the year. And that'll get us the distance And then I'm going to add 14 to get to our the previous formula, we'll say 14 minus this for those that are less than 2000. And those I still get the same results for the first. And And so sometimes, a simple calculation needs to a 1999 car in the year 2014 is 15 years Now let's go over to this formula, miles per year. Well, that should be pretty simple. least at first divided by the years driven, which is the age Let's fill this down. And let's see if it works. There's an error, it says divide by zero. That's because over here in the age, it says 2014. Is it really zero years old? Well, it's probably six months old, maybe three months old. If I double click on this formula, you'll see the miles. Well, the age and some of these And this car really is not exactly eight years because a car that is zero years old really round a little bit. Let's add a little bit to add something to G two. So I'm going to have five let's add let's add a decimal point five. So Why parentheses? Well, you should know from that you're supposed to add and subtract after sure that we add first and then divide. If I press Enter And then fill this formula down, we should get better results. So the mileage And we have no divide by zero errors. Let's format commas to make them look more like miles, it's a comma in there, let's move, let's keep moving. That's fine. We'll use that in a few minutes. When shows the last name of each employee. How many 50,000 mile warranty. And this car is just barely Well, the question is, is this covered under do next. And so we'll do an IF calculation. the warranty, and yes, it is covered. And so a comma. So if it's not covered, I'm going to and a parentheses. So now this says If I fill down, I will see a different And some are covered and some are not covered going to fill in here is called the new car He says take the original ID. And I want you manufacturer and this last three digit number. And So once more, this is a bad idea to try to squeeze said so. So it's the truth. Let's do it. How do you're looking for is called concatenate co n. And it, double click the format that you're supposed So we're going to concatenate a bunch of fields, comma, and then we want to have the that comes second in the list. And then And then a comma, and now your boss said put we're going to adjust that because of the word. So we're going to delete this three letters of black. So I left left and a close parentheses and a comma. So we've And now what we need is the last three click here, comma, three, double close parentheses One more change that we need to make Your boss didn't tell you but he forgot to say Now there's a nice formula to put letters and change them to uppercase, the So I put a parentheses around the part that I the new car ID shows bl a as black. I'm Okay, so those are a lot of different database The next item in our checklist of things is called a pivot table. a pivot table your boss might ask of these drivers There's some formulas you could It's called a pivot table, I'm going to insert, It says, What's my range that I'm going to entire spreadsheet. Click ok. a pivot table one said car inventory. And this sheet is called put a checkmark next to him. And then I want to miles, automatically, the computer assumes that I now we have a chart that shows each driver Well, you could also put in a chart and their miles. And so Smith jumps Whoever Smith is he's driving a lot. Let's go back Smith, what kind of car does he have, oh, here's I would drive a lot to have somebody gave as the most of anyone in this series. Another is called a scatter chart. A scatter chart on a graph. So I'm going to select here, the age I'll click on their column headers, and select the And the chart that I'm looking for here has a chart. And as soon as you select it, you can graphs, each one of these dots on the graph shows zero years up to looks like about 18 is the oldest So it almost looks like a straight line. that we're looking for. So I'm clicking on the And now there's a dotted line that goes up we could probably make these access titles to select those as well. deleting the word access And then down here on this axis, I'm age of the car, and then in parentheses, And slide over. So now we have a chart that shows outliers. Some of these are right on the line. we could find out which cars are being driven Let's go to conditional formatting. color scales. It's pick one of these color doesn't matter which one you choose. But when highlighted in darker and lighter colors, they shows up as one of the highest. Let's sort this The first thing we have to do is select just the ignore these lookup tables at the bottom. So And then going to the Data tab and choosing sort. and let's go from the largest to the smallest and this particular car has 35,000 miles per year. On already driven at 17,000 miles. We scroll to the car is this Ford Mustang here, it's eight The last item I'd like to do is to create a And we're going to copy and paste a few the title of a report is Next, I'm simply going to put the top go back to excel. Go back to my sheet, copy choose Copy. And you can see you can go back And so these two programs integrate with each going to show the next is the scatter chart for for the car inventory miles on each car. Now this graph here that has the scatter chart. So right click, and choose Paste. And so I have two and call that our final assignment. One more Excel that was created using a txt file, you When you go to save that, you're It says you're still in the tab formatted you should say no, we want to save this or text delimited, we're just going to choose and all the formula and all the other things stay with your spreadsheet, a regular tab or text Okay, in Microsoft Word. Let's go File and print. we're going to talk about problem solving. And a problem. She wants to take a vacation and And so our options are to go on a or go to Chicago. Each one of these requires And so Excel is a great tool to figure out And so I will give you a partial solution. you're supposed to be able to solve some of stretch your thinking and reinforce the skills is going to start with a simple problem. And then the most complex problem. When you reach the end, to solve real problems in your personal life I'm going to show you how to calculate for four loans with different interest rates and that we're going to arrive at at the end of this loan with four different interest rates. And then Let's start up a new spreadsheet. And then So the first thing I'm going to do is fill out column is principal, the interest rate, the months the number of dollars that the total loan In the first column, let's put in labels here for these column headers are correct. So let's double these dividers. And that will separate the column So let's zoom in and let's check out what our number for our loan. Let's say we're buying a car So I enter in 10,000. And you can see that the column a little bit. And if you don't have dollar you can change this to $1 sign if you want. Now let's say 9% and I use the percent sign However, if you don't put in there 9%, you can put And then if you choose the percent Now the number of months, let's say I have So these three columns here are and then the last three columns are going to So let's start with the formula interest paid. we want to take the principal, which is B two, So you can either type in equals b two, eight. And that's for multiply. And then finally, will tell us that the total amount of interest is column is the number of dollars paid total. So we and we'll click the 10,000, then we put in a plus interests that we're going to pay as well. And cost of your car will be $10,900. Now you're so we're going to take this total amount and number of months that we just agreed to pay. So So your monthly payment for this car is $908. Now change something. So let's click in here and let's see the payment automatically is recalculated. Now want to see what the competitive rates are. So and fill down. So let's see I'm selecting this I'm using the Ctrl key and D on the Now I want to calculate on different rates. So Another one is seven and even 6%. So I shopped Now the number of dollars that I pay is equal Now let's take the last three columns, and we're three columns, and drag from the small dots in based on the 12 month payment. So let's see And then the total monthly payment is slightly let's select the total monthly payment, and we'll to the Insert tab here. And I'm going to select a Now there's my chart. And let's Let's put in a chart title. And I'm going to now at the bottom, you can see that I have these that's the only thing that changes in here is here and choose Select Data. In the column here and it says please give me a range. So I can And then it puts in the correct columns are c two for. Click OK. And then it says here, this is what click OK. And there you got your chart. My name tech Made Simple. I'm a university professor that and security, all kinds of technology, including Welcome to excel problem solvers. This is in solving real world problems, problems that are to solve in your head. So we're going to look at this booklet, we're going to see that they have a do for each page. First of all, we'll listen to We'll build a spreadsheet with proper formulas. each of these solutions, we're going to create But I'm going to assume that you've already done with a little bit of collaboration with And then finally, every one of these solutions will show a comparison. So let's see what these going to look at is a school shopping list. And three different stores to shop that Tim also The second problem we'll face is, should we buy a costs associated with buying each of those. The take a vacation. And so we're going to give three Orlando or Chicago, Tim's going to do the same The next problem is that they're going to purchase printers to choose from. And the cost of ink complicated yet, we're going to untangle the cell from three different cars, a very economical we're going to go on a shopping trip. And I'm Susan, would you help me pick one of Here's my shopping list. And so to the right of Susan would like to buy. Her choices are Walmart, below. And then her number of items that she So for instance, three ballpoint pens. at Walmart, or $1.50. Now this is a large complicated shopping solve a problem using an Excel spreadsheet. Inside we need to add a list of all of the items in store. And so pause the video right now and Next, let's go back to the shopping list. put into the spreadsheet, and then put Pause this video until you Now you might say these look like dollars. currency, add $1 sign. Let's add the prices So pause the video until you have all Now I'm going to help you a little bit further by looking at Susan's shopping list for each item such as three. And so I copy down Now, how would you figure out the amount of Let's put that formula right here. ballpoint $1.50 if she shops at Walmart, three times In this square, which is G three, we're going So enter your formula once you figure that you'll be able to fill down and calculate all let's put in the total. And so you'll know at Walmart. Repeat this same process for another the entire shopping list the dollar trap, and then once you finish, you should have three total of these numbers close. The last thing you'll need labels from row two down to the bottom. And when you can highlight the entire two rows, create Now for the other fellow, we're going copy everything you get from Susan and then or so and paste all of the information Tim's list will be hidden and shown instead In this video, in Excel problem solvers, we're are facing. They want to purchase a dog or She says, Hi, I'm Susan, would you help dogs equally. But I would like to spend compare these expenses in a spreadsheet and show notice that she's talking about a year. And so it says use a spreadsheet to calculate the total So we'll just assume one year is the length cats or 90. All expenses include all of However, there are more expenses First of all, this is a list of what The cat has three items, the dog is The second box shows the ongoing and the small print says buy two of each of these expense. Each month. The dog has some expenses to also an expense. Here's a good pattern for setting two boxes, and I colored these boxes. So that way initial costs. So these are just one time costs. for the dog, and a column for the cat. When we're costs to keep the dog for the first year. So What are the initial costs, while we have to buy a collar a taggable leash, of everything above it, the cat will have some of here because it doesn't need a leash. For the food litter and treats. So these will be by two because we need to have a monthly total, For the one year costs, we're going to and then add it to the initial. So think through to get an accurate price for a dog When we're done, we will highlight these have a bar chart that shows the cost So there's a good outline for you remember, this You have to come up with the formulas and Welcome to the next lesson of Excel problem to take Susan and Tim and ask them what they want and then hopefully come up with a graph. So and they're going to explore either Caribbean she says I'm Susan, would you help me pick like all three vacation ideas, but we We will fly stay five nights and four days. And so we're going to build a spreadsheet to cost the least? Let's look at the details of what is the simplest, it's $555 with almost everything it says here is airfare. So we have to buy plane And so they're going to spend four days it's going to cost twice the price of each ticket. small print. They will spend money on a hotel and Lastly, we have Chicago. Chicago is a city the natural history, the Museum of Art, the And so each of these prices is per person. their hotel is a little bit more money, and And this box over here, we show the costs of the different costs, and those are per person. Now First of all, we have a column for each at the bottom of the page, we're for all of these cities. So we'll find out the I've divided the costs up into per person your family per person expenses will go up. people stay in the same room, it will cost And so the hotel is more of a fixed Now for some of these, we won't if we look at Chicago, we will have no money for Also for like the museum, the Science Museum, we some of these costs will be just zero, it I have hotels and tickets, but there is also another car rental expense, somewhere down the So calculate all of the subtotals per person add them together, compare the three cities Once you have finished with Susan, then you a new bar graph, and you'll have Tim's answers per person expenses will be higher. Good luck Welcome to excel problem solvers. So Susan, and says would you help me pick one of these three so that if days per week, I want the total cost to last two years, you'll see that the epsilon is the best price at the beginning. Until you a cartridge. And it will add up quite a bit. Tim, I'm Tim would you help me pick one of these three day. And so his printer will probably be different First of all, you'll notice that each cartridge While at the other end, the zero printer And so the initial price on the may end up being less expensive per page. Here's We'll do columns B, C, and D for each of the purchase price. And then we'll put the yellow And that's important because even though inkjet they don't print nearly as many pages. And compute their expected pages per day. So Susan she will actually print per year. And so you'll know the pages per year, we can estimate how and then the total printing costs will come here the initial purchase cost will give you the And so your job is to figure out some of the Once you're done, you will highlight the final show the differences in each of these printers. a section for Susan, and then we'll copy the compute Tim's numbers. And so you should out what the recommendation is for each of these Excel problem solvers. On this video, Susan and Susan says, Would you help me pick one of these I want to drive the car until it has 250,000 I drive about 30,000 miles every year. don't have to borrow money and pay interest Let's see the three cars that Susan is Chevy Spark. It's a small engine that gets good insurance. The initial cost for taxes is 1400 Compare the other cars they have higher numbers The gas mileage is much lower, the insurance and is the escalate. Certainly a luxury car with a high taxes and high license fees. Just how We'll find out when we make the bar graph all of these cars. Tim said he would also like to little as possible, he's going to drive the miles a year. So everything so far is the same as enough money to purchase the car. And so to make of the price of the car to his spreadsheet. So Now let's look at the spreadsheet On the left side, we have Susan and all of the price for which one is going to cost the most. Mustang in escalate. The yellow section at the top price that she pays the day she buys the car, The more complicated question is how much And there are three costs that we need to add How much are we going to pay for gas? That's a price at the pump. We have to know several things. to 16. First of all, we need to ask the question, year? What is the miles per gallon or the mpg And then we will know how much Add those three together, and we will have total Now the question is, how much is this car going first of all, we know how long she wants to drive that the car has basically no value left and how long the car will live. We have to ask how What is her goal, which is 250,000. And then we lifetime expectancy of the car. Finally, we will for the annual cost of the car times the We add in the initial price of the costs. And we surprise you that you'll see the numbers up in down a little further. We will calculate the final average cost of a year. So we know how long the We also know how many dollars we have total. cost for the spark Mustang and escalate. their labels create a bar chart and you will more it will cost to buy luxury cars. On the Tim is going to be calculating almost the money saved. And so the initial cost of his car and so that 40% includes all the interest in same. He's driving the same number of miles and And so when you're finished with Tim, you'll have quite a bit higher than Susan because he doesn't Congratulations, you've made it to the end of have gone from the beginning to an expert person And if you're interested in these kinds of name is shad Sluiter. I'm a professor at Grand only teach with Excel, but I teach programming and mobile applications. So thanks for joining me,