[narrator] We live in a world our ancestors would barely recognize. Around the globe, the impact of human ingenuity is now everywhere. We've pushed back at speeds, depths and heights that would have left Driving all these achievements is humankind's extraordinary gift for invention. Through genius and inspiration, we've created exceptional solutions From the everyday to the spectacular. Some good and some not so good. This series celebrates the million ways our great inventions have transformed our world. [male voice] one giant leap for mankind. [narrator] Every second of every day, pulsing beneath our towns and cities, are subterranean highways transporting people and goods great distances at incredible speeds. Over the centuries, altered landscapes... This was literally groundbreaking. [narrator] ...and paved the way for engineering firsts. They couldn't go over them They had to go under them. [narrator] From Victorian steam trains underground tunnels to passenger-carrying pods faster than the speed of sound. People are calling it [narrator] This is the story and the incredible concepts which will [high-octane music plays] [narrator] New York City. This concrete jungle is teeming making it the largest metropolis It's a global epicenter built on pace. But long before it became an iconic city, the Big Apple was under siege. From the mid 1800s, America's industrial revolution Innovations in steam, rail and the textile industry thrust the nation into the spotlight. Nowhere was feeling this prosperity more than New York City. Thanks to its positioning this young metropolis was fast for trade and commerce. And with that, came mass migration. In just 70 years, the city's population to almost a million. The city of New York Business was booming, If you wanted a job, if you wanted to fulfill New York was a city [narrator] But this boom in business Congestion. If you wanted to get around in Manhattan, you could either take one of the or you could use your feet. The problem is, The amount of traffic was incredible. And there's stories of people because they just couldn't [narrator] With the congestion problem New York City needed a solution. So, at the time, there was no actual way of transporting people And, well, that's what New York needed from all these people on the streets. [narrator] Under mounting pressure the local government that was gaining traction across America The steam train. The first proper steam trains both in the UK, and in America. So they've been around about 40, 50 years by the time New Yorkers wanted to relieve their traffic problems on their roads. [Boeree] They did have a rudimentary but it only served There was nothing in the center itself. And they thought initially, &quot;Well, can't we just run them like trams and found there was just too much traffic. A steam engine is incredibly powerful, but it's also incredibly hard work to run. It takes a load of people, And it produces smoke and steam and soot and all the other nasty stuff that you don't want blowing in your face Now imagine the steam Imagine it in people's faces, It just wasn't a viable option. [narrator] To avoid clogging the engineers came up with a novel idea. The first thing that comes to mind They know how to build up. And so they thought, &quot;Well, if we can why can't we put our railways [narrator] Engineers proposed two stories high It would be known The elevated railway brought the idea that instead of you could fly nine meters above it on a specially created train that took you above everyone else's head. [narrator] In 1867, work on the new The giant steel structures were made up of a series Positioned on top were girders In 1871, New York city's first Running along Greenwich Street, it was a roaring success. [woman's voice] So the real answer was to move everyone two stories up. And that became what, essentially, to transporting people around the city. [narrator] In the following years, more elevated tracks As New Yorkers finally got moving, across the Atlantic, from the same problem But a revolutionary solution [narrator] Much like rush hour today in central London, during the latter part the capital after its population had doubled [Arney] This caused huge problems but transport was one of the biggest. The typical forms of transport Things like stagecoaches, It was an incredibly crowded And life as a pedestrian [narrator] The large amount of horses led to a messy situation [Arney] Apparently, three million tons Just imagine walking through that [narrator] With the city's population the government needed to find a way to ease the crush. But unlike New York, building an elevated railroad system was out of the question. The architecture was too historical And also, Londoners were a bit too posh to have something like that [narrator] One Londoner of the congestion problems was solicitor and social campaigner One of the rather eccentric parts is that Charles Pearson, a solicitor, not a profession that usually was very anxious to see Did he have shares Did he come from a family Not that I know of. He was just a solicitor who had a vision. [Wolmar] And he realized that you because the roads and it would have involved [narrator] Instead, Rather than building why not go underground? [Wolmar] At the time, There was one built the world's first tunnel But essentially, tunneling was really not [narrator] Unlike Brunel's Thames Tunnel, which was used by pedestrians Pearson's proposal was for underground There was no transport system so it was completely revolutionary. [narrator] In 1853, Parliament approved a bill to construct between Paddington in the west Seven years later, work began. To build the underground tunnel, laborers used a method The cut and cover method You cut a hole in the roads, you make a big trench, you lay in the railway tracks and then you cover it over again, And then the road is used again So, you know, even today, there's probably hundreds of thousands and people don't know that there's a railway underneath them. Remember, they were doing this so it was a really simple [narrator] Throughout the 1850s, despite work going at full steam ahead, word on the street this new subterranean mode of transport. You know, we're naturally afraid And all of the images Also, of course, back in the 1800s the louder, And this provided not only a chance but also this kind of fear of the new, [narrator] On January 10, 1863, the first underground transport system Named the Metropolitan Railway, which ran along beneath central London. There was so much doubt But within the first year, 11.8 million That's over four times It was a total game changer. I think those first passengers Don't forget, people weren't traveling This was completely new. They would have felt like this was a new frontier for, [narrator] Over the next two decades, and extensions built across the capital. [Brosnan] Being able to rapidly expand from the 1860s onwards [narrator] Thanks to the Underground's throughout the latter part construction of new lines And that brought chaos. [Arney] Cut and cover but not when you try and do it So you have to disrupt everything You have to knock down buildings. You might accidentally destroy something like Joseph Bazalgette's new sewers. Trying to do something like this is always gonna be a disaster. The roads were very crowded. There were now water mains, gas mains It was realized that the way through cut and cover [narrator] London's Underground Desperate to continue expanding, developers came to a bold conclusion. [Arney] There was only one solution: [narrator] But if engineers were to deep underneath the city of London, they'd need [Wolmar] They needed a method that ensured you both progressed in the tunnel, but also, you shored it up straight away. [narrator] engineers look to the man responsible French engineer Marc Isambard Brunel. The story behind how he came to invent a groundbreaking piece started with an unlikely creature. So before Brunel built the Thames Tunnel, And it was there that he noticed this type of mollusk which is actually a kind of shipworm that would sort of burrow its way It had a sort of hard shell that would dig its way through the wood. But then, geniusly, and sort of line the outside of the tunnel so that it would maintain its structure [narrator] Inspired by the actions Brunel invented a vital piece which he used to tunnel under the Thames. It's named the tunneling shield. The tunneling shield laid up against the surface And it's split into cells. And each of these cells And they busily dig away at that section. And when they've dug the next cell opens up, And then the next cell. Until that whole surface behind And then the shield gets jacked forward, Meanwhile, another team of folks bricking up the roof and the walls to ensure that it didn't collapse. So it was an incredibly efficient system [narrator] Brunel's shield for modern which are used today in multi-million dollar projects So it's amazing to think that we see today [narrator] Back in the late 19th century, as the London Underground's Chief Engineer James Greathead helped to adapt making it cylindrical in shape This change gave birth as well as a popular nickname that today is used the Tube. Engineers may have solved the problem but there was a health issue to overcome: the suffocating steam. Deep tunnels were fantastic, but what Imagine being trapped on a platform where there's smoke and steam blowing at you the whole time [narrator] With deep-level tunnels than their subsurface predecessors, it was clear to developers that steam trains You can't really have steam engines operating in very narrow tunnels because, simply, people would have certainly coughed a lot, [narrator] But as luck would have it, in the 1880s, at the same time were being built under London, the country had been introduced that was transforming the lives Electricity. [Brosnan] There was an element of being able to, you know, and the invention and practical use [narrator] In 1890, when the at more than 12 meters below the surface, not only was it the first deep-level but it was also Ironically, when the City and South London Railway most stations were still lit by gaslight. As for the new electric underground, power was supplied to the train line based on Thomas Edison's dynamo motor. Located at Stockwell Power Station they generated enough electricity From the power station, the electricity was carried down the line via a third rail, positioned between The electricity was then transmitted through what's known as a sliding shoe, a device which collected and transferred it to the train. The new electrified tube line Other lines soon followed suit. Electric trains They were faster. They were cleaner. And they were so much more pleasant [narrator] propelled transportation But it's not just London was taking place. [narrator] Cities such as Berlin, Paris, Budapest and Boston were also opening making them global leaders Meanwhile, at the end the once-popular elevated railway, was falling out of favor with the public. People started to dislike the el train they were big, they were puffing out steam and it cast shadows all over the city. [narrator] For New York to become its tracks would have to go underground. New Yorkers heard all had underground railways, and they had to keep up with the Joneses. [narrator] But, in addition to building the New York Subway [Arney] New York didn't just make they made it better than anyone else's. They learned from all the other cities one going one way, For New York, that wasn't good enough. They had to have four. An express track and then two slower tracks. The big advantage of that is skipping out some of the stops and going faster from one end to another. [Arney] If one train broke down, to be able to reroute trains, and they wouldn't ruin [Wolmar] And also, you can close a couple but keep the other ones open. So that's one of the reasons [narrator] On October 27, 1904, New York City's subway Initially, the network had 28 stations. That figure has since exploded to 468, making it the largest subway system in the world. But today, maintaining New York's subway, which connects the island of Manhattan is no easy feat. Especially when it comes to trains To ensure that water more than 750 pumps They run 24/7 to divert over 49 million liters of water into the surrounding sewers. Without them, the network would flood But it would take to allow global subways to expand. [narrator] subway systems across Europe and America were growing at a rapid pace. More people than ever before were heading underground to get from A to B. But as more deep tunnels were built, [Sokale] Some of the underground stations Imagine doing that every day It must have been so exhausting. [narrator] Despite some stations being equipped with elevators, they had their limitations. [Brosnan] A lift can only fit It takes a while to wait for it And obviously, potentially thousands of people at greater volume and at greater speed was a vital part of a deep-level tube line If you've ever been through one of those that still just have lifts you'll know how miserable You have to wait for ages to get in, And so, that was the situation all the time, Not fun at all. So once the tube railway started getting used much more heavily, the bigger stations, needed a better way to get people [narrator] But there was a new piece that looked set to take commuters The moving staircase. We don't know for sure who So we can't pinpoint it But we do know that in the 1850s, patented an invention [narrator] Ames's patent showed plans with steps mounted on a continuous belt, But, of course, this was prior so in order to operate it, it would or mechanical operation system. And as far as we know, [narrator] Throughout the latter part various designs and patents and prototypes showcased. We do know that there was some kind in Coney Island back in 1896. But, as far as we know, it was more than an actual working escalator. [narrator] It wasn't until 1900, that the idea of the escalator on a global scale. Paris had a great world exhibition showing all the latest inventions. And one of these that was displayed was a kind of flat escalator, which, basically, and were taken along You see people stepping on and trying it out for the first time. It must have been so exciting to try out this brand-new [narrator] But the device that took was Otis Elevator Company's escalator. Passengers were charged one penny resulting in thousands of people on the motorized staircase. And it was this model that, well, gave birth to the escalator So an escalator It's basically a conveyor belt, Imagine two cogs, And basically, it goes round the gears. But obviously, it's an escalator, At the bottom and top of the escalator, the stairs collapse, creating and to get off. [narrator] metro system bosses realized to commuters' woes and began installing them The introduction of the escalator large numbers of people deep underground. That technology really sort of transformed [narrator] By the 1930s, had their own subway systems. But while many global stations were designed with simplicity the Soviet capital had other plans. Under the rule of Joseph Stalin, were employed in order to the rest of the world. Today, many of these giving the feel of traveling rather than a train station. Back in the middle of the 20th century, as many cities were expanding their roots were becoming more complex. Nowhere was feeling this more In the 60 years the number of stations to over 200. These stops were spread But how to navigate this vast network presented new challenges [narrator] Despite having a map get around the London Tube network, many people still had difficulty The first two maps were a bit of a muddle. They were actually really hard to follow [Wolmar] One of the problems how do you represent it? How do you actually make it Because once you get it becomes very complex. And with all these wiggly lines, where you're going They showed parks, landmarks and overground railway lines. And each line would show the actual curve [Papadopoulos] Obviously, you know, something that we all do. However, in order to feel comfortable You kind of think of the classic compass, It's simple, it's clean, it's clear. At that time, it was like dropping and saying, [narrator] Convinced there had to be a better alternative, in the early 1930s, to redesign the London Underground map. Harry Beck was an electrical draftsman He very much did it in his spare time and actually, not being commissioned It was his own idea. It was something that he was, you know, Beck was inspired by the circuit diagrams He wanted to simplify the map. He wanted to design a map that didn't and distance like its predecessors. Beck redesigned the map so that rather with all the squiggles and wiggles he made sure 45-degree and 90-degree angles. So it became like an electrical diagram. Much clearer [Brosnan] Harry Beck took his map to the who were initially quite skeptical But after some persuasion, at selected stations. The public loved it. All 500 disappeared, [narrator] the Tube's directors commissioned to be distributed. They were so popular that they had to print another So, it really speaks for just how [narrator] Beck received just over which is approximately 950 dollars Due to its overwhelming popularity, his design soon became the official map The wonderful thing is that it's survived as more lines have been put on the map. It's possible to accommodate it [Brosnan] The impact of Beck's map but also graphically on other maps and [narrator] as populations grew and cities developed, countries all over the world were expanding their transport networks. Commercial travel, be it by rail, ferry or the increasingly popular airplane, was connecting people and places like never before. The notion that people can live somewhere The idea that this is open to the masses the size of our world, And so, inevitably, [narrator] But little did the world know that was going to join two landmasses [narrator] In the 1970s, the European continent underwent a transformation of the European Union, which Britain joined in 1973. [Wolmar] Our trade with Europe was growing. But also politically, you know, we were becoming [narrator] As Britain established itself the need for a transport link to get people across the English Channel Despite various ideas being put forward no such link had ever come to fruition. So you've got these You've got the UK, And yet, there's this annoying, narrow stretch of water And the only way to get across it There had to be a better way of doing it. [Wolmar] The trouble is between France and Great Britain is pretty difficult. It's very costly. We've had two world wars. And we've also had reluctance by the military to allow a tunnel, which they saw might have been used So all the early ideas were ditched. [narrator] But in 1986, after a number the British and French governments agreed as the Eurotunnel, a 50-kilometer railway connecting Once up and running, trains would be able But there was a problem. How do you convince the public through a tunnel We have billions of years of evolution We shouldn't be traveling this fast You're meters Yet we are. between we're wanting to progress genes that have been around &quot;We shouldn't be traveling this fast [narrator] To allay any fears, Rather than build two one-way tunnels, they would build an additional connected by cross passages. It would serve as an escape route [Papadopoulos] Human beings are amazing, because we anticipate and then we find ways [narrator] In 1987, construction began. To cut through the chalk marl deep gigantic motorized Modernized versions used 100 years earlier These machines also collected the debris, which was then transported along In total, 4.9 million cubic meters The newly-dug tunnels were then lined On December 1, 1990, construction workers bored through the final section of rock, connecting the two countries since the ice age separated them. [male newscaster] As the Champagne flowed in probably the biggest ever the entente was very cordial. [narrator] Four years later, [male train announcer] in a few minutes, [narrator] It's the longest and is used on average The construction of the Channel Tunnel but also it has, to some extent, brought us closer together. [narrator] The opening of the Eurotunnel may have strengthened the connection but in cities across the globe, as more people travel underground subway systems [narrator] Tokyo is home with an average of three and a half A number equal to almost half The city's main transport hub With over 200 platforms and an average it holds the Guinness World Record So congested are some stations in Japan that subway staff have to literally But it's not just Japan Subway networks everywhere have become Despite some metro systems as often as every 100 seconds, overcrowding still persists. Many networks have set up 24/7, state-of-the-art monitoring systems to ensure the safety of passengers. Jam-packed platforms and carriages are a result of the same problem that was thwarting Victorian London A population invasion. In the past decade alone, the number of people has increased while a mega 30 million tourists making it one of the most visited cities [indistinct Tube announcements] London's population has grown enormously. People tend no longer to be able because there's very restricted parking and there's so much congestion, so they take the Tube instead. And it's become just very overcrowded and congested. [narrator] To accommodate over the decades, the London Underground But the city is still suffering. Nowhere can commuters feel this more than in the deep underground during the sweltering summer months. The Tube tunnels are so small. And that really shows because there is no room And what's so fascinating about being Heat from the brakes. And you can really feel on those very hot, that this is a very old, archaic system. [narrator] Unlike previous decades, extending the current Tube network [Wolmar] It is impossible to extend They could not be widened, because that would be far too expensive You'd have to close them for many years. The platforms are not long enough to cope with extra carriages. [narrator] London is now undertaking And it's the largest engineering project [narrator] governing bodies for transport agreed to build an entirely new line. Commonly known as Crossrail, after Queen Elizabeth II, it'll be deeper, bigger, faster and cooler than any line before it. [Wolmar] Crossrail is a quite amazing with ten new or extended stations With platforms that have platform doors. The whole system is air conditioned. The stations will be real cathedrals compared with the existing Tube stations. [narrator] Stretching over 100 kilometers and connecting the suburbs Crossrail will travel Once complete, each train and will carry up to 1,500 passengers, almost double that of existing Tubes. As for the tunnels, giant boring machines have been used which at 6.2 meters in diameter are almost twice the size What's more, passengers will be traveling That's 34 meters deeper which were dug Despite still being under construction, once fully operational, London's ultra-modern, brand-new railway line is expected to serve 200 million The whole idea of Crossrail is completely It's just on a much grander scale, and people will find it's a completely on the early, historic Tube lines. [narrator] London may have found the transport solution to its population growth. But what can engineers and entrepreneurs to relieve [male voice] What you want [narrator] Some innovators believe there's a way to increase speed What if we got rid of wheels altogether? [narrator] But how do you It isn't rocket science, In the early 1900s, physicist, inventor and the father Robert Goddard, envisioned a frictionless form of travel. Trains raised off their tracks by a process named magnetic levitation, now known as maglev. You've probably done the experiment and if you get them in the right way, That's essentially You have magnets on the train, magnets in the track, [narrator] Over the years, Supporters believe that if these trains could be made commuters in cities all over the world which could also lead The benefits of getting rid of wheels because whenever two surfaces that causes drag, And so his idea meant that you're eliminating surfaces and so it's a much more [narrator] Japan and China The Shanghai Transrapid, which was built by German engineers, can travel at speeds making it the fastest train in the world. While in Japan, developers are working on a train which, once complete, will be able at 500 kilometers an hour. But with the need for speed innovators believe and go one step further One of the main obstacles is the surrounding air, which causes friction, So how do you reduce air friction? You put the train in a tube Enter Hyperloop. Hyperloop is about but putting it in an evacuated tube. And because you're going through you're pretty much eliminating That means you can get Essentially, it's a system of pods [narrator] Today, are vying to make this concept a reality. From Hyperloop to Elon Musk's SpaceX and Richard Branson's Virgin Group. Elon Musk described it an air hockey table and a rail gun. [narrator] Passenger pod prototypes are being trialed If successful, the technology at tremendous speeds. [Archer] Hyperloop could potentially get That's faster than planes, and it's even just a smidge faster To put that into context, you could get in just 30 minutes, which by plane And what we're seeing today being built above ground... It's almost taking us full circle back to the old elevated railways [narrator] Hyperloop could be operating paving the way for the next I'm very interested in seeing if this It's a pretty sci-fi concept. It would be I think these Hyperloops, as long because there's not only but I think there's a lot of will the amount of time that we have [narrator] In the past 200 years, thanks to the imagination subway systems have continued to develop, turning elaborate concepts These technologies transform landscapes and above all, meet the demands of a thriving global population. If ideas like Hyperloop it seems there's no end in sight [narrator] Imagine being unable or traverse this stretch of water Now we have the ultimate solution. [female voice] These are that seemed to defy the forces of nature. [female voice 2] There's with nothing underneath it. [narrator] This revolutionary design provides lifelines to rural communities and joins up great towns and cities, connects islands, and links countries, like England and Wales's Severn Bridge. And even unites continents, like the Bosporus Bridge, [male voice] They're some of the They're iconic. [narrator] we have had to overcome immense engineering challenges and weathered failures to see them improve. So now they connect us, fuel our economies and oil the wheels of the developing world. [male voice 2] One bridge The root cause of poverty [narrator] These engineering marvels are suspension bridges. [high-octane music plays] [narrator] Bridges come in many forms. But the most typical are the beam, arch and suspension bridge. The UK's Severn Bridge is a glorious example A triumph of complex engineering in an elegant form. It's a beautiful looking bridge. It stands out from the rest, and it is quite unique. Always felt it would be nice And that's eventually I took that opportunity to work on it, and I've been here ever since, The Severn Bridge is a very simple, sleek, But it's very complex in its design. [narrator] But the roots lie in the deep, distant past. One of the oldest known bridges over bogs Simple log bridges, originally constructed nearly 6,000 years ago. A beam bridge is perhaps the simplest It's what happens and then just plonk it straight over [narrator] The principle Any weight compressing the center where it is directed down It's effective, The problem with the beam bridge and they can only carry so much weight. Ultimately, it depends that you're using to make that beam. Once something gets very, very long then slowly that force, the compression, is gonna just rip the material apart, the bridge will break, [narrator] The solution is to shorten The way you can get around it is effectively to make a load across whatever gap And that means you have to put [narrator] This solution can be seen in the American state of Louisiana. It is the world's longest More than 38 kilometers long. And uses The solution works in shallow water, but it's not so practical [Steele] if you're going over or you might have to build so all of this makes building the bridge [narrator] 3,000 years ago, engineers in ancient Greece This Arkadiko bridge, The Romans developed the idea and made glorious use Arched bridges are stronger spreading central load more effectively. Arches extend the maximum single span from 20 meters to 30. But beyond 30 meters, engineers still have to add A bridge that could float, seemingly unsupported still seemed beyond us. But the solution had, in fact, been with us for millennia. [narrator] Rope bridges first appeared at least 4,000 years ago. A simple design, ropes are attached Decking can be added to ease crossing. Unlike beam and arch bridges, the weight is transferred to the banks [Steele] Rope is something and this simple rope bridge It means that all the forces acting And that's how the rope [narrator] Light and strong, rope can span longer distances without supporting pillars. But they're not for the faint-hearted. [female voice 3] It moves around. So if someone's crossing ahead of you, it causes undulation on the back, And of course, when you have wind, So the structure has a lot of movement [narrator] These unstable bridges But not for heavy traffic, like army or trade vehicles. When it comes to trying to get like, you know, then a simple rope bridge isn't enough. [narrator] So the rope bridge, was confined to small communities While the developed world relied on to facilitate heavy traffic. It stayed that way and by then, the need was pressing. Across grand European rivers, piers effectively blocked large shipping, and small boats faced manmade rapids. London Bridge was for &quot;wise men [male voice 3] Bridge piers which means that the water tends to speed up. And like most things in a fluid flow, what we get is eddies. And we often get dangerous eddies Shooting through there, you took simply because of the disruption [narrator] With fewer piers, large shipping [narrator] This was the solution: The Severn Bridge illustrates the benefits. The Severn Bridge is designed so that with a 47-meter headroom and enough width for large ships, rather than a multi-span structure, which could be an obstacle and a danger [narrator] If the link across were blocked by piers every 30 meters, it would severely restrict shipping. The River Severn has got the second And therefore, you need to allow safe shipping access [narrator] The secret to span far greater distances is also part of its elegance. It's only by traveling to the very top, a place where the public that you can appreciate its true scale. [Phillips] You can see and that clear span of 988 meters with glorious views in both directions. [narrator] But how does this bridge The breakthrough happened in America, The inspiration came from merging two [Boeree] So you've got which, yes, that will span a gap but is limited above a certain width. And then you've got your rope bridge, but is really, really wobbly, So is there a way [narrator] The breakthrough came in. No image exists James Finley, but there is a surviving sketch Instantly recognizable, Finley designed a chimera, half beam, half rope bridge, The real revolution in suspension bridges was when they realized And that meant that so much more heavier And they became infinitely more useful. [narrator] The weight carried normally transmitted downwards is instead transmitted upwards [Arney] The flat deck That distributes the weight And it means that the forces are balanced and doesn't put too much pressure The modern suspension bridge You take a flat bridge, but instead or from underneath, [narrator] But the new design unless the suspending cables were made of a material And that material wasn't available when the falling price made the design affordable. The idea of using iron came from the Chinese. [Somara] Initially they were using rope, but the Chinese came up with this idea they could bend iron chain them together, that was able to take [narrator] Back in the 1430s, built the first iron chain bridges. The bridges have since been replaced but they still use James Finley up-sized the Chinese design Each chain weighing over ten tons. His revolutionary design became the first The genius of the design If Finley had simply attached his the tension would have pulled them down. The towers seem like a great idea until you think about the forces If you had a tower on each bank, all the force, is coming from the middle of that gap. And that means it's gonna be pulling and potentially it's gonna cause them to collapse. So imagine instead of having that cable you stretch it all the way over the top and bring it down to the bank [narrator] The suspending cables splitting the tension That means you've actually and that then means the tower... It's not being pulled either way, and that means [narrator] The same principle In Chile these gigantic concrete anchors spread the strain over the towers. On the Cau Cau Bridge, we're using a mass anchorage, so it actually relies on its sheer weight. So we have a very large, 120-thousand ton concrete mass at the end rather than a small tunnel. [narrator] From the 19th century all suspension bridges Allowing flat, rigid roadways, spanning vast distances. This modern suspension bridge but it's also of vital importance The need for suspension bridges where people are so isolated is acute. If you imagine living where you've got to walk miles a river, particularly a river that floods, is a major obstacle And the result If you think about it if you can't get to market you can't improve yourself, I've actually seen children holding their holding their breath as they have to to wade through the river It enables others to get to the community, But so other charities, other aid workers One bridge makes a massive impact. Huge change to the lives And in fact to the economy as a whole. That tyranny of isolation, which is the cause, the root cause so that now opportunity exists. [narrator] These modern bridges But the early bridges as a fatal tragedy demonstrated It's 1845, and a huge crowd have gathered to see a circus performer. The best place to view this performance And as they saw the performer traveling everyone rushed to one side of the bridge, which created an enormous force And unknown to anyone, That weak chain broke and caused a catastrophic failure Seventy-nine people died, And as the bridge collapsed, people It was a heartbreaking tragedy, and it meant that suspension bridges There had to be a better way than this. [narrator] This tragic incident highlighted the limits [Steele] A chain is only as strong It just takes a single one of those links and then it can snap, and the whole chain has completely lost [narrator] It was clear that the iron Engineers searched for something stronger and lighter. The answer isn't immediately apparent because it's encased But deep underground, you can get a glimpse Inside their rust-proof you can see that the thick, with thousands [Phillips] We're now inside one of the where we've got the main cable, which consists of 8,322 individual wires making up the bundle. This then splits up which are anchored around the shoes. [narrator] Like all modern bridges, the Severn Bridge benefits With bundles of thin steel strands [Arney] Cables are strong under tension, and you can use several together, so if one snaps, there are others to take over. A failure is no longer catastrophic. [narrator] The use of cable but bridge builders Some from completely mysterious forces. [narrator] In America, the East River At points, it stretches For many centuries, In the 1860s, a new suspension bridge the Brooklyn Bridge. It was designed by a German immigrant, Too wide for a single span, it was inevitable that one of the towers Perhaps the single biggest problem underwater So if all your construction then there's just no way that you can get digging up the riverbed What you need to do is provide them that they can work in. And the way that this was done [narrator] A caisson It allows workers to breathe and keep setting concrete dry You can think about a caisson when it's upside down. It's full of air, and as you push it that air stops the water from rushing in as a protective atmosphere [narrator] But as the caisson drops, [Steele] In order to keep that water out, you have to apply more pressure to make sure the water stays outside. And the only way to stop is to make sure balances the pressure on the outside. So there's no force on the walls, and they can stay intact [narrator] but it's quickly apparent The workers return to the surface unwell. Some even die. Is the air inside Or is there some deepwater virus? The mysterious illness [Arney] Sending workers down had an effect on their bodies and no one really understood. [narrator] In fact, At high pressures, more of the air This isn't immediately dangerous [Arney] The problem isn't so much for long periods of time. It's when you come to the surface That dissolved gas tries to expand and if it's still in your system, that can cause blockages [narrator] Today, caisson's disease is known as the bends, and is a constant danger for divers. But back in 1870s Brooklyn, As a result, the designer's own son, Chief Engineer was permanently disabled by it, Tragically, that scientists discovered how to prevent it from happening. When you go from to normal atmospheric pressure, it has to be done with time. Because that allows for any bubbles that [narrator] Decompression helped to save the lives Safety procedures were brought in like the tunnels under the Hudson River [male newscaster] as they start on the day's job They must stay in the airlock until the air pressure is built up It is different Then they must be gradually decompressed, which takes a much longer time. This whole process is for the protection of compressed air workers. [narrator] the process is still dangerous. So these days, the risk is eradicated to replace workers But the challenges are far from over. And it's not just how they're built, [rumbling sound] [narrator] In 1906, an earthquake devastates San Francisco. Up to 3,000 people died, and over 80 percent The stone buildings can't withstand This disaster makes it essential Two decades later, San Francisco to cross the Golden Gate Strait, spanning over two kilometers. [upbeat jazzy music plays] [narrator] In the early 1930s, the city of San Francisco Yet it's isolated from the rest Besides boats, they're cut off. But a suspension bridge eclipse all the city's skyscrapers, reaching over 200 meters high. To make the strongest possible there's a very particular shape to optimally distribute those forces. And what that means is that you're gonna need to make so you can keep your cable [narrator] The stone towers would no longer be suitable. They would be too tall. And stone would be particularly unstable A stone pillar, the mass of the stone will crush the stone below. So there is only a certain height For the San Francisco another German descendant, it was clear he needed Once again, a breakthrough Advancements in metallurgy bring about The mix of iron and carbon creates a strong but lightweight alloy far more flexible than stone. [male newscaster 2] Box girder towers carry the strain of huge cables [narrator] The new bridge so it must be compliant, or, flex. [Wojcik] That is naturally compliant. That movement is important. Allowing that movement within the material to the level at which that material [narrator] When subjected materials need to absorb them Compliance prevents materials If you think about a blade of grass It doesn't permanently give. You haven't broken the grass It's just kind of allowed the wind So if we compare, let's say an oak tree and you have a gust of wind, then that structure can't comply. And as a consequence as the force all of that force And as a consequence of that, could exceed the actual tensile strength And the tree could snap, literally snap. [narrator] And so in 1933, And the iconic steel towers of the Golden Gate Bridge rise up. Instead of creating a heavy, solid tower, the steel creates which is lighter but still strong enough that each tower Although this bridge was designed with a human cost. Working at these heights is extremely dangerous, and 11 men lose their lives. But the death toll Incredibly, 19 other people were saved when they were caught This was also the first bridge to insist on workers wearing hard hats It was a big step towards the greater protection At the same time, an almost identical steel design is used for the Oakland Bay Bridge, The bridges stand proud for decades until they are finally put [dramatic music plays] [sirens and screaming] [narrator] The earthquake causes though less severe than 1906. It causes six billion dollars of damage Roads and bridge decks collapse. But not the suspension bridges or the Oakland Bay. [Collings] The West Bay Bridge, nothing happened. The suspension bridge Very little happens to it. [narrator] The 1930s design that the suspension bridges But earthquakes are not the only natural force engineers have to overcome. They face a problem [narrator] As decks get longer, to a phenomenon all too familiar Swaying, sometimes with dramatic results. Three years the Tacoma Narrows Bridge in Washington is opened in 1940. This bridge was designed 225 kilometer per hour gales. What happened next The result of a comparative An amateur cameraman as the center of the 11,000 ton span twists like a ribbon in the wind. The oscillations become life threatening But one man stays. His dog is trapped in his car, Despite the dangers, as no one seems to recognize The man decides he has to leave The twisting weakens the bridge until it can take no more. [Arney] It's incredible when this bridge collapsed. Imagine if this bridge had been full Dozens and dozens of cars. They could all It could have been [narrator] No one understands [Arney] This bridge was designed to But the incident happened So the engineers had a challenge. They didn't know what they'd done wrong. Why would this bridge collapse when it should have easily? [narrator] Had scientists The Tacoma Narrows disaster sent shock Was this a fundamental design flaw And did it affect [Boeree] Any person was sitting there thinking: &quot;Well, damn, And as a result, was put on hold for nearly a decade. [narrator] The pressure was on [Wojcik] The situation is rather complex, and for many years, there was some argument and how in fact it did collapse. Most experts now agree that Tacoma Narrows failed as a consequence Flutter is something that all You build an airplane, and then it's tested against this form of oscillation movement. [narrator] caused by air flow over the deck. [Boeree] Basically what happens is, as a sustained wind it starts creating these air currents, these sort of vortices and eddies on the side And over time, these vortices start and starting to sort of and the more it does it, and it starts getting stronger until this motion [narrator] As the eddies push and pull If the timing of the swing the structure oscillates violently. Everything has a natural resonant So that's a frequency and that wobble will continue to amplify. [narrator] Under specific conditions, [Boeree] So what the wind was you know, an adult [Boeree] It kept applying a little bit to get it going until it was getting [narrator] The bridge hadn't been [Steele] The engineers had considered trying to push the bridge over, but they hadn't considered which pushes it into the air. And because of those additional forces, up and down, up and down, to the point where it could get until it amplified and amplified, [narrator] How could they engineer to prevent the eddies from forming? It wasn't until the 1960s For decades, to build a bridge A road bridge that wouldn't just connect England and Wales. [triumphant music plays] [narrator] Cars going from Bristol The Severn Bridge became the first bridge designed to overcome The engineers had a radical solution. For inspiration, Designers realized that instead [Boeree] Plane wings have in that they're shaped in order to provide lift. And the problem that they had they wanted the opposite: They wanted a So what do they do? They just copied but turned it upside down. [narrator] Structural engineer turned the bridge deck called a box girder. The deck is aerodynamically shaped So basically the bottom side while the top of it would be flat. And this lowered air pressure down here would mean that the bridge would have [narrator] The box girder decks allowing interior access for maintenance and an exclusive glimpse directly underneath the bridge. This is a typical bay with an aerodynamic shape. It's very lightweight steel. It's ship building construction The Severn Bridge was the first bridge From there, everybody is using this [narrator] The bridge's bold innovation stabilizing long span bridges. [Boeree] This solution was the It was a leap forward and enabled them to build bridges previously thought impossible. [narrator] The Severn Bridge but the challenge is greater [Firth] When you're building bridges Hong Kong, China, South China Sea, typhoons, of course, You've got to be dealing [narrator] To survive typhoons, the Shenzhong Link in China has made use In high winds, the traditional box girder [Firth] The wind impacting may actually have the opposite effect, So it's quite a complicated design to get that balance right so that the lift forces [narrator] The solution for this into two parallel decks The gap reduces the impact of the wind. [Firth] There's an air gap What that air gap does or helps to equalize the pressure so that you don't have [narrator] But more radical of the main suspension cables. Instead of running parallel they run down the center The cables start out at the top But as they come down and they pick up the deck on the outside, go at a sort of triangulated cable system. So when the wind blows, the bridge deck, is more resisted, the movement So the Shenzhong Link with the aerodynamic [narrator] Despite all the advantages they have an Achilles heel. It's mother nature's ultimate corrosive [narrator] Rust. suffered most in humid areas, particularly near the sea. To try to prevent rust, but water can get under the paint [Wojcik] It has this terrible tendency And there's very little It's nature having its own way. [narrator] It's critical before it becomes dangerous. But this is no mean feat. [Collings] Suspension bridges They have towers that are high in the air. usually over the sea or a river. And often, it's windy and it's rainy. It's a very difficult thing to access, but inspection is a very difficult and really quite a dangerous activity. [narrator] have been designed, of bridges above and below. Maintenance robots they can also spot signs In the past, bridges have collapsed Future technology may prevent collapses to build bigger Perhaps the most innovative design which would take suspension bridges Norway is a country And there is constantly of trying to join up islands. And rather than using of drilling foundations down which would be a really difficult task, they've come up with a much more novel way [narrator] Instead of sinking deep legs they are inspired by an industry to deep sea construction. These oil rigs have no solid foundations. Instead, they float. It's almost a sense Floating oil rigs have been successful, and now Norway is using that concept to be able to create [narrator] If they make the base they can support themselves and the weight [Boeree] And it's kind of elegant that, the way to span a bridge of water [narrator] But there's a catch. [Boeree] If you have a floating tower, now, that brings up the old problem because you don't want your bridge rocking and moving or going with the tide. [narrator] The solution [Firth] You have tension cables, which are and you then pull this thing down, so that you've got this buoyancy force, It's trying to float, but it's held down. And that becomes a platform on which you can build your bridge. [narrator] Just like oil rigs, as long as the anchoring cables the floating structure will hold steady, But if the anchors were to fail, the repercussions would be serious. To work, these bracing tethers would have to ensure stability Extraordinary technology, very and of course it's still in its infancy. But what it does is it suddenly to be able to build bridges have just not even been able because the water's just too deep. So we'll see where it goes, but I think floating suspension bridges [narrator] Suspension bridges and will continue to push the limits Since the modern suspension bridge their span has roughly doubled So I'm so excited to see just how wide of a gap we can bridge [Boeree] Who knows, to do away with the majority of boats, because actually to each other or to the mainland, [narrator] But not all bridges There's still a need for cheap, Though these may well of the high tech. And now more than ever, and enable people to thrive in both cities and remote regions alike. Boasting iconic designs, which have evolved to span further, carry more and survive earthquakes, And admirers will continue to celebrate their scale and majesty in every kind of way. [narrator] This is the center a transshipment hub for goods: From mobile phones to bananas We got to experience products [narrator] On a daily basis, are shipped across the oceans. And millions of tourists The extent to which transformed this spot It once inspired yearning; It was people from different communities, speaking this was [narrator] Today it brings - and this at breathtaking speed. The technology involved in making is mind-blowing. [narrator] For the longest time, What counts today Having something that could just go ...must save a lot of time. [narrator] Automation has made and, at the same time, The question would be [narrator] It has dramatically the way we travel It was, is, and will remain the impulse [theme music] [dynamic music] Rotterdam. including gigantic container ships call to port here year for year. Some 60 meters wide and 400 meters long, Its cargo: almost 20.000 containers. At the port, the clock is now ticking. Man and machine toil away. In the global rankings however, The competition is getting tougher. Our customers which forces us to actually be able They want the vessels in and out. Our productivity must be We have to work [narrator] A global problem with cutting edge software. Every minute, ten thousands of containers The ship is off [calm music] To avoid lengthy ship planners meticulously organize Color-coded boxes and allocated to We see where the container is from, and where it is to be discharged. It is either discharged here We prepare the plans so our counterparts on the outside [narrator] The competition is stiff. If ports don't meet ship owners will simply What's at stake today We are dominated by Two-thirds of all goods are shipped by Sea of transporting goods and seas are filled with containers that are shipping goods [narrator] The history of ports with the cultural history of humankind. Man has always endeavored [adventurous music] The first trade ship As early as in the third millennium were constructed. [adventurous music] They went on extended during which they founded Apparently, the City of Malaga During the Middle Ages, the development of cities. Hanseatic merchants in Northern Europe This so-called &quot;Hanseatic League&quot; 300 seaside and inland towns. Most of the towns that would today reach to the Baltic states [adventurous music] In the 16th century, from this base, created a sphere of influence The economic success owing to their powerful fleet [adventurous music] The Hanseatic League was regulating and Northeast of Europe and other metals from Sweden, wine and other nice things It sort of resulted very affluent on the coast of northern, Europe. [narrator] Hong Kong's as one of the most important commercial Victoria Harbor was crucially important Apparently this is also why Hong Kong by Britain in 1843. Hong Kong harbor is a natural harbor between the Hongkong Islands British merchants quickly recognized for their trade fleet. It offers everything you'd expect A deep-water bay that is protected from [nostalgic music] The foreground features a natural, and the soldiers look like play ships Behind it are the Chinese mountains. Thanks to its strategic location to the Chinese mainland, into a center for trade with East Asia. Victoria Harbor in Hong Kong especially for many colonies. [narrator] Victoria Harbor soon Up until the 1970s, many shipyards Hong Kong had become an important In Hong Kong, the decisive impulse for To this day, Hong Kong is one of the most It's telling, indeed, Controlling a harbor is tantamount - and thus deciding It's not just about transport sociology and ideology. [narrator] The way in which harbors can clearly be seen in La Rochelle, During the Middle Ages was transformed by Templars Often harbors They offered protection Two ancient defense towers During the late Middle Ages, between the towers Today the Old Harbor of La Rochelle -[screeching seagulls] [cheerful piano music] In the industrial age who put their stamp on old port towns. They developed into spots Ports were the gateway to the world. Not just for sailors [relaxed jazz music] Interestingly, harbors weren't conceived It was more about forging connections, The idea was to bring together communities and countries. [narrator] Usually the port was People settled close-by. And the seaport-typical pubs So as sort of the rules of economics typically speaking where you have areas, from being out at sea with they probably have various wants and needs and there are usually plenty of women and so I guess prostitution were sort of a very unsurprising [relaxed music] [narrator] It was in harbors started their daring expeditions, the world view of that time. It was called the age of Discovery around the world and starting to discover And even first person to sail all the way how we saw the world it is a globe, flat-earthers, what the continents are and see [narrator] Vasco da Gama that India can be reached by sea. For the longest time, was an inland sea between the Atlantic and Indian Oceans. But on the 8th of July 1497, He steers his fleet eastward and circumnavigates the stormy Cape of Sailing along the East African coastline, and the port town of Calicut The sea route to India The numerous expeditions and Like the Suez Canal, for example, and forms the boundary [exciting music] Until the 19th century, around the entire African continent The dream of building a canal with the Red Sea shortening this journey - Long before the ancient Egyptians But the construction of a waterway failed; Nor was this ambitious project His surveyors, deemed the project unfeasible: The handy thing about the Suez Canal like the Panama Canal is are at almost identical level digger a channel between the two strong current going so it didn't require [narrator] The elaborate construction work French engineer, Ferdinand de Lesseps, It was the biggest in the middle of the desert [driving music] The construction of the Suez Canal Early on actually, they had a problem delivering water They had something like They did try and improve the situation. I thought to have died and in particular that were causing some of these deaths. [narrator] After ten years the canal was opened in 1869. [tense music] Despite the sad circumstances, a masterful feat in the barren desert. An invaluable shipping short cut amounting To this day, the Suez Canal is considered Thanks to this shortcut, traveling the seas kept climbing. Up until the mid-19th century, An invention then led to [exciting music] The Invention of steam-powered ships to more ships and navigation. Because, think back to the sail ships on the wind's direction as to So that eliminated that factor. whenever you want it. [narrator] The advantage was constant power for the journey. This made it possible [exciting music] Steamboats revolutionized the world market of transporting goods which meant that we got that would never reached us in the time Steam engines are obviously energy efficiency because that is a very energy dense fuel source But the trouble with steam engines is So the coal that they require to run off, and together that would take up [narrator] Since steam ships this lack of space Up to the late 19th century who left their homes Conditions aboard the ships But the steam ships They enabled passengers to cross This made transport cheaper for wider sections of the population. [calm and cheerful music] [steamer horn] At the beginning of the 19th century, primarily as a means of transportation. to book a passage for the winter months, for the shipping lines. Albert Ballin, a Hamburg-based ship owner, of using the ships In 1891, he dispatched to the Mediterranean with 241 passengers. Up to the mid-1930s, luxury cruises Larger and faster ships were built Freight ships also grew in size. necessitated more dock workers at These so-called &quot;stevedores&quot; the ship cargo as quickly as possible. Occasionally, however, There were some wonderful advancements People realized that they could transport But of course, when it comes quick is never really quick enough. They only last a few days, the refrigeration of compartments. At the time, you have to remember as a huge victory in terms of [narrator] With the invention now even perishable goods could be transported. The luxury goods of the time [eerie sounds] But there's one invention - and the entire Prior to this invention, A time-consuming undertaking. They have unloaded goods and that was a problem You know if it's raining snowing windy So they actually kind of and they wouldn't be able to do anything. They would be sitting around That's nuts. [narrator] Loading and unloading with long waiting times in general. Exactly this is what American freight forwarder Malcom McLean: [harp and guitar music] There is this guy Malcom McLean but as he was going about he realized it was really inefficient open it up, empty all the goods then reload them into another truck. He was like why don't we stick that on the boat and then [narrator] McLean evolved Loading the entire the chassis onto a ship was inefficient. What if we had a standardized Then you just move it off a ship and load it This seems genius now, but at the time, Why would you do that? who actually end up succeeding in He has that grid He can't get funding. So he sells up all of his business, and invests all the money by himself [narrator] He also had a navy tanker and sent it from Newark to Texas The steel boxes attracted attention McLean had created a standardized box. To this day, it has the same A standard container measures 20 feet The so-called &quot;Twenty Foot It's the same shape and size The container fits perfectly on a truck. It can be hoisted onto it This completely changed shipping. Standardizing the boxes changed everything a much more simple process. As a result, everything got more efficient The downside of that was which is often the case with technology. [narrator] Before containers work at the docks was very strenuous. Heavy goods were off-loaded from ships using sack barrows. Technological advances along with dramatically changed working conditions. Goods no longer needed to be taken since the container itself [calm music] It also was more secure as well, a completely sealed container the entire time and try not to worry and drinking whatever it contains, so it's a really cool idea. [60s music] [narrator] But it would take for the first container ships to reach [60s music] Ports needed to adapt to new requirements Modern gantry cranes The old, small-scale port facilities for container transshipment. What was needed now was large, to stack the shipping containers. And, above all, the role of technology All the operating procedures are monitored by an EDP center can always get the latest information. And an entirely new type The so-called &quot;container ships&quot; they also had larger loading hatches In the 60s, ships pulled out of port In the meantime, Especially over the past 15 years, to the extent that is launched somewhere Today these floating heavy-weights and 400 meters long. And there's no end in sight With the introduction what you're seeing is of scale with the port industry The more stuff you're able to send The labour goes down It just makes everything more efficient. [spheric sounds] [narrator] These ever bigger ships The greater their draught and width, to maneuver these &quot;super ships&quot;. Controlling ship traffic is a complex job. Without the navigators in ports would be paralyzed. Great ship widths pose a challenge is often the ship's draught. Many ports aren't deep enough Various restrictions apply A traffic separation scheme is in place And we coordinate vessel traffic can do so efficiently, [narrator] The OOCL France is among the very large container ships. Navigating a vessel this size [tense music] Anything 340 meters or longer requires two pilots. One person alone On this ship, for example, but I also have 240m behind me. If I pass a small vessel, look down and see if I can pass safely. While I'm doing that on my piloting duties when actually I should be in the middle [narrator] A mega vessel into an inland port safely and smoothly who know the water's vagaries. So, despite all the advances made, has actually grown. The expanding tonnage of vessels our scope of responsibility. Pilots used to just direct These mega vessels or passenger ships - the dimensions of many ports. Keeping a comprehensive overview [narrator] When it comes to passenger are always vying to out-do &quot;fastest&quot; or &quot;most luxurious&quot; ship. The cruise ship boom During this time, everything about them has changed. Cruise ships look In addition to room and board, of leisure activities. Sea cruises are a new branch leading to bigger and bigger ocean liners. They can be 360 meters in length This incredible growth Cities are completely overwhelmed More than 600 cruise ships moor in Venice every year. Thus far, the giant passenger ships to the dock to give their guests But environmentalists, local cultures and traditions, ecological balance in the lagoon. In the meantime, the city has reacted. Since 2019, cruise ships have been banned It's the same with container ships. They too have become so big that many Cruise ship operators from all over are But they are facing resistance that fear serious consequences Often enough, however, are able to override Many things need to be taken before dredging shipping channels To prevent the current and the water level the excavated soil must be The river is also being widened. Works like this Fairway adjustment is fairly common. The Panama Canal being The Panama Canal too had reached It was neither wide nor deep enough The canal was built at the end of the At this time, today's mega-sized cruise ships [mysterious music] The 82-kilometer-long Panama Canal is one It links the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. This direct route lets ships or the Straits of Magellan The Panama Canal This is allowing you to easily access so this was great for the trade. It was also great for Panama itself, to go through [narrator] Before the extension Panama from ships that transit the canal. This makes the canal Panama's And also the reason So some one-hundred years this canal too needed to be expanded to be able to keep up Since 2016, ships with of up to 14 000 containers You can actually see the advent and then be the largest ships shipping containers because you can imagine they are so small that these big ships so it's driven the expansion to be able to have the capacity to be able to deal with the amount that were talking about I mean it's grown explosively almost. [narrator] The Arabs lead the way. They are investing billions The best example can be seen in Dubai. Taking its cue from Palm Islands, was also built in the ocean. Jebel Ali is in the Top 10 [arabic music] Dubai is planning to surpass the ports of - and then advance [Mohammed Al Muallem] We have that we can grow up to We have the land reserved, and it's just a matter of and we see that business is growing. The demand is there, just to make sure and also our partners, shipping lines, are enjoying the growth [narrator] Terminal 2 A short time later construction began Terminal 4 opens soon, thereby bringing to 22.4 million annually. [arabic music] Shipowners have enormous power a city loses Revenue and so ship owners in deciding where they want to trade to trade there, they were just move on So it's extremely important to accommodate all shipowners. [narrator] Like no other city, the development of port cities. An economic hub today, Thanks to its outstanding location Shanghai quickly grew Cotton, silk, porcelain and tea This is where the city's - at a port right in the town center. In the 30s, Shanghai's legendary riverfront esplanade The evolution of Shanghai As the ports expand, These days, ships can no longer You have to imagine the difference with people shouting and workmen, compared to now where things You actually can look around large areas [narrator] Today, Shanghai About 40 million containers and vice versa every year. Ships are loaded and discharged here The most significant part is its deep-water port Yangshan, Up to 50 ships can berth at the same time Opened in 2017, first fully-automated facility. Driverless vehicles and robots have almost At most ports today, there are only few the gantry cranes About 40 containers Crane operators definitely notice - as in Hamburg. There is definitely more work. that we have in front of us; there's no end to the work. They hold so many containers, to unload and reload them. [narrator] Gantry crane operators But will this be enough Transshipment of the containers I'm convinced that machines won't be In many situations, we are faster The machines we have We drive faster and more determinedly. So I don't agree that our jobs as drivers [narrator] However, there are already like here in Rotterdam. Human beings can't be seen The so-called &quot;control room&quot; This is where seven people, monitor all the harbor operations. The gantry crane operators Especially for them, Up until a few years ago, in the crane cabin. Now they unload the containers virtually I miss being in the crane. I had gotten used to working up there that rattled the cabin. It was great. It's the same work but different. I like the work because it's challenging. [narrator] The gantry crane operators through a glass floor They have to rely on monitors [Graham Smith] That took Being the judge in the distance. than I was on the other side. Not that I wasn't careful there, Now I have no problem, and all the safety features They help me do my job safely. [narrator] The highly-automated terminal But this number is decreasing to the automation process. Today, the immediate colleagues of So-called Automated Guided Vehicles As if by magic, they drive around the port to the block warehouses. Armin Wieschemann helped develop Various sensor systems come into play fully automatically on the harbor grounds. We installed two large transponder These antennae communicate that have been installed So when the antennae-bearing vehicle the transponder transmits its info Where am I located exactly? - The antenna in turn transmits the data that's located in this control cabinet. [narrator] Some 20.000 transponders into the surface. The AGV needs to know the path to take The vehicles don't communicate but rather via a higher-level system for each of the vehicles. This route should be optimally chosen from the gantry crane and vice versa via the shortest route. [narrator] But the greatest achievement To recharge they drive autonomously where the battery These vehicles thus play a big role And now specialists have even managed recharged when green electricity is With the help of AGVs, is to be reduced by ten-thousands of tons. The goal is to turn the port into Meanwhile work on the next innovation With the help of digitalization and AI, will be navigating the harbor Vincent Wegener Together with the port operator, with numerous measuring devices. This is our boat test. The Port of Rotterdam has given us so we can test our software. [narrator] The eight cameras provide a 360 degree view. To start with, the Floating Lab [dynamic music] The collected data will be used A process that will be subject to as the virtual captain is trained. The virtual vessel storms or snow There are many advantages One of them is that a digital captain Captain AI is always on hand He never gets drunk and is more scalable. Based on an algorithm, You can't do this with people. People have to be trained; The digital captain learns from all boots. It's a super brain [narrator] Autonomous ships. What role will humans still play? Will the ports be able to dispense I'm not sure if ports completely any human interventions. I think we've seen with other Industries the level of autonomy it just changes so there will always be some level so that may be that they're not even sat and there is some sort of remote location but I think there will still have to be There's no way are going to be doing [narrator] So, what does How far can these processes be optimized? There are still some disruptive factors the port's cost concept very abruptly. A ship repair Often this would force a ship owner that need to be brought in In Rotterdam there's a place and students deal with exactly The former shipyard has evolved Vincent Wegener runs his labs here too. He believes he's found namely by printing the necessary [dynamic music] A robot welding arm will be programmed Layer for layer, high-grade metals [dynamic music] The big advantage compared to and punching is that one can print when one needs them They can be printed locally to arrive from China or elsewhere. No warehouse costs accrue There are so many advantages [narrator] With this technology, managed to print the world's first A metal piece made of aluminum, of one meter [Vincent Wegener] We see a lot of demand The Port of Rotterdam has taken on it's becoming a supplier for these parts. We envision a future like in Singapore, Houston or Rotterdam. Everyone will know that spare parts [narrator] A new task for the port. He is trying to take advantage as an additional service to offer. With the advent of 3D printing that's obviously going to go So I see that's really [narrator] The port has undergone At one time, it was a place of yearning, At terminals today, everything is about If you take a look at how much and how quickly that has happened a sign for things to come [narrator] We owe to the ambition of a truck driver. You can sense and experience at a port than anywhere else. They are what made globalization in the first place. Nowadays I can find some really have it in a few weeks time and have And that's absolutely nuts, are gonna be doing stuff like that of bigger ships for more ships traveling [narrator] It's about cost reduction This also applies to passenger shipping. With unforeseen consequences Looking at the port A future that will change