We Earth system scientists are getting seriously nervous. The planet is changing faster We are, despite years now seeing that the planet where we underestimated risks. Abrupt changes are occurring in a way that is way beyond the realistic Fifteen years back, I introduced the scientific framework that determines the stability, on planet Earth. Ten years back, the world signed Almost five years back, where our choices for all generations on planet Earth. Where are we on this journey, halfway into this decade? I will give you a scientific state the most objective assessment And it starts here. We've reached 1.2 degree Celsius the warmest temperature on Earth over the past 100,000 years. We have just scratched as an annual mean in 2023. But what worries us most is this: we are starting to see over the past 50 years. 0.18 degrees Celsius per decade But then from 2014 onwards, it abruptly jumps up to 0.26 per decade. And if we follow this path, we will crash through two degrees and hit three degrees Celsius a disastrous outcome, caused by us humans. But it's not only carbon dioxide. Any parameter that matters look the same. Here you have it, linear change we go into the great acceleration. And this is what we're seeing across the sixth mass extinction of species, over-putrefying our freshwater systems all of it undermining As if this was not enough, we are seeing that this is now causing We're seeing bigger and bigger invoices being sent by the Earth system in droughts, floods, heat waves, disease patterns, human-reinforced storms, scientifically attributed Forty degrees Celsius across all continents, occurring in 2023. Fifty-two degrees Celsius who lost their lives in June in Mecca. Three times higher climate change risks now attributed to our cause 2023, up to 12,000 deaths, 200 billion US dollars of cost, just in the US, This is seriously causing economic costs. We have scientifically, in the past, shown that this could cost of the climate impacts caused by us. I can tell you that the latest is what you see on the screen here. An 18-percent loss of GDP by 2050 if we now follow the current path. This is equivalent to 38 trillion per year in 2050. It's starting to hurt. Both in human social costs And this is happening of global mean surface temperature rise. And we're following a pathway in only 70 years. And we've had a 10,000-year period where we've had an enormous privilege of a planet at 14 degrees Celsius, plus or minus 0.5 degrees Celsius. That's the Holocene And if you look three million years back, we never exceeded two degrees Celsius. That's the warmest temperature on Earth The coldest point, minus five I call this the "corridor of life." Is it surprising that we scientists But it's more. It's so much more than this. The first issue is buffering capacity. The second is the risk and both are moving Buffering capacity is the Earth system's Like, for example, soaking up in intact nature on land and in the ocean. And so far, Mother Earth Here we have the evidence. What you see here is the hockey stick and deforestation in yellow. Is it this tremendous climate forcing that has caused the 1.2-degree The answer is no. Fifty-three percent of the carbon dioxide from fossil fuel burning has been soaked up by intact nature on land and in the ocean. It's only the blue sliver you see here, which remains in the atmosphere, The problem is we have more and more scientific Let's start on land. Land absorbs 31 percent from our greenhouse gas emissions. We have more and more scientific evidence that the boreal forest in Canada, or the temperate mixed forest are starting to lose Did you know that the latest science shows that the part of the Amazon rain forest, planet Earth's richest biome has already tipped over It is today a carbon source. It's no longer helping us. But as if that was not enough, what really worries us today is the ocean. The ocean absorbs 90 percent of the heat caused by human-induced climate change. This is well understood, but what really worries us This is the latest data on sea surface What you see here how gradually the ocean surface It's actually warming all the way down This is well understood in science. It's a deep concern. It's well represented we understand it. Then suddenly in 2023, something happens. Temperatures just go 0.4 degrees Celsius outside in previous years. What's happening? We admittedly must be honest here, we do not know. El Nino is certainly partly to blame 2024, it just continues. What is happening? We do not know. But the candidate number one is the energy imbalance In one year alone, the heat equivalent to 300 times is absorbed in the Earth's system. Is it what we see on the screen here, an ocean that is starting An ocean that is at risk of releasing and self-amplifying warming? We do not know. But one thing is for certain, Reasons for concern, yes. We are now at a point the following question: Are we at risk of pushing the planet the stability of the planet, where we've been the extraordinarily stable And if we pushed ourselves outside, drifting away unstoppably where we get self-amplified warming and losing life support on Earth. What could take us there? Well, we know it. It is if we cross tipping points, big systems like the Greenland ice sheet, the overturning of heat the coral reef systems, the Amazon rainforest Push them too far, and they will flip over to a state that will self-amplify going from cooling and dampening A rainforest tips over Now we have now mapped which are now scientifically cataloged, These 16, and you see the five in the Arctic, are connected via cascades particularly via the AMOC, the Atlantic overturning all the way down to Antarctica. These are big biophysical systems global commons for The question is, at what temperatures from helping us to becoming Well, for the first time, we have an attempt What you see here are the 16 tipping and in red you see the uncertainty range, the best estimates in science, darker the red, it's the temperature levels at which they're likely The average temperature is the yellow circle lines you see here. What this tells us is the following. Five of these 16 are likely already at 1.5 degrees Celsius. The Greenland ice sheet, abrupt thawing of permafrost, losing all tropical coral reef systems and collapse of the Barents Sea ice. And just the two ice sheets hold ten-meter sea level rise, which would be unstoppable Now sure, there is scientific as you see from these graphs, but there's one red thread in science And it's this: the more we understand the higher is the risk. And here is the proof. This is five IPCC assessments the Intergovernmental Panel 30 years of scientific advancements. Here again you see risk assessment, darker the red, higher the likelihood in the climate system. Thirty years back, the risk of tipping and coming down the risk is set at 1.5 We are in the midst But it can be even worse than that. Let's go to the Amazon basin, again, the richest terrestrial ecosystem on land, climate science estimates the risk of the Amazon rainforest at three to five degrees of global mean surface temperature rise. A really high temperature, unlikely even to be met But if we lose forest cover, the risk is that the system can if we lose more than 20 So that's a very dangerous combination. Where are we today? We are at 1.2 degrees Celsius of global and 17 percent of deforestation. We are very close to a tipping point Very close. What shall we do to avoid Well, the IPCC is clear on the pathway. To stay under 1.5 degrees Celsius, to avoid crossing tipping points, we need to operate, to navigate that gives us a chance of holding 1.5. What remains for us is only 200 billion that we can continue emitting to have a 50 percent chance We emit today 40 billion tons giving us five years before we've consumed the budget. We are seriously running out of time. And the pathway for a safe landing You have it here. Bend the curve of emissions immediately and follow a path by at least seven percent per year and a net zero world economy by 2050. But it's more than that. We also know that even we have already loaded the atmosphere with so much climate forcing, that we inevitably face We must now be prepared of the 1.5-degree-Celsius somewhere between 2030 and 2035. In five to 10 year's time. And then have, at best, before we can come back We would exceed the 1.5 limit, meaning up to 1.8 degrees Celsius. What does this tell us? Well, I can tell you there are Message one: Buckle up. We know for certain, that this means more heat waves, more disease during one generation's time. 2023, the warmest year on record, will be looked back upon as a mild year. Message two. Why would the planet come back Well, the answer is very simple. The health of the planet We must continue having a planet that can absorb 50 percent We must have a planet We must have a planet that remains healthy and keeping heat intact in the ocean. That is why we need planetary boundaries. The planetary boundary framework that defines the nine that regulates the stability climate, biodiversity, nitrogen, air pollutants and chemicals. That is the challenge. To summarize that, there is no 1.5 degrees Celsius delivery on the Paris Agreement We also need to come back of the nature-based biodiversity, all the planetary boundaries of nature. This means that science is clear. The window is rapidly closing, but there is still We actually have evidence not only in terms of risk, but also in terms of opportunity towards a safe and just Linear change is no longer an option. The only option is exponential change. We know that the only currency We also need to become stewards We need to now recognize, that we're all so intertwined I know, that is very daunting, but what choice do we have when on the line is the future on planet Earth? And we have the solutions. We know that solving It's not fantasy. We have the solutions for a secure, What are those transformations? Well, we know them. It's a rapid transition It is a transition towards It is transitioning towards healthy diets And it's not only halting loss of nature, it's also scaling the regeneration forests and wetlands. We have solutions for all of these. Just take green energy, which today is cheaper It's our choice that we're facing today. Now I was nervous already in 2020 when we entered this decisive decade and had to cut global emissions Halfway into this decade, the road is steeper than ever. It's steeper than ever. This is what really, really concerns us. That we have a situation And I've been standing on stages sharing the dire scientific diagnostic. But still, I just told you that I do conclude that there is There is a light in the tunnel. And you may ask, what is it to be a realistic optimist The most dire situation, I must admit, Well, actually, I promise there are so many positive items as well. The most important one in my mind is that we have ample evidence that citizens across the world, care about nature and climate. They trust climate science, they're concerned about climate change, and they want solutions. And the second key factor is that we have so much evidence today that the solutions are not only available, but if we implement them, we get a more healthy, stable, secure future with the jobs that can compete and provide This means, dear friends, that solving the planetary crisis it is possible, and we all win if we succeed. Thank you very much. (Applause)