Welcome to another Mathologer video. Do you still predict that coins will be abolished altogether will be dead and gone. Very sad. But there's this I've been meaning to show you since day one of So before I lose my chance entirely I'll sneak the goal of today's video is to answer one of how many ways are there to make change for one answer to this question is very surprising and the In particular, i'll use infinite series but definitely finite number of ways to make all this change making maths will actually stay I'll come back to that point Ok a little mathematical warm-up to get us going. a look at the monster product over there. First x to the power of 100. Second bracket again exponents going up in multiples of 5. There in the bracket of the next exponent right there all the way to 100. And 50 and finally to a little expand this monster product. Go on I'll wait. Or There that's the output. So the result is 1 there all the way to x to the power of 600. our mathematical wand and zero in on the There 293 big deal. Just another number right? change for a dollar using standard u.s. Coins 100 cents. How does this work? Well those the product we started with. There the exponent of the six different numbers up to 100. All Let's start small. Let's figure out what amounts and two three cent coins and then how many Okay first just using the one cent Yep you can make one cent, two cents and stingy we can also make zero cents. No coins give zero cents, one gives Now here comes the first really cool bit. To get we simply visually multiply the two and pretty magical. And pretty obvious that up to three one cent coins with up to two all those extra nothings in the top row Neat, we've translated finding all those amounts we've made let's add up. For example how can we do this adding up automatically. Well we're multiplying those coins rather than adding Can you see why? Well products of powers So the exponent 8 is exactly the coin sum we noted Okay now let's add up. And everywhere else. And those two ways are automatically there goes the two. Same thing here. Two ways circle up there stands for nothing, So wrapping it all up what What it says is that with three one cent coins in one way, okay, two cents in and so on, and of course we also get that one way And remember this is the strange Or swapping the coins for powers this is what see that this works for any combination of coins. mix the product that will do the trick is this one Can you decipher the product now and Well the first bracket means we have 100 one cent bracket we have a dollar's worth of five cent and so on. There 25 50 100. Got it? But what if we about the number of ways to make change for a can't make any difference, right? For example the use is 100, so using more one cent coins than 100 make change and this means that the coefficient the number of ways to make change for a dollar. What else do all these numbers over there tell us? tells us that there are 252 ways to make change 98 cents. In general all the coefficients for ways to make change for those corresponding coefficients are lower than the total number of goes with 101 cents doesn't account for the one Here at the end only one way of making change Of course there will be zillions more. Okay to you. First how many ways are there to make change That's an easy one right. Okay now for a slightly Say you've got one one cent coin, one two cent What cent amounts can you make with these four For maximum aha impact try to solve this puzzle Well what if, as well, you use one 16 cent all the other infinitely many power of two What's this up there. Yep the multiplication And there is nothing that you don't know about and lightning calculators will memorize well at something like this. Have you taken this bird's exhibits some curious patterns. Can you see the let me highlight the different regions that are for these regions? You've got it? No? Well let's Okay zoom zoom zoom. So the regions are formed and the edges are where we jump from a Makes sense. And what about the shape of the pretty hyperbolic 1/xeee looking aren't they? curves are approximately hyperbolic. Right? then this border between three-digit and curve with equations x times y equals the Or y is equal to one thousand over x. Hyperbolic Even if we know how something works in principle taking things to telescopic extremes may produce the true for the change giving puzzle. Let me show to make change for a dollar. What about making Two million a bit ways to make see how this plays out when we go even Yep the numbers are huge but can you also see the pattern for you. There amazing right? From separated by strings of threes and zeros. and along the way there we get the what is the number of ways to make change for Very impressive and totally unexpected isn't it? Actually what I just showed you is impressive numbers in the first place? Hmm, well in principle enumeration tricks will work for any amount of have to adjust the maximum exponent. There for But as we go larger and larger even the of the amount of calculation to be done. So here Try to come up with an efficient program that full dollar amounts and then use it to continue anything goes you don't have to use the product Tell us about your discoveries in the comments. before your program and computing setup starts How close to two times a googol did you get? get us so far. How far does our brain Okay our goal is to prove that crazy formula I think I'd better highlight two basic facts to the formula for the sum of an infinite geometric up in Mathologer videos about a googol times. And x between -1 and 1. For fact two we quickly have that n choose k thing. Probably easiest to just All right the pattern is clear, right? Four factors going down in the numerator. Also if the coefficient is equal to one. Now fact 2 is this for a moment. You've got it? Well it's possible both sides of the first formula to a power of n. There the orange is the nth power of the green. To formula is the nth power of the first formula is equal to one all the binomial coefficients and so for n is equal to one the second formula squaring and cubing the left side of the first to two and n is equal to three. Actually there's Simply differentiate the first formula below n the second formula on top. If you are comfortable to proving the formula this way. Anyway for what n is equal to 6. So I might as Okay so when I spring this on you in a Now with these two formulas under our belt of threes and zeros in the numbers of ways To do this let's see how far we can push the as we've seen the product over there gives the Upping the power from 100 to 200 gets us the and so on so. Let's think big and So expanding this crazy product should give possible amounts. But how can we expand this Looks familiar doesn't it? Our first formula Here's the second factor. Aha do you see the but with x to the power of Plugging x to the power 5 into the first And of course all the other factors in our Which means that our crazy product is equal to lot simpler than the crazy product but does to massage this expression a bit until all six out we can apply our second formula. Let me show Don't worry too much about the details. If you get Don't you just love algebra autopilot? :) second formula and apply it to the bit in orange. massaging. First take a deep breath, cross your Just brute force nothing ingenious going 82 terms. Don't get to deal with something like we started with a big product of infinite sums. the name z has served its purpose. Let's How are you going? Hanging in there? Well almost is that we're looking at. What we have here six infinite sums massaged into a product and that infinite sum at the bottom. Okay this massaged sum a formula for the number of After that i'll use this formula to explain To begin let's figure out the number of ways to For this we have to pinpoint the from the three factors whose powers of now one way sticks out right: 1 times 1 times If that was the only way to produce x to the 9 choose 5 ways to make change for Take a look at the second factor in the middle. 100 as exponents. There those ones. That means One times x to the power of 100 times x to the another way and another way and another way. But this for a moment. What I just pulled out are But this means that the number of ways But actually there was nothing 400 cents. Exactly the same reasoning shows or k times 100 cents, the 100 is Actually that's not quite true. This is the doesn't work for n is equal to one, two, and three why doesn't the formula work for those small to make it also work for these amounts? just a bit more algebra autopilot to hammer Pretty amazing. Not the prettiest polynomial infinities flying this way and that, that's I know you are. All right now for the formula to explain the expanding strings of Okay ready for some grand finale magic. Great Then all those powers of k on the and so we'll just be moving the decimal points of And that is where all those threes come from. mission accomplished. Next time you have to make let me just end with three remarks. First remark. endangered species all this nice maths i've been That's not the case at all. In fact some of you is really part of the incredibly applicable theory on Euler's pentagonal number theorem. Imagine all possible integer denominations: one cent Then the question of how many ways you can asking in how many different ways you can write Well that may still sound like no big deal but it and why Euler and Ramanujan are featured in the Second remark. The trick of first interpreting infinite power series and then investigating is very powerful in mathematics indeed. If you'd respect googol the term generating function. Of again in the future. I've also included some links I first learned about change making maths by mathematical heavyweights Ron Graham An absolutely beautiful and fun must read combining continuous maths, that is calculus, with There's even fun in the title. I've never met Ron Graham, that is I did know Ron Graham. Ron amazing mathematician and an all-round great in and outside mathematics. You may be familiar googol even in googolplex or if you're a the past presidents of the international jugglers dedicate this video to Ron Graham. And that's all looking forward to all your solutions to today's