An analogy is a rhetorical device that can Saying this simpler, more well-trodden, or idea can have a lot of persuasive power. Over the past few months I've heard a lot Many of these analogies have been quite bad, fall apart because their cores are fundamentally Of course a literal perfect analogy would a few mismatches I'm talking about comparisons With the ever looming threat of AI taking fears are exaggerated, or insist this will a good thing, a lot of emotions have been taken place. So let's start with the best analogies and and demerits along the way. AI art is just like photography. The idea with this is that just like with new way of making visual representations far were up in arms about the "death of art" replacement ever happened. While there were artists and critics who pushed there's this one quote from a very prominent Charles Baudilaire for example, I haven't and pervasive movement against photography Consider that when photography first came taking photos today, it was slow to catch There were of course comments from critics which certainly has parallels with AI art Another problem with this comparison is that put in front of the camera, which is limited world at the time. AI art is a computational hallucination informed You could say the skill level and time involved for these outputs are not. This is currently the best analogy for AI it's the only argument I find even mildly AI art will replace artists. Throughout all the art history classes I've is brought up the emphasis is that photography, it. It is possible that AI Art will simply change of it or amount of people making it. But it's within the flaws with this comparison painted. In the rapidly changing age of AI it's important of media clickbait and outright misinformation than done. That's why I'm excited to tell you about is working to solve this issue. Ground News is a small independent team that into the information we consume. For example, when I was researching I came a label to accompany any AI generated media. On the website is an intuitive visual breakdown the total number of sources reporting on this this case it's pretty evenly covered by from center leaning. For each article you can see who owns the where they lean politically. You can also compare headline and summary This kind of quick overview can be very helpful information. I particularly like that we can follow specific to get notifications on breaking news and or under reported by one particular side. In this way, it's easy to stay fully informed If you find this as useful as I do, go to Sign up for free or subscribe through my link I believe this is a crucial service to combat News for sponsoring this video. AI art is like Chess being played by computers. I think the idea with this is that Chess is so computers out performing chess grandmasters So there will be no real negative effects Chess didn't die, chess players didn't An alright comparison to make the point that sake. The problem is that art has plenty of utility Sports are for entertainment, the point is Some art realms have aspects of competition, the limits of human achievement but we need Most art is a product. People don't like to be told this because expression and "soul"--all this mushy of "artist"--but I think we tend to overstate That's only part of the reason people make Contrary to the popular saying, you can't Art has a price tag, people can sell it, people a means to an end. It's dictated by the same calculus of risk Art is also everywhere, it's not just paintings auction houses, or the Instagram artists or It's in, packaging, stock illustration, design, industrial design, architecture, video Art keeps people alive not just spiritually It can be good therapy but it can also be It can be fun but it is also a JOB. ART is a JOB. Tons and tons of what we consider "fine because it was the artist's job. A lot of artists make artworks not just because influence, to build brands, to make money The ideal in a healthy society is that people be influenced solely by the pursuit of profit, a lot of art simply would not exist. If you sell your art or sell the idea of your I don't think that devalues it by default, But here is the economic reality: when a company they can get a good idea for something new team do it? Or are they gonna pay the far less expensive 17? Or better yet they'll produce their own archives, infinite concepts for a fraction So when people say things like "If AI is be replaced" I'm really left basking in I'm sorry you think so low of artists who a position that has only been occupied by I'm sorry you think so low of the people you. There may be a point that AI art gets so good for my videos is input some text and do some if AI continued to train on art without permission, used just public domain works, I mean...I'm save a lot of time too. That's less time drawing out references If I wanted a custom visual for a video I artist would not get hired. Those are jobs being lost. I don't feel very good about that, but what well? What if it makes my videos even better? AI Art is like NFTs. This is one of those comparisons where I'm place but your way off mark. Yes NFTs and AI Art both have scummy tech useless. AI Art is incredibly useful. The ability to sort of but not really collect write a sentence and get a more often than were thinking instantaneously is revolutionary. The first AI art video that genuinely made is difficult for even human artists to evoke dark 80s fantasy film video, the concept has when I first saw it I was floored. It's such a natural marriage of two things myself, much less render it. It's one of those things that made me think I've seen AI art being used in the backgrounds recently, and in random spots every now and I saw people in my design and architecture to base their projects off of and this was NFTs wish they could be as useful as that. Techbros don't need to exaggerate and shill in front of your face. Some may make the claim that NFTs and AI art No, AI art is not a 'fad', it's here We have to either adapt with it or adapt around The last episode emphasized how we should on copyrighted works and I still believe that. I'm not even interested in past AI models models of the future use works they get permission as soon as those are out, models of the past If that ever happens I don't have any arguments That's it really, I can't think of any can and/or should be made to these models. Since it's been talked about so much already is still impressive and it's not going away. Now I was criticized for not acknowledging So let's talk about the limitations of these there were the last time I made a video on Hands used to be something that AI models has been reduced. Letters used to be complete gibberish, barely AI generated video is now even more impressive There are still plenty of problems that current good grasp on, very specific aesthetics can space is still severely lacking, consistency that is put together in a world that obeys unique compositions are rare and a lot of sheen to it. However, while some of these may be hard limitations of these can be viewed as simply challenges People will look at tweets like these, with apart all the ways that the AI failed, note a hearty laugh, pat themselves on the back AI is just a "cheap parlor trick" because All of you need to start looking at the bigger The fact that an AI anime filter can even alarming. The fact that with a glance AI art can pass alarming. And that time period where you have to stare is going to get longer and longer until you Maybe I'm not as observant as I used to that something wasn't AI when it was, I've AI when they weren't. Now I find myself zooming in on every illustration I can trust what I am seeing and ultimately No one can be expected to be a detective every Enough with the Never statements. AI art models, specifically diffusion models, do a lot of other things, I don't think Even if there are plenty of things they can brand of AI models are in their final form, these long keyword paragraphs that look like most efficient method in getting what you I could easily see someone creating interfaces time, or I could easily see some sort of mind what you have in your mind combined with some even think that's that far away. People are a lot more clever than you think because you couldn't get some specific thing a few hours doesn't mean that is now the Simply consider what is possible when you AI art is like collage or photobashing, now is inaccurate technically speaking. Collage and photobashing are art forms in about how much you can't change in a collage AI art is different from that in that the outputs will create, not cut out pieces, there use, or that this isn't fair use, like I've that make me lean towards not being fair use is why I have my doubts that litigation is this problem. I'm just saying if any of the lawsuits going The fact that AI art models have the potential making ecosystem makes me believe that the have just asked permission first. But the tech is out there so really even if use their own models on their personal computers. AI Art is like CGI, CGI caused a revolution does a lot of the work there too, just like Only in so far that it renders some amount is not like AI art at all. CGI is it's own art form that requires lots is not capable of. Even a basic understanding of the sheer amount the extreme differences between CGI art and AI Art is like digital painting/photoshop. I guess the idea behind this is that digital more accessibility to painting and drawing completely useless. Photoshop doesn't automatically create content what you want and it makes it, there's no an image, that's what ignorant people think not the reality at all. It turns putting pigments on paper into pixels extras, that's it. There's an irony here in that all of these is seeping into. There's a sentiment going around that AI and while that may be true for most users who takes it seriously. When I spoke to AI artists there's typically and calling it a day, there's a fair amount several tools at once to get what you want, Now to say this takes as much skill or is traditionally is ridiculous and to argue it absurd, AI art is useful because it takes people use it. Let's not confuse our concepts here calling with "Ai art or ai generated" when posting as regular art is pretty misleading. Just like with the Art Station fiasco I'm art" there is simply a clear and obvious and a traditional artist. Let's not start mixing the two because they The biggest flaw with all of these analogies we've developed is that AI Art models make It may not be creative in the same way humans but when I type in "steam locomotive with ask it ask it to keep the train tracks, a a train with spider legs wouldn't need train probability a train would be accompanied by But I also didn't ask it to turn the metal organic housing underneath that seems to morph combination of train wheels and spider leg Those are things it added, things I think have thought of. Hell this was a random idea I've had for and I think the results are pretty impressive, Sure one could say it arrived at these ideas of the things it does, but that doesn't This is the closest we've ever gotten to No camera, no software, no other art making Most times I pick up a pen and doodle for up a pen with an idea and I think to myself I can ask an AI to generate it, it will be editing, and if that's not the case now Needless to say I've been drawing less recently. This sentiment is of course shared by others, do most artists have to continue cultivating drawing that takes a lot of effort and time Maybe somehow there's enough of a social use it because they believe they want to maintain But there's just some things where that Come on, think about it, what is the one type no care at all for the artistic integrity Pornography. Consider that the consumption of porn has behind technology such as VHS and of course, is any different. NSFW artists may seriously be in trouble. Although AI models are difficult to get explicit it, and there have been some posts going around results. So is AI replacing art jobs right now? Well the evidence so far has been just bits There's been one random article of AI taking one illustrator saying she simply tweaks AI Netflix Japan put out a tweet that cited a to produce a short with AI assistance for Now the short itself...is okay. The backgrounds are passable if you don't not good enough for me to think background One twitter user found a guide that details sketch at a cheaper price while using stable Freelance and self-employed people will certainly world. I kind of expected this bits and pieces implementation and instability, with likely the biggest unknown so people are only left to speculate. But the thing that made everybody lose their A video in which they used the stable diffusion from Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust (a fact they a short video that has the appearance of a This video is pretty amusing and although plenty of things you can pick apart about is capable of. The art community did not handle this well. Yeah Corridor Crew could have been a little some of the ethical concerns people have. But I'm sorry this was not worth being this This isn't the company that made the AI, specializes in VFX demos. This short was hours and hours of work with the AI filter is kind of the icing, a lot editing, acting, and post production. There was also this strange mob of some reasonable People saying "its not animation its just rotoscoping for nearly as long as animation "Why didn't you hire actual animators?" Because the whole point is a tech VFX demo frame by frame animation. This isn't jobs being taken away from animators, have been made. "Look I paused on a frame where your experiment By the way they did bring animators on to critiques of....because it's an experiment. "Pick up a pencil" as if the entire point the, let's face it, incredibly laborious studios full of people. The intention of these videos was clearly of animation to potentially help animators. The reality of these tools in helping rather but I think their intentions should be considered should have been explained to them, y'know, of petty insults. The message I was getting from all this vicious about the ethical implications of the data-sets" is always evil and you are bad people for Anti-AI activists have to get around the hurdle okay? Yes it's kind of made of art taken without Good luck bullying, and yes that's what uses AI, seriously. I really really doubt that harrassing people strategy here. Especially when you fail to consider their as villains. I need everyone who is Anti-AI to understand universal especially not to the average person, on twitter doesn't mean the same sentiment mean it's a settled issue, it doesn't start agreeing with you, yes even if some well. There's a cognitive bias going on here that echo chambers, they lose sight of what they're just becomes a witch hunt every few days. When an experienced level headed animator video what does he say? "Oh wow that's cool" "but please let's into AI" That's it. So much more graceful than everybody else So much better than calling it "degeneracy" You have to actually convince people who are You want to pressure someone pressure the impact on the economic and ethical realities Not some random internet users posting their If you want to criticize a wildly popular make your critiques clear, strategic, and I don't know, act like adults. What's worse it that Pro-AI people have Take this post for example; a decently impressive an exaggerated caption "oh look how good replace you!!!" then the poster goes into durr this video is actually perfect" then out the obvious flaws in the video, not realizing blind devotion and acting stupid on purpose, want on top of advertising the video now with angrily quote tweeting it, and these tweets Do you know how many views the guy who made 680,000 39 Million. Stop falling for this crap you morons. Hate clicks are still clicks. I'm worried that this Anti-AI movement is before it. Websites like twitter encourage this kind everything is getting way too accusatory and damage is going to be done before anything People need to lay off the bickering no matter plays. By constantly dunking on random AI projects of progress on the optical front, at worst I believe there are sides to this, and this you need better weapons and you need to pick At this time I can't bring up a statistic or will be replaced by AI" I don't think Especially when you have tech bros embarrassing entire industry with AI without considering I don't see it replacing most jobs in the Despite this AI is already present in low more respectable jobs like being an illustrator graphic designers, advertisers, coloring book But big name artists who have a brand and their artwork, artists who work almost exclusively artists who make things purely for their emotional future. Any artist who has to do something that requires a vague concept will be probably be fine. But I have to put an asterisk next to this My honest advice for artists would probably on the side because it really does seem like know what's going to come down. Make a YouTube channel, post videos of your work, learn some other physical art making Make sure you stay informed about these systems And most of all fight for your rights. Corridor Crew are not the people who will power that insist on asking for forgiveness person who doesn't do their due diligence, keep us hostile and divided.