This is the extreme North of Mongolia, a wild and icy region A hostile universe where temperatures This is the territory of the Tsataan, one of the last nomadic people Uve and Chander who lives isolated in the mountains. To reach them, That's the sound of the ice contracting throughout the day. As for the reindeer the crossing is almost acrobatic. The two men and snowy passes for two days now. Their brother lives completely isolated in this simple tipi. Huluk is 30 years old His wife Hulan and their three children. Nana, six years old. His sister, Sula, three years old. The youngest, Batah, is just one year old. Huluk and his family are nomads. Like old Tsataan, they live in tipis with no comforts The family lives in a space which Hulan is very proud The Tsataan are reindeer herders. Huluk owns 40 of them. Like old Tsataan, His brothers have come to help him. Once a year he has to cut the antlers off If they didn't cut them off, the antlers would fall off naturally All of the antlers will be sold where they're used Huluk and his family Today, there are only 200 of them away from the modern world. However, their traditional way of life However, Tsataan live in the very North right next to the Russian border, and largely inaccessible region. This isolation has allowed them They are originally from Siberia as their ancestors have always lived summer and winter, in search of lichen Animalists believe that spirits hide and that the shaman is the bridge Few in number, the Tsataan Young men are encouraged For the first time in years, an exceptional event. However, now all of those traditions Technology is sneaking its way It's hard to escape the temptations Here we have the school. For 15 years, the Mongolian state to attend school from the age of seven. A law that forces families At the other end of the steppe, Here is the capital of Mongolia, Murun is Tsataan. She's 19 years old and left her family's tipi For a year through winter and summer, we spent our time getting to know a surprising dive that is now being threatened. To reach the Tsataan, we traveled more than 1,000 kilometers Three days of travel We also crossed bridges over rivers, which didn't always inspire confidence Hours of driving There weren't any signposts here Suddenly, at a bend in the road, in a forest full of larches, It has been stuck here for 24 hours including four women and a small child. Saved by the tools Without his intervention, who knows how much longer stuck in the middle of nowhere. Finally, after the last bridge, the northernmost village in Mongolia. There are some scattered houses home to 1,200 inhabitants. Their last stop After the village, We had to abandon our all-terrain vehicle Mongolian riders and reach our destination. A valley at an altitude of 2,000 meters where the Tsataan They live in tipis, in small groups, in camps located just a few kilometers Each family has its own herd of reindeer. In the summer season, around 2,000 animals The Tsataan spend four months here This is a time for them to rest before the long winter period. However, for Maksa and Oche, their eldest daughter has informed them This morning the parents are expecting who has to make an official request. Maksa the father The witnesses are coming. Inside the tipi, Oche, The main witness is this man A traditional Mongolian outfit. He has to hunt over a blue scarf If the father accepts, the deal is done. The witness stands up to make his speech, but this is the exact moment The best man begins his speech. He's so nervous he doesn't even realize According to tradition, the best man Finally, after 15 minutes, the parents return For Maksa, Maksa has to make the bride wait The longer he waits, the more he proves Finally, the father grabs the scarf The witness can finally relax This is the signal A few days later, everyone gathers to make furniture The groom-to-be At 20 years old, he will leave his parent's tipi His fiance isn't involved She gave birth a month ago. As is often the case among the Tsataan, they wait until they have a child It is the birth of a child of their romantic relationship. The wedding will take place depending on the lunar calendar. In the meantime, A few kilometres away from the parents is Bogue Wieskamp. She's 42 years old. She was born in the taiga Her days are punctuated by her beliefs. Every morning, and while her children are still sleeping, She offers the first tea of the day The Tsataans are animists. They believe that spirits inhabit nature They live in communion to whom they dedicate Like Bogue's husband, they consider it a privilege Bogue and her husband and some of them like this one, who wears multicolored ribbons and is the only one The reindeer shaman. Bogue follows the customs and traditions However, she has also started and its temptations. Next to the tipi, a mysterious yellow tent the family's phone box. Thanks to their makeshift antenna, Bogue manages to talk back in the village. However, this morning, Bogue has to help All of the women in the valley They even brought out for the occasion. Machines from another age The women need to hurry and the newlyweds tipi. That is if the reindeer Six days later, The bride, groom, A lucky color The couple is dressed entirely in purple Before entering the tipi, the bride and groom throwing reindeer milk Inside, the guests are seated A table of honor has been set up at the back of the tipi, Shy and emotional, The father of the groom The bride and groom seal the ritual The bride then has to prove herself She has to make the tea. By making the tea, she proves that she's capable As a gift, the young couple a present from Mabsa, the bride's father. Outside, the men competed mongolian wrestling in which The nomads spent all summer long where food and reindeer are abundant. However, when winter arrives, As soon as the first snow falls, the Tsataan take their reindeer where they can find lichen Huluk and his family live here, completely isolated far from any doctor They'll spend six months here where wolves and bears still live. At three and six years old, Garner and Zula are already doing The children have divided up their roles. Garner does the heavy lifting and Zula prepares the water for the tea. At just three years old, the little girl makes a point Huluk and Hulan only kill one They don't raise them to eat them, which they drink in large quantities. Hulan has given each In winter, the temperature and minus 45 degrees centigrade. Despite these extreme conditions, the children Looking after the reindeer Garner started learning to ride a reindeer Now, his father takes him to the mountains and teach him how to be a herder. His father Garner was brought up a people who have managed to preserve even the most mysterious ones. Lost in the middle of the taiga This is where one in the community lives. Sinsintic is 61 years old. She's a shaman, meaning she has the power This tree This is a sign Only a shaman has the right to approach it and honor it All Tsataan believe in spirits. They believe that spirits and every living thing. Sinsintic is the link and the human world. She's one of the Tsataan's three shamans. In the summer, she lives in her tipi. In the winter, she lives in this cabin. She lives there with her daughter The ofal of an ox killed the day before Her daughter carefully sorts through it. It is in this cabin The nomads come here to know their future. How an illness will develop, or where to take their reindeer To answer these questions, Sinsintic always answers very concisely. Her rights are a secret, but she agreed to let us film Once a month, so that they If she doesn't, attacking her or her relatives. The drum symbolizes a horse. Through this drum, she can travel through the world Sinsintic has to wear a special costume because the spirits and see our world through her eyes. This long coat will serve as her armor because evil spirits could hurt her Before each ceremony, The shaman invokes the spirits. She gradually goes into a trance. She no longer feels pain. That's it. The spirits have taken possession They speak through her and deliver their messages. The trance lasts for two hours. Suddenly, everything stops. The shaman remains prostrate. These are her only words. The spirits have given her other messages but she will have to hand-deliver them Huluk believes that these traditions are the foundation He doesn't want anything to change and he wants his son However, the Tsataan are becoming as the modern world nestles its way in. Next year, For the past 10 years, the Mongolian government for nomadic children Next winter, Garner will have to go the only village The family will be forced to split up. Hulan knows it. Their nomadic life From now on, she will spend all of her winters far from her husband and her reindeer. This is the dilemma of the Tsataan people. If they want their children they have to abandon At the foot of the mountains, there's a wooden house made of logs with satellite dishes and solar panels. To top it off, an all-terrain van. This is the house of Bogue and her family. The woman who lived in a tipi changes her way of life She lives alone with her children, while her husband looking after their reindeer. The house is organized like a tipi, a singular space and in the middle, the essential stove. The only notable difference which captivates the children's attention. It's Sunday evening. Her daughter Chingwe is getting ready to go to school. Chingwe is almost 13 years old. She has been going to school Everyone goes to bed early However, overnight, The diesel froze in the van, After several hours of work, the van finally started The van cut through the steppe and took small chaotic roads It took more than three hours of driving the village in which the school where the Tsataan children Chingwe didn't arrive until 11:00 a.m. The headmistress was waiting for her. Oyunbadam has been the headmistress She's a Tsataan who was born in the taiga The school has 550 students, The courses run from primary school and you can even find a reindeer In the younger children's class, Behind the school This is where the Tsataan children It's all free. The Mongolian state pays for everything. The student sleeps six in a room. Some stay here for a week, others for months when their parents While the children stay at school the men go alone to the taiga. It's the period a key moment in the life of the Tsataan. Every year at the end of autumn, the nomads take their reindeer They go deep into the taiga They have to cross large, with the constant fear or die during the journey. To get the spirit's favor, you have to throw The current and the pebbles but the spirits are watching The nomads ride for eight hours a day. Breaks are rare. Finally, after two days of traveling, A completely isolated valley which they have only recently discovered. In one month, They belong to around 15 families. On one of the mountain sides the Tsataan have built this hut. This little house is where the men However, the Tsataan had a priority that might seem surprising They want to build an antenna to try of the village of Saganua, which is a four-day walk away Since they discovered the Tsataan can't do without it. At least when it works. It's impossible to find a connection. The surrounding mountains make a shield, but it takes more than that The men live here from November to April, taking turns every month to join their families Some young Tsataans refuse to endure and prefer to try their luck in the city. Ulaanbaatar, a capital built With one and a half million inhabitants, half of the Mongolian population On the outskirts, poor neighborhoods home to nomads and a rapidly growing city center full of modern buildings, A world that Moron, has only recently discovered. She left the taiga two months ago Moron doesn't want She came here with a dream When she arrived in Ulaanbaatar, She had never imagined Inside, aisles of beauty products, windows full of watches In Ulaanbaatar, Moron benefits reserved for the humblest students. It's located in this building She shares a dormitory This bed costs her 20 euros a month. To help the Tsataan, the Mongolian state has decided whether they decide to stay in the taiga Despite the difficulties, and hopes that others Moron will finish her studies but she told us that she no longer wants in the heart of the taiga. However, surprisingly, despite the temptations most young Tsataan people and remain like their ancestors. The guardians