(drawer opening) (explorative music) - The world you live in by European men. Men who looked like me. Men who at first were just but soon whose motives morphed A confidence that their way This confidence led to arguably of events in human history. At least the history a 500 year project of moving people and weapons and germs to every corner of our earth and taking home stuff to rubber, tea, sugar, and human bodies. This isn't a history lesson. You won't hear me talk a Instead, this is the first of three videos where I want to show How Europe, a continent full took over the entire they shaped it, they of thinking and speaking and doing things. So this is part one of how (dramatic music) (relaxing music) I am out here on a bit of but I wanna pause this video about the sponsor of today's video, which is Better Help, a company that is trying your mental health. I am a giant fan of therapy. I've said it before, I I think therapy is way We all have mental health issues, whether we like it or not, and Better Help is trying to make therapy which is just working through the things in your mind, more accessible and I'm a giant supporter of that mission. I've been in therapy for several years, it has changed the way that I think, it has changed the way that It has changed me, I can say that unambiguously What Better Help is, is a more accessible to people, It's not bound by geography. So instead of looking for a therapist like in your local town, you go on You take a very short quiz and they match you with of like tens of thousands of therapists. Once you're matched, you with a therapist in as which if you've ever looked that is very, very quick. That is very easy and that's what Better is just use technology to I'm a big fan of that. You can choose how you do your therapy. You can do it over the phone. You can do it over video call. You could even do it over like messaging, if you don't want to talk. Better Help is not like It's not a crisis line, it's legitimate therapy on the internet. This is why over three the Better Help platform, taking control of their mental health. So if you want to get in on There is a link in my description it is BetterHelp.com/JohnnyHarris. Clicking that link helps but it also gives you of Better Help, so you can try it out. Better Help is already really affordable. There's even financial Thank you Better Help for for supporting this video and for making therapy more accessible. Okay, now back to this on how Europe stole the world. Yes, I'm gonna be looking at a lot of maps to understand this issue because drawing on the map (dramatic music) To understand how Europe stole the world, we need to rewind to a little different, hold on. Back in like 1450, the I mean, Europe was just a The borders look so They were all pretty small potatoes. Well actually there Those wouldn't arrive to but the fact is there wasn't an abundance of anything in Europe. Instead, Europeans were just constantly in debt to Life in Europe was scarce and miserable. Meanwhile, there was a around the world that were thriving. There was this big empire They had silk and then over here in India, you had a big empire with spices and luxurious cotton fabrics. Then of course there was that had by this time already and really sophisticated ships, that they could use to Oh, and all of these empires making all of them even richer. They all had better and miserable Europeans on all the trade. (funky music) So that's kind of the context for Europe taking over the world. The first two countries that and set out to explore were we know is Spain and Portugal. So they start looking for a They start moving east and nope. Oh, look, it's the Ottoman Empire, a very powerful Middle Eastern empire that's run by Muslims. Meanwhile, Spain and and they're not being super So the Ottomans are like, &quot;pass through our land to get &quot;Oh and by the way, you &quot;You're miserable Europeans &quot;so go away.&quot; They're gonna need another way to go east. Portugal's work around was literally to go around the continent of Africa. Stopping along the coast to trade with the wealthy African This is a huge moment It's near the end of the 1400s and the Portuguese are now going nuts. They're sending ships around this route that they figured out, and suddenly the Portuguese are dressing in luxurious fabrics. They're using cloves and to make their food actually taste good. Wait a minute, you're telling me they didn't have black pepper before this? Geez, miserable indeed. - You must have some peppers. - So the age of exploration has begun. Miserable Europe is doing Going out to get in on the But remember, this isn't It's about trading, for now. (dramatic music) Okay, so now Spain sees and they're kind of jelly, They need to establish their but they wanted to do things Instead of following Portugal's lead and going around Africa, from this Italian sailor to fund his new startup to get to Asia instead of Now remember at this point, that the world looked like oh we can just hop over to So Spain was like, yes, great Do it Columbus. Well, it turns out the world and instead over here, massive continents that Columbus ran into. But like many of us confident white dudes, Columbus was like, yeah, We're like in the Indies right now. Like over those guys over Yep, I can feel it. But instead he was like in Cuba, but despite the mansplaining, Columbus kind of found exactly and more. Great empires with rich culture and food and precious metal that weren't he was right on target. So he's like, &quot;All right, But then he is like, &quot;Wait a minute. &quot;These people don't have armies or navies &quot;protecting their stuff.&quot; So this must be kind of a different place, different land with different rules and this is where the of the century goes &quot;Change of plans, boys.&quot; says Columbus, &quot;We're going to claim this land.&quot; And everyone was like, &quot;Wait, what?&quot; &quot;You heard me, we are claiming this land.&quot; and the boys are like, &quot;Wait, &quot;weren't we here to like &quot;Portugal's been doing this &quot;for like all these and he's like, &quot;No, &quot;They're just letting us show up &quot;and like be here without a fight. &quot;So obviously that means they don't mind &quot;if we just like claim the land.&quot; I mean, I'm taking some on like explaining what But like, look at the Here's the letter that and queen, reporting on what he saw. He writes back saying that inhabited by numerous peoples and then I took possession of them for our most fortunate king, and unfurling his standard, his flag, with no one making any resistance, no one making any resistance. Spain and Portugal set out to trade. They sent out to like explore on the global economy. But Columbus's realization they could actually just and this changed everything. After all, no one was This moment is the foundation upon which all European imperialism grows. I'll show you. (dramatic music) It's the moment that would in the minds of Europeans. The thing we wrote on paper, the old world versus the new world. This is really familiar language to us now but it was invented in this moment. The new world was now seen as It was fair game to go conquer big armies or a Christian King. &quot;Forget trade with the &quot;There's a bunch of land that we can go &quot;take over in the west.&quot; (inspiring music) Spain and Portugal didn't other over all this land, this conquest that they So they got together and No, literally they just We have Africa, we have Europe and then we have this line. Everything left of this line is Spains, everything to the right is Portugal. This is literally one of the original maps where they actually drew and divided the world into two. But let's look at this on a There we go, now we can see very clearly. Oh, look now we understand in Brazil. So Spain and Portugal of the world that they can go conquer. They didn't ask anyone. They didn't negotiate with the locals. They just drew these straight lines. The Pope actually helped them But again, this is a huge in this series, that They weren't just like lines on paper. They were actually a shift of thinking about the world, It was a story that Europeans Old world versus new world, claimed versus unclaimed, Think I'm being overly Let me show you something. (dramatic music) There's one, two, three, four. These were a juicy find. I found this amazing It's a bunch of maps that the right after these two between Spain and Portugal and it is an amazing series because it's visually stunning, but also because it lets us into the mind of how the Portuguese saw the world after they divided it with Spain. (relaxing music) This Atlas reads like a story book. It's like the Portuguese were so giddy about giving themselves permission that they had to write a That's what it feels like, but just look at this thing, You can see that at the that was given to Portuguese. Brazil, Africa, what and here on every corner, you see these angels that are of the Portuguese who are out So this is just the title page. The subsequent pages of on different regions. This is the Caribbean over here. Look, this will become Cuba. This will become Haiti, Dominican South America, all of this Here, our story depicts all these flags. Some of them are Spanish flags of the line, but then on the Portuguese side of the line. The status of this land, according to the fantasy changing from unclaimed with Christian crosses on their sails, showing up and planting flags. This was like playing (dramatic music) Here's another page. This one's a close up on Brazil, and look, we've got people over here. We've got dark skinned, naked people with primitive tools and no homes. It looks like down here in Brazil, they spend their days chopping all while being gazed upon by This was an official Naval and if its message wasn't clear enough on how these people should be depicted, the Atlas has a little info that the Brazilians are quote, This is one of the first atlases ever made and it wasn't really a navigation tool. It was much more a declaration of a new way of seeing the world. Unclaimed territory, sub-human people, all of it up for grabs by Christian boats. So yeah, this is how it all started. Under this new paradigm, both forcing the Spanish and across the ocean, mining, vast quantities of for tobacco and sugar and in the process, massacring in this new world, both but also with their European city germs that the people being conquered I mean, this whole thing with a thirst to get in But soon as this fantasy of unclaimed land came into the picture, the goal shifted, the project pivoted and soon a new story that they, were entitled to claim it and while the story starts soon it spread. Other European countries from their farm work and said, &quot;Hey, we're white Christians &quot;We want in on this And that's the next chapter of the story. One that I will tell you in