In this video, I'm going to teach you how to do is give you six things that if you implement what people are thinking and feeling, without is amazing. You can apply it in tons and tons of different help you learn how to apply it, because a very, and I appreciate those, but very, very common breakdowns? How do you see the frameworks The answer is that I started by learning how the question of the Charisma Breakdown. So, Let's go ahead and get started though. The first thing, if you're interested in learning better at reading yourself. You need to develop above most other people. But the good news And that is, you have to notice when you are you're changing opinions about other people. people in the world, and you don't have opinions You don't trust them or distrust them, or to you. But at some point, between seeing walk up to you, start a conversation, speaking a very strong opinion in most times. And that's guy. There's something about him that tipped hang out and spend time with him.&quot; Or, maybe, I would love to work with them.&quot; The truth is, only a few minutes have gone know anything about them. Everything they're What you're picking up on are very, very subtle you feel these things, you're going to get what they are. So, Step 1: Self-awareness. You need to know Second piece. Now we're gonna bring the focus that is where is their attention, right? Attention us can do it intuitively, but just to cover know when someone's paying attention to you kind of looking over, they're looking down You can tell that and sense that intuitively. a hard time sensing is where their body is, a conversation, you might start to angle out, See you tomorrow,&quot; and then, you're gone, Similarly, if you're in a room, and there's direction, but you're in a conversation with up without even thinking about it. So where people would say, the truth is this is the of your body are facing, is indicative of thing for attention that is going to be important that, maybe, you're talking to, are you answering question is &quot;Uh-huh, uh-huh, cool. Uh, interesting. An engaged question relates to the thing that have to be a question. It can be a comment is gonna be very indicative of if you have first step of cold reading. Second thing, me attention? Are they interested or disinterested we want to hone down a little bit, right? We need to get to some emotions. And the truth focused up here. The easiest place to find an emotion--there them are occurring here, and I include the to be huge. Specifically, the first thing you should start all know, you know happiness, right? We know difficult for people are micro expressions, but they're trying to hide it. Say for instance, I'm in a job interview and I just got a job but I want to keep it on the down low. I don't do is they say, &quot;Okay, you just got XYZ amount what you'll do is you'll see people lose momentary now it's much teeth--the emotions that they're emotions. I, personally, got my experience learning I wasn't necessarily looking for them, but what's going on with people's faces.&quot; This do they behave immediately after that? If you want a crash course on that, I haven't micro expression tests online. And they're then, you take it into the world. So, if you're description to that, but don't go just yet, identifying them consciously is really not others do it. The best way that they do it So, job interview again, right? Say you're table from you goes, &quot;Okay, I see your resume. You know that. They're never gonna call you seen this one. There's a guy who's leering there. She's about to get the heck out of patterns, and I could list off a ton for you. While there's a finite number, there is a worth it for me to do all of the patterns you to start identifying them better. And This is going to really, really hone your So, for instance, when I was about, I think to bars, spending a lot of time going out things that I would do is I would go and I knew who, how a conversation was going, if I'd go, &quot;You know, that group, I think that just grabbed the drink and handed it to that clearly some trust there. On the other hand, there's a group over here--two this like invisible line between them. Nobody's on the other. I think they just met, and then, I remember, and I started to get good at seeing girl. I met her and it's going really well; would watch as he rolled up and stood against all of a sudden, pattern, she's about to bolt, leaves. So start making predictions. That is going recognition stuff, and I cannot recommend was the biggest thing that enabled me to start this is gonna happen next, and then see if But the truth of all of this is you have to it, because your predicting pattern, you're start to apply it to your own life, and to and it's not gonna stick. And the interesting or wrong. This is the science part of it, try to pick up different things and friends So, for instance, Ben, my co-founder, who buddy, who's very gregarious, outgoing, but him. So Ben, when he first got to college, he want to be more like him, get the reactions pounds of muscle; must be the muscle.&quot; So and a year later, he's put on 40 pounds. He's nothing really changed, right? It didn't go the direction that he wanted. the size, I think what it is is that he's so he started speaking more loudly, and being okay, that is the pattern that is making it mine who I thought had great eye contact, eyes, so it's probably because of his big And, for the next week, on and off, when I I'd go, &quot;All right, I want to see what happens, eye contact. So you'd be talking to me and I'd go, &quot;Uh-hmm. doing this bug-eyed, insane, mad person look hell are you doing?&quot; And, okay, I learned point of this is you can start to learn how emotions you have, you're gonna get some hypothesis start to predict and see them in other people, conversation is about to tip. It's gonna go really make friends or they're gonna split. is I just go back and say, &quot;What happened this girl who is about to split, but what I only put this together later that it was, looms over her.&quot; Of course, that triggers So, sometimes, when I'm out, I'll notice. one friend of mine will start to tell a story every single person there will pay attention. honestly, what interests me more is how the with? What went right before he started talking? And similarly, same night, somebody on the and it will just fall flat. It will either So, that's how I do it. That, I think, is only reading people, but in how to learn what captivating, more interesting, more of the life. And, I guess, I should say this last A huge, huge underpinning of this channel you were not born charismatic or uncharismatic, are an aggregate of your mindsets and actions. that, go watch more of our videos, but that all of this possible. So, that's it for this video. I hope that like to see more, please go ahead and subscribe our videos on your homepage. You're gonna and in that way, you will not miss anything If you have comments, questions, things that write them down in the comments. I know a I'm gonna keep that on, but let me know, do you interested in more Q and A style like because I can film them quickly, but I love know. I'll try to do a good balance. I hope that you've enjoyed this video and