Today we're going to see how bullet resistant actually bulletproof. There's always going to see scientifically where that line gets drawn. We Which should do the job. It's a little bit snowy with a burn test! All right, that was fun. Let's more interesting Ridge has sent over quite a few bullet that hits within the red square, they will Not A Wheelchair. So huge thanks to Ridge for a Ridge wallet in my own pockets for the last 5 titanium, but also because it blocks RFID, goes in up to 12 cards, and has a lifetime warranty. This a burnt titanium looks like after being in your awesome looking burnt damascus. Which I'm going for yourself at Ridge.com/jerryrig , and I'll put million customers, and as a special gift for their the link in the description Ridge.com/jerryrig. and each of them have a 365-day guarantee in Ridge for sponsoring this video, and donating Not A Wheelchair project. We are being as safe as official gun range with rock berms along either bullets. The rules of the competition are we have bullet that ends up inside the red square box, company, up to $15,000. First going to be trying shooting full metal jackets, 115 grain, and I am Never shot a $100,000 truck before, but Elon says, Riley: Oh! That one went through! Zack: Did it? Riley: Oh no, dang. Zack: Oh that's sick. Look at this. They're a is no cracking. That's awesome! The Cybertruck oh no way! I didn't even see this! Zoom in on Riley: Oh my gosh! Zack: That's amazing! Look at that! That is so I shot five times, and I hit five times. The hit in the same spot twice, cause the metal's square. So, I got five of my shots within the company. Riley is the chief operations officer Riley: I don't know why I'm nervous, like I've Zack: All right do it for the discounted in the box. I hit the wallet one time, so Riley: It's too close to the window! Zack: No pressure! Riley: No pressure. Okay. Zack: Wooo! Dang dude! Ha Ha. Riley: I guess I shouldn't Zack: That was solid. That was five shots right? Riley: That was five, yup. We're clear. Zack: Okay good. Dang dude, wow, that wallet Riley: Which is good, cause I didn't spot. If there was no wallet Zack: That's crazy. That's where the wallet was, and that's Riley's bullet. You can see the Riley's a better shot than me, and our third the one who's patching any holes that Jacom: Yea. Zack: He's a really good stainless steel welder. I hit all five of mine. Riley hit all Jacom: Okay, but you don't want Zack: Right, right. Spread them out a little bit. that ones stuck in! Your bullet is still inside. Jacom: Yes, that's what I was trying to do. Zack: Sick! So far we haven't missed a single the red box. That was almost a little too easy There'll be a discount code on the website. down by $1,000 bucks. Thank you very much Riley: Oh dang. This one cracked Zack: Oh. Riley: That one totally cracked. Zack: Did you hit two in the same spot? Riley: Maybe actually. Yea. Jacom: One, two, three, four, Riley: Those two. Jacom: One, two, three, four, five. Zack: There we go, a crack in the Riley: The first crack! Zack: The first, but not the last. We we've officially determined that the Cybertruck long as we are not hitting in the same spot where we double shot in the same hole. RIght faster ammunition. Which means that it will going to cheat a little bit by opening bullets around inside of the cab. I do want uh, scratch test is over. For the rest of this two very large bullets. This is a .22, and this is and most likely will not go through the car and most likely will go through the door. this was the 9 millimeter bullet that we were one's the .22. This ones about $0.06 cents. This about $0.25 cents. When we get into the bigger 50 cal costs about $5 dollars a shot. Not that Let's see what happens to these little tiny guys. Carson: Dead center. Zack: Okay, let's go find out. All right, divots. That's sweet. Little bullet good to know it can withstand 9 millimeter so this one's a 17 HMR going 2 and 1/2 times about the same size as the 9 millimeter, this Riley: Oh yea! Zack: Ha ha ha I can see that let's go check it out. What's the damage? the way through. Anything in the back Okay it went through the door panel, Jacom: Huh. Zack: The window's still intact, so that's not bulletproof to a .17. Let's try an AR A .223 is this much bigger than a .17, and about 3,200. Quite a bit bigger. Quite a going to go through both sides Carson: Yea, it went straight through. Zack: Clear. Riley: It's actually good for replacing Zack: Yea? Riley: It's cause you're Zack: That's how good of a shot I am. Riley: Heck yea. Zack: All right, so that one was the .17 probably, so that's plastic right there. That's really cool. Jacom: Oh that's perfect! Thats a perfect shot. Hard to even tell anything Zack: Did it come through? Riley: I didn't see anything. Zack: But ya that's interesting. You as well as plastic. All right, let's Woo! All the way through the door. So Riley: Yea, just cause, I mean that .223 is moving so much faster. So it just goes straight Zack: Does anyone know how fast a 50 cal goes? Riley: I forget off the top of my head. Zack: We need Google. Riley: Oh that's nothing, 2,900. Zack: That's slower! Riley: But it's a fat bullet Zack: Slower, but so much bigger. Okay, is probably going to go through the door, The thing I'm worried about though, is that even though we're hitting the door. Just because fingers crossed we don't break the glass. All right, three, two, one. I think I did here. That's freakin wild. Oh my gosh! that's crazy. Can put my whole finger through that's not bad, that's not Riley: Not bad at all. I was expecting Zack: Yea, we might even just leave that. Jacom: We have to see if Zack: Oh no, I forgot about the window. There windows of the Cybertruck are bulletproof, and that was proposed during the initial launch glass is most definitely not bulletproof, in any Yes! That's awesome. Back up, Woo! And the um, ventilation holes now, but overall I am very is. It works on 9 millimeter .22. Anything faster still slowing down a bullet is still infinitely the vehicle. What do you think, Jacom. Do you Jacom: That's not too bad. Zack: Is it as bad as you Jacom: No, no I mean depending on Zack: We can just drop some weld bead in there. Jacom: It's actually not as Zack: Is it thinner on the middle of the panel? Jacom: Feels like it'll butcher your finger. Zack: Yea, that's so starred up in there. Jacom: Put it in too far, Zack: Ha! It's like one of Riley: There's nothing loose in there. Zack: There's like a white plastic poly we shot through some wires! Riley: Oops Zack: All right, well if someone from Tesla seems to be working. Grab your own bullet in the description. And if you want me let me know down in the comments. Thanks