- Hey guys, Toby Mathis here. And today, we're going that make you rich. Now, why am I talking about this? I'm a tax attorney. I've worked with tens of My firm, Anderson Business Advisors, does over 10,000 tax returns for investors and high every year. And we notice certain trends. I like to look at what And then I'm also a data junkie. I love looking at the IRS and their data to tell us what are the And believe it or not, you can always figure that stuff out by researching the data in Publication 55 and other publications as well as following certain think tanks where they do freedom of information acts and they dig into the data. So I'm not going to I'm just going to jump in and start talking about the type of assets that'll make you wealthy. Number one, this is going to trip you out, some of you guys aren't it's our friend, cash. Why is cash so important? Cash is so important because it allows you to take advantage of opportunities. Now, what examples can I give you? I could give you a ton of examples like Microsoft, Apple, just sitting on billions, hundreds of billions of dollars of cash. And here's the funny thing about cash. If it's just sitting there it's losing value. The US dollar is losing purchasing power due to inflation on a daily basis. Gimme an example. If your grandfather underneath his mattress he passes away, and here's this $50,000. When he put it there, let's say it was 50 years Probably could have bought a That $50,000 has been But you need that money, that cash, to take advantage of opportunities. It's always about the that shows up and your And that's why people keep that cash. What I would say is why you're doing that cash is put it in a high yield, I'm just going to call or some sort of money market account, something where it's making interest to offset the inflation so it's continuing to grow. Don't just sit there and think, when I say cash, it means you have or sitting in a checking account or sitting in a safe. Don't do that. You need to fight off that inflation, and one of the things will almost always equal about that rate so that you're not But cash is number one. Number two, this is a big one, real estate. And there's three reasons Number one, you can rent So if I own real estate, the real estate will do the work for me. I can hire a property manager and I can make money every Like if I have a good rental property, all right, I get a property manager, I may never visit it. I have over 300 properties and most of the properties I've never actually set foot on. I don't want to see 'em, right? I just want 'em to make me money. And that's what we're doing is we put 'em into a rental pool, somebody's going to use it, and they're going to pay you for that. Real estate is great 'cause I can buy it once and it can pay me for hundreds of years, thousands of years even. I just went to Rome, thousands of years some of those structures So there's rent, but It goes up in value because people want real estate. I have a rental property, and many of our rental properties where they've doubled In fact, the average since COVID is about a 93% increase in the value in most metropolitan It's crazy what that appreciation can do. Now, a lot of you guys are homeowners and you know what I'm talking about. You're like, hey, I get that appreciation, but you don't get the rent, and then you don't get something else, which is if it's an investment property, you also get depreciation. What's depreciation? Depreciation equals deduction. So you don't have to You could actually have if you're a real estate professional, if you know how to use short-term rentals to actually offset other including your W2 wages. That's why real estate is so effective and can make you so wealthy. Plus, I can leverage into real estate. I could put 20% down and get properties and get the appreciation and get the rent on a hundred percent and allow the property to pay off the leverage that I put on it. And I may never come out of pocket on that type of transaction. I may come out for the down payment, but the benefit, the tax benefit to me, may equal that amount. In other words, the by knowing what I'm doing on a tax side could actually cover and to cover the down payment to where technically I'm at net zero, but I own this property and it's paying for itself. The tenants are paying for my property, including the loan on it. In which case, yes, that can make you very wealthy if you figure that one out. And by the way, if you want I'm going to share with you a free ebook here in a minute that you're and you can learn about It's a lot of fun. Number three, bonds. Now, I know a lot of you guys are like, but bonds, they've been Because interest rates are high. When interest rates are low, bonds start going up, right? But bonds, and there's three flavors. There's government bonds, there's like through the treasury, there's corporate bonds when you are literally giving money to large companies like Amazon. Others, instead of just going to a bank, they're going to issue bonds and they're going to pay And then there's tax-free muni bonds, which are absolutely fantastic for our high income folks, that can make you rich 'cause you're not having to pay tax on it. Or if you retiree and you're like, man, it makes my social security tax, but when I make too much money, tax-free muni bonds are But bonds are typically In fact, if you listen to they're going to say 60-40 or 80-20, they're going to have some mix of bonds and securities. And in some cases, like they can only invest in bonds. And so bonds can make you rich. The interest on them can be fantastic. And the tax-free interest, which I personally use a lot because the tax savings, not having to pay tax on it, make up for the little bit less of performance that it gets 'cause they don't pay quite but I'm okay because it's what you keep. And in my situation, quite often, I'm doing a lot better than I would've if I had tax on the transaction. So those bonds become your friends. Number four, stocks, and I'm just going to put REITs, real estate investment trust, which are bought and I'm just going to call them stocks. But when you are buying pieces of publicly-traded companies, you could do this so easily now. I remember when I was growing up, it was so expensive when it was 50 to 100 bucks just to buy, just to pay the broker to buy the company that I wanted. So if I wanted to buy Microsoft shares, if I wanted to buy Amazon, And it wasn't until the last 10, 15 years that it really went away. Like now it's, you could go to eToro, you could go to Robinhood, you could go to Fidelity, like there's all these that you can buy shares for free, there's no transaction costs, and you can be an owner of these companies and start to build your wealth. And by the way, the rich own stocks. Astronomically high amount of the value of that stock market of the wealthy in this country. If you want to join them, you start buying those stocks, and you could do so with a hundred bucks, like less than a hundred bucks, you could start buying micro shares. But once you start doing it, you will now open up your brain to start learning about it. And believe me, that And this is where I'm if you put in the comments, &quot;free book,&quot; put in the we will send you &quot;Infinity Investing&quot; so you can learn how to and you can start learning about how to actually build wealth, things that will produce perpetual infinite income for you and your legacy helps build it could set you up, free. All you got to do in the comments is just type in &quot;free book&quot; and we'll send you the link so you can get a free ebook which is gold medal winning book I wrote a couple years ago, maybe longer than that now. But it's absolutely will change the way you look at wealth and will help you make more. All right, number five, mutual funds, index funds. And I'm just going to write ETF, which is a fancy way of saying a bunch of these in a bucket. If you don't know what to invest in, if you don't want to try to figure out what to invest in, then you could go mutual funds and ETFs and buy a bucket. In other words, hey, I of pizza I want, so I'm or I'm going to, maybe one slice of each type All right, if I could do that, I'll do it. Yeah, then you could just So that's what an ETF is. It's a bucket of stocks. The ETFs and mutual funds are essentially the same things. ETFs are more transparent and they're less expensive, so they're dominating mutual funds. But I'm not going to say, hey, mutual funds, avoid 'em. I'm going to say be very careful because mutual funds have Make sure you're buying the right type and doing so intelligently. If you want to be real simple in ETF, you could do like the SPY, VOO is another one bucket of the the S&amp;P 500, or DIVO, which is one of my favorites, Kevin Simpson over there who does covered calls, which is one of my favorite strategies and gets great returns, DIVO is a great bucket If you understand what covered calls are, Read &quot;Infinity Investing,&quot; it'll teach you all about that. Number six, commodities. If I could spell it right. Commodities, raw materials. Let's just talk. It's gold, it's oil, it's art, which has been outperforming People don't realize you can invest in alcohol, wine, I invest in whiskey, barrels of whiskey. It's kind of weird, but double digit returns. Bitcoin might fall into that category. But all of those, even some and say, hey, if you're a collector, that might be where those go in. But they're absolutely an asset class that can make you rich. Now, technically, the way I look at it is I always say an asset feeds you and a liability bleeds you. So an asset's supposed to be paying you, but in the realm of commodities, you may not get paid. But it still has a place in our, in the way that we invest, we actually do something where we're 30% in we're 30% in real estate, and by the way, a REIT is a real estate, bunch of real estate that but it pays out 90% of to its shareholders. They're great as well. But that could be real estate. Managed money is 30%. So 30% dividend stocks, 30% real estate, a real estate equivalent, where somebody else is or you're mirroring it could be Berkshire you could mirror a bunch you could do syndications in that. And then 10% is cash or cash equivalent. A lot of those commodities like gold, like Bitcoin, things like that would be in that portfolio. But it's still something even though technically, it's not a cashflow producing asset, but it still has a place, I still like it, and it absolutely works well. The next realm, let's go number seven. I'm going to say IP, which just stands for So when you have write if you are a songwriter, if you, a number of these things, if you get trademarks that's intellectual property and you could be receiving quite often in the form of licensing fee. If you're a writer, it active income if you're writing, for example, if I'm writing books. But if you are investing in pools of IP, which there are syndications, there are investments that and receive licensing fees, there are huge companies, think like IBM and Microsoft and some of these Apple, Tesla, Tesla, I don't know if and get the patents, but a lot of these tech companies go out and they're constantly creating more intellectual property that then they can license and get paid on and have others pay them for. So that intellectual property, things like royalties come out of that. Those are something you and are things you can invest in that'll continue to pay you over time a considerable amount of money. Just think of things like it was, I think it was Michael Buffer, since I'm here in Vegas, you know, let's get ready to, I don't know if I can even say it, but you know what he always says, let's get ready to. That's a, I think he and I think he gets paid That's why I'm being careful. I don't want get nixed on YouTube because I violated his But that's where it is, is yeah, if I create something, I can get paid. And I think he makes millions of dollars with people licensing And it's kind of funky. And then you have other, like musicians, the Beatles catalog, you have, you always hear about people selling their music rights. Taylor Swift was a big Where you had these big catalogs of the intellectual and they're making licensing fees. Or Mariah Carey, you know, All I Want for Christmas, every year is she makes on the intellectual property from that. Or if you're a book writer, you may get all sorts of different rights, depending if somebody takes your book and makes it into a movie, people are always buying your book, you're getting a royalty. People you know are using it in different capacities, you can get paid on it, and that's intellectual property. Number eight, I'm just going to put this, I know I put it as a because there's different types of crypto. You could be mining it, you could be investing. There's a lot of what we you're not going to But then you have the things where you can actually be making money just by holding it. And I have a ton of clients that have made millions I'm not going to sit there and say like, Warren Buffett might say, you know, it's garbage or whatever they called it, it's poop. But there is value in it, there's people making and I don't want to ignore it. There are even funds now that are created to invest in crypto. I know people that have mined it since for years and years and have done quite well. I'm not going to say don't do crypto, I'm just going to say be careful. In the 30-30-30-10 that it's usually in that 10% category of cash or cash equivalents. That's where I am sticking that. Number nine is collectibles. And again, kind of like we it could be art, it could be wine, it could be whiskey, it could be cars, it could be watches, it could be jewelry, it could be even certain types of, I know bags are a big thing where people are, you know, if Hermes and you're sitting there, you're buying and you're a Birkin or something like that, the resale on 'em goes up, Chanel goes up. A lot of these things are actually appreciating in value. It's not for everybody, but it is for some people. And again, I mentioned some of those in the realm of commodities, but it kind of goes in better categorized as collectibles. Number 10. And this is for you who are bootstrapping who want to create your own thing, and that is building a business. And we've all seen it. Most of the wealthiest people in the world built a business, right? And they built a brand, goodwill, they're able to sell their company or they were able to sell a portion of their company via public offering, and taking it public and But businesses have a we just talked about. They have intellectual property that they're developing. They're also, they have which is their customer base, the name recognition, the that has a value. They have, I mean, we obviously mentioned the trademarks and patents, but also the equipment that they create. There's the old joke that McDonald's wasn't a food company, it was a real estate company 'cause they were buying And, you know, they always say like that's really the type of business it is. Everybody thinks they sell hamburgers, but where they were really generating all their wealth was on the stores and all the real estate. Businesses have multiple asset classes that they start to build up on their balance sheet. And that's actually where when he was investing or value investors, a lot of times, they're trying to uncover the true value of the assets that are on that balance sheet, because we depreciate things and quite often, it's not tracked. So you have to figure out and there's all sorts of and what the market will pay you for that. And that is all built, it's almost created out of nothing. Like if you think about Tesla and some of these really created out of nothing, It's an idea. And then they come up with a product, and then that product people want, and then the intellectual becomes more and more valuable. And as a result, the people, more and more people want so the share value goes up. All these companies that have trillion dollar which is crazy, right? Where is it? It's because that business valuation and anybody can do it. That's the beautiful part. Anybody can create this and start to build those It's just takes the desire and the time to build those things. Number 11, assets. I'm going to call it tax-advantaged accounts. So your IRAs, your 401Ks, your defined benefit plans, your HSAs, where they are growing tax-advantaged, you're not paying tax on the growth, they become very valuable. Your Roth accounts, all those things. Any of these things that we've listed, any of these, any of these that are held in one of these becomes even more valuable because you're not paying tax as you go. So for a lot of folks, that becomes very, very important. If I can somehow get it into it becomes that much more valuable. And so that becomes an asset that really can make you rich. In fact, they did a study, I think it was Ben Hogan if you've ever heard of Dave Ramsey, he has a national radio show and he's pretty well known Not everybody agrees with him, but they did a study And the top three accountants, and teachers. And teachers, by far and away, like when I look at teachers and I look at my own clients, it's because they consistently put money into a tax-advantaged they're getting matched and the growth compounds tax free. And they do it over a long period of time. They have a 30 year career. And the money that they were planting in the very beginning and it's continued to escalate in value, 'cause the S&amp;P in its about right around 10% When you're not paying tax on it every seven years, you're doubling. They did that. And let's just say you had four doublings and you're always putting it's amazing how much You put $10,000 in a year and it doubles every seven years. It goes, you know, 10,000, 20,000, 40,000, 80,000, 160, and you're constantly doing that, the next thing you know, you have quite a bit of And if you're getting a obviously you compound that much faster. But if you're doing it inside it's even better. So like Peter Thiel, PayPal, what, $4 billion in a Roth, never going to pay tax on it. That's an extreme example, but it's still a good example. And the last one that are number 12 is the good And I would just say it's education and skill. I'll never forget Brian There was a facility that had a problem, a breakdown. I'll just say it's an and they could not figure it out. And there was an expert in the area, and they called up the expert, and they said he'll know how to fix it. So he flew out, he said, 10 grand and I'll fix it for you. So they said, no problem. He comes in, he looks at and analyzes the issue identifies what was wrong, and said do this and it'll fix it. And that sure enough, they did what he suggested So he sent his bill for $10,000, and of course the president of the company of the plant said, that's not fair. $10,000 for 15 minutes There's no way I'm going And he says, okay, my time was free, for knowing what the And that's what it is, it's education and skill. It's specialized knowledge. It's knowing how to do something. People will absolutely pay. And it can make you very, very wealthy if you spend the time fixing yourself and learning things and So I always say it's the It's those things where you're learning and learning and learning. And the old adage is, learn until you earn, right? Learn and then take the L away. And again, you could be developing multiple lines of skills. I have to say for folks that are learning the stock market, for example, they say, And the answer is yes, you can do both. Well, should I learn lending? Yes, you should learn There's never a situation where the answer's going to be no when it comes to learning. I am better learning. And the prime example, of Steve Jobs talking in his, he does a commencement address where he is talking about Before he left college, he knew he was going to be leaving. He took a calligraphy course. And that calligraphy course, of course, became fonts inside of a Mac and changed the world like the because of something that had nothing to do with computers, it still benefited him. So I'm always going to say, if there's one thing, Learn, learn, learn. You're never going to know Even in real estate, I'm like, hey, should you go learn how Should you learn how to do electrical? Absolutely. It's going to benefit you because that little bit of knowledge is going to give you when you're analyzing deals that can actually help you. Speaking of which, if you and you want to continue both on the financial side, subscribe to my channel. It's absolutely free. Like this video if you can, it helps us on the algorithm. And even better yet, if you can say what you thought and whether you think that shouldn't be, or put it in the comments. So if you have a comment for me or if you think that and you say, Toby, you're going to have and you should add this, please let me know in the comments below. If you know of anybody that could benefit from this information, please share it. Otherwise, I'll see you later.