This is Germany. The country of beer, fast cars, sausages and... Gold? Yes, the German government has the second the US only. Half of this is kept in the vaults of the The other half is divided between New York But it was not always like this. Until 2012, Germany had only 31% of its gold Over a period of five years, in a secret operation, gold from Paris and New York to Frankfurt. But how and why did this happen? Let's take a look. To understand why the Germans repatriated It was during the economic miracle of the large amounts of the precious metal. West German companies became export powerhouses The Central Bank used this flow of the American Back then, under the so-called "Bretton exchange rates based on the dollar. And the dollar`s value was tied to gold. Most of the German gold bought during this reasons. During the cold war, Frankfurt was only 100 East Germany. The threat of invasion was taken very seriously; best option at the time. Fast forward to 2013, when the German Central tons of gold from the New York Federal Bank The operation was expected to last until 2020. But by August 2017, the bank announced that The logistics of the operation was surrounded Officially, very little information was shared, this is probably how it worked. Let's start with the 300 tons from New York. They were located at the high-security vaults world's largest known depository of monetary In 2019, the vault had approximately 497 thousand It's possible to keep all of that in one because the vault rests on a bedrock of Manhattan To access the vault and reach the 300 tons had to go through the standard security procedure. One can only enter the vaults with what the formed by two members of the Fed gold vault The three people must be present every time To access the compartments, there is only nine-foot-tall steel cylinder that is set When the concrete frame is closed, it creates four steel rods are inserted into holes and until the next business day. After passing all these security obstacles, have access to the compartment where the gold That's when the officials were able to inspect preparing for the second phase: the actual There are two options to transfer gold overseas: Sending gold on a ship would be much riskier So in this case, planes were probably considered For safety reasons, normally it's an insurer's gold can be moved per flight. The German repatriation plan mirrored those So, over a period of four years, a total 300 In New York, the federal bank building is area of JFK Airport. An armored truck would most likely have been Once at the airport, the gold would be classified means it's very valuable for insurance purposes. From the armored truck to the plane another is finally ready for take off to Frankfurt.The they just delivered is being taken. Part of the gold that was in New York did It was flown to Zurich, where the gold bullions Good Delivery standards. This format has sloping edges and makes the which are shaped like bricks, therefore easier From Zurich, the bars would be flown to Frankfurt, purity as well as the weight. After this process, they were deposited in Mission completed. The 100 tons of gold from Paris traveled a Again, a ground transport would pose risks From the Banque de France to the Lufthansa is approximately 16 miles. Armored trucks would also be used. From there, one single flight to Frankfurt, vault for storage. At the end of the operation, Germany repatriated New York still holds more than a third of The repatriation cost the german government But why would a country spend this much money According to German media, the decision to economic factors, but one thing only: symbolism. Or as the Bundesbank puts it: to build trust And the Germans were not the only ones to The Netherlands undertook a similar move in In 2018, Hungary announced it would bring Poland also moved its reserves in 2019. At the same time, countries like China, Russia, of gold, mainly to avoid exposure to the dollar, Many moves can also bring many problems. In 2018 for example, crisis-hit Venezuela But the Bank of London, where Venezuela holds refused to repatriate the gold. The reason was that Nicolas Maduro wasn't his disputed 2018 re-election. Facing sanctions from western countries, the selling its gold. So much so that in 2019 there were reports and with the help of the Russians, flew 7.4 dollars at the time, to a refinery in Uganda, believed to have been sold. With this tactical move, the Venezuelan government probably profited from the operation. But aside from Venezuela, where the intention on the brink of collapse, what's a country's projects? Adam Glapinski, President of the National that "gold symbolizes the strength of a Well, he is not wrong. In general, gold is seen as a safe haven investment. That's why often during or right after a world. The last time that happened was in 2020 when would have long-lasting effects on economies. The fear that other traditionally profitable might lose value pushed people to the precious In August 2020, the ounce topped $2,000 for And as it happened with countries that repatriate, challenges. So what options are there for private investors Once an investor buys a gold bullion, there it at home, use a bank's safe deposit box Usually, banks are the go-to solution. But the financial institutions normally do separate insurance for precious metals is Aside from that, there is the fact that banks If the price skyrockets in a day and the investor to access the gold quickly when a bank is Moreover, in the unlikely but still possible close and the metals kept in safes would be Traumatic experiences from the past also play In 1933 American president Franklin D. Roosevelt the hoarding of gold and signed an executive Penalties of $10,000 were imposed or ten years' People were allowed to own only the equivalent Fear that history may repeat itself pushes storage companies. Usually they offer all kinds of extra services A storage firm in London, for example, offers that includes fingerprinting and iris scanning. The safeboxes are steel-lined and supposedly Those services don't come cheap and an investor gold bars to pay for it. Alternatively, people can always keep their A very high risk option, as the chances that Plus most insurance companies will probably The truth is, without a good safe and insurance, into a nightmare. That's it for this video. We hope you enjoyed learning more about the and investors are doing it. Since you made it to the end, click around We hope you liked our video and subscribed