-[ Laughs ] -I told them not to laugh at you [ Laughter and applause ] [ Cheering ] -I was truly like, And then I was just like, -Last month, Senate Minority expressed concern about in the midterms, Here to explain what he meant and Georgia Senate [ Cheers and applause ] -Hi, there. -Yeah, let's go, team. -So, Herschel, -Yes. -That's right. about having -Yes, sir. do you really think this guy -It doesn't matter It matters what I say, and I say, [ Laughter ] Mitch McConic. [ Laughter ] Me and Mitch are like -Alright. Well, Herschel, you've already that, they've got I mean, for example, What does that mean? -Oh, Che, I'll slow down We all know air, right? Air Bud. -Air Jordan. -Erin Brokovich. -You see, Everybody talking about climate. But what we really is pulling Hawaii closer. -Ooh. Oh, yeah. -Bring that climate over here. I like that, I like that. They little. So that's something we need to look at -Uh, right, it's Mitch. -Yeah. Well, Senator McConnell, what qualifications actually have to be -Well, there's First of all, and Georgia loves football. -Everybody loves football. In fact, man, catching balls is what makes us different -Right. If we come from apes, why are Riddle me that, Obama Michelle. -What are you talking about? Do you have any real -Of course I do. I wrote a few down for Mitch Go ahead. -Sure. Uh, proposal number one -- -There it is. -Number two, That way, no more rain. -Boom! -And, uh, number three, create Too many girls out here -It ain't right. -You know what, Herschel? Why don't you just tell them -Oh, okay, yeah. Thank you, Stitch. Where's my camera? -No, it's right there, man. It's there. [ Clears throat ] Hi, the America. My name is Herschel Bershel, S. Whenever I'm in hard times, I think of the strength George Carver Washington, and Benjamin Frankenstein. They changed the world and wrote the Bible. And when I'm the government, Thank you. Mitch McConnell and -Yeah, we gonna [ Cheers and applause ] -This summer, the spotted lanternfly, has spread destroying local vegetation. Experts are so concerned, they are encouraging people And if you've seen one, Let's take a look. I don't care what experts say, Scientists are concerned about 'cause I'm a player. That's why people My life goals are to lay eggs, and to eat every crop. And there's nothing can do to change my mind. Well, let's bring him out -- [ Cheers and applause ] Boo me, boo me! Y'all don't even know me! Boo me, haters! Y'all haters can kiss my ass, my seminal secretion pouch! Lanternfly, you're coming -Oh, I'm aggressive?! I'm the one who's doing They're telling their children What is this, Mazda Germany? -I think you mean Nazi Germany. I'm a bug! I'm trying to live my life, and have 3 to 4,000 babies! [ Laughter ] -That's a lot of babies. 'Kay? Who wouldn't want Yeah, oh, yeah! No, look at that underwing. It's getting rouge! Yeah! Oh, this what y'all look Unh, unh! Keep stomping! I even look gorgeous dead, [ Laughter ] What do you say to the people of being an invasive species? -Invasive? Oh, my family's been 80 of them! -And how long is that? -Well, you've also been the local vegetation. How? Oh, 'cause I jump on a tree and stick my mouth on it all the sap out till it's dead?! Oh, y'all got a problem Oh, I'm here now, bitch! Catch me outside, -Lanternfly, please calm down. I think people have the right I mean, people rely on the crops -I don't care. Crops 'fraid of me! And if I see crops, [ Laughter ] -Well, lanternfly, we got Crops is actually here tonight. -Oh, hell no! [ Cheers and applause ] Try! -I probably can. -Oh, you doing a lot but you ain't doing Come on! -A lanternfly, everybody! -Keep stomping, bitch! Keep stomping! -The Major League Baseball and the playoffs are underway. Here to give us his thoughts cast member, Marcello Hernandez. -Yes, thank you! Thank you, New York. Thank you, Colin. So, are you a baseball fan? -Well, Colin, my mom is is from the Dominican Republic, But it also means You know, Latinos And I'm not saying I'm just saying I mean, who would you Tanner from Kentucky, and no one knows why? This guy got so good at his job, everyone started Like, Colin, has anybody here -I'd --I'd rather not say. But what about --What about, He just hit his 62nd home run, -Yeah, I think but there just wasn't He hits the 62nd home run, and then, and straight to the dugout. When a Dominican guy he throws the bat and once he gets to home plate, and he thanks everyone He's like, &quot;Thank you to and my father, that gave me Everything changes when they The American announcer, English the whole game, Now this guy named Jeff is like, [Hispanic accent] Starling Marte!&quot; Cue the merengue music. Even the White guys [ Vocalizing ] Then this guy comes up, and he He tells the pitcher to relax. And then, he brings He's like, &quot;In the name of and the Holy Spirit.&quot; And then, once he gets to Do you feel that, Colin? -[ Laughing ] I'm pretty sure I feel it, yeah. -Everyone in the crowd by the time he's done batting. And the postgame interviews White guys are so boring. They're always talking It's like, &quot;We had a game plan, -But I bet Latin guys -Don't do that, Colin. I don't like that. But, yes, it is very different. After a baseball game, a sentence off in English, The reporter is like, &quot;What was going through And then, Ramon is like, Man, I love Miami, man. The weather, the people, And if you notice, Colin, until they lose patience. You know, you ask them a loaded &quot;Well, for this season, [ Speaking fake Spanish ] -Thank you, New York. -Families around the country are getting ready for parties Here with his thoughts [ Cheers and applause ] -Ah! Good save. This is Halloween! This is Halloween! Halloween, Halloween! Marjorie Taylor Green! [ Laughs ] [ Cheers and applause ] Oh, I'm sorry. You can't --You can't even say You got to call it Ugh. -I-I don't think you -- So, Drunk Uncle, you say -Halloween is &quot;socialitism,&quot; These kids today, they don't You know? we were shoeshines, chimney You know? Nowadays, it's just, &quot;Um, excuse me, could you What? I'm sorry. Can you Minecraft my Metaverse, No. You be real. Well, so, I guess you're not -Tom was too good for Gisele! Okay. I don't --What do you -- -TikTok dance. [ Humming ] Okeydokey. Okeydoke. [ Chuckles ] You like it. -I do. -The whole country's Okay? Everybody's quiet quitting now. -Quiet quitting? [ Quietly ] Excuse me. I quit. -Excuse me. We used to quit loud because and we were scared. And also a few --a couple if you know what I mean. You know? It's-a me, Chris Pratt-a! Barf. Not my Mario. [ Applause ] [ Snoring ] Uh, Drunk --Drunk Uncle? -Yeah, I was there -What? Take me home tonight I don't want to let you [ Sobbing ] -Oh. Oh, Drunk Uncle. -So I'm not Lyle, Lyle, So I didn't graduate So I'll never be Never. Big Mac, McDLT, a Quarter Filet-O-Fish, a hamburger, A Happy Meal JFK blown away, what else That's not me. -I don't think that's anyone. -Donda? -No. -Donda? Donda?! -You don't have to -Oh, yes, I most certainly do, I have been listening to a whole -Oh, no. And guess what? I think he might be crazy. You know, that kind of talk I learned a lot during the -- I learned a lot -- I learned a lot I did the work. -I know that -No. I saw &quot;Bros&quot; in theaters, pal. And &quot;No Homo,&quot; it was great. I've said it before, Gay guys are still funnier -Okay. Okay. Alright. -Knock, knock. -Who's there? -Elon who? -I don't know, but he just -Drunk Uncle, everyone. With so many midterm races what will drive people social issues Here to comment who promises she's here and definitely not abortion. What? Beep beep! Hey, outta my way! Hey, there, Colin, it's me, Breaker, breaker, -Wow, Tammy. So you are a trucker who is I guess that makes sense to me. -Yes, I thought it would, That's why I'm here, -And what was that about -No, no, no, no, no. Breaker, breaker, double dipper, And all I'm here to talk about even though the Supreme to that big pit stop Beep beep! 50 years of precedent. Beep beep! Works both. [ Truck horn honks ] -Cecily, are you okay? It seems like maybe you do want -Calm your cooter down, I'm Tina the Trucker, and I gotta be in -Rancho Cucaroomba? Cecily, what are you doing? I am just trying to get Gas prices are up, and families but that's not gonna no matter who you vote for. We're in a global recession fueled by corporate Honk honk! Unh! But what will keep disappearing It's not really magic that's exactly and they've been doing it. Big daddy, I got a double nickel [ Truck horn honks ] &quot;trucker terms&quot;? Yeah. Here, hold that. Don't beep it. I don't want to talk about whatever that counts as. [ Laughter ] 'Cause they don't want to just they want I mean, it's so bad, us truckers are all out here to delete our period-tracking I just want to know what week But I can't in case thinks my period Aruba! -I don't think it's &quot;Aruba,&quot; -Do you have something agai-- My point i--gimme that. My point is, you shouldn't have across state lines to find a doctor who can provide without having to call Beep beep! [ Cheers and applause ] Beep beep beep beep. Colin, check my rear. My rear clear? Beep. And I'm backing up about -Okay I gotcha. Look, yeah, I know this wasn't Let me give you some Yeah, here you go -- and here's this. -Oh, is this -- -Well, it was at one point. Look at your naked gals, okay? Look, the truth is, I have felt pretty helpless and it's hard to know To make other truckers I have this big giant radio. So here's a thing I can say. There's one mother to fight to make our own healthcare And I hope to hell [ Cheers and applause ] Because, remember, we all love I mean, drives a truck. Beep beep! -Tammy the Trucker, everyone. [ Cheers and applause ] Well, guys, we're six shows Here to discuss a personal is our very own Sarah Sherman. [ Cheers and applause ] -Colin, I've got a bone -Oh, God, what did I do now? -None of these jokes It was all midterms this, Trump -We can't do jokes -But I can, and I'm gonna -You -- -Of course I did, [ Laughter ] I'm Sarah, and this [ Cheers and applause ] A tunnel below Niagara Falls for the first time A musty, old tunnel after years of disuse? &quot;I can only hope,&quot; [ Laughter ] I have a boyfriend. Don't let the queer I'm as straight as Michael Che's [ Laughter ] Earlier this week, Twitter's paid Well, I guess the only checkmark will be the one on Kanye's list [ Laughter ] Alright, I think -Bro, I'm only Stop touching my leg [ Laughter ] -I'm not doing that. Today, I'll be doing Whoa! Pennsylvania! [ Laughter ] -Pointing to the middle -Okay, what are you, Relax, bro. [ Laughs ] In Pennsylvania news, and big, gorgeous monster John Fetterman has received And I agree. Those cargo shorts and hoodies on the Senate floor. They belong crumpled up [ Laughter ] Hachi machi! Thanksgiving must've come because that hunk between my legs something [ Laughter ] -Oh, my God. -Somebody's jealous. [ Laughter ] Speaking of disgusting, I recently had that made my face But on the bright side, to show the H.R. lady &quot;What did Colin ever do to you?&quot; [ Laughter ] Alright, we have to end this. So you can get back to, like, -Wait, what? -Hey, guys, by the way, They're just Colin's -You planted that. Sarah Sherman, everyone. [ Cheers and applause ] which can be especially tough Here to comment is child -Happy holidays, everyone! -Happy holidays, Michael. So, your parents are divorced. Was that hard for you? I was a tiny little baby. I have no memory of them To be honest, until I got older, I wasn't even sure I remember one time a kid &quot;You know, your parents had sex &quot;Well, I don't think -Well, surely you were aware -I wasn't, and don't &quot;Snakes on a Plane&quot;? -It's not &quot;Snakes on a Plane,&quot; Honestly, the holidays, though, must have been more difficult -I disagree. There are perks that are always getting married and, you know, divorced You ever ask for a brother for I have, and I didn't have He came off the shelf We were playing catch that day. -Must have been. It was. I'm sorry. And brothers aren't the only It's given me sisters, moms, dads, Like, you have my real dad, and quiet and wears suits, Terry, who's a semi-nudist -Wait, what? When you see you think a lot of things, but you don't think -Well, I at least hope -Why? I don't know. Never mind. So, are you saying -Well, my dad so it put food on my table. -Wait, so, your father who's also been divorced? -Multiple times. I mean, this guy walks the walk. Is he a bad husband The man's an artist. He's out in the field But he was still a great dad. Like, he told me you know, &quot;Brush your teeth,&quot; &quot;If infidelity can't be proven, And it's not easy to prove Text messages are not enough. -Hmm. That's good to know. -Alright, so, it sounds, then, -Oh, absolutely. In fact, he met his current wife Some would say that's but I just say [ Imitates barking ] -And don't call me Shirley! -2022 is almost over, Here to help us is two-time Heisman Trophy [ Cheers and applause ] -Well, ho, ho, ho, Michael Cho! I love your Santa Hat. -Oh, yeah, well, it's covering I got a little bit scalped. -Yeah, I fell asleep It is just a mess up here. But you know what? At least now the curtains -Oh. Yuck, Cathy Anne. -Yeah, yeah, let your mind and you figure it out. -Alright, let's get back What's got your goose tonight? -Well, thank you for asking... You sexy piece of crap [ Laughter ] Well, actually... Actually, 'cause, truth is, -Wait. Where you goin'? -Turns out, prison. [ Laughter ] -Prison? Well, all the crimes for the past seven years You know, drug use, trespassing, crack -- impersonating a police horse -- oh, and, uh, doing -A sonic attack, like what the -Uh, no. I did an upper-decker in the But you had a lot of people with pretty bad headaches. But it already worked out okay, I wound up getting life -That's a bad deal. -Well, they wanted to kill me. They were bringing made me watch them test it. Tried a little hat on me Whoo! That's chilling. [ Laughter ] -I'm really sorry -Oh, no, I'm not. I think it's actually gonna give and I'm not too scared 'cause They seem to be doing okay. [ Cheers and applause ] Yeah. And it's okay, you know? I mean, I met you, we fell [ Laughter ] -Cathy Anne, you getting masturbating is not a sex tape. -Well, potato, clamato. Dat's a spicy meatball! And, Colin, don't you think Here's a picture of you and me -Whoa! -Cathy Anne, What happened? Excuse me. Look at you. Have you seen you now versus Mr. Silver Fox? Turned into Obama over here. [ Laughter ] -Alright, that's fair, fair. Everybody has to go to jail It's just my time now. But I had a lot of fun here, that I got to have so many in this place with these people [ Cheers and applause ] I guess take that being that I have [ Laughter ] It's like another &quot;There's no place like home,&quot; and there's no home where I've gotten to yell But don't be sad I did it high, Che -Cathy Anne, everybody! -Oh, my God, I lit it! -Congratulations. [ Cheers and applause ] Well, according local governments are having Here to encourage young people to get involved is a longtime employee Indiana, April Ludgate. [ Cheers and applause ] [ Cheers and applause -Hi. -Hi, April. -What? You said you came out here -I will when you stop [ Laughter ] Um, okay, fine. Uh, so, yeah, everybody should If you're young, as a garbage man or something. [ Laughter ] Um, are there other jobs? -You want me to list them? Okay. Fine. Um, drive a bus. You don't have to be on time. Nobody cares. Work for the water department. You can drain the reservoir and find all the bodies Um, or just be a dogcatcher and [ Laughter ] Um... Yeah, 'cause when you work doing the bare minimum [ Laughter ] Alright. Okay. But what if you actually want -I don't know. Just ask my old boss, [ Cheers and applause ] [ Cheers and applause Hiya! Hi, April! Hi, Colin. Hi, Michael Che. Wow! Look at this. Who knew there were cameras [ Laughter ] -Yeah, yeah. So you work for the government. So, how much fun Do you guys just sit around, [ Laughter ] but, yeah, generally. How does it take to -Well, all you do is you show But I want to pick your brain because I used to watch this when Seth Meyers did it [ Laughter ] -Yeah, yeah. So, you said you were here -Yeah. But quick question. President Biden, could he see me, -I think he pre-recorded that. I thought this show was live. [ Laughter ] -Well, most of it is. Can we just please go? This guy has been bothering me -Yeah, we can't stay long. We have a timed-entry tickets [ Laughter ] But before we go -- do you mind -I would love it. Please. [ Cheers and applause ] -Thank you. Oh! This feels good. This feels nice. Okay. Let's see what you got. Okay. Alright. Uh, oh, no, that's too mean. [ Laughter ] Oh, what? No. That's way too mean. What? No. Okay. I'll do this one. A town in Alaska has launched The service has expanded the heroic activism of canine [ Laughter ] -For &quot;Weekend Update,&quot; -And I'm Leslie Knope! -This week, Wendy's announced they'd be bringing back after a brief hiatus in 2022. Here to talk about it is every boxer's girlfriend from every boxing movie [ Cheers and applause ] -Hi, hi, hi. How are you, Angel? -I've been better. -Well, does your boyfriend, -He better not 'cause there's no more clams I love him so much, but I swear I'm taking the kids -Got it. Well, in good news, the vanilla -Oh, come on! What is it? -Wendy's, you think has a shot going up You're sick. So, vanilla Frosty, if I see you I'm not taking the kids I'm taking the kids All of them. All of them. Mikey, Nicky, Pepper, Keno, -You doing okay, Angel? Barely. I'm doing a lot better Creed ruined him, Che. -Wait, Tommy fought -Creed hit Tommy so hard, Landed in Pepper's lap. The one night I forgot to take -Jesus. I know Creed's here. You've been advertising Creed versus Lil Baby -No, Angel, -Oh, yeah? -Then what's all this? Cameras, sold-out crowd. I'm looking at Jamie Foxx sitting front row -That's just a Black guy to a White woman in a big coat. -I don't care. -Angel! -Oh. Adonis Creed. You know you're the reason &quot;Sesame Street&quot; than they do. -You ever think about us, Angel. -Don't. -Hmm? Remember? Before Tommy, there was Creedy. -You remember Lil Nicky? He's yours, Creed. Tommy never asked why one -Tommy don't see color. -That's nice. He don't see any colors, His potato is baked, Creedy. -Angie, look at me. You're coming home -But what about Tommy? What about the kids? I'm taking the kids -Every boxer's girlfriend The United Kingdom its new king and queen soon, launching a new era Here to comment are British [ Cheers and applause ] -Thanks, Che. -Thanks, Che. -So, guys, what's going on I mean, can you give us -Right, right. Okay. All the focus is When it should be press, right? -Pants. Pants. Pants? -Pants? What is pants? -It's pants. -They're mean to our boy Harry, We know what really goes down. We've known Harry -You guys went to Eton? Yeah. -Eton your mom's bum. -No, but, seriously, look, look. If you want us to take out the pods Because we have a way of talking Hey! -Milly Pounds. Prince Harry, Prince Harry Stayed over Pressed cold like I'm allergic to dairy Harry and Meghan Ronald Reagan Interracial datin' Queen said, They see us comin' like I slide down the road like Your girl saw me in a Man's like me got millions, 'Cause I stay hot -Guys, guys, Stop. Who is Jan Wouters? -Che, why'd you stop it, mate? -We shared so many facts. -Facts! -Okay, listen, it's not all -Glasgow! But I think this next verse on what's happening Rishi Sunak Prime Minister, He got styles like Harry I'm allergic to dairy Your boyfriend is poor I make more I chat online with your girl 'Cause I stay hot -Okay, okay, great. What -- What is... What is that? Look, I grew up in New York So I consider myself a pretty when it comes to hip-hop, but I've never heard -Okay, you see, back home, we -Bop, bop! -But we do have little, that we carry with us and those kind of sound like... [ Both whooshing ] But who is Jan Wouters? He's, like, a semi-obscure Dutch -Mm-hmm. You guys like soccer. So can you tell us -How do the Brits feel Alright, check it. FIFA, corrupt Your girl told me, I told her, &quot;I'm tryin' I'm allergic to dairy -Oh. Tea, no coffee Milly and me 'Cause we stay hot -Milly Pounds and Shirty, I'm allergic to dairy. -Well, the Oscars Here to break down the nominees Hollywood are [ Cheers and applause ] -Hello. -Alright, guys, so what can we expect -Well, Colin, but when Punkie and I we realized that Punkie, does not know any other -Ugh. This is true. -She doesn't even know Here are some examples. And these are all I once saw Punkie call Tony Hawk -So, Punkie, you confused of all time with the genius -[ Laughs ] I mean, look. They both white men with wheels, -Yeah. -But the best thing was a few weeks ago, when Punkie told me could not believe -And who is Rick Bernstein? -Well, so I said it's the guy Duh. I eventually figured out living legend Bruce Springsteen. Rick Bernstein. -Alright, look, I grew up on people like Eddie Murphy That dude wasn't big So sue a bitch. So instead of an Oscars piece, I thought it would be more fun Are you down to play? -I feel like I don't -Right. It's super fun. Number one, Punkie referred Claire Blankenship. Claire Danes, maybe? -Okay, let's see. Is it Claire Danes? No! It's Anne Hathaway. Time-out. -No, no, put the picture I'm sorry, but does this bitch -Okay. Okay, she does. That's fair. You're right. Number two, Zoey Dechanaise. Who does Punkie mean? Tell me what you're thinking, -I am thinking that this one -Okay, lock it in. Is Zoey Dechanaise No. It's Zoe Kravitz. Zoe Kravitz. -What? Look, see, I'm getting my makeup done 'cause you know I got -&quot;Norm&quot; Michaels? Anyway, I see Zoe walk past Don't I know you?&quot; -Yes, you did, because she was That happened that week. -My bad, Miss Dechanaise. Last one. Patrick Dempsey. Well, I think there's no way who Patrick Dempsey is. I guess I'm going to say -Okay. Nope. She actually did mean -Hell yes! -You're damn right. I do know Mr. Dempsey. Dr. Derek Shepherd, baby. -You're a fan -Hell. yeah. I love every show -I think you mean -No, I think you mean -Punkie and Mikey, everyone. We only have about a minute Here to fill it with is James Austin Johnson. [ Cheers and applause ] -Wow. James, what is -Okay, here we go. This is Adam Driver as Kylo Ren on the show &quot;Girls.&quot; -Okay. [ As Kylo Ren ] how difficult it is to be No, you don't because -Okay. [ Cheers and applause ] Alright. What else you got? -[ Normal voice ] Batman and Okay. -This is Batman reading -[ Deep voice ] Where is he?! [ Laughter and applause ] Alright. Okay. Well, that's great. I think we're already [ Laughter ] -[ Normal voice ] a great sketch on the show. You should consider it. -This is Jay-Z -Okay. [ Laughter ] [ Laughter ] [ Cheers and applause ] -[ Normal voice ] You don't see him -Okay, great. I just don't think you -Yeah, okay, look. I have a stockpile of useless that I don't know so I kind of thought, where it doesn't really matter?&quot; [ Laughter ] Look, I got to get It's my brand, alright? Bartenders won't even look at me unless I do my Trump voice. [ as Donald Trump ] We've been waiting a very [ Laughter ] This is -- It's a three-ingredient drink. [ Laughter ] -Okay. -Okay. [ Laughter ] -Alright, we have time but it's got to be quick. -[ Normal voice ] This is Bob Dylan's cellphone -Okay. [ Laughter ] -James Austin Johnson, everyone. Well, great news New York is finally Former President Donald Trump in paying hush money and the trial will be like because I'm deeply ashamed [ Light laughter ] Trump will reportedly but his lawyer, Joe Tacopina, who Trump definitely calls said that the president though he would consider and a Superman T-shirt. When Trump surrenders, will take his official mug shot, Trump cares about getting right. I'm sure he's hoping Frank Sinatra's, but I bet it'll [ Light laughter ] -Trump is reportedly with 34 counts Business fraud is also the Trump costume [ Uproarious laughter President Biden on Friday that he had no comment and then he danced away [ Uproarious laughter -I think in general that people might be Like, an actual headline &quot;Nothing in American history the tumult of the charging and conviction A more accurate headline &quot;Man we all knew was criminal At this point, it feels people have moved on. I mean, I went down and I was [ Light laughter ] -[ Laughs ] I told them not to laugh at you [ Laughter and applause ] -I was truly like, And then I was just like, -Moving right along. -Representative -You're evil! -There was controversy this week when LSU women's basketball refused an invitation to celebrate her team's But now she has decided to go. So here to comment -Yeah! The Bayou Barbie Louisiana, stand up. -Well, Angel, -Yeah. I got people big mad. First they was mad but all I did was this. You would have thought and flicked it on national TV. Then they were mad because to the White House. But, Che, -But they lost. In the history of sports, you take your ass home. But then white girls lose, and -Well, I'm glad That'll be pretty cool. for them. I'm a big deal now, Che. Since college players I'm about to cash in. And my brand works for anything. How this sound, Che? Degree deodorant. Y'all stank! -Well, it seems aggressive. How about this one? Garden gnomes. Man, get yo little ass -Wait, that's a commercial -Yeah. If the money right. Now, here's my favorite. Big-ass eyelashes -- empowering women ballers -Well, Angel, I'm glad -Hell, yeah, I am. Look, last week women's sports Now all y'all talking about Why? Because women Man, I dropped 15 on Iowa! I went hard in the paint. I grabbed about 10 boards without even messing up Ploop! The only thing I regret I could have picked that ball like I was in the AND1 Tour, but, you know, so your girl had to chill. And now I'm just sitting back -Why are you endorsed -'Cause all these bitches -Angel Reese, everybody. We going back to back. Angel Reese! -This week, ramped up his war on Disney to control Disney Here to comment is the villain -[ Laughing evilly ] So, this is the famous -Okay, so, Jafar, what do you think of -You mean &quot;the boy&quot;?! Well, Michael, the boy's an amateur. He has no rizz, no spark, The look is giving &quot;baby mayor.&quot; I mean, he did wear let's be honest -- -Well, he might not look but are you saying -Not at all. The boy is plenty evil. I mean, banning Rosa Parks I'm a dark sorcerer, &quot;Jesus, dude, it's Rosa Parks.&quot; -Yeah, now he's after their stance against his -[ Laughs evilly ] somehow prevent Disney World that carpet has flown! Know what I mean? -No, I really don't. -I mean if you open up your phone explodes. And everywhere else in the park, it's nothing but 40-year-old men I don't know what that is, -Oh, are you saying -A little light in the loafers? Did my John Waters Of course I'm gay, My waist is snatched, my final form is a yoked genie and a high micro-pony. But, yeah, Michael, -Yeah. I got it. Well, it seems like DeSantis remotely gay happening -Ugh, there's already a Disney It's called Six Flags. There are lots of us at Disney, Ursula is a lesbian, Scar is bi, Congrats to them. Now, if I may, I'd like Well, if it isn't the swamp rat. Bravo for attempting only to be thwarted once again You pitiful straight! You can try to stop us, boy, but we will outsmart you Don't say gay? Well, if there is no gay, and everyone loves Disney, 'cause your dumb ass And that's the gayest thing So, I'm sorry, &quot;Miss DeSantay.&quot; The gays shall stay, Now, where were we, Michael? Ah, yes, your earring. It intrigues me. -No, no, no. Jafar, everybody. -Their wedding was It was gorgeous. He had a gorgeous wedding. -Since the start of this year, Since the start of this year, have been introduced many of which directly Here to talk about it is someone -Introducing SNL's first It's Molly Kearney! [ Cheers and applause ] -Whoo! [ Laughs ] Made it. Thank you, Mr. Che. -Molly, what is all this? -Well, as you know, I have been and talk about trans people, but I have for than that wanted -And did it live up -Yeah, but I'm not gonna lie. This harness is pretty tight, I have been hung up and I'm starting to feel like Hello! So, as of this week, there are now over 14 states restricting healthcare -Listen to that, Michael. Restricting healthcare for kids. For some reason, there's that makes people If you don't care about it means you don't care about -Wow. I can tell you're really upset -I am! And, also, my legs are going -Molly, how long -Longer than I I tried to call down, At one point, &quot;Is she gonna die up there?&quot; And then another guy was like, &quot;You mean, are they going to die And then they both walked away which feels a lot are being treated right now. But don't worry. We have a code word and it was &quot;trans rights.&quot; [ Popping sound ] Good golly! That was the code for confetti! My bad. -That was so loud. People need to wake up! We are making trans kids We should be keeping them safe, Not me &quot;them.&quot; I mean the kids! Che, they got my pronouns right. Let's go! Wait a minute! Before I go, What's happening, kids, And you don't need to be scared. Our job is to protect you, and your job is to focus It's kind of like me There's a bunch of dudes and controlling when But if you just hang on, you'll look up and realize Hey, Mr. -Your feet are. -Trans rights! For &quot;Weekend Update,&quot; -I'm Colin Jost. Good night. [ Cheers and applause ]