The Dark Lords of the Sith were, without ever faced. Their shadowy legacy stretched Lords rose and fell over the centuries, space. But how did this legacy begin? Who was we'll be answering that question and taking Followers of the Dark Side predated regularly clashing with their counterparts on the the Jedi Order usually quashed these Dark Side power. Sometimes, however, these threats leading to schisms. The First Great Schism, a of the Legions of Lettow, was an early example of with the Jedi emerging victorious, but it set a In 7000 BBY, there was a Second Great Schism. Yet broke off from the Order. But these Dark Jedi were the Legions of Lettow, they were committed to the alchemical techniques that allowed them to infuse their alchemical practices developed into life, breeding abominations of nature they called they agreed that these schismatics were a threat Unlike in the First Great Schism, the war easily. In fact, the Dark Jedi held out for Light and Dark, called the Hundred-Year but in the end the Jedi had the advantage. in which all but a dozen of the Dark Jedi were the survivors, but the Jedi resolved to exile redemption on some deserted Rimworld, the a galleon and shot it into the unknown. It's These Exiles were among the greatest of the their most gifted alchemist; Karness the admiral of their last fleet; and XoXaan, the High General Ajunta Pall, the greatest of the slain a dozen Jedi in one encounter during the Sorzus Syn steered the Exiles' galleon towards screamed the loudest to those who hear the On Korriban, the Exiles discovered a species who had built a civilization on the use of the of the Exiles, but Ajunta Pall eventually cowed The Sith, thinking that Pall was a manifestation their species' adopted homeworld. There, they met and demanded he bow before them. Graush resisted defeated. Pall executed Graush with his own sword, This brutal display of strength allowed the become the very first Sith Lords. Each of them the Sith had colonized, together forming the Dark Lord ruled over all from Ziost, or deputy. The other ten Sith Lords a part of the Empire, but they would meet In the unknown space beyond the borders their new empire, forming armies, building which were now called Sithspawn. They and abandoned many Jedi traditions they they stopped using lightsabers, opting as most Sith Purebloods did. The Sith, however, but use of the weapon rose and fell In the years after their conquest of became acquainted with many of the Sith they built the towering Sith Citadel, a massive They also established holdings on Korriban, which the Purebloods had used as many tombs and caverns of Korriban, unearthing The Sith Lords discovered one particular valley Dark Side, and in the caverns below it they Star Map. This ancient Dark Side artifact was the and they discovered that they could draw on it to the Valley, which was later named the Valley of which they intended to use as a redoubt in case Ajunta Pall spent his reign as Dark Lord Sith Empire. Some of the other Sith Lords, fleet to attack the Republic prematurely, but the up their armies instead. They were more focused on the art of Sith alchemy, creating ever greater During his time in power, Ajunta Pall, like many enhanced sword for himself. This double-bladed cold to the touch. Shadows rippled along the edge appearance. Ajunta Pall poured much of his power enemies. So terrible was this sword that its Sith Purebloods considering it a sacred artifact. Sith writings: "I am that which grips the heart in Ajunta Pall ruled for decades, but as with all He was killed in battle, but not by a Jedi, Pall's specter later recounted how he and the The first Sith Lords met the same fates as many schemed against one another, and in Battle broke out in the fortress on the fighting and collapsed. Ajunta Pall The Sith Empire that Pall and his followers new Sith Lords arose from among the Sith chosen. The fortress in the Valley of the the Sith used the caverns of the Valley to laid to rest in the first of the Valley's his slain rivals. His successors remembered him and went on to terrorize the galaxy But the story of Ajunta Pall doesn't end with his of the living, tied to his sword. He lingered alone and impotent. In time, a strange thing he had done. Even as the Sith thrived and spread falling to the Dark Side in the first place. Revan arrived three thousand years after The specter of Ajunta Pall appeared to and leave. Revan did so, but before he suggested the possibility didn't believe he could be redeemed, but Side and surrendered himself to the Will of the Pall returned to the Light and merged with When Star Wars fans think of Sith Lords, we red lightsabers, imposing beings that exuded pure or perhaps some of the more ancient Sith, like were to tell you that you've been sleeping on one Kun may not have looked much like a stereotypical like he was some normie Jedi or something. But destroyed both the Republic and the Jedi Order; and the Supreme Chancellor himself died powerful figures in galactic history, and "Exar Kun, because of you, the Sith right to bear the mark of So spoke the spectre of Marka Ragnos Ulic Qel-Droma. Just moments before, engaged in a fearsome lightsaber duel. But by allies. Kun was the new Dark Lord of the Sith, they swore to bring down the Republic, the Jedi But we're getting ahead of ourselves. it began on remote Dantooine, four thousand there was a small Jedi Enclave on including the renowned Vodo-Siosk Baas. In apprentices - the Cathar mates Crado and were gifted Jedi with an aptitude for lightsaber would say their desire to learn was too fierce, his master's collection of holocrons to In those days, the Jedi Order still knew they knew of was Freedon Nadd, who had conquered Nadd was long-dead, and the Dark Side hadn't Kun felt that the Sith were going to return, prepared for that eventuality. He hated the Sith, secrets to discover how best to stop them. who repeatedly cautioned him that such Dark Side himself. He was prone to overlook his very promising student. He was extremely strong were almost unmatched. In one training duel, the use of Jar'kai techniques, bringing two It was shortly after this incident that Exar Kun had learned all that Master Baas had to teach, research Freedon Nadd and the Sith. His search Nadd's remains had been sealed in a tomb by the but he got much more than he bargained for, as he himself. When the proud Exar Kun declared his Nadd offered to guide him to their homeworld, Nadd guided Kun to the Valley of the Dark Lords had their tombs. Nadd lured the young Jedi into spectre brought the tomb down on Exar Kun, a pile of debris. As Kun lay dying, Nadd told through the use of the Dark Side. Initially, influence of Nadd and the dark taint of Korriban drawing in the Sith power that lay heavy over the he found that he suddenly understood the At first, Kun denied that he had fallen to Nadd suggested he travel next to Yavin IV, where had hidden long ago. On Yavin, Kun encountered that had accompanied Sadow to the moon. The their temples, where they planned to sacrifice certain death, the voice of Freedon Nadd spoke to of the Dark Side. At last, Kun gave in. Using Kun killed the Sith wyrm, slaughtered many of the Freedon Nadd as well. The surviving Massassi bowed Exar Kun remained on Yavin IV for a time, had guarded. He learned a great many Dark Side powers. As his dark power grew, Kun became including enhanced Massassi berserkers he had learned all there was to learn leaving the Massassi to build As he returned to the Republic, Kun learned who had joined a Sith cult called the Krath. Kun travelled to the Empress Teta System to kill but during the battle, Kun's Sith gauntlet conjuring up a vision of the the Dark Lord Marka Ragnos declared that Kun the new Dark Lords. They would put an end to the the Sith legacy would endure forever. forehead with ancient Sith markings, and Intending to make war with the Republic, while Kun travelled to Ossus, the Jedi homeworld. and seduced a number of young apprentices dozen of them to Yavin IV, where, with the Dark Side. He then sent the Jedi back to Ossus, Around this time, Qel-Droma, his Krath armies, assault on the Republic. Fleets of Krath stormed while the Mandalorian Crusaders carved Kun prepared to join the fight with his Massassi been captured in a failed assault on Coruscant, In Exar Kun's position, most Sith would have own assault on Coruscant. But Exar Kun was the Indomitable and a few Massassi to Coruscant the Senate Building like an absolute chad. With a the room and then leaped up onto the Chancellor's Chancellor's skull, Kun used him as a puppet, the televised nature of the trial, was broadcast "The Sith Empire will rise again, and we the crumbling Republic and consume all your works, [re]establishing the glorious days of a lost You can choose either to be a part of this We did all this to show you how useless and your cooperation. The Republic Following this, Kun killed the Chancellor, the same way they came in, dragging their massive however, by Vodo-Siosk Baas. Kun's old his former apprentice, but Kun rebuffed the their duel on Dantooine began, and at first, then Kun revealed some modifications had added a second blade to it. Wielding Kun butchered his former master and As a quick sidenote, Exar Kun wasn't just the his use of a double blade in the predated the first appearance of After leaving Coruscant, Exar Kun issued recruited. All over the galaxy, they rose up and throwing the Jedi Order into chaos. Hundreds Republic Military. With both the Republic and the his followers pressed their offensive. On Kun's stars of the Cron Cluster to supernova, creating The destruction of the Jedi homeworld was Exar victory. Following the razing of Ossus, the Sith forces, wiping out their fleets one by one. and most of Kun's Dark Jedi followers were killed. recalled to Yavin IV. With Republic forces in hot to make him immortal, forcing the Massassi to The ritual sent out a shockwave that scorched alive. By the time the Republic arrived at Yavin, to be found. He was presumed dead. However, made the spirit of Exar Kun immortal. He persisted outlasting even Darth Sidious himself, until Exar Kun's lasting legacy was not in his spirit's the course of galactic history. Only a handful destroying the Republic and vanquishing the Jedi, he completely transformed the Sith as an consist primarily of fallen Jedi, something In a recent video, we told the story of Lords of the first Sith Empire. We spoke crushing all who opposed him and the Sith. But in 5000 BBY, Marka Ragnos died, sought to take Ragnos's place - Naga Sadow themselves Dark Lord of the Sith - but both we'll be telling the story of these two fierce Let's revisit the reign of Marka Ragnos Marka Ragnos ruled the Sith Empire with of Sith infighting caused by stagnation. The Sith but Ragnos was able to maintain stability through the Empire was prosperous, ruled by a council centuries. Aside from Marka Ragnos himself, other a disembodied head in a jar kept alive through directly descended from the original Sith Lords; After Ragnos' death in 5000 BBY, the Sith Empire led by Ludo Kressh, sought to maintain what the Empire. But another faction, led by the to start expanding again. Sadow and Kressh's one that only worsened when Ragnos died. Without in the Empire, but it was anyone's guess which The struggle between Kressh and Sadow began before the Dark Lord's funeral, Sadow was delayed on his without him, leading the procession to Ragnos's arrived in the middle of the funeral, and the enough for the ceremony to be completed. Just Sadow and Kressh drew their swords and fought Their duel, however, was interrupted by the The dead Dark Lord warned his would-be successors and that the Empire would have to be careful and reminded the assembled Sith of their history, and then faded with a final warning. Both Sadow endorsement of their plan, naturally. They would the unexpected arrival of a starship in Korriban's The ship was the Starbreaker 12, and aboard were Daragon. The siblings were from Cinnagar, the Though the seven worlds of their home system the Daragon siblings were down on their luck, hope to strike it rich. Implausibly, and with managed to jump from the Deep Core all the way to The Sith had the Daragons captured and the Sith Citadel on Ziost. Sadow and Kressh the Sith Council pondered what the arrival most of the Sith Lords were wary of the precursor for a full Republic invasion of the to fortify their worlds and prepare to defend Naga Sadow saw opportunity. He hoped into leading the Sith back to the Republic, The Sith Council sided with Kressh over Sadow, trace of them. Sadow wasn't willing to let waste that easily, however. In the strictest phase-pulse blasters from the Starbreaker warriors used to slaughter the guards in the Daragons. After ordering the Massassi to Sadow murdered Lord Simus and planted Naturally, the Sith Council interpreted the their outrage and shock over the death of Lords to his side. Over the objections of Ludo the Sith. Immediately, he and his most armies for an all out assault on the Republic. his apprentice at his secret stronghold on the where Jori was being held. He sent his Massassi Khar Shian, making sure that he left proof of his Upon learning that Sadow's warriors Ludo Kressh met with Horak-mul and Dor and conspired with them to attack Sadow's fortress armies and bombarded Sadow's fortress from Naga Sadow released Jori Daragon and urged her not knowing that Sadow's agents had As Jori Daragon fled back to the Koros System, on the dark side of Khar Delba, catching Ludo joined, Sadow executed the final step of his Massassi no better than slaves, Sadow had and in doing so, he had earned the loyalty the Massassi aboard Kressh's ships rose up and Gal-ram. The Massassi took over their vessels and With his enemies apparently vanquished, Naga Sadow 12 back to the Republic, beginning the Great poured into the Koros System, attacking all seven who had quickly begun to master the Sith while the bulk of the Sith Fleet moved down itself. The vast Sith fleet overwhelmed allowing Sith flotillas to move on from Coruscant The Sith armies seemed endless, but Empress the Jedi Knight Odan-Urr, and newly anointed them off at Kirrek in the Koros System, and from Jori encountered her brother Gav as and managed to show him the error of his ways. Above the red supergiant Primus Goluud, Sadow a Meditation Sphere. This vessel had allowed him Republic worlds, making Sith forces seem much the Sith from the Koros System, Gav returned to breaking the Dark Lord's concentration. and the other Core Worlds to vanish, allowing With his forces in disarray, Sadow ordered the fleet, led by Empress Teta, followed them there. fight with Teta's, Sadow fled to his battleship, it to destabilize Primus Goluud. Sadow used what ships he had left, leaving Gav Daragon to ships Korriban's coordinates, urging them to Naga Sadow fled back to Korriban in disgrace, counterattack. But above Korriban, he found a Ludo Kressh had survived the betrayal at Khar Sadow's absence, proclaiming himself the true Dark the Core, Kressh's ships opened fire. Even with Kressh fought each other bitterly, wasting what During the battle, Sadow ordered one of his destroying both vessels. At last, Ludo Kressh his victory. Empress Teta and the Republic Navy intent on ending the threat of the Sith Sadow fled the system aboard the Corsair, fleeing At Korriban, Empress Teta and the Republic ending the Great Hyperspace War with a decisive didn't end there. Over the course of the next Order rampaged across Sith Space on the orders of Sith Empire ground to dust. The Sith fought to expected to die defending the ruins of the every last planet in the Sith Empire had been to declare victory. Most of the Sith fought to unbeknownst to the Jedi, several bands Both Ludo Kressh and Naga Sadow were Lords during the Sith Empire's final days. the valley for his own, an ancient system of contained an ancient Star Map. He was never all the tomb contained was a monument. was interred in a secret tomb in Korriban's a powerful Force nexus that showed trespassers As his rival rotted in the bowels of Korriban, the jungle moon Yavin IV. There, Sadow Side to rise again, ordering the Massassi to concealing Sadow's ship and the Sith waited patiently on Yavin IV for hundreds a Dark Jedi seeking to learn the only for the Dark Jedi to betray and kill him. There are few characters from Star Wars' It's a challenge to be a Star Wars fan and or have seen his iconic mask. Revan is beloved be a self-insert for the player in Knights and he's also widely considered to have been one among the greatest of both the Jedi and the Sith. the unusual choices that he made are what make his In 3964 BBY, the Mandalorians launched a massive most well-known stage of the Mandalorian Wars. anger of many, the Jedi Council opted to stay the Council's decision. A group of Jedi, led set off to prove to the Council that the Order Revanchist and his crusader followers and The Revanchists were on Cathar when the been completely depopulated ten years earlier, tried to apprehend the crusaders, their leader beach on which they stood, and the whole group they watched as Mandalorians under Cassus Fett an indefensible act that left the representatives tried to stand up for the Cathar - the same The leader of the Revanchists claimed the it until order had been restored to the galaxy. The Masters that were sent to Cathar refused reluctantly granted them sanction. The Council Revan's right-hand man, from recruiting large gifted young Knight named Meetra Surik. Revan and Republic military in a counteroffensive against of the Republic's new Interdictor warships pushed Duro, Supreme Chancellor Tol Cressa made him much to the ire of the Jedi Council, and placed command. The Revanchists began to turn the tide and Meetra Surik becoming particularly But Revan was a step above both of his the likes of which the Mandalorians had never understood that the key to victory was and he harnessed that might and wasn't afraid to intact. As the Wars dragged on, he began to take order to win crucial battles and matching the And it worked. Under Revan, the Republic did back and launched a counterattack, invading retook worlds like Taris that had fallen in and then they brought the war home to the Althir III. Those two campaigns, though broke the back of the Mandalorian war to finish the Mandalorians off, and so Malachor V was a distant world on the edges of Unbeknownst to everyone except Malak, Revan knew Malachor was home to the Trayus Academy, an teachings. Revan visited the world and discovered well, and both of them began to be drawn towards on Malachor, Revan and Malak discovered hints of Above Malachor, Revan set in place a ragtag a fleet that contained the Mass Shadow Generator, the battle. The Mandalorians couldn't resist under the leadership of Mandalore the Ultimate that remained of their own. But Revan and another fleet, catching the Mandalorians in a the Mandalorians in place as Revan personally Revan fought Mandalore the Ultimate in single him. He left the ship with Mandalore's mask in choosing a new leader, and then he ordered Meetra superweapon created a gravitational anomaly that in the process. Warships, both Republic the planet and crushed. The atrocity turned The remaining Mandalorians surrendered and they scattered, splintering, without Republic was victorious in the Mandalorian Wars, Mandalore the Ultimate had told him he had and Revan's worst fears were confirmed. He and Regions to seek answers. What they found was edges of known space to crush the Republic, a quickly concluded there was no way the Republic the Republic that was in danger, mind you. And that was where Revan came into his own. upon finding what he found, while others would've But Revan did neither. Instead, his was a choice made. The only way the galaxy would survive the into a military empire of its own right - a and Malak became Darth Malak, and the two But, uniquely, Revan did not fall to as one would choose a tool, something no other to do without being consumed. He knew the True whatever sacrifices were necessary to stop them. they traveled to Dantooine, Tatooine, Kashyyyk, Rakatan Star Maps on each planet. They used these location of a weapon that, they believed, Deep in the Unknown Regions, in the system Infinite Empire, Revan and Malak discovered the space station constructed five thousand the Star Forge was a superweapon that consumed nearly limitless fleets and armies. Revan used the swarms of new Sith Fighters, new and and legions of war droids, the foundations Revan and Malak declared themselves Republic shipyards at Foerost. There, a huge as their allegiance to the heroes of the allegiance to the failing Senate. Revan made which he put to use attacking key targets across that became known as the Jedi Civil War. Revan tried to capture crucial manufacturing the brunt of his Empire's manufacturing But despite Revan's efforts to present he believed true war was against, or rather on Korriban to train willing converts and which survived the destruction of Malachor V, Revan saw that scarred world as an asset, as by horror of the atrocity that had taken place there, Now, we claimed earlier that Revan and so his use of Malachor may seem odd. But supremacy of the Darkness but rather because he wounds in the Force that corrupted and destroyed having lived through the Mandalorian Wars, saw And so, instead of letting the True Sith Revan did it himself. He believed that it come would turn the Jedi into the Sith - and Jedi fell to the Dark Side and joined Revan's did not were killed. Meanwhile, Revan saw to beings that he considered destabilizing forces his Sith assassins, or his own hand. On the that the Republic couldn't match, and indeed, of Bastila Shan [pronounced BAST-ill-a], a young which won the Republic just enough The Jedi Civil War, at first, went to plan. But his plans - Malak. His apprentice had come Revan for rule of the Sith once, sparking a But Malak got his chance at revenge. In 3957 him into battle against a small Republic fleet. Shan boarded Revan's flagship and attempted to Malak ordered his ship to fire on the bridge of But Revan wasn't killed in that battle. He was by Bastila, who secretly took him to the Jedi shattered mind, which they reprogrammed with a new went on to be retrained as a Jedi, and together tracked down the Star Maps in a quest to defeat Darth Revan was one of the most well-known Sith least somewhat familiar with his story, that his way back to the Light. But Revan's greatest Malak, his apprentice-turned-rival. This trend in Revan's shadow. He was with Revan from the Revan ever did, and yet many fans haven't even In the years following the Great Sith War, a man Squinquargesimus. He lived a simple life in his so close that they forsook family names, taking he lived a peaceful life - until the day the of the Mandalorian Wars, the Neo-Crusaders swept and devastating its civilian population. and most of the people he'd known all his Alek became a refugee, but was rescued from that The Jedi took him to their Enclave on Dantooine one of the Order's most promising students. He a man the galaxy would later know as Revan. being eternally hungry for knowledge, and As the Mandalorian threat continued to spread advocated for the Jedi order to get involved. The in the conflict, but as the Republic started Together with a group of Jedi followers known Order and started aiding the Republic. At first, arrested, forcing many of them to adopt aliases Alek began operating under the name Captain Navy. He later adopted the name permanently, After presenting evidence to the Jedi Council that the Revanchists were granted sanction and made and Malak became the military's Supreme of a third of Republic forces. They and their against the Mandalorians, gradually Revan was a tactical genius the likes of which nearly as strategically gifted, quickly developing But while Revan was the better general, Malak was Wars, Malak would regularly go on recruiting the students there into joining the war effort. Revanchists, including Meetra Surik, who would go On the battlefield, Revan and Malak complemented while Malak was aggressive and audacious, not Clone Wars. While Revan preferred to oversee Malak was much more hands-on. At a full two and tremendously strong as well. He was lightsaber duelists of his time, something Over the course of the Mandalorian Wars, Revan light. They became more accustomed to taking to win crucial battles. But their slide away it was helping the Republic win the war. Together, battled Cassus Fett at Jaga' Cluster, and Althir. But their most well-known victory was the Mandalorian Wars. In that final battle, fleet while Revan boarded the Mandalorian single combat. The Mandalorians were defeated Following markers they found in the Trayus Academy borders of the known galaxy, following the trail Regions, they finally discovered the true nature Sith Empire, led by the fanatical True Sith cult. plotting their revenge against the Jedi and the driven the Mandalorians to war to soften the Mandalorian Wars, it seemed that no force But Revan was determined to put a stop their power was overwhelming, and their Both he and Malak knew full well that the Jedi as they had seen during the Mandalorian to Jedi's connection to the Force. Most of the or were at the risk of falling; indeed, down the dark path. Based on this, He and Malak resolved to become Sith Lords in the Jedi Order. In the war that was to come, it Dark Side and become Sith - so Revan and Malak too, would have to be corrupted, Revan an empire to combat the Sith threat. This a plan to make it happen, a plan based on During the Mandalorian Wars, Revan and ruins scattered across the known galaxy. galaxy spanning Infinite Empire, and at something the ruins were the Star Maps, devices meant to called the Star Forge. These maps were out a number of them Revan and Malak were able found the weapon above Rakata Prime, a forgotten The Star Forge was a massive factory, capable of the power of the Dark Side. Upon taking building an infinite fleet. He and Malak gathered at Rakata Prime in secret, where they declared Soon after, they began their war against the defected to join their Sith Empire, and the rest When the two became Sith, Darth Revan had had grudgingly become the apprentice. But as the former friend. The Dark Side began to corrupt in part due to the power of the Star Forge. as one would choose a tool, and never truly Though Revan at first led him down the dark path, Two years into the Jedi Civil War, Malak attempted the Sith. The attempt was unsuccessful, and cost but this proved to be a grave mistake. Just a year of Jedi led by Bastila Shan, Malak ordered hoping to kill his master and the Jedi in one fell partially. Revan's flagship was destroyed, and the survived. Malak took Revan's place as the new The Jedi hoped that the defeat of Revan deeming Malak to be the weaker of the two. he had secured his command of the empire, Malak an all-out campaign of total war that the had none of his former master's but he didn't need it - he had As Dark Lord, Malak desperately tried to move out converting the Republic into an empire, choosing himself from relying on the Star Forge, Malak abilities. Fully in the grip of the Dark Side, of control over the Star Forge than Revan ever Malak had always played second fiddle to Revan, the two. But during his time as Dark Lord, Malak Side abilities were much more advanced, and he making him an equal in lightsaber combat. from the Star Forge. He used the power of that the Star Forge became more productive under his under Malak than it had been under Revan, Destroyers. Malak also took advantage of the Star never considered, imprisoning captured Jedi there Of course, Malak's reign didn't last. As it turned and was brought back to the light by the Revan began searching for the Star Forge, along the way. Malak managed to capture declaring her his new apprentice, but Revan fleet attacked the Star Forge, Revan boarded the Revan and Malak fought one last battle, but in Malak was slain, and soon faded into memory, Many of the most infamous Dark Lords of the who built great empires and subjugated swaths of able to keep their conquered territory for long. and there were only a few in galactic history periods of time. But there were a few Sith Lords than mindless bloodshed, and they managed conquerors. One such Sith was Marka Ragnos, architect of the Golden Age of the Sith. The first Dark Lords of the Sith ruled over Dark Jedi led by Ajunta Pall in 6900 BBY, this in the Outer Rim, far from the borders of the like Tulak Hord, the Sith Empire expanded Korriban to encompass over 120 worlds, plus a These worlds were split between ten fiefs, each these fiefs sat on a Sith Council, advising the During the Sith Empire's first millennium, of Tulak Hord, it was constantly expanding and its rulers. But by the late 5000s BBY, it a ring of nebulae that disrupted hyperspace a certain point. Once the Sith had fully they had no new vectors for conquest, It was in this time of instability that Marka his fellow Sith for two reasons. His skin was an omen of greatness among the Sith, and he the exiled Dark Jedi who founded the Sith Empire. quickly climbed through the ranks, learning the In his day, Ragnos was one of the most rivaled only by Lord Simus. In 5100 BBY, Ragnos and Simus both aspired to take the Sith Dark Lords on Korriban. Marka Ragnos triumphed to life through Sith alchemical techniques. to stick his head in a crystal sphere that kept essentially out of the running for the throne of After securing his place as the Dark Lord of the Sith Empire to its former glory. Many years unstable. With no external foes to conquer, the Such infighting was the way of the Dark Side, Ragnos was no fool, however. Before a civil war He began by eliminating all threats to his might openly challenge him enemies of the for blood by unleashing them against each which united the Empire against small splinter might have openly opposed him were exterminated, Council, who schemed to assassinate him and his adversaries, sowing division among them Once his rivals were all dead, Marka Ragnos including Lord Simus, his former adversary. Simus always putting the interests of the Empire on a tight leash, assassinating any he deemed Marka Ragnos ruled the Empire with an iron his reign kept the Sith Empire united, than it had ever been before. So Over the course of his century-long reign, of all time. No one could match his and few dared challenge him in combat. As Dark and black scale gauntlets infused with the power strength. He also created a powerful scepter that stripping them of their Dark Side aura in could give non-Force sensitives Force powers, and even reanimate corpses. With an arsenal like By 5000 BBY, the Sith Empire was stronger boasted some of the greatest Sith Lords Ludo Kressh, Shar Dakhan, Horak-mul, Dor the prosperity of the Sith Empire came A hundred years after he came to power, Marka Marka Ragnos had created a Golden Age of the Sith however, he left a huge power vacuum in his wake. flared up again, before the Sith had even with Sith Lords Naga Sadow and Ludo Kressh undid everything Ragnos had achieved, destroying however, is a story for another time, namely when Death was not the end for Marka Ragnos. The the world of the living through his scepter. He however. Though he was able to speak to the Sith warning them of the dangers the Empire plotted against each other on Ziost and other Ragnos could do little but sense The spirit of Marka Ragnos was summoned several a pair of powerful Sith amulets allowed Ragnos to during which he anointed them the new Dark Lords Ragnos also appeared to Darth Plagueis when unfit to be the Dark Lord of the Sith, ancient Sith traditions in favor of a more responded by asserting that ghosts weren't infuriating the long-dead Dark Lord so In 14 ABY, after the Sith were wiped out in the Ragnos formed. Led by the Dark Jedi Tavion Axmis, Ragnos and bring about a new Golden Age of Axmis traveled to Dark Side nexuses all over the was said and done, she traveled to Korriban and and empower Ragnos's spirit. Ragnos possessed a member of the New Jedi Order, challenged the end Korr managed to destroy Ragnos's scepter, Marka Ragnos's Golden Age of the Sith was later Sith Empires would surpass the never again would the Sith remain stable and In a recent video about Darth Nihilus, we told the Lords, a walking wound in the Force powerful was not the only Sith Lord running around the allied with another powerful Sith Lord - Darth unstoppable force, Sion was an immovable object, countless fatal wounds in his lifetime, and his he held his body together through the sheer force cooler and better-written of the two Sith Lords, In 3951 BBY, during the Dark Wars, the crew warship that they encountered on the fringes of almost empty, rather. A single corpse was found on soldiers took to their ship's medical bay to and were horrified by what they discovered. The with innumerable burns and scars. His bones shattered - thousands of times, and then forced so many fatal wounds that the doctors were unable what really horrified them was their determination had taken place before his death. Before he died, Let's take a few steps back. A full during the Great Sith War, a man named Sion out to bring the galaxy under the rule of a one of many young apprentices who rose up and fateful day, causing chaos within the Jedi Order this was true, Sion hated the Jedi from As a member of the Brotherhood of the Sith, Sion almost entirely on combat, supplementing their Sion chose this path and a spot on the front lines sought to die. We don't know why, but he had lost blaze of glory fighting a Jedi. But there was a As it turned out, he was quite good at killing injuries in his battles, he always recovered from and he started believing he was immortal, could hope to stop. However, as the Republic a Jedi finally finally struck Sion down. so convinced of the idea that he was immortal as he was consumed by terrible pain, he Sion, who had formerly been eager to die, had to keep killing Jedi. He discovered that, through his body together despite the fatal wound he had pain for every moment of the rest of his life, but for immortality. Indeed, his constant pain became Over time, he even came to define himself by The decades after the Great Sith War were some of after the fall of Exar Kun, the Mandalorians nearly bringing the entire galaxy to its knees. they were followed up by the Jedi Civil War, attempted to do the exact same thing. killing Jedi wherever he could. He over the course of these decades, After a redeemed Revan defeated Malak their Sith Empire imploded. Sion was on Korriban doing the Jedi's work for them by slaughtering bloodbath, and he left Korriban in disgust, Revan and his fellow Sith. It was shortly after by Darth Traya. She recruited him and Darth they formed the Sith Triumvirate. These three Sith Sith at the Trayus Academy on Malachor V, where Under Traya, Sion endured constant torment and angry to die, which he put to use against of the Triumvirate, Sion formed an order of contemporary, these assassins fed on the Force their power and track their enemies. These they also learned to cloak themselves in the were ready to strike. Sion was largely the one out with them to kill Jedi himself. While Nihilus Sion tracked down individual targets, whom he survived an encounter with Darth Sion, not But over time, there arose a problem that they were running out of Jedi to kill. After there were believed to be no Jedi left in the Sion and Nihilus turned against Darth Traya, confronting her and stripping her of the believing they had killed Traya - but and in the guise of Kreia, she fled Malachor Kreia wasn't the only one looking for Surik, the Jedi, and so he, too, sought her out. He and feigned death to allow the Republic to brought him to the medbay, dozens of cloaked hiding until the time was right. That time snuck Meetra Surik off the Harbinger, and attack the warship's crew. He and his the vessel to fire on the Ebon Hawk, but the The Ebon Hawk limped to an asteroid mining Sion followed. The Harbinger arrived at together with Atton Rand, were trying through the Harbinger to get to the Ebon Hawk, station. As they worked their way through opted to hold Sion off while Atton and Meetra hiding in the shadows to taunt him. But and as she tried to sneak up on him, the vengeful Kreia managed to escape the encounter, however, Ebon Hawk and leave the Peragus station. trying to shoot their ship down, but his shots belt instead. The asteroids exploded, sparking a To nobody's surprise, Sion survived the pursue Meetra Surik and her companions. They Council -- four Jedi Masters who had escaped and it was Darth Sion and his assassins who first. Sion captured Vash on Korriban and using her to draw Surik to the planet. Sion killed Vash and then battled the Exile, who Sion spent the next few days dwelling on his he found her beautiful, something that enraged he returned to the Trayus Academy to plan his however, Kreia returned to Malachor, Traya. Sion tried to kill her, but Sion agreed to serve Traya once more. unharmed, when she pursued her to Malachor. as she had once broken Sion, something As predicted, Meetra Surik came to Malachor confront her. He demanded she leave before the two began one last battle. Again and again, Sion got right back up. He refused to let her but he proved unable to overcome the on the other hand, was able to erode Sion's will. and revealed why she was able to defeat him. while Sion had become dependent on it, relying on for; his quest to wipe out the Jedi had proved for the sake of living, at the cost of terrible Death wasn't so terrible a thing, he realized, In Knights of the Old Republic II, the source served to illustrate the point that the extreme but weakness. We've discussed that so we're not going to restate it here, and Sion Darth Sion displays the futility and fruitlessness The Sith were obsessed with cheating death. Many and some, like Sion, did manage to find techniques at the end of his life, while he had the power to Immortality was a hollow and pointless goal, to allow himself to die. The Dark Side is always powerful, but at the end of the day, that power By the time most Sith reached the apex of as, in their pursuit of selfish goals, The Star Wars galaxy came under threat from many of which you're probably familiar with. Most Darth Plagueis, and Darth Bane; the more Darth Nihilus, and Darth Sion to the list as you're sleeping on one of the greatest Sith Lords today was a ruler of the first Sith Empire, lightsaber duelist. He was one of the greatest of incredible power. His name was Tulak Hord, In Tulak Hord's day, the Sith were much with. In those days, they weren't just a cult of and an empire. The original Sith species, which avoid confusion, evolved on Korriban, but rendered desolate in an ancient war. They remote part of the Outer Rim, cut off from called the Stygian Caldera. In 6900 BBY, their who proclaimed themselves the Lords of the The greatest of these Dark Jedi proclaimed the ruler of the Empire. The second-greatest ten simply became Sith Lords. The ten Sith of which they each controlled a piece. Most of the Sith Purebloods to train in the way of since most Purebloods were already attuned to usually came from the Kissai, the priest of the Sith hierarchy. Members of the the Massassi warriors, and the slaves - The original Sith Lords were not members of Sith Purebloods, allowing their bloodlines to dispersed after a few generations, however, and Sith Purebloods took the helm of the Empire, the centuries after the founding of the becoming larger, wealthier, and stronger. become a persistent curse for the Sith Lords - other more than they did against the Empire's together to kill Sith Lords and take their place, was in a constant state of flux, bouncing between Tulak Hord was born into this turbulent political he lived, but our best estimate would be and was taken in for training by the Sith Lords him. In that time, the Sith were making developing the art of lightsaber combat far were many great lightsaber masters among the became one of them. He was more powerful and more masters as well. His power allowed him to rapidly Early in his career, Tulak Hord won a lightsaber his services to Hord after his defeat. Together, to use suppressing rebellions on the remote Sith broke the siege of a Sith citadel and personally leaving a trail of blood in his wake. This would While on the front lines, Lord Hord was approached learn the ways of the Sith Lords. Hord initially on taking no for an answer. After his dismissal, leading the Sith Lord to reconsider his putting him in command of one of his armies. supporting his master as Hord continued During his battles, Tulak Hord used arcane Sith draining their power to increase his own. as well as many new titles. He became of the Gathering Darkness. Soon enough, Tulak Hord's first act as Dark Lord he considered a rival killed. This included threat and marked as the first to die. who remained by Hord's side after his Hord escalated the scale of his conquests Sith Empire to bear against rebellious As Dark Lord of the Sith, Tulak Hord became greatest lightsaber duelist of his day, perhaps the greatest of warriors could withstand him in a thousand Jedi, though this is questionable, at that time. He was also skilled in the art his own power and to create Dark-Side-imbued of the Sith opted to create alchemically enhanced a fearsome black mask, which he wore often, from the heat of battle and made it harder for Aside from being the greatest warrior of the Empire's most prolific conqueror. He easily place on Sith worlds during his reign, and making over a hundred conquests of undiscovered discovered by Tulak Hord was Dromund Kaas, the The only obstacle Hord could never overcome in his Caldera. He was so strong in the Force that he the power of the Force could move a nebula, nor As Tulak Hord was a master of many things, to him. Hord refused nearly all of them, worthy of his knowledge. He wrote a good many but he hid all of these in dangerous, hoping that only the greatest of the Sith would Tulak Hord did take on one apprentice Cela learned a great deal from he eventually grew ambitious. One day, he stabbed and denying him the honor of a last battle. Cela and that he would surely take his place as up being insignificant in the grand scheme of Tulak Hord's followers entombed him in one of the on Korriban. His mask, holocron, and many of his fearsome array of traps. While the Sith Empire of the Sith Lords, but knowledge of him faded tomb was plundered and left in ruins by later were lost. In later millennia, Tulak Hord was among the Sith. Once, Tulak Hord was king of the millennia his legacy faded to nothing, buried Most Star Wars fans are at least somewhat familiar of all time, and with his absolutely terrifying of life with the raw power of the Force. But the eldritch abomination belies the true depth and strength certainly put the likes of Darth Sidious is actually a fundamental misunderstanding of a better look at the fearsome Darth Nihilus - Our story starts above a small, remote Malachor V had been a remote colony of the Academy. The Sith abandoned Malachor when their and over the course of a thousand turning it into a beacon of the Dark Side. was chosen by Revan to be the last battlefield of the Jedi crusaders Malak and Meetra Surik, his fleet into a trap above Malachor, where they the war. Their plan was simple: Surik would the planet to draw the Mandalorians out, and would come in with a fleet of reinforcements, But when the time came to execute this fleet was delayed in another system by fleet ended up having to do more fighting than corner the Mandalorians, and kill Mandalore Surik's fleet had taken serious casualties, to overrunning them. With no other a superweapon that Revan had put in place a device designed to generate enough artificial The Mass Shadow Generator didn't work quite as it were too strong, catching both Republic and it affected Malachor V, something the engineer apart by the Mass Shadow Generator and reformed fractured crust as it did so. Millions of beings creating a wound in the Force. The effect was end of the Mandalorian Wars from across the heart of it all, had to completely sever herself she was exiled from the Jedi Order. All this Now, to understand Darth Nihilus, we When particularly terrible atrocities happened, it actually hurt the Force itself, leaving a these wounds were inflicted, those attuned to the dead - this is how Obi-Wan sensed the destruction wounds in the Force essentially healed themselves, What had happened in the last battle of the the Force was unable to heal on its own. To make which had survived the Mass Shadow Generator, of Malachor became an echo that spread across the Force across the galaxy, deepening the scars causing beasts to become vicious and sentients to as the Jedi Civil War and the Dark Wars the effects began to compound each other. These the Jedi Exile, which is why she had to she wasn't the only one to meet with such a fate. It was from Malachor V that Darth Nihilus unimportant, for through that terrible battle, learned an ancient Sith art that allowed consuming them to increase his power. But some special ability. Nihilus was dependent on consume him instead. This hunger, and Nihilus' like Meetra Surik, was a concentration of the and the more people he consumed, Over the course of the Jedi Civil War Darth Nihilus became more and more powerful, to planets at once. His power was strengthened became an apprentice of the Sith Lord Darth Republic had won the war, but their victory, as The Jedi were on the verge of extinction, and under this Sith Triumvirate at the Trayus Academy, Nihilus ripped a downed Republic battlecruiser, the start of what became a whole fleet of might of Nihilus's will. He and his fleet What followed was the First Jedi Purge. the Ravager was sure to follow, and Nihilus would on the planets where they sought refuge. The after Nihilus consumed what was believed to be the Order was no more. On Katarr, Nihilus a Miraluka Force adept. Nihilus claimed her as who served aboard his ships, he did not consume his power grew to unfathomable heights, Nihilus die. He believed that he brought order where there had been nothing but meaningless noise. With their shared mission complete, Nihilus and from the Force and leaving her for dead. Then to either of them, Traya survived. She sought last of the Jedi - Meetra Surik, the Exile. By and in that time, Surik had wandered the fringes exile. But under the guidance of Darth Traya, returned to the civilized galaxy, and at length, Nihilus sensed this and sent Visas to kill the Jedi Exile instead. Surik and her companions looking for other Jedi and putting a stop to to conquer Onderon by supporting the Exile and her followers swayed the tide of that point, the hunger was beginning to turn only planets were massive enough to sustain Kreia knew of this, and so, through one of there was a Jedi Academy on Telos IV [pronounced resist such a target. But it was a trap - there that Surik would be there when he came for the and his greatest warriors, Surik and Visas and confronted Nihilus. Surik revealed and offered herself up to him. But when Nihilus only the Force wound that she carried within who went on to destroy Malachor V and Those of you who haven't played the game this entire story comes from, might you might ask, could a Jedi Exile who had only someone as powerful as Darth Nihilus? The answer Central to the story of KOTOR II is the assessment of the Force. Darth Nihilus embodied drawn from the Force isn't strength at all, Nihilus was unmatched. Not even Darth Sidious the end, it didn't matter. The Jedi Exile proved and Meetra Surik, alone among anyone in This is because the power the Force granted was a leech; he drew constantly on the strength himself. He was a slave to his hunger. Whenever and so he was forced to always be on the hunt. power had grown so great that he could no longer something that didn't even take notice of with planets. But that doesn't show strength actually was. He had become so reliant on remained of him. But that power wasn't his; it As Visas discovered after his death, behind nothing more." He was irrelevant, unimaginably may as well have ceased to exist. Meetra Surik she had broken her chains completely, and the strength of that act remained. The she was able to not only kill Nihilus, but do the most powerful Sith Lords of all time, Visas Marr was a Miraluka, a member of a rare and thus, by human standards, were naturally the Miraluka could still see. They saw through of life and using that sense to navigate. As Force-sensitive, and Visas, in particular, was a beautiful Miraluka colony world in the as the Miraluka were rather reclusive, but galaxy. In particular, Katarr kept close had an easier time connecting with beings who This close bond led the Jedi to choose Katarr as came four years after the end of the Jedi Civil Sith. To make matters worse, in the years since, unseen threat was preying on Jedi, attacking to determine what it was, aside from some new the surviving Jedi gathered on Katarr to determine to the Miraluka would enable them to reveal their had hoped. By gathering on Katarr, they had Visas Marr later recounted that those but all heard his voice - and when he spoke, entire planet of the Force, killing not only and all other living things on the colony, from the Force energies of every lifeform on Visas Marr survived the attack on Katarr; Nihilus died around her seemed a far worse fate than she saw through the Force, and after well and truly blind. Everything around her had afraid and in great pain. As Visas lay reeling Nihilus himself descended to the ashen He took Visas to his ship, the Ravager, a Malachor V. She awoke aboard the dead ship the place where her eyes would otherwise have Visas found her way to Nihilus, who was Nihilus showed her a vision through the Force, The vision Nihilus showed Visas severely and it also made her into a willing ally. The chaotic other beings were, the wretchedness he convinced her that it all deserved to die. He and replace the meaningless cacophony with Visas to aid him in this cause, and Visas Nihilus gave Visas a meditation chamber aboard the in the Force, she could hear the voices of the looking for oddities and Jedi for Nihilus Nihilus would dispatch her to hunt it down he trained Visas in the use of a lightsaber and to good use. None survived an encounter A year after the death of Katarr, Visas felt which carried pain similar to what she had down this oddity and bring it back to him, and curiosity. She soon discovered the source the Jedi Exile, who had returned to known space Visas snuck aboard Surik's ship, the Ebon Hawk, an adventure on Nar Shaddaa. Visas and Surik which ended with the Exile victorious. Visas She begged Surik to kill her, but the Exile With the help of the Ebon Hawk's crew, Visas she pledged herself to the Exile's service in Visas and forgave her for the earlier attack, had not seen kindness in a long time, and she had to protect the Exile, but warned Surik that she that Surik would be strong enough to defeat the safety, and repeatedly warned her that Nihilus was claimed, that he could not even be considered Many of Surik's companions a Sith assassin aboard the Ebon advised that Visas represented an opportunity. to Nihilus as a result of his sparing her. She urging the Exile to manipulate Visas into killing insisting that it could help defeat the Lord of choosing to train Visas, along with several of Visas Marr accompanied Meetra Surik on her Visas unlearned many of the Sith instead studying the ways of a Jedi Sentinel. to her, and Visas proved an asset to the Surik only grew stronger, and Visas became indeed defeat Darth Nihilus. Still, she be unable to overcome her former master, and At the same time, Visas found comfort in Surik's Force sight had begun to return, and she saw Surik but also strongly connected to life around perhaps, Nihilus had been wrong about the herself in Surik. She saw that she was not the and the revelation that she was not alone gave saw this, and she and Visas worked through each the other. With Surik's help, Visas started to As Visas foresaw, the time eventually came for attacked Telos IV, seeking to cleanse it of life, planet's aid. While the Republic Navy held off Visas, and a team of Mandalorians planning to plant bombs across the vessel, hell. As they made their way through the Ravager, chamber. She took the opportunity to use it, With the help of the Exile, Visas Marr came vanquishing the pain she had been Visas led Surik and Mandalore the where Darth Nihilus awaited. When Nihilus learned he was livid, and threatened to destroy his suggesting that Nihilus could feed upon but upon feeling the wound in the Force within With Nihilus stunned, Surik, Visas, and Mandalore Even weakened, however, Nihilus's power still unfathomable power, so much greater Visas lost all hope of defeating him. She knowing she had a link with the Sith Lord that she try to draw on the bond herself. Visas off from the Force. She, together with Surik After Nihilus's death, Visas lingered for a moment leave. Wishing to see her former master for what upon what remained of the force of nature she had seen behind Nihilus's mask, Visas said Visas Marr went on to accompany Surik to wounds to tend to. After Malachor, Visas and Surik while Visas and the others stayed Visas went on to become a great Jedi Sentinel. And she returned to the ashen surface of "Welcome to Dromund Kaas, where freedom goes On this channel, we like to highlight how the and Sith Lords constantly undermining each entire armies and pit a master against his the Jedi a chance to regroup and mount an however, who saw past petty Sith politics and masses. In this video, we tell the story of Darth Very little is known about Darth Jadus other born on Dromund Kaas. He was a powerful Sith who even referred to him as "the best Sith so much power, Jadus was a secretive and cunning never revealed his face to anyone. He the Great Galactic War, and later, during As a member of the Dark Council, Jadus was and ran the Imperial network of spies and promoting and training other non-Force much to his peers' annoyance. He religiously his entire face and never once revealing he never gave into his rage or passion, hiding He was cold and calculating, choosing his agents and spy network. He had little seeing them as obstacles the Empire needed To understand Jadus, we have to part of. After suffering a humiliating the survivors of Naga Sadow's failed campaign to escape the impending extermination of their jumps and scouting missions for new worlds that a certain Sith Lord named Vitiate ordered the long-lost Sith colony world named Dromund Great Hyperspace War. The Reconstituted Sith was built by these survivors, who eventually Dromund Kaas was the third planet in the Sector. It had two moons and orbited the star covered the planet's surface, and it once until knowledge of its location was lost during rediscovered it in 4980 BBY. The Sith made Kaas City on Dromund Kaas their new capital. the planet's surface, with jungles giving The Sith Empire was ruled by the Dark Council, held the title of Dark Lord of the Sith. Each Sith answering to no one except the Sith Emperor. most powerful sith lords of the time, and when a was the first Sith considered to replace them. the Dark Council was in charge of the Darth Jadus served on the Dark Council as in charge of Imperial Intelligence, one Sith Empire. Jadus hated the bureaucracy against the Dark Council, seeking and bring the ways of the Sith to ordinary wanted to democratize the sith teachings and allow Darth Jadus was incredibly powerful and force. He was a master of the usual sith powers, corruption. Weaker minds stood no chance against possessed the rare ability of force healing, it on himself. He fought with a single-bladed standing beside him caused others physical A mysterious yet imposing figure among the his cold and calculating demeanor as well as he refrained from showing public signs of He chose, instead, to keep his emotions to himself his power. He was strangely meritorcratic, their sith heritage, and was strongly opposed openly recruiting aliens into the Imperial in the politics of the Council, seeing their back the Empire from reaching its true potential. uneasy but his followers more devout. He also had The Sith Empire faced its own share of rebels and was tasked with uncovering the Eagle's Network, later known as Cipher Nine or Nightshrike. targeting its main power generators while a BSX-5 Harrower-class dreadnought that served the terrorists on Kaas and thwarted their attack, had been bombed and thousands of Sith Dignitaries Jadus's death led the Dark Council to to his position. Zhorrid ordered all the terrorist organisation's leader, and make the assignment and successfully dismantled killing the terrorist leader called Eagle. The Imperial weapons called Eradicators, which Cipher Nine also discovered that Eagle was working and their investigation eventually led them to the Eagle Network. Jadus had faked his own death out the Dark Council and use the ensuing chaos to Darth Jadus' name is actually an annagram Cipher Nine discovered the Dominator intact deep space. Darth Jadus demanded that Eradicator codes which they had taken Jadus could activate his Since Cipher Nine and Jadus only The Old Republic video game, there depending on Cipher Nine's choice regarding the Jadus escaping but the Eradicators being stopped. until he's distracted and captured by the Dark joining Jadus and firing the weapons, The Old Republic gave us many badass planet eaters. Many just really needed to chill. Malgus was easily one of the most formidable Sith are portrayed as caricatures of evil, people outlandish scheme, like unleashing an army of Malgus wasn't like any of those Sith. reasonable - at least, for a Sith. So much so him. Because Malgus wasn't just a Sith. He and someone who would give it his all to see Darth Malgus was born as Veradun on the stormy world of Dromund Kaas in the year 3700 series on the History of the Sith Following the Mandalorian Wars and the Jedi disappearance of Revan, the Republic thought the at all. A Sith Lord by the name of Vitiate had a nomadic lifestyle for some time before they Kaas. There, Vitiate took the title of Dark Lord Veradun was raised by a scientist in the Imperial zoological collection. From a young age, but also in deception, expectations, and instilled in the young Sith a strong personal code After some time training at the Sith Academy, Vindican and finally took on a new Sith Malgus encountered a Twi'lek whom he killed. He took the Twi'lek on as his he took her as his lover and treated her After four hundred years of seeming One of the Sith's first targets in 3681 which the Jedi had kept under their control took two Fury-class Interceptors and boarded the Sith landed in the hangar bay, preventing But they had Jedi to contend with. Vindican took Malgus fought his Padawan, Satele Shan. Initially, but when the Jedi's Master passed her one attempted to unalive the Padawan, but yet again, Enraged that his prey was fleeing, Malgus teamed who fought them off valiantly. Despite it wound Vindican. Even though he evened the odds, eventually his master down, liberating Malgus believed he was the one destined to bring Following their victory on Korriban, the taking over vast swathes of territory in Malgus had been promoted to the rank of genius. For those reasons, most likely, he was In a past video, we've detailed the fateful battle fleet as a ploy to draw Republic forces far away, landed thousands of troopers and droids alongside point, leading a pilgrimage of fire and ruin Unfortunately for Malgus, members of Havoc had remained planetside for unrelated attack against the invading Imperials. who would have died at the hands of the Sith had Jedi and Sith began to duel in earnest, relying on their opponent. With some help from Malcom, first throwing him into a cliff, then With Malgus presumed dead, his Sith Republic reinforcements returned to the system. but Malgus survived, albeit with critical but since his defeat at the hands of But Malgus wasn't held back for long regardless he was in charge of the Sith Empire's Outer to provide him with adequate support, was forced to flee towards Sith Space with his which also fell to a Republic advance, against all odds. Malgus' victory was highly promised him unfailing support in future battles. was also able to retain Sith control of Serenno, Later on, Malgus was tasked with retaking his honour. This time, he planned for the planet's new capital city backed by droids, quickly. The battle for control of the planet but Malgus was eventually victorious. His faith in his skills, which earned him a place Because the Sith weren't satisfied with taking had been raging for almost 30 years and, while the war wasn't something they could sustain in the debilitating blow that would bring the In 3653 BBY, the Sith Empire reached out to the Republic and offered peace. The peace where representatives of the Sith Empire, However, this was yet another ploy. While the Darth Angral and Darth Malgus were tasked focus on assaulting the planet itself while in the capital. Remembering his old vow Malgus took to his assignment with verve. Malgus' plan was simple: he serving as a distraction so that fifty planetary defense mechanism housed within Angral could swoop in and rain destruction When Malgus made his appearance, the Jedi took security guards first tried to stop him, but he his location, including Zallow, whom Malgus But Sith reinforcements soon arrived, The battle was fierce. It was an all out Zallow, Adraas, and Daru, Malgus' Twi'lek and kill their enemies. Despite the Sith's which infuriated Malgus. But they had reached Malgus went into a berserker rage, annihilate the enemies before him. He finally killed Zallow, leaving his body From its burning entrance, Malgus watched Sith in a hail of fire and agony. With the the Republic had little choice The result of the Sacking of Coruscant heavily into the Empire's favour. Despite the galaxy was only hiding its breath, Contrary to what one might expect, Malgus On the one hand, he was overjoyed to have brought capital burn. The sight of the Republic and had dreamed of for almost thirty years. However, The first issue was that the Sith Empire left malcontented by this decision, as to complete obliteration of his opponent. had been for the Sith Empire, it was Another thing he found difficult to reconcile namely Darth Angral and his apprentice, Darth the Sacking of Coruscant. Despite being a Sith, emotion which he came to realise contradicted the And therein lay the problem. Alongside the Sith Sith Academy, he had had other influences. His and through the lens of his father's wisdom, After the Treaty of Coruscant was signed, and the Sith Empire. For the next 20 years, the Dark Council, undertaking several he ordered the destruction of Hammer Station, for the Dark Council, and led expansive But more importantly, Malgus made allies. You see, alien mercenaries and, through his dealings with He created diplomatic ties with the Voss and Because Malgus, unlike the Sith, didn't believe Empire drew a hard line: humans were the superior more than slaves. But that wasn't the only core his powerbase, Malgus couldn't help but notice how more harm than good. The Siths' greatest enemy was the empire. He also took grave issue with the to a series of Dark Side rituals, Vitiate was eyes, he did nothing for his Empire. The Emperor running of his Empire to the Dark Council. Worst managed to infiltrate the citadel and kill him, increased Malgus' disillusionment with the Sith Following the Jedi attack on the Citadel another member of the Dark Council, aiming to control its rich supply of Instead of supporting his fellow Sith, supplying valuable intelligence and ground and Malgus could take his seat on the Dark As part of his role, he led Imperial missions which he was intending to use to power ships. While serving on the Dark Council, for alien advocacy and policy reforms within the This turned out to be somewhat of a mistake. Malgus had amassed a wealth of resources. he had also gathered a number of allies, his stealth armada had been completed, Malgus But Malgus' Empire would be different. He the petty squabbles that had weakened the and a droid army he had built to rival through war. Unlike other Sith before him, in fact, he welcomed those who had been as and realise their dream of a Sith With his army of Sith Rebels, Malgus which he had ventured into on behalf of early victories. With the Sith Emperor's many Sith turned to Malgus as the Unfortunately for Malgus, the Republic and Sith wanted a powerful and populist Sith Emperor on the where they suffered a humiliating defeat. Then, making its way through its defences until room. Although the fight was fierce, Malgus to be killed, he set the space station to However, as everyone knows, it ain't real, and that was the case with Malgus. For the better part of a decade, Malgus throughout the galaxy; the Republic and they averted the Dread War, they were then eventually overthrew it. Over the Malgus' survival, and they were finally proven Out of nowhere, Malgus appeared during the as the new Emperor's Wrath, a second to the the greater galaxy, but the Republic had little Malgus took command of the assault Jedi Colony presided over by Jedi Master After Ossus, Malgus set his sights on Dantooine, Space. Because of its location, it was not only but a great resupply point for the Republic's Malgus hired mercenaries to storm the planet But Malgus' greatest hit was Corellia, shipyard known as the Meridian Complex. The and so the Sith were hell-bent on Darth Krovos, assembled a massive fleet and set Republic's lack of fuel ships, so he sent reinforcement fleets at other key locations Within the Meridian Complex, Malgus fought a explosion knocked the station askew. The Republic Malgus left aboard a medical ship, where he had a remedy for his psychological state, he left Within the Enclave, he learnt of Darth Nul, an His search led him to the Temple of Nul on the he found that the Sith and Jedi had beaten prize. Malgus interfered and eventually won stated the Jedi and Sith left many young urged the Padawan to give him the holocron Malgus left with the holocron, he also left Eventually, Malgus was defeated by a Republic aboard Carrick Station, where he was contained Malgus seemed unbothered, and only were only beginning. What he had begun and he, Malgus, would be the one fanning purged the galaxy of the corrupt and And then he remained silent. Anyone who's played Star Wars; The Old Republic talking about today. In the past, we've talked world-devourers, plague-brewers - you name how they saw the galaxy as theirs to were power-hungry warriors and politicians Darth Marr was different. He was a Sith that looked beyond greater purpose. He had a sense of duty Sith Lord of such motivation that he found In today's video, we'll be discussing and how he transcended beyond Sithhood. Few Sith Lords reached the level of Born in 3702 BBY in the True Sith Empire, Those who knew the Sith Lord's history he rose to power. What we do know is adopted his iconic spiky armour with its no one had ever seen his face - those An iconic story is how he disciplined Moff on the planet Sullust. The Moff was summoned he submitted his resignation and unalived himself. which was such a traumatic experience As a weapon, he wielded the legendary Tulak Hord's Fels. Around 3681 BBY, near the beginning of the Council, the Sith Empire's ruling body. He was which oversaw deploying the Imperial Military During his time as a Dark Councillor, Sith operations. He was a part of the team that apprentice to the Dark Council. In 3660 BBY, he attack. He was known as the Councillor with the By the end of the Great Galactic War, he was one conflict. During the Cold War that followed, took to strengthening the Empire's defences in At this time, Marr's only concern wasn't focused heavily on controlling the infighting but he could only do so much while overseeing and Darth Thanaton were both usurped by younger eventually killed. The Battle of Corellia Two of those were the heads of the Spheres of which meant that Darth Marr was now in Marr was left struggling to stabilise the remaining Council members made his life His career, however, wasn't what made Darth What made Darth Marr such a legendary and his stalwart dedication to his duty. You see, unlike other Sith who only thought rare few with a greater vision. He had devoted to securing its continuation and prosperity. To To Darth Marr, warfare was a means to through war, society and people to him, the Empire was in dire need of adapting their society back for centuries had to come grow stronger. While he was in control of the stop the political squabbles and backstabbing to That said, Marr was by no means a secret wouldn't hesitate to Force Choke someone. however, like his fellow Councillor explode in violence. Rather than flaring out constantly simmering rage that He didn't randomly lash out, though. He valued As a leader, he gave his all and expected failed to perform their duties, he would not Failure was never an option, nor was cowardice. Interesting to note was that, during the Cold War, Marr was actively dying. His immersion in killing him gradually. It wasn't just his his ability to feel was also dwindling emotions anymore. Marr didn't even fear death. an excellent example of which could be seen in a capable warrior and politician in her own however, was that she understood the bitter did. She was his willing pawn, not because she used his pieces strategically and not out One example of their teamwork came during the Cold control the planet. Deciding he needed to step control of the situation. As we saw in The Price role of mission lead. Instead, he took the and to remind her that foresight is clearer the of her future, he duelled her until she was on wouldn't hesitate to kill her if she proved weak, in her vision was her own death. Marr understood, "You cannot escape death. Consider runs from the inevitable. You Those were his last words to his apprentice, and every other Sith fought against their impending of course, in contrast to his very title; the phrase "darr tah," which meant conqueror Duty-bound to serve and defend the Empire, His ideals were what helped him As we mentioned earlier, Darth Marr was loyal towards other people or institutions. What and if he judged them detrimental, they were attempted to resurrect the Sith Emperor on Vitiate, the former Sith Emperor, had proven his him to return and take control of the Empire Not only did Marr fight against his old master, to do so. Unlike other Sith, Marr didn't think their grandmaster, Satele Shan, was the only Force the Republic and Empire put a stop to Revan's Unfortunately, the Emperor he consumed almost every living being's the rest of the galaxy. Again, Marr Soon after Ziost, Marr took a joint fleet into unknown allies were hiding. The Eternal Fleet, suddenly attacked them and boarded Marr's command his best to defend the bridge, it was soon the Outlander, who had led the joint forces brought to Zakuul, and made to kneel in front Marr defied the Emperor one final time, stating attacked, killing several guards before the That was not, however, the end of Darth Marr. Marr wouldn't be heard from again until over half that came together under the Outlander to fight now Alliance Commander, wandered through the There, they came across a camp, where and Darth Marr. The Jedi Grandmaster while Marr was actually manifesting as they could discuss what had happened and He revealed that he had lingered behind Empire. In true Marr fashion, he remarked to his death. Although he did not regret when they needed him the most. That was the two had spent years discussing the Force and was to discover what made the Zakuulan Force users Their conclusion was that the Zakuul Knights they didn't focus on the Dark or the Light Side, this balance, walking along the edge, that true warriors had wanted to pass onto the Commander As an out-of-universe note, though, this is what were Darksiders who didn't embody the Light Side. trying to say was that he had embraced the power &quot;In life, I dismissed the Jedi Code. I was wrong. There is no death. There is only As we've covered in past videos, it's impossible Nevertheless, what Marr accomplished during miracle. Out of all the Sith, only Darth overcome could have ever reached this level Once the Emperor was defeated, Marr finally found peace and became Duty. Loyalty. Self-reflection. Adaptability. other Sith displayed. Those were the and why he could come to understand crafting a unique outlook on life and the Force More than any other Sith in the franchise, In 3637 BBY, the galaxy was in the middle of the Sith Empire. The Republic had been defeated by prior, but this time, things were looking up for had managed to kill the Sith Emperor, Darth Republic and the Sith became distracted by reports one that neither of them had ever seen before. to subjugate both galactic superpowers, and entire galaxy. In this video, we're going to be The story of the Eternal Empire begins an unremarkable planet in the far reaches a forgotten group of humans settled on Zakuul, a trio of Force-sensitives - the Matriarch, the they worshipped a pantheon of six deities active roles in shaping their daily lives. his wife Scyva; and their four children: they believed, fed on the pain and suffering of Savior that would come to slay Izax, casting down Three centuries before the Galactic War, the known as Darth Vitiate - visited Zakuul and Dividing his spirit between Valkorion's body in the Sith Empire, Tenebrae declared himself of Zakuul and rapidly reshaping them into an the people of Zakuul built the Spire, the heart of which was a vast starscraper Valkorion declared himself the Immortal Emperor would be the capital. Over the course of decades, forcing the Zakuulans to abandon the Old gathered up the Force-sensitives of the planet, and formed them into the Knights of Zakuul, the With the help of the Knights of Zakuul, Valkorion Sphere in the Unknown Regions. Iokath was one an ancient alien race, possibly the Celestials he found the Eternal Fleet, an armada of advanced the greatest creation of Iokath's builders. the GEMINI, the droid masters of the became their new central control hub. the Eternal Empire became incredibly powerful After the Hero of Tython, a champion of the Jedi the Galactic War, the remains of Tenebrae's to view the Empire as a failed experiment, and as his new permanent vessel, and devoted his Valkorion had three children, all of whom strength in the Force. He kept his daughter Vaylin became the commanders of the Eternal Empire's to their father against the Republic and Thexan and Arcann fought many battles seeking their father's approval. When Valkorion was enraged and attacked him. Thexan defended after a brief lightsaber duel. This won Arcann commander of the Eternal Empire's military, and Shortly after this, Arcann captured two on the borders of the Eternal Empire: the as the Outlander. When he brought them before Empire was led by the former Sith Emperor, only to be easily killed. Valkorion then offered sensing that the Force-sensitive had incredible who took the chance to attack his father. but the remains of Tenebrae's spirit Fearing Tenebrae's return, Arcann promptly He assumed the throne of the Eternal Empire quickly subduing both the Sith Empire and the the Eternal Empire ruled the galaxy by proxy, from the Sith and the Republic. But its rule Outlander was released from carbonite and promptly Both the Republic and the Sith rallied to the The Outlander eventually defeated Arcann aboard abandon his throne and defect. His sister, Vaylin, but the Eternal Alliance managed to cast her down Fleet and gave it to the Alliance, formally The Eternal Alliance promptly fractured, and The Eternal Empire is pretty unique as far virtually the entire empire was automated. The and entirely artificial, and the majority of the Skytroopers, a line of advanced battle droids. The Eternal Empire to easily conquer a massive swath in the end, it dissolved just as easily. Once and divided up the automated fleet between the Eternal Empire virtually ceased to exist, Even Zakuul was highly automated by the time of Empire was largely skeletal, consisting almost servants. The Zakuulans lived lives of idle the outside galaxy. Aside from the royal family, who really mattered were the conscripts and the conscripts were almost entirely The Knights of Zakuul, the Eternal Empire's were quite different from other Force-sensitive pikes and personal energy shields legalistic philosophy, which differed from they saw the Force as a tool to be used in They claimed to have allegiance to neither the their view of the Force as a tool and their focus strictly in the Dark Side camp, even if they The true strength of the Eternal Empire was the Eternal Empire's jetpack-equipped and resembled the Dark Troopers of the the Old Sith Wars. The Eternal Fleet was a force in a way that mimicked Jedi battle meditation. it could be simultaneously commanded by a GEMINI droids that operated it, allowing the attacks. The warships that composed the than most contemporary vessels, and they were Perhaps the most fascinating thing about it faded away. After its dissolution, it was and the story of Valkorion and the Emperors longer tale of the Great Galactic Wars. The was completely destroyed a few months after the species that had built the fleet in the first was Zakuul, which quickly faded into obscurity. and by the time of the Clone Wars, no one had For centuries, the Dark Lords of the Sith waged building monstrous empires that swept across the again. But by the late 2000s BBY, that part of Empire had fallen over a thousand years before, reduced to a handful of scattered cults. In 2000 whole can of worms, starting a thousand years of but history knew him as Darth Ruin, and Phanius was an Umbaran, and he was taken was incredibly strong in the Force and rose quickly attaining the rank of Jedi Master. In many intelligent, charismatic, and held the galaxy at large. But there was always and everyone around him knew it. Many and he was a controversial figure within the others seeing him as a genius who others only Most of all, Phanius was controversial if you're unfamiliar with solipsism, it's a that your self is the only thing you can ever be the saying "I think, therefore I am," that's as phrased by the solipsist Rene Descartes. Master something the Jedi Council harshly reprimanded Phanius's philosophy was ultimately incompatible to him, he left the Jedi Order. He was counted Twenty after Dooku joined their number, as he philosophical differences. Phanius set out to find with his beliefs, traveling the galaxy in search looking for the traces of an ideological tendency Before leaving the Order, Phanius stole and from it he learned the ways of the Dark he was always on the path to the Dark Side, but didn't take long for the teachings of the Sith the Jedi for refusing to accept his teachings. build a new empire of his own, with which he hoped On the fringes of Republic space, Phanius found left behind after the Old Sith Wars, which banner. He did this in secret, with the Jedi which only strengthened his growing delusions of back into the Republic to meet with his old the Dark Side. They spread his heresies within they struck. That year, Phanius took on the the new Dark Lord of the Sith. The Sith cults and fifty Jedi Knights declared allegiance to a hundred, and then even further. The Jedi Order was split between the followers of causing chaos all over the Republic. Jedi and powerless to intervene. Ruin and his followers establish a New Sith Empire out in the far reaches to wage war against the Republic as well, and What makes Darth Ruin interesting, though, his solipsism evolved, going from being a Darth Ruin didn't just believe that from himself existed - he came to and eventually as the only being to actually creation of his conscious mind that existed nicely with the individualistic teachings of the Darth Ruin codified his philosophy in the Code that he preached during his reign as Dark There is no passion. There is solely obsession. There is no knowledge. There is solely conviction. There is no purpose. There is solely will. There is nothing, only me. Why people even followed this absolute lunatic It's unclear to what extent Ruin but some later members of the New Sith adhered and Lord Daiman. Nonetheless, his influence as the New Sith were defined by being and self-serving tactics than the Old Sith was fractious and tactically bankrupt, and it spawned a long line of monomaniacs The details of Darth Ruin's life after the start but we do know that he attempted to build an Outer Rim. His New Sith would go on to trouble constant war, which would eventually bring civilizational collapse. But Darth Ruin didn't being one of the most important Sith Lords in was actually very short. As you might expect, Because Darth Ruin believed that he was the only he treated his followers like shit. He was disciples at a whim and never showing anyone believing his followers to be nonexistent, Ruin's followers, being Sith themselves, and it didn't take long for a group of them never saw it coming - he never even thought to When Darth Ruin died, his would-be empire over who would get to be the next Dark Lord of the and they would remain divided for over nine despite this internal conflict, and uncompromising war against the rest of the galaxy many claimed the title of Dark Lord of the Sith, many would suffer a similar fate as he did, Darth Ruin was one of the most unique Dark conqueror or an arrogant schismatic, he was and some Star Wars authors consider him to out-of-universe note, Darth Ruin was actually Lord. His story was based on an old manuscript the history of the Sith, adapted to fit We've told the stories of many Dark all of whom were unique and interesting in their stands out from the rest - mostly because he as the Dark Underlord, and he led a faction of wreaking havoc across the Republic before he we'll be telling the story of this Who exactly the Dark Underlord originally was him knew how he returned to the world of the great Darksider of old, freed from Chaos, the hell by a Sith acolyte. Some said he was one of be the reincarnation of Xendor, the leader of rebel against the Order. But whoever the Dark and upon returning to the world of the living, His rise happened in approximately 1750 BBY, the New Sith Wars. These were a cataclysmic during the Draggulch Period, a time of chaos to its knees for the gazillionth time, and much of the Dark Side. The wars began with the rise a Fourth Great Schism in the Jedi Order. Ruin of the Old Sith to form the New Sith, which But Darth Ruin's reign was a short one; his trying to usurp control of the Sith. and the New Sith became fractious and chaotic, that battled each other as much as they did the steadily expanded, dealing the Republic defeat the New Sith controlled large swaths of the bunch with many claimants to the title of of the New Sith Wars they only united when all the others. The Dark Underlord was the The Dark Underlord assembled a legion of Sith gathering them at a fortress on the Outer Rim Sith united under the banner of the Black Knights. unknown, but he seems to have had quite a large their base on Malrev IV, they began a campaign threatening the Republic's control of the thanks to centuries of Sith activity and During the Black Knights' rampages, the Dark from the front, personally slaying many Jedi Jar'kai combat style, but he opted to use of lightsabers, preferring the viscerality lightsaber. This might provide a clue as most of the ancient Sith Lords of the first as exemplified by Marka Ragnos, Naga suggest that the Dark Underlord predated the such swords were mainstream among the Jedi, Very little about the Dark Underlord himself and his seemingly all-consuming bloodthirst. his followers devastating opponents, contain the Black Knights' offensive. The Miki hyperspace route, pillaging space they went. They seemingly made no effort to instead waging a purely destructive war. the Republic. The campaign of the Black Knights which the Republic would slowly be driven back The Black Knights' efforts were likely where Malrev IV was located. they undoubtedly caused trouble in the area, whose territory was just across the Hydian Way biggest mistake, and it provided the Jedi and the Black Knights. After a few years of the Black one of their greatest commanders, a Jedi Master defeat the Dark Underlord. Murrtaggh appears to but the nature of this grudge and his special unknown. Regardless, in seeking to destroy alliance that few Jedi would have dared to even Some Jedi would have tried to appeal to the join the fight against the Dark Underlord; battle against a worthy enemy. Murrtaggh's much simpler - he offered them a ton of credits being practical, took the job. They even to the fight - a kind of powerful tank known as War Dragons, the degenerated descendents of the reverted to an animal state after millennia Murrtaggh's plan was simple - the Mandalorians, of Jedi Knights, would lead an all-out on Malrev IV. Their attack would draw out to commit fully to the battle. After the Murrtaggh himself would infiltrate the fortress assassinate him. It wasn't a very Jedi-like plan, Murrtaggh's plan worked. The Black Knights took who killed the Dark Underlord's top general in Underlord and, after a lengthy battle, succeeded either returned to Chaos or was destroyed - but had hoped for. Murrtaggh fell to the Dark Side and in the years that followed he Additionally, the Black Knights survived the death the Mandalorians. The group would see several returning again and again to wreak havoc in victory in the Battle of Malrev IV would prove whose ravages would only worsen in the centuries but new Dark Lords rose up to replace him, His Black Knights even survived the end of the almost entirely. Over two centuries after a resurgence in the Fluwhaka Revolt before they "Two there should be; no more, no less. One This was the original version of the Rule forever after the cataclysmic end of the one of the greatest of the Dark Lords of the that had afflicted all Sith orders hitherto they had a nasty habit of destroying themselves. but few know much about him apart from the we'll be telling the full story In 1026 BBY, during the Dark Age of the a poor mining planet in the Outer Rim. His first eighteen years being raised by his father, the death of his mother. He believed his to the point that he eventually took like just about everyone on Apatros, worked in nastiest labor the galaxy had to offer to supply a metal that was in high demand due to the he joined his father in the mines, where the One day, after enduring two years of this who then beat him within an inch of as the pain kept him from sleeping, Dessel's mind his father's heart. When the next day dawned, Dessel had drawn on the Dark Side of the After a further five years on Apatros, Dessel offworld. Having developed a hatred of the mines, he enlisted in the ground armies the current incarnation of the New Sith. the Brotherhood's best soldiers, and it wasn't who realized that he was Force-sensitive. Sensing one of the reigning Dark Lords of the Brotherhood, on Korriban. Dessel accepted, and as was customary Having been taught by Lord Kopecz that his anger he chose the name that his abusive father On Korriban, Bane rapidly surpassed the discovering his talent in the Force relatively and the fallen Jedi Githany, Bane learned a wide his intensive studies of the Academy's archives and ideology of the Sith. All this allowed him to it also instilled him with doubts about the of the Sith led Bane to believe that Lord Kaan Sith into a dark mirror of the Jedi Order, putting the Dark Side. An expedition to the Valley of the of the ancient Sith had abandoned Korriban, When Bane returned from the Valley, he learned Korriban were to be promoted to the rank of Dark Campaign. But Bane rejected the call; instead, he of the Ancients, the former stronghold of Darth stronger than in the Academy on Korriban, and in Sith holocron. From Revan's holocron, Bane learned allowing him to finalize his Rule of Two, the Seeing Bane as a potential threat, Lord but Bane was able to best the blademaster in who had been in a relationship with Bane a world that had once been strong in the Dark contained the planet's taint to Lake Natth. where she poisoned him with a kiss, nearly Bane was able to keep himself alive long enough a man named Caleb, whom he blackmailed into Bane then traveled to Ruusan, where he joined assembled Sith Lords, Bane claimed the ancient use of for fear of disunity. Kaan was forced to to kill Bane had failed, and he knew that any the Brotherhood with a plan to win the coming the Sith assembled on a hilltop and unleashed the incurring mass casualties. But Kaan and the others Jedi with a conventional charge - a major mistake, routed the Brotherhood's armies. In the wake Brotherhood was beyond redeeming. The Sith, In the aftermath of the Seventh Battle, Bane learned from Revan's holocron - the thought souls of all within a broad blast radius, was beginning to lose his mind, and he and the remaining Sith Lords would be detonation. While Bane fled a safe distance the ritual and committed mass suicide, taking Bane was left the last surviving Sith Lord, While wandering the now-abandoned battlefields of who called herself Zannah. Sensing deep anger in the Force, Bane took her as his apprentice the two lived in a camp on Ambria, where only rarely leaving the planet to hunt down Bane developed the Sith Grand Plan, a plot to the inside, which he would spend the rest Ten years after the Seventh Battle of Ruusan, They sent out a team of five Jedi to hunt and the Jedi cornered Bane and Zannah on The Sith ultimately killed all of their Jedi the process. Not yet ready to take the mantle where she tracked down Caleb, the healer who now lived offworld and couldn't be used as Caleb to heal Bane again on the condition that she Zannah contacted the Jedi Temple and which convinced Caleb to save Bane's life and used the Dark Side to drive another man him up to be discovered by the Jedi. As the knew what Bane looked like, so they fell for that the Sith were no more. In this manner, of Two - but they falsely believed that Bane had With the Jedi no longer looking for them, Bane out into the wider galaxy. Bane discovered that had kept a bank account with the IGBC full which he laid claim to. He and Zannah then moved pair of wealthy merchants. At their mansion on lore and artifacts. During their time on Ciutric, for the day when she would attempt to usurp the ten years on Ciutric IV, Zannah never made a move she was waiting for him to get old and weak, Infuriated by his apprentice's hesitancy of Darth Andeddu, an ancient Sith Lord live forever. From Andeddu's holocron, Bane which allowed him to steal the body of drive out its original consciousness. then find a new apprentice, allowing him Before he could confront Zannah, Bane was only as the Huntress, who delivered him princess was none other than Caleb's daughter, to torture him to death for killing her and as he fled Doan, he recruited the Huntress to Bane pursued Serra to Ambria, where Cognus slew On Ambria, Bane once more came face to face with death. Zannah believed that Bane's pursuit Rule of Two; she accused him of being afraid The two Sith fought a vicious duel, but Zannah sorcery. Desperate, Darth Bane tried to use but Zannah's will proved stronger than his, became the new Dark Lord of the Sith, and In a recent set of videos, we told the stories of under Bane's Rule of Two. They were the beginning years, ultimately ending with Darth Sidious. we only know the names of a few of the Dark Lords the time of Darth Tenebrous, the master of Darth this long unknown period that we're going to tell Cognus, and her first student, who broke away from For those who need a refresher or haven't Darth Cognus was originally an Iktotchi who used her people's natural gift of These precognitive talents were amplified by such that she not only received brief glimpses and sometimes even visions of a target's past. put to use when hunting Force-sensitives - she masking her presence in the Force and hampering These traits allowed her to be one of the most hunt and kill Jedi, which she did on several Darth Bane as part of a contract from the princess her life forever. For, at the time, Darth Bane escaped the princess's prison, he recruited the of the Sith, she took the name Darth Cognus But before Cognus's training could begin, Darth Zannah, whom Bane wanted Zannah challenged Bane for the title of Dark the two Sith fought a duel to the death, from Dark Lord of the Sith, she took Cognus as defeat of Darth Bane as Cognus's first lesson The story of Cognus's training under and what Cognus was like as a Sith Lord based on her existing abilities and the name she like Darth Zannah, focused more on Force abilities over more overtly aggressive than her master and killed her, claiming the Adhering to the Rule of Two, Darth Cognus took Zannah. For her apprentice, she selected a had a particular gift for precognition. She named kidding, that's his real name - and trained Dark Side techniques. Darth Millennial initially use of the Dark Side, but nonetheless, Cognus the right choice for an apprentice. This wasn't but rather because he insisted on questioning In particular, Millennial and Cognus contention - the Rule of Two. Darth wholeheartedly agreed with Darth Bane's uphold the Rule of Two and the Sith disagreed with the Rule of Two. He preferred the the founder of the Brotherhood of Darkness. the Brotherhood and the New Sith, Darth Millennial just as there had been before the Seventh Battle to him why he was wrong and why this approach refused to listen, insisting on a return to how Eventually, Darth Cognus got sick of Millennial's the Sith Lords. She recruited a new apprentice, line of Bane according to the Rule of Two. Darth Dromund Kaas, recognizing that he didn't stand title of Dark Lord. Dromund Kaas had once but, by Millennial's time, it had been with ruined cities and abandoned temples. where he spent years contemplating the Millennial ultimately syncretized his own the writings of the pre-Republic philosophers Dak the Dark Force religion. Millennial's that the Light Side and Dark Side were Force and those who had the strength of will the tenets of the Dark Force also proclaimed that a Supreme Prophet chosen by the Force Millennial built a cult around his Dark Force the members of which pretty much worshiped of the members of this cult were, to but there were a few who joined Millennial in the Dark Side, whom Millennial recruited from of the Dark Side focused on, you guessed and they made a great many prophecies Darth Millennial eventually died, but him. They remained cloistered in their fortress on they ventured out into the greater galaxy, establishing satellite facilities, such as which they established in 100 BBY, and For the most part, the Prophets of the in the grand scheme of things - until Sidious came to Dromund Kaas some time before Prophets to his cause, using them to foresee the Prophets of the Dark Side also assisted in which their precognitive abilities gave outmaneuver and defeat the 327th Star the Prophets of the Dark Side came out of hiding, joining Sidious's Empire as one of many groups From there, the history of the Prophets of legacy of Darth Millennial was eventually lost three-eyed human mutant Trioculus when he tried to at Endor. But that's getting pretty deep so we're going to spare you and end our Fans of many franchises, Star Wars included, power levels. This is something we but as it's an inevitability in the fandom, we again. Usually, power level arguments are about we're going to be considering the alternative. Lord in the history of the Star Wars universe - After the Seventh Battle of Ruusan, Darth Bane the Sith back to their roots in an attempt to Bane decreed that there would only be two Sith Apprentice to crave it. This was in stark contrast and, indeed, many Sith who weren't Lords at all, with all of that; rightfully, he thought that it Force, he once wrote, was like venom - the more The Order of the Sith Lords concentrated the number of vessels, making each individual If the Dark Side was like venom, then Darth because Gravid was anything but. We don't do know is enough. As Dark Lord of the Sith, and not by accident, either. His weak will Republic were it not for Darth Gean, his young Somewhere around 600 BBY, the man who by the reigning Dark Lord of the Sith as an Side's many techniques and became knowledgeable Darth Bane's Sith Grand Plan. In time, he, like claimed the title of Dark Lord for himself. who he gave the name Darth Gean. Together, an ancient Sith world that had been rendered There, Gravid gathered all of the various Sith over the years, which had been passed down from Bane. Gravid was intimately familiar with all remaining written or holographic instructions Thousands of years of Sith knowledge were But Gravid wasn't only concerned with Sith lore. of the Jedi Order, and so he acquainted himself his apprentice had to know what they were up most of his time as Dark Lord. Where other Sith the Republic and the Jedi Order, Gravid simply do whatever he believed needed doing. That's As Darth Gravid studied Jedi lore, he started and empathy major components of his practices with the ideology of the Sith. In time, he reliance on the Dark Side was a weakness, Jedi teachings. Ideologically, he became a and sought to remake the Order of the Darth Gravid, evidently, did not understand the Side, or rather, there was only the Force as it either heed the Will of the Force, as was the way way of the Dark, and doing a little of both was corrupting, and just a little use of it would of Light Side into their Force diet. The two sides and the Sith were irreconcilable. In attempting He also severely weakened himself. He was not a middle ground between the Light and Dark spent ten thousand years trying in vain to to the downfall of the Je'daii Order, it destroyed around to some aspects of Jedi philosophy, and this change in philosophy weakened his ability Dark Side was about imposing one's own will were needed to accomplish this, and Gravid's and thus, his power. It's possible that and that this was how she knew something had she knew something was up; however, she didn't as she was still rather young and in But Gravid forced her hand. By 552 BBY, his to believe that the only way to remake the Sith to guide the Order to a more successful around his fortress and began destroying the all that remained of the old Sith teachings, and books of lore in earnest. It should far in fighting the Sith teachings. They albeit in heavily-guarded vaults, where Fortunately for the Sith, Darth Gean wasn't going young apprentice, Gean broke through the Force master, resolving to claim the title of Dark Lord with the fate of the Sith at stake. Gravid, he managed to cleave off a good chunk of Gean's her face and chest. Through the power of the Dark skill with a lightsaber couldn't save him. He disarmed, severely wounded, and inexperienced, of Dark Lord. In doing so, she saved the Order Gravid's final defeat just goes to show in hell a Sith Lord should've lost that and yet he did exactly that. He did nothing and with Sith so numerically limited under the There had been Sith Lords in the past who had one suffered such an ideological collapse, Through prosthetic reconstruction, Darth the wounds Gravid had dealt her, making the destruction of a bunch of Sith lore. This as Darth Plagueis and Darth Sidious later noted, Sith powers and rites. The most notable loss which Sith masters had used to attempt to cheat Sith apprentices didn't particularly miss After the Seventh Battle of Ruusan, the Sith abandoning galactic conquest in favor successors lived in hiding, slowly preparing destruction of the Jedi Order. Not all Banite Sith however. While Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord chose to carry out a genocide of the Jedi, some approach. One of them, Darth Tenebrous, didn't he planned to make them obsolete. In Sometime around 247 BBY, a Bith named Rugess Nome genius, skilled in a wide variety of scientific however, he also had a strong connection to the the Jedi to train, but for some reason, Nome was Lord of the Sith, a Twi'lek who took Nome as an trained in the ways of the Sith, and began working Tenebrous and his master were powerful enough sense their presence in the galaxy, perceiving it the Force. This darkness signalled that the Sith master had a very specific vision for how the Jedi that would sever a Jedi's connection to the Force, return of the Sith. However, this project was his master couldn't make it work, and Tenebrous direction. He killed his master and claimed Like many Dark Lords before him, after killing his master was to find an kinda wandered the galaxy and chose the first letting the Dark Side of the Force guide them a different approach. He found a pair of Muuns and determined that they could produce a child them to hook up and have a kid, and when Tenebrous took custody of him. The child, Darth Plagueis proved to be very strong he became very wealthy, too. Plagueis's the InterGalactic Banking Clan, and when he father's wealth and business connections. Part the remote location of a fortress-like estate operations. Plageuis's wealth and connections were been gathering since Darth Bane. From his master, a whole lot of credits, and access to Tenebrous had also done pretty well for Tenebrous had become a master shipwright, starships in the galaxy. Tenebrous only earning him easy influence over virtually his proceeds from shipbuilding to fund many even more revenue and connections, and others Tenebrous's version of the Grand Plan was Tenebrous and Plagueis were rationalists they were almost atheistic, seeing the Force as processes, not as anything mystical or sentient. another kind of science that allowed them to most other Sith and unlike the Jedi, Tenebrous study of midi-chlorians, which they saw as the Based on this unusual view of the Force, was grounded primarily in conventional science. the Jedi didn't necessarily need to be slain; Order's place in the galaxy. But while Tenebrous's off from the Force, Tenebrous plotted to make the as much as possible, to design supercomputers perfectly distribute the galaxy's resource, of sentient beings. In a galaxy where everyone was the Jedi Order would become redundant and die To achieve his vision of the future, and the Dark Side. Tenebrous, whose powers of saw foresight as the primary purpose of the Force. but if he created computers that, through then he'd have the building blocks Unfortunately for Darth Tenebrous, his views on the Force and the Sith Grand of the Plan was predetermined and inevitable; but they could do nothing to make took a different approach. He didn't trust he believed that the Sith victory could only be Sensing the growing alienation of broke the Rule of Two near the end of his a fellow Bith whom he named Darth Venamis, of Tenebrous. Venamis was kept a closely guarded sort of backup plan. Tenebrous didn't live long during a mission gone awry on Bal'demnic, Darth under a rockslide, killing him and usurping Sith Grand Plan in a different direction, But this wasn't the end of Darth Tenebrous. trip to Bal'demnic, and to prepare he had infected mutating them into a form he could control. When and, through the air, migrated into Plagueis's if only barely, a fragment of his consciousness Soon after becoming Dark Lord, Plagueis defeated. Venamis became Plagueis's lab rat. As midi-chlorians, Plagueis tested them on Sith Lord dozens of times. All the while, bided its time. Tenebrous was waiting for which he could sense was near. When he got the essence ti the Chosen One, stealing their But Darth Plagueis died too soon for murdered by his own apprentice. After Plagueis's Force due to the nature of his mutated truly die. Darth Tenebrous was forced to relive midi-chlorians to finally perish and wishing So, that was the rather unpleasant fate of Darth Did you ever hear the tragedy of Darth Plagueis Star Wars fans have heard a thousand times. of Darth Plagueis. We all know of his but relatively few Star Wars fans know and the Force. Darth Plagueis didn't just galaxy - he also wanted to completely reinvent we'll be taking a look at the philosophy of Born as Hego Damask, Darth Plagueis started had hooked up at the request of Dark Lord of the express purpose of conceiving a child that would little experiment worked, and when young Hego Tenebrous claimed him as his new Sith Tenebrous, as we've discussed in the past, scientist by nature, Tenebrous believed that them obsolete by advancing technology to order of peacekeepers were necessary. Plagueis and a different outlook on the Force, but in his apprentice's. In particular, Plagueis, though in his day-to-day guise as Hego Damask After becoming Dark Lord of the Sith and Plagueis started setting his own Grand the Republic and engineer a war to destroy power base. But as time went on, Plagueis leaving matters related to the Grand Plan groundwork for the Sith's takeover of the laboratory on the remote moon of Sojourn, where The goal of Plagueis's experiments was to fulfill a means of achieving eternal life. He was techniques to control midi-chlorians on a mass through their midi-chlorians alone. He also aged tissue in his own body, allowing Darth Plagueis did not live indefinitely. In his was plotting against him, and when Plagueis were celebrating the latter's ascension to the Darth Plagueis's techniques to control Darth Sidious, was ever able to replicate them. derived from a unique, staunchly materialist was essentially an atheist. He believed that all the Force were all just superstitions built around Plagueis was convinced that, as the saying understand yet." To him, there was nothing either explainable by regular natural processes was just superstition. He didn't believe or any sort of Force-related afterlife, the Force and the Sith's experience of hell the onset of brain death. Plagueis also firmly maintained even after having an argument In other words, Plagueis was a materialist, verifiable material world was all that existed. the Star Wars universe, but what made Plagueis it. It gave him an understanding of aspects of the stripping away philosophy and morality alike that other Force-sensitives rarely considered. through emotion or surrender to the Force, midi-chlorians. Where others felt oneness communion with the Force, Plagueis saw and nurturing of midi-chlorians. It all and that was why he was able to achieve To Plagueis, all those before him who attempted because they had approached the matter through he believed that all non-Force related they didn't consider the Force and the role like the Force itself, as a mere chemical and he approached the issue of immortality indefinitely. He succeeded by finding ways We've been referring to this approach to the wasn't really accurate. Plagueis was essentially he saw no use in anything that wasn't purely morality, and ideology beyond the basic he rationalized as being scientifically-informed Now to answer our main question - was his views weren't perfect at the very scientific conclusions were really just ideology, Sith. Plagueis wholeheartedly believed he was and that colored his general outlook. It led him to serve the strong, for example. Obviously, ideas any credence - it's the materialist Plagueis's outlook on the Force definitely the Jedi and other Sith could not. At the end Force really was a set of physical reactions, Plagueis was able to achieve unprecedented Plagueis was wrong in his belief that the Force of the metaphysical and philosophical Let's think back to Force ghosts, for example. into a spirit on Korriban at one point, Force ghosts after the fact, writing in his probably just a hallucination or something. and it also doesn't hold up to scrutiny; as we Force ghosts were not only undeniably of the individuals they appeared as. They and in the Star Wars universe, they were Plagueis's ideology had no answer for phenomena weakly deny they existed. His view of life and no metaphysical significance kind of falls apart after the death and destruction of their bodies. than anyone else, but he failed to understand Did you ever hear the tragedy of Darth thought so. It's the story we just told we wouldn't hear from the Jedi. What do Feel free to post your thoughts in the comment thank you so much for watching and