Transcriber: Ilze Garda Here's the deal: Life is really all about love. I'm not just saying that I'm saying that because I've seen people basically love or something else. What I've witnessed When people choose love, they always choose right. I was asked to speak today and it made me think about the way My favorite way is through our love which can illuminate in our relationships. The most important relationship is the relationship And next comes the relationships As simply as I can put it, we are here, on this very Earth, and love is light. In a second, what I'd like is a brief, relaxing, where I'm going to have you three expressions of light I'm going to have you close your eyes and then associate each item So, let's get ready. Can I ask you to put palms facing up in your lap, and when you're ready, gently allow your upper eyelids Close your eyes Relax your shoulders. The first item I'd like you Picture the sun in the big, blue sky, and consider how the sun sharing its light and energy even on a cold February morning. Is there somebody in your life Somebody that loves you unconditionally? Picture that person now The next item I'd like you See the light emanating at the ocean's edge and remember its primary purpose: To help guide sailors and boaters home. Is there somebody in your life To your authentic self? To the truth of who you are? To the person that you're meant to be? To the path that you're meant to be on? Picture that person now and consider the direction The last item I'd like you See the light bouncing off of it, think of the energy in the room maybe you hear Is there somebody in your life Somebody that shows up wherever they are, wherever they go? Picture that person now and consider how they are encouraging Gently float open your eyes. Today I'd like to share a story with you His name was Daniel. I met Daniel the very first year I had no experience as a theology teacher and somehow this little guy, he became more of a teacher to me because he showed me how to shine their love and their light by being an example of how it's done. You see, the same year was the same year Felt like a little bit of my light when the Baltimore Ravens told me I had trained with them all summer, I was playing and competing in stadiums Playing in the NFL but at the end of the summer, a week before our first game, I was released. I had to return home to New Jersey I had graduated with the degree in psychology, but I was hired to coach football and teach theology. It was kind of like a life course Gave me the opportunity to teach the guys the importance of being kind, It really healed my broken heart. I loved teaching And that's where I met Daniel. He came into my classroom He had an energy and a light about him Daniel connected I used to love watching him His smile was reflected back to him Athletes, band guys, teachers and coaches, all felt the love of this pint-sized, People loved Daniel because he was free. He was free to be himself, and most of us know I remember when Daniel during his freshman year. He took it upon himself to create He even taped a Starburst candy He presented it to me Daniel was redefining cool, and he made it cool and his classmates loved him for it. It was in this way And it was during his sophomore year that Daniel started to campaign so that we could officially be family. (Laughter) He even brought her I was only there and Daniel had about 15 relatives It was a beautiful night. Then Daniel came into school and he was mad. He said, &quot;Mr. Ward, you brought when I brought my cousin (Laughter) I said, &quot;Wow, Daniel, hold on a second! That girl happens to be my younger sister, (Laughter) and, second of all, I didn't know you were trying It felt like a real compliment My message of love and be loved For years, I've been practicing shouting commands but I had been practicing I was never the type of football player I never yelled at my teammates, and I never yell Some people say this may make but I believe otherwise. An older teacher once told me, that I shouldn't smile in the classroom (Laughter) I guess the theory is that the students but I love to smile, and I have a different theory. I believe that is not the football guy; it's the loving guy. It's the most manly thing It's not that difficult to do, but it requires great thought and courage. I loved football because I thought When we're on the field, playing together, relating as teammates, defending each other, doing a little dance in the end zone Football was really about relationships. And so is love. Love is a team sport. A team that we are all a part of. And on this team, Daniel is an all-star. But Daniel never had or even a dance at his junior prom. And that's because his life One night, during Daniel's junior year, in February, he was rolling up the mats and he collapsed in pain. Daniel suffered an aortic aneurysm, and he died It was tragic. The date was February 7th, 2002. Exactly 12 years ago today. I don't think it's any coincidence to share Daniel's story with you. Daniel is my lighthouse. When the water is dark and dangerous, the lighthouse can provide almost as if to say, this way home. Daniel brought me home The night after he died, along with the number We were all greeted who thanked us for being there I introduced myself and she replied, &quot;Oh, you're the one (Laughter) It was kind of like a light went on. I ended up sitting with Lia and her mom, sharing stories of Daniel It was a really difficult time but it hard for me not to notice that Lia had the same passion that I saw in Daniel. I wish he could have seen us meet. Riding home that night, I quietly recalled He was visiting my class. And like many times before, Daniel would just stroll right in. And because I was sitting behind the desk, and we're about the same height, and our shoulders bumped I introduced him to the class as the 103-pound wrestler and the younger guys Here was this guy, but he carried so much weight On his way out Daniel turned over his shoulder &quot;See you around, Mr. Ward.&quot; Daniel died early the next morning. Couple of weeks later, The student was sitting and it looked like Daniel. And for a moment But soon the student stood, But to me the message was clear. The same love and light that I witnessed could be found in everyone and everything. So I began to look for Daniel, to look for love and at the crucial point in my life, Daniel was right when he said, Because the same love in him Just as I tell my students back at school, there is so much goodness in you, and you are all, each and everyone of you, worthy of love and belonging, just as you are, imperfectly perfect. And once you begin open yourself to love, you will learn to see it everywhere, creating a peace, a freedom and a truth that will shift your overall, Think about it. If I stand right here my view changes entirely. The same is true for love. If we can begin to make an effort to love and be loved we will bring a whole new level of meaning to our relationships I'm going to ask you Picture the sun. Author Anthony de Mello writes: &quot;Has the Sun ever said Look what happens to a love like that. Is there somebody in your life Picture that person now. Remember the lighthouse. Remember its primary purpose: Is there somebody in your life a little direction? Picture that person now. And, lastly, picture the disco ball. Daniel was free to be himself because he loved himself unconditionally. We could all reflect so that we can dance Is there something in your life Gently float open your eyes and smile. Twelve years ago, after Daniel died, I decided to ask his cousin Lia out We had so much to talk about, and I'm happy to tell you that, I asked Lia to marry me. She continues Lia is my sunshine, Our oldest is almost three, whom we affectionately call J.D., and he's our little disco ball. We also have another son, His name is Casey Christian, When people ask Lia if the boys will play football in the NFL she says, &quot;Maybe.&quot; But our only wish for them where they can love and be loved. Thank you very much. (Applause)