- Hey, Youtubiverse. Coming up next, StarTalk Cosmic (exciting music) This is StarTalk. I'm your host, Neil deGrasse Tyson. Your personal astrophysicist. And I got with me Chuck Nice. - Hey, Neil. - [Neil] Chuck, today is Cosmic Queries. That's one of our favorite forms. - Everybody love it. - Everybody loves it. - Everybody loves it. - Everybody love it. - Everybody loves it. - Everybody love it. And. (laughter) We are, in fact, educated people. - I know. My mom is spinning in her grave right now. - So, but this is a Cosmic Queries of a topic we've never solicited before. - No we have not. And the topic is the deep. Deep space. Deep thoughts. - Deep questions. - Deep questions. - Chuck, you got to give - Okay, here we go. - By the, we did this once. - [Chuck] Yes, we did. - And I think I beat you by Just barely. Let me hear it. - Oh, here we go. Deep thoughts. - Deep thoughts. - Yeah, you got me already. - Deep. - See, I got to drink - And smoke a cigar. - Yeah, I got to smoke a - Smoke and alcohol just - But then it becomes a deep voice and somewhat Harvey Fierstein. - [Neil] Raspy. - Yeah, it was like deep thoughts. - Thoughts. - [Chuck] Oh my god. - If you put on the accent. - Deep thoughts. - Thoughts. (laughter) Scotch doesn't give you the - That'd be pretty cool if it did. A couple scotches. - Deep, deep. - Could someone call me an Uber? I've had too much to drink. - Deep. All right, let's get deep. And I like deep thoughts, 'cause usually there isn't a right answer. So, you just get to sort of play with it and see where it takes you. - So, this is deep questions only. - Let's do it. Solicited from our fanbase. - It's from our fanbase. And, as usual, we start because they're fans that pay us. (laughter) And nothing says fandom like a check. - All right. There are different levels - The way Patreon works. - What's the lowest level? - $5 a month. Actually, you can go down to two. - [Neil] $2 a month. - But we really want so that you can get the And being able to get extra content. - We revamped that recently. - And we read your names. - I don't remember what's in the list. One of them, I think, - [Chuck] Yes, that's the. - We put you on StarTalk. - Yes, you come on the show and you are a guest on the show. - Right, and you get to ask - That's cool, man. You know what, I would do. - We didn't say whether - Oh, that's so wrong. - No, no, we do. - By the way, wouldn't that It's like, &quot;So, when can Oh, you can't unfortunately. All right, so, let's go And here's the question from Jonathan Wax. And Jonathan says or asks, &quot;What boggles your mind more than the thought of endless time or the thought of endless space?&quot; So, it's impossible to truly because you would spend the rest of your existence doing so. - Well, here's. Two things boggle me. There's a beautiful frontier in the field of neuroscience. - Oh, interesting. - So, I have two questions related to that that boggle my mind. - [Chuck] Okay, I'm - Can the human brain - It's a great question. - If it is the human brain. - That actually creates the human mind. - That creates the human mind. - That's a good question. - That's what I'm saying. Or do you need something outside of that that is greater, smarter, different? So that it can come in as its own test kitchen. - Wow. - [Neil] Carl Sagan has famously said. - Go ahead. - That humans are the universe's - The universe is understanding - Through humans, correct. Without humans, there'd However, that elevates us higher Because who says we are the measure of what is intelligent in this universe? - Well, we do. - Exactly, exactly. - So, that statement, it's kind of like a That's like the universe, the Descartes. - I think, therefore I - Right, but it's like we - Ooh, ooh, Chuck. - Every once in a while, - We think, therefore you are. Rather than I think, therefore I am. Ooh, Chuck, that was beautiful. - Aw, thanks, man. - We should end the show right now. We ain't surpassing that thought. (laughter) Thank you for watching StarTalk. It's downhill from here. So, I wonder whether there is a level of intelligence out there where we are to they what - That's interesting. So, how. Oh, that's terrible. - Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. - Oh, I hope not. - You can go to a chimpanzee and say, &quot;Tomorrow morning at 8:30, let's go to Starbucks and Nothing in that sentence makes Or ever will. - I'm pretty sure there's I'm just pretty sure there is I'm just saying. - You think Starbucks figured out how to make chimp Starbucks? - Yeah, Starbucks has coffee somehow, someway. - Is that why they're so hyper at the zoo? - Exactly, you know what I mean? You go to get your coffee. And it's just like, &quot;Curious George? Curious George? Decaf latte for Curious George.&quot; Okay, sorry. - Wait, wait, so. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Here's why I say that. And I say this many times. I've written it. I will tell you to your face now. - [Chuck] All right, good. - So, there's about 1% difference in DNA between humans and chimps. Yet we like to think of ourselves as. - [Chuck] Highly superior. - Highly superior Maybe the difference in our brain power is as small as that 1% indicates. So that pulling termites that was carefully From a bush. Maybe that is not very far from. - Space travel. - The Hubble Telescope. (laughter) Think about it. No, no, I know this sounds crazy. No, no, think about it. Maybe. - Oh, look at those cute, little humans and their telescopes - [Neil] That's what I'm saying. - Look at. Is that a space shuttle? Did they just launch. - So, now, watch. Smartest chimp that are studied in labs that are brought before chimp societies. You bring them forward They'll stack boxes to reach a banana. It might put up an umbrella. They'll do some things. Have rudimentary sign language. Our toddlers can do that. - Right. - But those are the smartest chimps. - You're right. - But our toddlers do that. - Same thing with dogs. Dogs have about. - I can do this example for dogs, as well. But chimps is simpler. - 'Cause they're closer to us. - [Neil] Even closer. - I got you. Got you. See what you're doing. - You see where I'm going. If the smartest chimp equals our toddler and there's only 1% let's go 1% beyond us. - Ooh, that's scary. - That's what I'm saying. If we go 1% beyond us in that - Yeah, they're traveling They've figured out light travel. - Then the smartest human, They'll take Steven &quot;This human is slightly because he can do astrophysics Like little Timmy over here who just came home from alien preschool.&quot; - Right. - The toddler. - The toddler, right. - And they'll say, &quot;Oh, Isn't that cute? Let's put it up on the refrigerator. Oh, you just derived the Oh, isn't that cute?&quot; - That's funny. - So, if the smartest human their average people will have thoughts. They will have sentences that will rise above and beyond our to understand. And I stay awake at night wondering whether the universe that are out of reach of the neurosynapses of the human brain. That's my answer. - So, there's information out there that we just cannot conceive or perceive. - We don't even know how to - [Chuck] To get an answer. - Correct. - We don't know the answer. We don't know the - [Neil] To get an answer. - Right. - And not that we don't know it, 'cause we haven't told it yet. - Just can't conceive of the question. - Can't conceive it. You go to a chimp and say. Go to a chimp and say. What would it be? - Something as simple to get some place. Chimps can't do that. - The stars? What? Navigate? What? Space ship? What? Rocket? Fuel? What? None of that. None of it. We can't even have that conversation. So, that's my point. - Now I'm thinking that the whole thing might be some type of science experiment by some alien kid now. - Yes, why not? Why not? - Ugh. - We are all a simulation who hasn't moved out of the house yet. - That's so funny. We're the Minecraft of - Yes, Minecraft, yes. - Wow, wow, yeah. - And, when things get they stir the pot. They throw in a politician or a war. A crazy person. Oh and now it's entertaining. So, we're just entertainment for. - This is the best video game. Okay, wow, man. Listen, that's a great answer That's a really. - It doesn't so much boggle my mind. It upsets my mind. - Yeah, I was about to say. It's very upsetting. - [Neil] Are we not. - I'm mad. I don't even know why. - Here's my one out. - Go ahead. - Because, for humans, our - [Chuck] So true. - You don't have to invent calculus. Somebody else did that. You just have to use it. You learn it and use it. So, I have the feeling that we are. Every next generation that has brilliant people contributing to our understanding of the universe. They're adding a rung to a ladder. - [Chuck] Right. - And then we all sort of climb up that. And then just get that next rung. And we climb that. And then the next rung. - Well, with that in mind, I think that the next is that we will create an That's really the deal. - This scares the hell out of everyone. - [Chuck] Yeah. - Because that intelligence will say, &quot;We don't need you.&quot; - You know what? We'd have to say you're right. - That's what happened in the Matrix. - Yeah. - You're a virus on this Earth. - Mister Anderson. I smell you Mister Anderson. - No, he was smelling Morpheus. - Oh, that's right. That's right. - Get your Matrix. If you could go there in front of me. That's my favorite movie. Don't even. - Yes, he was talking to Morpheus when he was tied up in the chair. - It's the smell. (laughter) - You know what? You got to have some really serious BO for a computer to tell you you stink. I'm just saying. - That's good. - I'm just saying. All right, let's. - You get through the - So, this is alexgreg56 from Instagram. And alexgreg says this. If the universe needs then what is the point of doing science? Is science not, in fact, the discipline of trying to grasp what's around us? By the way, is this statement not equal to the old one, which to make it that way, so, just don't ask? - Of course, I've never But the shorter version of that is God works in mysterious ways. - [Chuck] That is so true. - When you can't explain it. - Well, the Lord works in mysterious ways. - And, if you can explain Oh, God has blessed you. You bless God. Then, as a tsunami takes out - [Chuck] God hates you. - No one says that. - No one says that? Why don't we say that? We should say that. I want to start saying. You know what? I think God hates you. - Well, the most hateful is the one represented on insurance forms. - Oh, that's so true. - [Neil] Acts of god. - Acts of god. - Right, it's only very bad things. No one says &quot;Flowers An act of god.&quot; No, it's tsunami took out your house. - That's an act of god. - And now you're homeless on the street. Act of god. - Wow, look at that. This moment of God hates you brought to you by Farmers Insurance. (laughter) - State Farm. - State Farm. (laughter) - Dun dun dun dun. - Bum bum bum bum bum bum bum. - What's that one? Nationwide. - Is not on your side. Nationwide is on your side. God is not. Okay, that's enough. I'm probably gonna get some hate mail now. Chuck, you hate God. Chuck is at it. Okay, sorry. So, is science, in fact, the discipline of trying - So, what he started quoting me. Where I said I open my book, the Astrophysics for People in a Hurry, with the quote, &quot;The universe to make sense to you.&quot; What that means is your which rose up out of the Serengeti, which help us not get eaten by lions, they're very good at that. They're not as good at They're not good contemplating timescales much longer than your life expectancy. - True. - You can't intuit billions of years. You can't intuit infinitesimals. There are things that are hard for us. There are things that may Can you picture a five-dimensional cube? - No, I cannot. - No, you cannot. Can you picture a four-dimensional cube? - Probably not, no. - Actually, the tesseract is close. That's like a. - I can actually picture that. (laughter) 'Cause I've seen a drawing. - I have a tesseract. - Do you really? Get out. - I'll bring it in Monday. Another episode. - Another episode. - The episode of higher dimensions. - [Chuck] Sweet. - The whole thing on - That's a good episode. Yeah, I like that. We did that? - We did that already? How come I don't remember it? Man, I'm getting old. Did I have my tesseract in my hand? - Now we gotta do it again. (laughter) - Which I took from Thanos. What it means is, if what is or is not true in the universe, your senses are not the of whether it's true. - [Chuck] So true. - Because the senses give you of what's actually going Your eyes. You would never trade them for anything. Yet they only expose your mind to a very tiny, narrow strip of all the electromagnetic You can't see infrared. You can feet it as heat. But you can't see it. Ultraviolet, you can't see that, either. You can feel that in a delayed sense by getting sunburn and skin cancer. It's not telling you in that instant. It's a time delay. But keep going out. There's infrared, ultraviolet, Can't see any of that. But the universe is So, are you gonna say, &quot;My that there is in the universe. And, therefore, it makes sense.&quot; No, as long as we detect things that fall outside of our senses, it's a challenge for you to declare that what we say, do, and discover makes sense. The very statement &quot;makes sense&quot; means your senses can contemplate it. That your senses have experienced. If I let go of a ball and it floats up, you say, &quot;That doesn't make sense.&quot; 'Cause your senses always told you that, if you let go of a ball, it drops. And, in fact, the very Not the. - Frozen. - Not the Frozen version. But just let it go means drop it. They mean the same thing. But that can only be true on Earth with the force of gravity pointing down. In space, in free orbit, you let go. It just floats there. - Stays right there. - [Neil] Stays right there. - Like my problems. Yeah, I must be in space. 'Cause all my problems. Somebody says drop it. And I say I did that. They're still here. - And you let it go and it's still there. - Exactly. - So, my point is the methods of science give you a way to understand what is true without it being hinged on whether your senses think it's true. - [Chuck] Nice. - So, the message science where you can still probe the universe. Whereas God works in mysterious ways kind of ends that conversation. Whereas I say I've that can see in ways humans cannot. Oh my gosh. That opens entire worlds of investigation. Entire branches of science. And there you have it. - All right. - So, it's Cosmic Queries. - [Chuck] Yes, it is. - The Deep Edition. - Deep. - Deep, yes. - Deep. - Deep. - [Chuck] Deep. - Deep. - Okay. - I think I know the difference. I think we're hitting the same note. But I have more sort of cavity resonance. - This is true. - Chest cavity. - Well, you're a bigger guy than I. - Oh, yeah. (laughter) Okay, Chuck. - All right, here we go. So, this is from probablyasleep. - That's the name of the person? - That's the name of the person. - Okay, your momma didn't like you. (laughter) - How long do you think the human race will actually survive? Wow, I mean, there's - Well, you can look at what is the average life expectancy of mammals? Mammal species. And, last I checked, it was Something like that. And so, we've been around. - We have a long way to go. - We have a long way to go. We've been around a couple in our current anatomical form. Cro Magnon form. And so, that means we But this presumes that the species is not smart enough to kill itself. - Well, then it's over. (laughter) It was nice knowing you guys. - Yeah, we have invented And I don't think the elephants did. Nobody else did this. The mice. No, they're not killing themselves. Humans, yes. - Yeah, maybe cockroaches - [Neil] Why? - 'Cause, when everything's gone, they're gonna be the only ones left. And it's like. - No, no, then they don't have to invent us in the first place. What kind of reasoning are you using here? - They want everything else gone. - So, they need us to build the structures that they then move into. - Right, and they move in. (laughter) I don't mind it. That makes perfect sense. We are. I think what he's really asking is, in your estimation, how long do you think we will last? - I give us 20 years. (laughter) - [Chuck] Oh, that's funny. - No, I think we're good. This is why many people want to become a two-planet species. Terraform Mars. Send some humans there. So, if something bad happens on Earth, you still have humans somewhere else. - Wow, that is not encouraging at all. - Not for half the people who - Exactly. - So, if an asteroid if AI gets out of hand. - So, I understand seeding something with a remnant for That's extraneous. I mean, that's something that's outside of our own destruction. Even though we could stop if we put resources. - Ain't nobody doing it. But we know how. - [Chuck] I'm saying, if we we could stop even that from happening. - So, what's the example you're giving? - What do you mean? To stop the asteroid? - No, no. - So, what I'm saying is where, as the Buddhist monks call it, the so-called monkey brain that causes us to do so much and to the planet. Will we ever get to a place or we're able to train to overcome that? Now, it does happen in some people. - I get it. First, I've never heard a Buddhist monk say the phrase monkey brain. I've never heard that. This is a thing? - This is a thing. - Okay, fine. I got to attend more monasteries. You feeling monkey brain today? All right. - Delicious. - I've heard of reptilian brain. But not monkey brain. So, the reptilian brain that goes on within you. So, if we follow the in his book The Better he studied the likelihood of or dying before adulthood, which is dying, at the hands of another human from early days of tribal of state-sanctioned global warfare. And what he found is that the likelihood of you dying in that way has - Okay. - So, tribal warfare, you would of the other tribe. Or the entire tribe. And then you win and you get their land. That doesn't happen today. - True. - [Neil] The state surrenders - True. - Saving the lives of the If you look at. I did this just recently. If you look at what countries had the greatest percent in the Second World War. Was it Belarus? One of them is very high. It's like a third. I forgot the exact numbers. But they're high. But they're not half. And you keep going down. And you get to even Germany. Even ones that were heavily bombed. Germany, Japan. A fraction of the total population. That is not how it used So, now consider that, even so, between 1939 and 1945, 1,000 humans were killed for every hour from 1939 to 1945. - Wow. - [Neil] Is that going on today? No, no. - No, we're really slipping. - No, stop. - We really gotta pick up our game. - Just so we can. So, the point is. Often, that era is called 'Cause they fought evil Although my father fought So, he's not thinking that He has other perspectives on that period. - [Chuck] It's the second - My point is is the greatest generation the one where the fewest fraction of everyone dies out of hate? We might have a lot of hate. But, if the number of is lower than ever before, then this arc that you are hinting at, that maybe the next generation maybe that's gonna work. Europe, with all of their they actually haven't been at war with each other for 70 years. Is there another 70 year period in the history of Europe where I don't think so. - Not if Twitter has (laughter) - What you're saying is - [Chuck] Back then. - Back then. Oh my gosh. - Let me tell you something. The war wouldn't have stopped People would have said, &quot;I surrender.&quot; A tweet would have gone out. It would be like, &quot;I take it back. Let's keep fighting. Let's keep fighting. I don't care.&quot; - I hate you more. So, maybe we are getting Time still needs to bear that out on a level that would please everyone. But I still worry that this primal brain will always segregate us all And thereby justify doing - Interesting. I think you're right. - Who's the comedian? Was it Franklin Ajaye? One of the guys from the '70s. - Back in the day. - In the day. In the day. He was talking about who And he says, &quot;Read the papers? What? In Northern Ireland, the are fighting each other? And they're both white?&quot; He said, &quot;You know I don't have a chance. 'Cause I'm Black.&quot; - That's funny. That's true. - If white people divide two Christian communities and they're both white and - It's over for you, brother. - It's over for everybody else. If people can kill each it's almost no hope in this world. So, yeah, I don't know. So, I'm sorry. I don't have a good answer. - That was a pretty good answer. The answer is we're not gonna make it. (laughter) - I'd like to think we go thousands of years into the future and possibly outlive the sun. - [Chuck] All right, that'd be great. - But starhopping to - That's, you know, I'm just gonna say that's the way it's gonna end. 'Cause I won't be here. So, that's great. - Maybe. It has been said that the is now alive. - What? That's a. - No, this is how you do it. - [Chuck] I know what you're saying. - So, they get some new thing that makes you live an extra 50 years. So, now you live to 150 instead of 100. And then, somewhere in Now, you can live another 200 years. So, now the 150 goes to 350. Now you can live 500 years. Now you go to 1000. You can live 5000 years now. So, as we progress in our If we can reverse that or there's someone alive today - That's pretty cool. I like it. - So, if that happens, you That's all. - This is true. That's the premise of a Where people actually and put it into what they call - I think I voiceovered the - Oh my god. I think we had that conversation once where you told me that. 'Cause I told you I was a fan. - I don't remember if it was But I lent my voice to the cause. - Nice. Wow, all right. Well, let's go to joey24. Joeyjr24. He says this personal question. Based on all your experiences - Personal for me or for you? - [Chuck] Personal for you. - Okay. - Nobody asking me anything. (laughter) He says, based on all of your experiences and knowledge thus far, what do you think the meaning He just asked you what according to Neil deGrasse Tyson? - Okay, so, in my next book. - [Chuck] Uh oh. - Yeah, you never hear me plug my stuff. - I was gonna say. Here's the meaning of life right now. Plug your book when you get a chance. (laughter) - My next book's called - [Chuck] You know what? Yes. - It's the correspondence who've had similar angst - That's not just the book. It's not about that. It's about all kind of different - All kinds of letters. But a very recurring theme is that people want to know the meaning of life and the significance of And some of them come Some are secular. But everybody's got this burning issue. - Yes. - So, here's how I have dealt with it. Others will do it other ways. - [Chuck] Okay. - But here's how I deal with it. - [Chuck] I'm interested now. - Many people are in search as though it's behind - Everybody knows it's in a drawer. - In the back near the paperclip. - It's in that junk drawer, too. It's not like an underwear You know that drawer. You go to look for stamps and stuff. - Yeah, yeah, that drawer. That drawer. The junk drawer. - The junk drawer. - Everybody's got a junk drawer. - Everybody got a junk drawer. - It's near the kitchen somewhere. So, if you are looking for meaning, you may never find it. So, instead, recognize to manufacture meaning. Create it within yourself. And that's what I do. My meaning for life is derived Have I lessened the That brings meaning to me. Because that means the because I was in it today. If, after your day is over, you have subtracted meaning. - I should kill myself. 'Cause, at the end of every day, somebody is like &quot;That mother beep beep.&quot; But go ahead. - So, lessen the suffering It doesn't mean redirect your whole life, mind, body, and soul. But, if you can help help an aging person, Just put a little bit of joy in the world to lessen the suffering. I also try to learn something every day. - All right. - Now, I like being a perpetual student. Most people hated being students. This saddens me. School is finished and what do you do? You run down the steps. School is out forever. Out for the summer. That attitude captured in that song is as though you don't And what's your only job in school? - It's to learn. - To learn. And somehow that's a chore. I don't blame you for feeling that way. I blame the school system for not instilling within Knowing that you'll spend not in school than in school. And so, if you have curiosity, you can be a lifelong learner. And so, I want to lessen and make sure I learn something more about the world today - Nice. - And who's to say whether that can help me be better at lessening So, that is how I make meaning in life. And, as a result, I've Thousands. And I read a little bit. You know, I have a and I cycle them out. And, every day, I try. It's harder now. 'Cause I get recognized. But I try to help people every day. Total strangers. - That's nice. - Yeah, so, you can make Don't look for it. 'Cause you may never find it. - You know, I'm gonna say. As a philosophy, that's admirable. That's doable. - [Neil] That's in the book. I wrote that in the book. - Nice, excellent, excellent. - Thank you. Give me another question. - We got one more question coming. - We can fit it in this segment. Go on. - Oh, here we go. Aw, man. - What? - Ninjanay, ninjanay. Okay, there you go. I think that's your name. (laughter) Damn you, people. - Okay. - On Instagram, says &quot;I the vacuum of space. How exactly is it a vacuum?&quot; - [Neil] Very nice. - That's a really good question. - Okay, so, when I was a kid, a vacuum was a physical object. - Yes, it was. - When I heard physicists I just imagined all So, I didn't know that It was a concept. And then you make a machine I just didn't know that. So, I learned. Okay, so, a vacuum is where Okay, you can have objects there. But, when we think of a vacuum, it's not a place where It's a place where there's no air molecules moving typically. Generally, you can have some. And we would still You have to distinguish or a perfect vacuum. You know what happens? If there's an object and you take away all the air molecules, the object outgasses. There are air molecules embedded in the surface of that object and they start coming out. It's fascinating. Then you heat it. It sends out more. It's very hard to make a perfect vacuum. Very hard. So, here's an old saying. Nature. - Abhors a vacuum. - Abhors a vacuum. These are people who have Most of the universe is a vacuum. Nature loves a vacuum. - [Chuck] Nice. - Was I Trumpy in there. Love. - Nature loves a vacuum. - A vacuum. - Preferably Trump brand vacuums. Trump brand vacuums. We suck the best. (laughter) - There's another saying. There's no such thing as gravity. Earth sucks. You ever hear that one? - Oh, okay. - So, the point is, when all the air wants to go And it leaves a vacuum everywhere else. So, a vacuum is simply And it's not anything deep. The odd thing in the universe is that you have places where Those are the unusual And they're called stars and the atmospheres of rocky planets. - [Chuck] Nice. - So, there you have a vacuum. So, Chuck, I want to put some closure on this vacuum question. - Okay. - Okay, this is the second. No, the third book I ever published. - Oh, okay. - It's called Just Visiting This Planet. - [Chuck] All right. - And it's a collection of Q and A. I had a column with the penname Merlin. People asked fun, really I collected. This was decades old. But there's some timeless content here. Somebody asked about the vacuum. - [Chuck] Yeah, go ahead, please. You can't read otherwise. - Okay, here we go. The best vacuum you will find anywhere. Forgot I wrote this. I wrote this 30 years ago. - That's cool. - The best vacuum you will find anywhere, according to four out and five out of five astronomers, is the void of intergalactic space. What we can then ask is No, it stills contains space. If you feel obliged to call then you must invent a word to refer to the region In this location, where we there can be no nothing. - Wow. - Let's call it, we're left - Nothing nothing. - A place where there's not even nothing. - It's the nothing nothing. Wow, I like that. - I'm just saying. So, Chuck, you want some more vacuum talk? - Of course. I feel like you just showed up at my door and dumped some dirt on my carpet. (laughter) - More vacuum talk. - [Chuck] Okay, vacuum talk. - So, in Death by Black Hole. I don't remember what So, in the chapter on being dense. - Okay, something I - The range of measured is staggeringly large. We find the highest where neutrons are so tightly packed that one thimbleful would weigh about as much as a herd of 50 million elephants. - 50 million. - And then a rabbit at a magic show. And nobody tells you that thin air already contains over 10 - [Chuck] Wow. - Thin air. - [Chuck] Thin air. - Okay, the best can pump down to as few as 10 Best vacuums. - That's the best vacuums? - In a cubic meter vacuums. 10 billion air molecules - Okay. - Interplanetary space gets down to about 10 million atoms per cubic meter. But, while interstellar space is as low as half a million atoms per cubic meter. - Wow, that is nothing. (laughter) Wow. - That is nothing. - A mere 500,000 atoms. - The award for nothingness, however, must be given to the space Intergalactic space. Where it is difficult to for every 10 cubic meters. - Wow. - [Neil] That wins. - That's almost nothing nothing. (laughter) That's almost nothing nothing. - All right, we're gonna go - Really? We only have five minutes left? - [Neil] Okay, let's go. - Okay, here we go. This is Ja Soldana says, &quot;Right now, what should be the priority in the field of space exploration? Searching for life, searching for potential threats or is there just no hurry Greetings from Mexico.&quot; - Mexico. - So, what is it? Is it. Are we looking for life? - He wants my opinion? I got an opinion. - Exploration, life. Go ahead. - I got an opinion. - [Chuck] All right. Go ahead. - I want to do it all. - Why not do it all? All of the above. - All of the above. - [Chuck] E. - Because the moment you they'd say, &quot;Why are you 'Cause we voted that way. But maybe you don't know and you want to do that. Some people want to do that. Here's what you do. You don't build a road You build roads everywhere. So that, yeah, I want I want to visit this rocky monument. I want to do things that - I'm going to see the - Exactly, so, what you that is modular. Strap on different This combination gets you This gets you to the backside of the moon. This gets you to Mars. So, you don't prescribe what it is you're gonna do next in space. You let the creativity and imagination of all those who have ever looked up say, &quot;This is what I want to do.&quot; And you say, &quot;Here you go. Two rockets from aisle B, You're on your way.&quot; - Can I put that on a credit card? (laughter) - That's why I got it. - Here we go. All right, Adam on the from Instagram. How far behind do you if the Earth didn't have a moon? Wow. - Okay, so, it's not It's how far advanced we'd be. - Ooh, wow. - Okay, so, let me split this out. - Yeah. - I tweeted, during Space Week, the 50th anniversary There's a saying that's It's if God wanted us to explore space, he would have given us a moon. - Right. - Okay, so. - That's a good saying. - That's a good saying. But that exploration is not That one is people going into space. You build a rocket to go where? You don't have a moon to visit. All right. If you're talking about astrophysics, do you know how many stars the - More than I can count. - No, it's about three to 4000. - [Chuck] Oh, really? - Unaided, yeah. Binoculars, it's a hundred times that. Telescopes, it's a billion times that. But eyes, three to 4000 stars. When it's a full moon out, 300 stars. The moon wreaks havoc on our ability to see the rest of the universe. So, our observing schedules are split according to And, if you kept bright time observations, it's the moon is up and bright objects in the night sky. - Wow. - The deep universe only comes to us when the moon is not up. So, the moon is basically - It's a star blocker. Wow. - [Neil] Yes, star blocker. - Look at that. - That's what it is. So, astronomy would be probably half again more advanced. Because we would have had these greatest telescopes in the world looking at the night sky twice as often. In the darkest parts of the night sky. There you go. - Wow. - Next. - That's a damn good answer. Okay, this is eversinapore. I don't what his. Who cares? I'm sorry. - Chuck, whoever that is cares. - Let me tell you something. - That's the last time he's - All right, well, you I'm gonna call you George. All right, so, George wants to know this. What is the shape of space itself? - Ooh. - [Chuck] That's a good question. - Well, space can be curved in the presence of matter or energy. As prescribed by Einstein's Exactly. And there's the oft repeated saying. Matter tells space how to curve. Space tells matter how to move. So, space has curvature in the presence of matter and energy. It curves in towards it. With the ultimate expression Where it curves in and - Wow. - If you want to ask what is that's like saying what's The observable universe. It's basically a perfect sphere. - Wow. - [Neil] Because it's your horizon. - Right, okay. - It's a perfect sphere the your horizon is a perfect - That's right. - The same distance in every direction. - That's right. If you're just out and there's - And so, what is the - A sphere. - A sphere. So, in space, you can see to your horizon in every direction. - [Chuck] All at once. - Which is at the. It makes us think we're But that's no different from you thinking you're in the center of the ocean. Just 'cause you're in the Next. - That's great. That's good stuff right there. Here we go. - Go for it. - This is Chen Yuen. Who says, &quot;If we were to billions of light years away, will we see a younger enveloping our bigger one now?&quot; - I have to rephrase that. 'Cause, as you look out, you but as they once were. So, you are looking at and younger universe. That's the whole point of cosmology. It allows. The fact that it takes allows us to see what the If light traveled at infinite speeds, you'd see the whole universe as it is now with no evidence of But, because it takes light time to move, you look out, you see and younger universe until And that is 14 billion light in every direction. 20 billion years ago. And, if you calculate that distance through that changing time, it's 14 billion light Okay, so, by the way, that horizon is much father away today. Because the universe has But you don't see it as it is today. You see it as it was. All right, so, I don't know - I say yeah. (laughter) - One last question. I feel like I can do a quickie. Go. - All right, I gotta find one that you could do really quick. - You don't know how quick - Okay. - We'll second judge that. - I'm gonna give you one here. Here we go. This is. Oh, why did I spell? This is basanti. Okay, I don't care what this is. - Chuck, you have to at least try, Chuck. - Okay, basantin. Okay, forget it. - I will read the name. Give it. - Here's the name right there. What's that say? What's that? - Basantsingh. - You're right. That's what it is. Basantsingh. It's the singh. Yeah, okay. - Okay, go. - Yeah, all right, wow. - Give it to me. - I should have known that. That's Indian. Okay, here we go. What if all the matter is just three-dimensional part of some four-dimensional matter and the dark gravity is just the gravity from the 4D part that we cannot see? - I love it. (bell ringing) (laughter) We are so blind to higher dimensions. It could be that all the mysteries in our three dimensions plus time are completely solved by looking at the stuff from a higher dimension. Right, right. Just, if you'd lived there'd be stuff going on. You'd have no idea. And we say, &quot;Can't you just see? Just look up.&quot; What is up? - What is that giant graphite - [Neil] On that flat surface. - On that flat surface. What is that? - Where is he? It's mysterious. He just shows up. Right, right. So, I love it. That's the kind of 'Cause then, when we figure out how to see higher dimensions. - Boom, we figured everything out. - Bada bing. - There you go. - All right, Chuck, we got to run. I enjoyed that. We should do more Cosmic - Deep Edition. - Chuck, now he's - Thank you, sir. - Very good. I've been your host, Neil deGrasse Tyson. Your personal astrophysicist. And, as always, I bid you. - Oh, wait. What am I saying? (laughter) - I bid you to keep looking up. (exciting music)