(guns firing) - [Woman] Look, you're - [Kid] I'm the only (grand orchestral music) (lasers blasting) - [Newscaster] We'll return right after this word. - [Announcer] It's summer, That means the dirt bikes fast and furious, a full as motocross madness roars back to the Mosier Valley Come on out, come on out, and catch the You'll see the big boys on their 125cc screamers. Fighting for thousands of The junior riders, from will let it all hang out on as they battle each other five, count 'em, five feet high! So pack up the family and come on out, come on out, (phone ringing) to Mosier Valley Motocross Park fun in the great outdoors. - Jack, will you get that? I got my hands full - [TV Announcer] Tackle to ever test a biker's metal. - [Janet] Jack, can you - [TV Announcer] And fight it Watch 'em get the as they dig their way one after another. - [Janet] Hello? - [Announcer] And you - Oh, Miss Clavell. I've been waiting for I've got the interview? Terrific, um, hold on a minute. Jack, turn that thing down and keep an eye on the bacon. Sorry, Miss Clavell. No, but I've had when I was the assistant of the support systems company, we had the grand opening It's very similar to what (smoke alarm buzzing) Miss Clavell, I'm very sorry, but could you hold on for - [TV Announcer] You'll Come on out, come on out, to dirt bike heaven. And catch the Fighting for thousands of The junior riders, from they'll be letting it on their 80cc mean machines, (TV buzzing) - Give me a sign - Mom, you just killed the TV. That's murder. - Don't you hear the I'm really very sorry. There was just a No, no, no problem, I can Mm-hm. Bye now. (smoke alarm buzzing) - You know, Mom, I was - Jack, I don't have one of your daydreams. Just toss me the dishcloth Ah! (coughing) Jack, tell me something, if like keep the bacon how do you expect to - On an 80cc dirt bike. It'll take me anywhere (imitating motor cross engine) (sighing) - Listen, I finally got and I'm gonna need your help. - Sure, Mom. - Look, this is our unless I land this job, and this is a grocery list, you think you can do and bring home all the change? - No problem, Mom. You know me! - Yes, yes, I do. (imitating motor cross engine) (upbeat rock music) - [Announcer] They're spread that's the 125cc experts are The champagne, the glory, although, not all of them are Number 80 right now, Sal DeLuca, in the lead. He's starting to left traffic, look it's DeLuca on the DeLuca picks it back up, but he has now been Mark Davidson, second place and they're tight together. No, Henderson battling for the third place spot. Bobby McCormick recovers. - Hey Bo, what's going on? - Just watching the view. - Yeah, I'd love to race bikes. - Who's talking bikes? Check out those. - [Announcer] 25 experts - It's a proven fact, there's - [TV Announcer] Just a moment. - The Bo man knows. - [Announcer] Davis Enders in a great battle and McCormick right there it's checkered flag, and Davis gets second, Enders - Hey, look, Max has got a bike. - [Announcer] We got just we need to call up the All 80cc juniors to the - Hey, Max, get a horse! - [Announcer] Trophies over at the office so please pick up Second call they tell for the 80cc juniors. - Let's go check out this. (mysterious synth music) - What'd I give for a - Oh, that bike is special. - Special? - Oh, yes, but it needs the That boy doesn't deserve it. I'm gonna have to buy it back. (bike engine revving) - [Announcer] Our starter so that nobody can get the jump. Watch them all, the gate goes One of them seems to be stuck. (bike engine revving) - All right, Max. - [Announcer] Mad Max is now he gets a launch and I don't think he's got - Come on, Max, go! - [Announcer] But a big outside around the corner. (bike engine revving) Mad Max does a nose Max is in deep trouble and he's pounding the mess. (crowd laughing) Zak Kelton riding like in a long time. Here they come back around, and Kelton challenges Suddenly, here's Mad max Mad Max, he flies into the lead! I can't believe how that Mad Max. - Max is gonna win. - [Announcer] What was that? Max is down in the only mud Face down in the mud, and it Turner taking the win, John Adams catching the and Zak Kelton ended up but what an afternoon it's been. - Max. Max, cool it. - This damn bike - Come on, Max, don't. - Don't tell me what to do, - But Max, there's this old man, and he wants to buy it back. - Oh, yeah? Where? - He's right over there. Max, he was just there, honest. - Oh, I'm sure. Who'd wanna buy this - I would. - Ha, with what? You never have any money. - Oh, yeah, Max? What do you call this? - You think I'd let a go for a measly $50? - Max, I thought you - Are you kidding? This is the greatest You saw me take those jumps. - Wait a minute, throw in and he'll give you his - [Jack] Bo, I-- - It's a deal. - Bo, wait a minute, come on, - Jack, picture it. Me and you on the bike, cruising the streets, they go crazy over motorcycles, and you know what that means. - But Bo, this money is It's our last $50. (throat clearing) - Gentleman, I'm waiting. - Jack, I know your mom, and she knows a good She wouldn't want you to This is the Bo man talking, - You what? - I told you not buy Well, see you later, buddy. You sure are looking - Mom, bikes like this but all this one cost me - You traded away your bike? - Yes, it wouldn't have - Fair? I can't believe you did this. Where are the groceries? - Well, I didn't have after I bought the bike. - I can't believe it. I'm going out breaking my neck, trying to get a job to And you're taking our last $50 and trading it in for a and talking about being fair. Just go to your room and stay there until I figure I don't know what its gonna (light synth music) Ugh! (bike sputtering) (upbeat dance music) (light pop music) - That's okay, fella. I'm not gonna hurt you. (upbeat pop music) You know I got this feeling So peel me off the ceiling You and me, we got a The first time I saw you Not knowing what to call you Underneath it all, you You get what you go for Now I'm standing on the And I'm touching what Yeah, standing on the And I'm touching what (imitating engine revving) (bike engine revving) What's going on? (bike engine revving) (light pop music) (bike engine revving) (upbeat pop music) (police siren wailing) Would you stop it? Great, look what you've done. I'm really in for it now. (motorcycle clicking) Mom's not gonna like - Where do you think - [Jack] Wait a minute. Stop it. - This is unit five, I I'm gonna form a nine, 11, 73. see if I can't do a six, one, four, nine, two, eight, B, (bike engine revving) (police siren wailing) (screaming) (car crashing) (engine revving) I'm telling you, it was a right up the fire escape. - [Captain] Look, - Aw, Captain don't say that, I've haven't taken - Wow. You are something special. (engines revving) (mellow guitar music) - Well, what do we got here, - Looks like we've got (laughing) - Hey, put me down. - Oh, you got it. Now, would you look at this - That's mine. - Don't look like much, let's see how it sounds. - [Jack] Get off my bike! (starter clicking) - Getting stubborn. - [Jack] Cut it out! (engine starting) - How'd I do that? - Run it, Big Slime! - [Big Slime] Look at that, - No! (bike engine revving) - [Gang Member] Whoa, whoa. Look out below! (Big Slime screaming) (groaning) (silly music) - Hey, wait, come back here kid, - I'm gonna get you, kid! - [Jack] What are you doing? (tense orchestral music) Wow. Look at that, it's beautiful. This is great. Look out! (light pop music) (light synth music) (door closing) (engine revving) (engine revving) (clattering) - Mom, no! Wait a minute, Mom. Mom, stop. Mom, what are you doing? - Selling the bike. With a little bit of luck, - Mom, you can't do this. This bike is special. - Look, Jack, I'm late. I don't have time for this. - Okay, Mom, I will tell The reason you can't is because it's got these - Will you give me a break? - But, Mom, it's the truth. Last night, it took me And we rode off a fire escape and then we jumped and then we raced away - Are you on dope? - Mom! - I'll see you when I get home. - But, Mom, its the truth. - Bye, Jack. - Mom! But Mom, I'm not kidding you. Come on, Mom, please. Mom! (dramatic synth music) - [Bo] I don't believe I believe in Playboy magazine. - Yeah, well, that's the last - Look, I know how much but you'll get another - Not like that one, Bo. - Hey, Jack. New bike rides great. Thanks for the 50, sucker. - We're gonna kick your Is that your age or IQ? (cheerful synth music) - It's a pleasure doing - Thanks, Mr. Zak. - Anytime, Mrs. Simmons. (upbeat rock music) - Kyle, look alive out (team cheering) - Okay, all right, It's the big one. I know they look good out there. They look great out there. I know you guys are better, I want you to know in every single one of you guys, What we gotta do? Gotta pick our pitches, right? What's the key word? - [Team] Hustle! - Hustle, hustle, hustle. Hands in everybody. All right, go get 'em. Come on! (team cheering) Hey, Bo. Jack, boy, I'm glad you Listen, I want you to your fast ball, okay? How's the old wing today, good? - I'm okay, I guess. - Okay, you guess? Is there something the matter, - Yeah, I guess so. - [Mike] You wanna tell - Sure. - You gotta remember, that when the tough get, uh. No, no. When the going gets tough, the, - The tough get going. - Yes, yes, thank you. Okay. You got it. Listen, anytime you you come see me, okay? - Okay, well thanks, Mike. - Okay, okay, got it. Good, good. (dramatic synth music) - Mike, could I talk to - Gee, I don't know, Ms. I mean, the game is - I found something out I think you oughta - [Umpire] Play ball! - Guess, it'll have to wait. Okay, guys. - But it's real-- - [Mike] Come on, guys, - Important. (melancholic synth music) (jolly synth music) - Wow, it looks like is about to cash in - [Umpire] You're out! - Hello, Ted! Ted Harper is a good man we hold his mortgage. (laughing) (snapping fingers) (motorcycle spurting) - Okay, this is it, Last to be, two out. We need a hit. Come on, give me your best shot. Here we go, buddy. Let's hear it for Jack, come on. (team cheering) Let's go, Jack. Here we go, here we go, here we go, here we go, get the pitch in. Come on, here we go, come Get a pitch in. - [Umpire] Strike one. - All right, no sweat. Okay, Jack, good swing, - Your swing's about as rusty (motorcycle engine revving) - Bo, it's my bike. (team cheering) (team cheering) (upbeat synth music) - Throw it in. Throw the ball in. - You're out! - [Jack] Come on, he - [Max] Hey, come on, I'm gonna throw the Come here, you little runt, - [Bo] Jack! - All right, wait, hold it, Alright, alright, come on. He was safe, he had safe. Safe, did you see that? Listen, he dropped the ball, he pinned him down, Come on, Ms. Clavell, Tell him what happened, go - I didn't get a good - I said he was out. This game's over. (team cheering) - Wasn't even close. (melancholic synth music) - Well, Bo, what do you think? - This is the bike you bought? - It sure is. Isn't it great? - But I thought your - I did too. I guess she just must and then left it here - Mothers can be so bizarre. - They sure can. How would you like to go - All right. - Hop on. - Max. (silly synth music) - [Max] Yes, sir? - If you persist in this under handed behavior, you'll make a superb (motor cycle engine revving) Ah! (upbeat rock music) - Boy, that rides great. It's a terrific bike. - Thanks. - I want to have one. - Come on, Bo, the food - Wait a second. Hey girls, wanna see my bike? - Your bike? I thought it was Jack's. - No, I was just - Well, how bout taking - Sure. (engines revving) (engine revving) - Whoa. (upbeat rock music) (kids laughing) - Mike, will you please the bank's position on this? Mr. Hodgkins and the board-- - Ah, missed me. All right, this one's Come on, come on, huh? One for good luck. All right, all right. All right, everybody out Let's go, everybody, get moving, Come on. - [Boy] Damn. - [Kid] What's his problem? - Mike, I just-- - What's the matter, Mike? I've never seen you so steamed. - Why don't you ask Mr. - Comprehensive analysis made by the bank's computer location for the new bank. Mr. Hodgkins' has given before they tear down But I'm sure Mike will be able-- - You're sure Mike will what? Go on, Ms. Clavell, what? Don't you understand? Don't you and your computer lose everything in my life, Or don't things like in your comprehensive analysis, - I'm sorry. - Mike, you can't let - Yeah, you've gotta fight it. - I don't know, guys. I mean, when the bank says That's it. - Ms. Clavell, can't - There isn't anything I can do. - But if you kick Mike then what will he do? - Where are we gonna hang out, - Can't you stop them? - I'm just an employee, Jack. I'm not the boss. (engine revving) - What are you doing? Stop it. I'm really sorry, Ms. Clavell. - It's okay, I just wish there - [Jack] We aren't gonna Now, we've gotta do something. - What? - [Jack] I don't know. (engine revving) (bright orchestral music) (imitating car engine) - My little Hodgkins, I'll barbecue the first (knocking on door) - Yes? - Mr. Hodgkins, shall I - Yes. (light orchestral music) - Janet Simmons, Mr. Hodgkins. - What a pleasure. - It's nice to meet you. - She's got excellent - Yes, I see that. Please. (woman screaming) - [Guard] Hey. (bike engine revving) (people yelling) - Well, I don't see any reason - Oh, that's wonderful. Ms. Simmons, Janet. You certainly have all to be a Hodgkins girl. - Thank you, Mr. Hodgkins. - Hey, here's an idea. Why don't we start by taking (speaking foreign language) - Oh, well. - Let's just seal our little God, what in God's name - Mom. - This is your son? - Well, he looks Jack, what are you doing? - I don't know. - What you do mean - Excuse me. - Mom, the bike brought me here. - Jack, if you took this - Excuse me. - Mom, I swear, I didn't. - Excuse me, just one second. What are we doing with a - How come you're throwing That's a real slimy thing to do. - Guard! - Jack, you've gotta take this It's his now. - I tried to stop him, Mr. - Take Evel Knievel and bounce My bank! My statue! - Oh, Jack. Oh, Mr. Hodgkins, I - Get out. - Hey, hey you, get out of - And stay out! (silly synth music) - He killed my little Hodgkins. (engine revving) - I'm sorry, but I don't But I've gotta take you back. I have to do what mom says. (engine sputtering) - I'll never get caught you just can't depend on them. Be right with you, lady. - Mr. Zak? I've gotta bring back my bike. - I'll give you 50 bucks for it. Take it or leave it. - But you already own it. - Oh well, that's Let me have it then. Out of the way, I I can't get anybody to Be with you, just a moment lady. Just can't depend on - I just can't leave you here, (engine sputtering) I've gotta do something. Excuse me, Mr. Zak? - You still standing around? - I wanna buy back the bike. - Make me an offer, - How about $50? - Sold. - There's only one thing though. - Yeah? - I don't have any money. - Oh, well, you come - Wait, maybe I can I could answer the phone, or I could even do Please, Mr. Zak, I could - It's a deal. (upbeat dance music) - You take this up to 674. I'll meet you across the street. (bike engine revving) Mom, I did take the bike back. - Then what is it doing here? - Mr. Zak said I could if I did deliveries for him. - And I can call Mr. Zak, - Right. - Oh, Jack. I don't know if I want You've been acting weird - Mom, I promise, I won't - Why did you barge into Mr. - Because he's kicking and that isn't fair. - But you don't just blast into You make an appointment, you go through the system. (engine sputtering) - Mom, from now on, I will. And I swear, I won't Mom, I'm really sorry Really, I am. (light orchestral music) - It doesn't matter. I don't think I could've lasted very long with Mr. He wasn't interested in - What was he interested in? - Nevermind. - Oh, that. (engine sputtering) Then I can keep the bike? - No more trouble? - Oh, you're the best and I'm gonna be the best kid. - [Janet] Yeah. - Come on, if we're we've gotta come here. Come on, stop fighting me, okay? Try things my way. Why do you always have to go on and head on into the things? We should do what Mom says Now, this is the right (engine sputtering) Trust me. Stay here and keep I'll be right back. Stay here. - It started with a then my own subscription my first rental property, and the rest is But so what if bank presidents We need love, just like (door bell ringing) - There's someone at the door. (speaking foreign language) (light orchestral music) - You. - Hello, Mr. Hodgkins. - Well, I can see you two so I'll just be running along. (whistling) (dog barking) - Good dog. Now back off, Scrooge, Why don't you select a nice And as for you, what you - Please, Mr. Hodgkins. I just came over here to for driving into your - I see. Well, I suppose it to admit that he was wrong. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm in the middle of a very - Oh, wait. One more thing Mr. Hodgkins, I was just wondering, if to help Mike save the Dog House? (scoffing) - Little boy, the Mike, was made by the (woman grunting) There's a impertinent (speaking in foreign language). - I'm having a hard - Bye bye. (glass shattering) - Mr. Hodgkins, do you I can go and speak with - Yes, of course, Goodbye. - When is the next meeting? - Tomorrow, great seeing you, I'm sure you'll make a fine - Can I go and speak with - Dandy, fine and dandy, (light orchestral music) Who's that knocking Who's that knocking Who's that (knocking on door) At your door Just a love sick president Did you choose a wine, my... (record scratching) Damn. That's the second one today. I've gotta put bars on - Come on now, you're because I've got a meeting with the board of directors. (engine revving) I told you Mom was right. It works every time if Oh, what's the matter with you? Don't be a nerd. Oh, I guess I've hurt Well, I'm not gonna You've got to learn to (motorcycles revving) (gentle guitar music) Come on, let's get out of here. Come on! Come on, let's get out of here. - I told you I was gon' - [Jack] You're gonna get - Oh, what's the matter? Is your bike busted? (gang laughing) - [Jack] Look, I'm very sorry and I promise, I'll never call you a nerd again, I swear. (bike engine revving) - How does he do that? (light orchestral music) - Well, that's wonderful, You must be very proud of Riley. Well, I'm sure he's gonna Oh, Jack's really coming around. We had a very productive talk. Very productive, excuse me, Jack, where are going - There's no time to talk, Mom. I've got a meeting with the - The board of Jack! (engine revving) - [Harriett] A board of Oh my God, Janet, you (light orchestral music) - Gentlemen. Gentlemen, it's about time for that press conference I matter of the softball Now, I've already given so let's put it to a vote. - Go, get them, RJ! - All those in favor of on the bank's softball team, Those opposed? - [All] Nay! - Ah, so, it's bye bye, bimbos. (all laughing) - You're beautiful, RJ. (knocking on door) - Yes? - Excuse me, Mr. Hodgkins, Jack Simmons is here. He says he has an - Simmons? No, I never heard of him. - Well, you know Jack, Mr. He's-- - Don't contradict me, Ms. Now, tell him to run along. Send those reporters in now. - But I-- - Now. Don't tilt it. Keep it neat, keep it neat. Good, good, good, get out, Welcome! Ladies and gentlemen, please, Gather around, don't be shy, the best seats are up front. (speaking foreign language) - Believe me, Jack, I I don't know what to say, Mike. I'm sorry. - Yeah, I know you're sorry, I'm sorry, everybody's sorry. That doesn't do me much - He told me that I could see He lied to me, he - I know, what else is new, huh? - [Jack] I guess being a rebel is the only way to get - What? (upbeat synth music) Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. What are you doing? - [Jack] Look out! (group applauding) - Thank you, a it gives me So, today, I have a very - [Guard] I thought I - Dear friends of the press, I humbly present the new (gasping) (people applauding) (engine revving) (woman screaming) - You. (engine revving) (light orchestral music) You. - I'm very sorry, Mr. Hodgkins, but I did have an appointment. - Hodgkins, what's - [Woman] Yes, Mr. Hodgkins. - [Man] Tell us the story. - [Press] Yeah, people - [Man] Yeah, exactly. - Just a little entertainment for you hard working folks Hey, who says press There's no business like Yes, sir! (laughing) - Yeah, but what about - Come on, let's talk. - What's going on? What's going on? Is Jack in there? Is he all right? - He's fine, the board's - They're listening to him? - That's a good sign. - Come on, Ms. Clavell, Jack's gonna change - That's possible. - Yeah, via wave of a - What's the matter, you - Maybe I used to, but not anymore. (people applauding) - We did it, Mike, the Dog - What's he talking about? - Well, young Jack here has that before the bank destroys - Mike's Dog House. - Your Dog House, that it had been pretty darn - You mean, I can-- - Mike, you have my that the board of directors to find an alternative I've already ordered our - That Hodgkins is a - Oh, thank you. Come on. (people applauding) God bless you, thank you. Thank you so much, thank you. - Gee, I don't know what to say. - Now do you believe in magic? - Well, yeah, I mean now. Hey, Jack. (kids cheering) - Shh. I'd like to say that would have gone down the tubes if weren't for my good Let's hear it! (kids cheering) We want Jack. - [All] We want Jack! We want Jack! We want Jack! - I know that kid. - Oh yeah? - Yeah, he's a jerk. - [All] We want Jack! We want Jack! We want Jack! - This is the greatest - [All] Aw. - Come on. Well, first of all, I would who has been so supportive - All right! - So, it's your mom, huh? - And also, I'd like to - [Girl] All right, Bo. (engine sputtering) - Oh yeah, and I would for being nice enough which has made it all possible. - [All] All right! (kids cheering) (light orchestral music) - Get the blueprints Look alive! A little higher, a - What's going on, Mike? - Bank foreclosed. Hodgkins says tearing it down noon tomorrow. - Mr. Hodgkins. Mr. Hodgkins, you can't do this. You promised me that - What I said, was that I I did, and gosh, there - But how do you know - It was all done by computer, and our data shows, this is the ideal location Right, Ms. Clavell? - Yes, sir. That's what the print out - But it could've How about letting me look (laughing) - You? - I got an A in and maybe I can find something Please, Mr. Hodgkins. - Look, look, sonny, I'm sure you're a real wiz kid, but I programmed the so there can't be a mistake. Now, run along home before I make you part of (bike engine revving) You keep this piece of before I have it demolished. - But you can't tear - Don't take it so hard, Jack. You did the best you could. - Yeah, in this life, I guess you just gotta - [Jack] Not me. - What a great day for Ms. Clavell, come here. (tense synth music) Take my picture. - [Construction Worker] Hey, Come back here, you little runt. - Officer, arrest that punk! - Yes, sir. (fast-paced synth music) This is unit seven. I'm on a nine, 11 with a on his left one niner, now - [Captain] Harvey, you wanna catch that kid. - Roger, chief. (car honking) - [Jogger] Whoa! - Three, 18, seven, 14, 11. I'm gonna perform a See if I can't six, one, ABM, over. Wow. (screaming) (laughing) - [Jack] Whoo! - Chief, this is Flaherty. I lost the kid. - Where the hell are you, - Well, I'm a, actually, - Take my advice, Flaherty. Stay there. - Okay. (grand orchestral music) - [Jack] Wow, lets go downtown. Woo! All right. Wow. We're going right over Oh man. Whoa, this is great. Uh-oh, where are we gonna land? Woo, hoo-hoo! - Hi, honey. How you doing? - [Jack] Oh fine, thanks, Mom. Sorry that I'm late. - That's okay. What have you been up to? - Oh, I was just busy. - Busy? - Yeah. - Doing what? - Wasn't any big deal. - It wasn't? What wasn't? - What I was doing. - Oh. (police siren wailing) (tense orchestral music) - [Mr. Hodgkins] The - Flaherty. - [Jack] No, not my bike. - You can't just come in here and take his bike - Show her the warrant, Chief. Your juvenile delinquent son construction trailer - He lied to me about - Until that eye sore I want that mechanical debilitated and locked up. (motorcycle revving) - The bike will be at The bail will be 100 - But I'll never have - And if you don't want your you'd better keep him away - Don't worry, he won't - Mom. - Ah, don't say anything, (somber orchestral music) (engine sputtering) (melancholic orchestral music) (engine sputtering) (knocking on door) Honey, your dinner's on the Look, I gotta go to a I'll be back in a couple hours. (tense orchestral music) - No! (phone ringing) Hello? Yes, this is Jack. What? Yes, sir, I can be there (light synth music) Hi, I'm Jack Simmons that I could get my bike back. - It's down the hall. Just make sure you keep it Okay, Joe, you can cut it loose. (light synth music) - Gosh, I really never - I see you got your - Mike, it was you? I don't know how I'll do it, but I'll try to pay you - Hold on, hold on, I - Well, then who did? - Ms. Clavell, you? - I can't stop him from but I can stop him from Be sure you take it - I'm already there. You're the best, Ms. Clavell. - You know you are. (motorcycle revving) How about if I buy you a - I'd love it. - Yeah, okay. - Hey, home's the other way. (ominous synth music) Stop it, stop it! You wanna go back to jail? Don't, don't! Now we're in for it. What the heck's the You don't understand that All they're gonna do is and then rip down Mike's place, and the only thing you can do Oh, come on, let's (engine revving) Where do you think you're going? Come on now, I don't Get over here, right now. That's more like it, buddy. Come on, let's go home. (engine revving) Hey! Go on, take off, see if I care. You're nothing but I don't want you anymore. You hear me? I don't want you! (grunting) - Oh boy, am I pooped. (light synth music) Jack. I know you miss the - I don't miss that bike. I hate that bike. I don't ever wanna see it again. I don't wanna talk about it. - Jack, honey. First, he loves the bike I don't know. Honey? (tense synth music) - Hell hath no wrath like That little monster will pay - Mr. Hodgkins. - I want that bike - We're doing the best - Well, you better do because I don't want at my groundbreaking tomorrow. Do you read me, Chief? - Loud and clear, Mr. Hodgkins. (bike engine revving) (sobbing) (engine revving) (electronics humming) (engine sputtering) (suspenseful synth music) (engine sputtering) (knocking on door) - Jack, the police are - Chief, are you telling can't find one miserable - No, I said, itt's just a matter of time, Mr. We'll find him. - Now you listen to me, if that kid disrupts my I'll use your loan application - Flaherty, you moron, - [Bo] I never thought I'd Usually, I'm trying - You know, it except I don't have - Believe me, Mike. You've got a lot of We owe you something for what We're not gonna let you down. - Sounds like you're - Why not? I've seen you work magic. What about the spirit You never let them quit. - Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I am quitting, aren't I? What? When the tough, no, no, when the going gets tough, the-- - The tough get going. - It's not over until it's over. I mean, it's not the size it's the size of the This fight isn't over yet. I gotta believe what I been - Now you're talking. What are you gonna do? - What I'm gonna do? I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'm going to Hodgkins and if I'm going down, I'm going down in style. - Oh, Mike, I'm so proud of you. - Ms. Clavell. - You can call me Maisie. - Maisie. - I don't understand why all the way over here to when you've got one at home. - Because there's no way into the bank's (computer beeping) Hey, Bo, look! (suspenseful synth music) - You did it! You tapped into the What do we do next? - Okay, now, we have to so we can get into the file to figure out what makes is the best place to - Sounds easy. - Now, what would Hodgkins - How about greedy? (computer beeping) (ominous orchestral music) - Pull over. Any sign of him, Max? - No, not yet, sir. - Find him, Max, or say bye - You've got nothing to Several of my friends are - Oh, Max, what a but if the whole police I think it's gonna take than a few of your (engines revving) - Well, that sounds like them, (heavy guitar music) Mr. Hodgkins, I'd like to He hates Jack, too. - [Big Slime] So, you're - Yes. It's a pleasure to meet you, Mr. Big Mr. Slime, Mr. Big Slime. - You know, Max told - Oh? - Yeah, you're my kind of guy. - Thank you. - All right, let's - Good hunting. - [Big Slime] Check out (sighing) - This used to be to jack up interest rates in. (computer beeping) (sighing) (light synth music) - [Jack] All right! (computer beeping) (suspenseful synth music) - Got you! Shut up and spread them, Flaherty, over. - Roger, Flaherty. - Let me speak to the chief. - This is the chief, you idiot. - Hi, chief. Listen, I'm three-niner in a Y, - Dammit Flaherty, will - I've got the bike - No foul ups, Flaherty, You bring that bike in. - Roger, chief. Oh, hey, no. Hey! (sighing) - It just doesn't make sense, (keyboard clicking) Bo? Bo? Hey, pee-wee. (gasping) Look, there's no good reason to put the new bank. In fact, these other Why would Hodgkins want on the Dog House land? (suspenseful synth music) - Do you realize I have at Hodgkins Bank right - Hey, Bo, be careful. You didn't do too well in - I might've gotten a D in but I know how to - This just doesn't make sense. - Let's check out my account. (computer beeping) Robert Krocaboom. 39 cents? I know I had at least 50. There. I think I'll give ol' Widow - Bo, would you cool it? - Why not? Every morning, the Widow and checks to see if Why don't I give her a surprise? (computer beeping) - It just doesn't make sense. What does Hodgkins got to gain - Well, let's just see how - Great idea. (phone beeping) - Hodgkins here. - Oh Mr. Hodgkins, we got the kid's bike. It won't be bothering - Good work, Chief. I'm on my way to the office now. Oh, Chief, if you're telling me the truth, your little loan is as (laughing) (computer beeping) - Gosh, you'd think would have more money than that? - It's like we both - [Jack] I wanna know what (computer beeping) No wonder he wants Mike - [Bo] Why? - See this, it's right here. Hodgkins Bank is paying - So? - So that greedy bum Hodgkins of directors at the bank into and so, that's the reason in that exact spot. - Well, that really sucks. - It sure does. Let's get a print out. - Chief! Chief. Officer, Chief. Help me! I can't stop this thing. It's resisting arrest. Chief! Come on, stop. Chief! Oh, ow. (motorcycle revving) - Flaherty, you moron! Bum da da dum bop Who's gonna be so Hodgkins, Hodgkins Who cares that he's - What's going on here? - Widow White is withdrawing from the bank. - She doesn't have a - The computer says she does. I've checked it a dozen times. - Widow White, excuse me, can we take care of I have to get to my ceremony this afternoon. - I want my money now, - Ms. Clavell? - [Ms. Clavell] Yes? - Ms. Clavell, handle this - No, I won't. - You won't? What do you mean you won't? - I'm tired of doing You do it yourself. - Me? (scoffing) (speaking foreign language) my little underling. That's why I hired you. - I know, and I find and completely contemptible. - Shh, shh. Be careful, Clavell. You think you're irreplaceable? A trained kangaroo - If you're thinking of because I already quit. And another thing, don't (light orchestral music) - Ow. What's happening here? Don't hit me. (suspenseful synth music) - All right now, go and I gotta pay a visit to Hodgkins. - Okay. - Okay. (motorcycles revving) (mellow guitar music) - Good to see you again, kid. I've been looking forward to jumping up and down (gulping) (lively big band music) - [Cheerleader] Hodgkins! - [Cheerleaders] Hodgkins! - [Cheerleader] Give me a H! - [Cheerleaders] H! - [Cheerleader] Give me an O! (gang laughing) - Bite his nose off, Big Slime, - Yeah, that'd be cool. - No, I think I'm gon' (laughing) (motorcycle revving) - [Gang Member] Ooh. - [Big Slime] Get that kid, - [Gang Members] Come Come on, move out, come on. - Hodgkins says he wants so he can push the button What Hodgkins wants, (motorcycles revving) (fast-paced rock music) - Mr. Hodgkins, there's with that bike. It seems we don't actually - Chief, I'm on my way to If that kid or bike get within you'll live out your days as a school crossing Do you like blubber? - I want that bike found now. (fast-paced rock music) (motorcycles revving) (tires screeching) (Mr. Hodgkins whistling) Who's the richest I am, I am Am I move that Dog You bet your ass I am Lock it up, it's not paid for. - [Chief] Mr. Hodgkins. - You'd better be ready - But uh... Flaherty, this is Now, you stick close to Hodgkins (crowd cheering) - [Girls] Hi, pee-wee! (giggling) - Bo, where's Jack? I've been all night - Gosh, I don't know, Ms. Gee, I love your new hairstyle. Is that new wave? (lively rock music) (motorcycles revving) - [Big Slime] Whoa! How does he do that? (screaming) (girls cheering) - Get ready for I may not win, but I'm going down with my - Yee-haw! - Mr. Hodgkins, this and this one stops it. - Yes, thank you, I can read. Now, get off, so I can Chief! (applauding) Thank you very much. I love you. Ladies and gentlemen, and faithful members of Thank you. (crowd applauding) (lively dance music) Now, I know how much you've all been gleefully the start of construction (crowd applauding) (booing) Now, it's my pleasure and to be able to press this and begin destruction that's been a thorn in my side-- - [Kids] Save Mike's Dog Save Mike's dog House, Save Mike's Dog House, - Chief, do something. - This is America. They're allowed to protest. That's how we got rid - [Kids] Down with Hodgkins, - Ladies and gentlemen, pay no I hereby declare the start of-- - [Crowd] Save Mike's Dog Save Mike's Dog House, - Flaherty, do something. - Okay, what? - Somebody, do something. No, not a pie, you fool. - [Crowd] Down with Hodgkins, (kids screaming) (upbeat synth music) - You rat, he's not a banker. I'll spank your bottom! I see you, Mike. Mike! Bye bye, Dog House. (suspenseful orchestral music) (bike engine revving) - Come on, come on. - Come on, you can do it, - [Crowd] Go, go, go! - Stop it, stop it. Put it down, put that pie down. You respect your elders. Good boy. - [Jack] You take care of the Excuse me, Mr. Hodgkins, - I have nothing to say to - Hey, that's my son - I warned you at your house, - Yeah, you were a jerk then, - [Jack] All right, Mom. (bike engine revving) (suspenseful orchestral music) (glass shattering) (engine revving) Let's go to the Motion - [Mike] Come on, Maisie, - This is not legal. (tires screeching) - Stop this bike. - [Jack] Not until you - I will listen to nothing. (police siren wailing) (Mr. Hodgkins yelling) - This is Flaherty, Chief. I'm on 11, 13, four, and headed towards route 12, - That's nothing, I got on route five, I'm gonna (tires screeching) - Oh God, I hate you. - Faster, Mike, faster. - Geez, you're an animal. - Be an animal, Mike, - [Mike] Yee-haw! (police siren wailing) - I got him now. Flaherty, why the hell they closed the - You never asked me, Chief. - Mmm. - Let me off this bike! - [Jack] Not unless you - I'm a banker, I refuse - [Jack] Well, this that you're the one making money in the bank's new building. - How did you find that out? - [Jack] From the I've got all the - I won't be blackmailed. (police siren wailing) (car honking) (motorcycles crunching) - Oh, no way. (motorcycles crunching) I'll give you that. Oh, please look out. (motorcycles crunching) I'm getting out of (bells ringing) (light synth music) - All right, all right, Now, I order you to pull - [Jack] First, you have - I won't be intimidated (siren wailing) All right, all right, - [Jack] I want you and help save Mike's Dog House. - Help save Mike's Dog House? That sucks! (Mr. Hodgkins yelling) - [Announcer] Suddenly, on the middle of the Can you freaking see that? I don't know if you can see it. - All right, all right, - [Jack] Just one more thing. - Are you out of your mind? Never. - [Announcer] This bike Look out, over the jump! - Whoa! Anything, anything, just (police siren wailing) - [Jack] There you go, Mr. - Thank God. (Mr. Hodgkins yelling) (laughing) I'm wet! - [Jack] It seem that Mr. has changed his mind Right, Mr. Hodgkins? - Whatever you say, just get me out of here. That stick is moving. Help! - Hey, you're missing You've gotta see this. (engine sputtering) What's the matter? (engine sputtering) This is what we've (chiming musc) Wait, don't go. (melancholic synth music) - Jack, what's wrong? - It's my bike, Mom, all - Well, honey, I know this - It sure is. But Mom, I was just then I guess that's that's working for me now. - Well, your dad used to say of magic hidden inside of us. It's just that sometimes, to help us find it. - And that's what my - And that's what you do for me. - Oh, thanks, Mom. - You know what the best Once you find that magic, no-- - Yeah, I know, nobody else - That's right. (bike bells ringing) (laughing) - Hey, welcome to the Welcome, welcome. Hi, Janet. - Hi, Mike! - Boy, you really did arranging for the grand opening. - Aw, thanks. Must be doing something right, I got more new clients - Great, great. (crowd applauding) (engines revving) - Listen, you wanna go how we used all your ideas? - Oh, I'd love to. - Great. I'll show you. - Bye, guys. Okay. - Oh, Jack, join us later (laughing) - Hey, Maisie, get ready - Congratulations, both of you. - Thank you. (upbeat big band music) - You better hurry up, Mr. it's almost time to - [Mr. Hodgkins] I'm - Mr. Hodgkins, we can't start - [Mr. Hodgkins] I'm - Remember our little - Okay, put that away. All right, all right. I'm coming out. (grand synth music) (kids laughing) Happy? - Wow, I sure would love - This is a very special bike, - Really? - Well, provided it has - Boy. - No, no, no, no. - Mr. Hodgkins, we have a deal. - On behalf of all the it is my great pleasure Mike's Dog House. (crowd applauding) And the new Hodgkins Bank. (crowd applauding) (lively orchestral music) (crowd cheering) What a brilliant idea. - [Jack] Thanks, I'm - Mr. Hodgkins, in the new bank, sir, boss. - You are such a weenie. - I'm sorry to be of telling, Mr. Hodgkins. - Just see that it doesn't Oh, Arthur. (earrings clanging) - You know what? I believe in you. - Come on, Walrus, think Open the door. (mysterious synth music) (motorcycle revving) Go away! Stay away from me, stay away! Please, don't hurt me. (crowd cheering) - Jack, your bike. - That's okay, Mom, it's (upbeat pop music) You know I got this feeling So peel me off the ceiling You and me, we got a The first time I saw you Not knowing what to call you Underneath it all, I You get what you go for I'm standing on the And I'm touching what Yeah, standing on the And I'm touching what When I woke up this morning I know I had a warning That by the sea And you'd be here with me Don't mean to be no superman Don't mean to be no To hold the real thing You get what you go for Now I'm standing on the And I'm touching what