At some point while browsing the internet you may where there's just a big list of seemingly free work? Are they even legal? And where do they that Microsoft even has multiple articles on generic keys. So what is going on? Well, it's a down the rabbit hole researching this video, information about weird types of Windows versions Like these weird things, you'll see what I mean. actually activate Windows? No, at least not especially for the YouTube moderators who may be for piracy, these are not Windows activation keys. on Microsoft's official website. They list them purpose that is not for activating Windows for try and use these, for example, on like Windows able to contact your organization's activation for? Well again, it's not that they don't work, there's a few different main types of Windows OEM stands for Original Equipment Manufacturer. like you'd buy at a big box store, like from key on it. A retail key is a normal key that you or something like that. And then volume keys are enterprise comes in, they want to buy licenses volume keys. And the difference there is they're organization. And actually, if you go into the &quot;slmgr /dli&quot;, it will show you information about And that'll probably show one of these types. But I'll get to all that later. Anyway, among these several different subtypes that basically regular type of key, I don't even think it has a you for the activation key, you type it in, and then comes back activated. Another type though, is going to be a volume type key. So it's going to the organization might buy multiple licenses that you can use the same key to activate a certain key for every single one. But then there's the those generic keys come in. Now, how this type of you type in a key and it authenticates with actually have a &quot;KMS Host&quot;, it's called, which all the computers activate through that, your server is what activates with Microsoft directly. Microsoft, it's kind of like the KMS host server, thing to Microsoft. Effectively, that's a very it works. But the important thing to know is that which is called the Customer Specific Volume like a multi-activation key, except instead of it only has to go on the host server. But what do you do about all these other client that's exactly what the generic keys are for. authenticating all your little computers you put the generic keys on all those computers, talk to the authentication KMS server.&quot; So then and then when it confirms, &quot;Yep, you've been then activate itself. And that's why if you try it'll say, &quot;Your organization's activation literally what it's trying to do. And by the way, Volume License Key&quot; or GLVK. Another difference authenticated again every 180 days. So unlike a it, it's activated forever effectively. With this, and it'll keep allowing the re-authentication with generic keys could come in handy every once in a older version of Windows for testing or something key, but you don't feel like fishing it out before key, which will at least let you install Windows. because again, it's not activated. Like, it won't least let you install it. However, obviously these so it's not really that useful. Anyway, if you're authenticate with a KMS key, this is what it would You can even see that it tells you how many days Now, something you shouldn't have to wonder about scams. And you don't, thanks to today's sponsor, award-winning antivirus products, Bitdefender fights and detects scams, called Scam Copilot, across all your devices to safeguard interactions, It's not just one tool, but a unified platform the Scam Copilot chatbot, a specialized AI interactions. It also does scam wave alerts, your region that you might encounter. There's even security features work against viruses, but patterns and attacks. The scam protection further and SMS protection for Android and iOS, because we for Android, it can even detect scam push apps like WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, Telegram, calendar events. These features are available to Ultimate Security plans, and Ultimate Small the description to learn more about Bitdefender's that being said, let's continue. Alright, so at &quot;Okay we've seen a couple of these different and KMSClient. What other ones are out there? there's actually kind of a lot. These are all going to go over what these all mean in a second, the quick explanation is there's a couple called pkeyconfig (product key config), and inside license types, or at least the modern ones. There and I also found some for Microsoft Office. And and you can pause if you want to read how I did for product key type, and that is all these. It SL Manager, because I think the script interprets through what all these different terms mean, and of them. Volume, OEM, and Retail, we already I mentioned those before are the types that are multi-activation key, we also talked about Marker&quot;, and this is usually going to be seen these digital marker keys are actually embedded stuff. So they're like tied specifically don't even require being typed in again when you this stands for &quot;Certificate of Authenticity&quot;. And stickers. Like if you buy a computer that's an OEM Next, this term SLP stands for &quot;System Locked this is a key that's not embedded in the pre-installation. So again, the OEM manufacturer So it's already activated when it gets to you. a internet connection to activate either. And hardware computer. It's just that they're by software as opposed to being like literally which is &quot;Non-system Locked Pre-installation&quot;. retail key, except they're distributed also and they're not even locked to that specific the more interesting ones like TB, which stands that expire after a certain amount of time or like multiple types. For example, there's if you go and download one of the evaluation like these enterprise ones, if you open it up and key on it. And it'll even show how many days three types, Sub, Trial, and Promo, which are, I I only found these ones in the Pkeyconfig file they're pretty self-explanatory what they're promotional versions of Windows. Then there's this And the PGS, from what I've seen, it might stand one. I don't think it's actually in use yet. It which is still in preview, it's not actually subscription type thing, like Pay Go, Pay As You And then there's this other one I couldn't find for like an upcoming version or something. I activation of some kind, because if you look it does mention strings in the descriptions of &quot;virtual machine activation&quot;, as well as another anywhere in the product key configs. Though there short for &quot;Automatic VM Activation Client&quot;, which activation thing. And then for the Environment was in an absolutely ancient guide from Microsoft talking about stuff like managed environments environments thing is probably not actually up anywhere. But that does seem to be all of any weird activation types in Windows, you can use if you have any fun facts that I missed, we can again to Bitdefender for sponsoring. Be sure to platform called Scam Copilot. You can learn more to keep watching, the next video I'd recommend Windows that you might have never really noticed that link right there. So thanks so much for