Do you have an older car with a bad Catalytic I'll show you what MIGHT fix it I'll also show you what WILL fix it! But you shouldn't do it. Seriously, don't do what I'm about to show Hola I'm Mike, the Backyard Mechanic. And this is the Lexus. Its check engine light came on. I ran my OBDII scanner and got the dreaded The P0420 code signals a low catalyst system has detected that the oxygen levels are below I got a bad cat. Specifically, the catalytic converter on the There are actually a dozen things that can Most were easily ruled out, leaving a dirty How do I know it's dirty? By checking the tail pipe. The Pilot, Mustang and Lexus all have over Here is what is in the Pilot tailpipe. Just a little soot, pretty clean actually. Here is the Mustang... a little dirtier, but Here is the Lexus. You can see it is pitch black, but what you I just replaced the spark plugs on the Lexus, Thanks to desperate theaters due to the actors That's hot. ...anyway, there was an oily film inside the I'm guessing this is from the EGR valve, and So should the cat be replaced? It should, but no. I don't want to spend $1500 for a car with That just ain't right! Even the cheap ones are close to a grand. But even if I wanted to spend that money, It is small, and the engine compartment is drive which makes some things impossible without Like getting to the bolts on the exhaust manifolds. Seriously, you have to pull the engine to I don't know why. It says it in the manual. My first thought was a catalytic converter But this is 30 bucks, so I looked for a cheaper There is a lot of internet jibber jabber about half the cost of the cleaner... but after to only be good for... making thin lacquer. So here is what I did, and what I recommend. I went with the Cataclean. Mainly because they had it at O'Reilly's, An important note - read the instructions! I put it in with a full tank, which is not But guess what? It worked! My daughter informed me that after about 100 Many, many testimonials around the internet However, it did not work for my friend Joe His light came back on after 100 miles. He's going to try to use the cleaner every He has until next year to clear it up for So what do you do if the light comes on and I'll show you... but don't do it!! The emissions police will show up at your Here is a diagram of the engine's exhaust. There are two sensors, the first one, the running rich or lean. It has nothing to do with the catalytic converter. The downstream sensor monitors the cat to It wouldn't work to disconnect or cut the This will trigger a code and the check engine Instead, pulling the sensor out of the path will minimize, but not completely eliminate, gases. This minimal reading will keep the warning To install the spacers, I first jacked up To save time I jacked up both sides at once. For a few days before doing this work, multiple spray. On most cars, the downstream sensors are pretty The shield was bent on this one, and I needed I have this box of tools that I use to replace Aha! This will work! Using the iPhone tool, I straightened out I put the 02 socket on, and used a wobble-end This is a southern car, so only a couple zaps I avoided going full blast and wrapping the Some cars, like the Mustang have the connectors The Lexus engineers completely lacked foresight to come off, as the wire runs through the it is not the preferred option. No, I don't know what I would do if the sensor Remove the seat I guess... The sensor wire is attached to the frame, I need at least 12 inches of wire in order The passenger side only has a few inches and I need more SLACK captain! The wire goes through the floor and under The connector is by the console. I disconnected it and pushed it through the A quick blast with the impact wrench breaks Now for the spacers. 02 spacers are illegal, Advance Auto Parts, or even Amazon. What I did, knowing the thread size of my plug non-foulers for only 10 bucks. These are typically used to keep oil off of I can convert them into 02 spacers. When it's done, it will look like these 02 If you didn't pick up on that, don't worry, Walmart sells 02 spacers! Go figure! So you can totally ignore this part where and use a half inch, high speed steel tool drill out the end without damaging the threads. Just pretend that didn't happen and I bought the bung on the exhaust pipe and tightened Then, I twisted the cord counterclockwise I screwed in the sensor. When this is done, I notice that the spacer car and I can no longer get the socket on So pretend that didn't happen too! After briefly considering removing the car the spacer on the sensor, and tightened them wrench. Then I repeated the process of twisting the tightened the spacer to the bung with that After both sensors were in place, I reattached On the passenger side, the cord is fished and reconnected. I tucked the carpet back in place. Done! There have been a few thousand miles put on And yes, the car passed inspection. Being that spacers are illegal, I immediately them properly. If you'd like to know how I did that, play This video was for entertainment purposes Speaking of entertainment, I have a fan online! Wait, let me guess. You weren't paying attention, and I wasn't That was a wonderful video! You are a good boy! Thanks Mom! Are you dying of curiosity to know how I am You can learn how I do it by watching this It's not about cars, but it's the funniest SO FAR. Until THIS ONE.