For two years in a row the US Navy has been trying cruiser. But the US Congress keeps outlawing the why on earth would anyone want to retire such Vicksburg was getting modernized and by Today, the US Navy is trying to decommission this this for the third time? You see, the United from China, which already has the largest navy just as the threat of China is expected to hit a multi-year low of just 280 ships. policy of having a 355-ship fleet, a figure 2038 at the earliest or ever as portrayed by one would expect that the US Navy would build of what was built two decades ago, but still the 1980s. What makes things worse, is that the than it's been building. Nothing to worry about the Navy's plan, and it's Not What You Think! started a cruiser modernization program with USS life to be extended from 35 to 40 years. Within for a total of 7 ships. The US Navy promised the keep them in the fleet for years to come, meaning As part of the modernization, seven ships were sensors and computers, electrical and mechanical aging hulls that were prone to leaks and cracks. hadn't gone according to plan. Part of the problem which meant that cruisers sat idle for up to In 2016 Vicksburg entered the Navy's Cruiser from 350 to 50. As the ship sat at the pier for only some minor repair work was done. Finally Virginia in 2020 for an 18-month Service Life complete the modernization by March 2021, then 2023. According to BAE systems, as of September With these long delays, you'd think someone not our video editor, because Manta shipped him a bunch of their products to try out. his ... normal sized head! and these eye cups feel any pressure on your eyes, plus, they are a side-sleeper, you'd still be very comfortable. types of eye cups and easily swap them out, like cool. You throw them in the freezer, and then put screen all day long, tried them out and really Now some people like to fall meditation or audio books. If that's you, then bluetooth headphones is just right for you. for your health, so why not treat yourself to use the code NWYT to get 10% off your order So far Vicksburg has been in Norfolk for $500 million dollars for modernization. What's she will never be deployed ever again, and that's Navy. During congressional hearings in April 2023, are part of the modernization program: Vicksburg regardless of how much money we put into them." have successfully navigated the cruiser 8 and 7 years respectively to return to the continues. With regards to the other four ships, so the service decided to retire all four of them City and Anzio, it prohibited the service to according to the BAE shipyard, Vicksburg $200 million dollars spent on the ship. The Navy on the cruiser modernization program in total. the Navy had spent at least $2.4 billion dollars Now here comes the kicker! The US Navy wants to 2027. This means that Gettisburg would be retired be decommissioned in 2027. This means that for only get a handful of extra deployments from wonder the congress called this "unacceptable" ships. But how did so much money end up being one from Congress and the other from the Navy. at the end of the day, it's the US Congress that concerned about the fact that the Navy has been and accused the service of not efficiently in the Fiscal Year 2024 budget, the Navy called earlier, it wanted to retire 24 ships while only 2026 and 2027. What also didn't help was that the of several programs like Zumwalt, the CG(X) and being retired only after a few years of service. meant the US naval fleet would have a shortfall risk of a conflict with China in mid to late of 122 VLS cells which is 27% more than 96 The Navy won't recover its VLS cell capacity Another frequently cited reason for opposing the cruisers meant guaranteed jobs in the lawmakers' Navy's decision for the past decade. Now but what about their view on Vicksburg and Kay Granger, a republican representative, stated ships - especially the Littoral Combat Ships claims they don't have sufficient funding that's not the case. Instead, they've mismanaged glaring example of this is the USS Vicksburg, According to US Congress, through fiscal year on the cruiser modernization program, with million dollars to complete the modernization. The 93% and an additional $407 million dollars were ships to return all five to the fleet. The have testified that this extended modernization surface combatants in the Navy, with an extended why Congress has now twice prohibited the Not only that, but the Vicksburg fiasco has led questioning the Navy's upcoming and program that aims to retrofit older SPY-6 radars. But what does the US As the modernization work began, and shipyards a variety of unexpected problems were found. leaks below the waterline, you name it. No wonder $160 million dollars estimate, to as much as wanted out of the cruiser modernization upgrading the cruisers in that state was no the Navy was skeptical that she time. They had to be real. It made sense 2023 and again in 2024. As Congress prohibited those modernized ships would not be going The Navy argues that the Ticonderoga class, Littoral Combat Ships, would not stand up well During simulated warfighting, both classes of Littoral Combat Ships lack lethality, the cruisers newest Chinese threats. Therefore Ticonderogas to Flight III Arleigh-Burke class, equipped with bring additional VLS cells to the fight, they are view, Congress doesn't look past the number therefore missing important points with regards Speaking of hulls, Ticonderoga cruisers almost two decades. One of the issues is was installed on top of a Spruance-class This was done as a cost cutting measure back aluminum-steel joints are prone to cracking, throughout the lifespan of the Ticonderoga destroyers are made entirely from steel, so that are currently in active service, would to patch holes below the waterline that otherwise But even if the Navy gets its way and hulls be replaced with? According to the Navy, the Arleigh Burke destroyer Flight III. This is good money after bad, and instead put the funds This strategy is known as "divest to invest", and that are not well-aligned with future mission releases the funds to build new ships, and upgrade by retiring USS Cowpens in 2024 instead of 2026, larger Navy that incorporates Littoral Combat less lethal and less ready. The US Navy prefers So who's right here, the Congress or the Navy? service leaders acknowledged that the cruiser planning and troubled in execution. But are confident the destroyer modernization the costs get much higher as ships approach the harsh reality is that Ticonderogas have to go. But the concerns of Congress are also Chinese military action against Taiwan in will result in a shortfall that cannot be Maybe the legacy ships should be maintained while at the same time additional The latest government documents show that Congress USS Cowpens and USS Shiloh. The fate of Vicksburg the Navy plans to retire her and USS Cowpens on