Welcome back to JForrest English. I'm Jennifer and today I have a three hour That's right, you're going to improve your Become fluent in English in the next three In this lesson, you are going to learn 300 sound very fluent and natural in English. Let's get started. First, you're going to learn 100 phrases phrasal Now, as you're going through this lesson, way to make sure you really know these phrasal Let's get started. Question 1, the phrasal verb used to invite I'm only going to give you 3 seconds for each as you need, and when you're ready, hit play The phrasal verb is to ask out question two. If you like a genre of music, you can say I'm really into country music. Remember, I'm going to explain every single this test is difficult #3 If a movie made Down. That movie really brought me down #4. If you think someone should be happier, you Do you have time to the dry cleaning on your Do you have time to pick up #6? You see that box? Can you at the post office? Can you drop it off #7? We ended up at home. We ended up staying at home #8 Which phrasal to turn down #9. When you complete a form, you can use both This is true #10 How did you that Maria was How did you find out? So how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy or difficult? Share your score in the comments. And now I'll explain every phrasal verb in Number one, to ask someone out. Now pay attention to the sentence structure, You only ask someone out, you don't ask something And here's the reason why. When you ask someone out, it's to invite them as a date. So to ask someone out, you invite them on A date is a romantic evening spent with someone. Of course it doesn't have to be an evening. It could be a morning coffee date or an afternoon But I just said evening because most of the So let me give you an example sentence. Why hasn't Jim asked Maria out yet? He's obviously into her. So notice here. Why hasn't Jim asked Maria out? Ask someone out. Are someone is Maria. Now Of course you need the subject who's doing So Jim is inviting Maria on a date. A date is always romantic. Right now, Maria could say no, and we're going phrasal verbs. So let me give you that example again. Why hasn't Jim asked Maria out yet? He's obviously into her now. You might be wondering, Jennifer, what does He's obviously into her. Well, that's our next phrasal verb. To be into someone. To be into someone. Now here I'll point out that you can also But first let's talk about to be into someone. When you're into someone, I'm sure you notice someone romantically. Now, the context is really important because into. I'm really into Jack Johnson. Now when I say that, oh, I'm really into Jack I don't like Jack Johnson romantically, although him romantically. But I really like his music, so if you use there is. This meaning of liking, and for the most part So if I said Jim is into Maria, he likes her But if I'm talking about being into a celebrity I just like them, but not necessarily romantically. So keep that in mind. Now remember I said you could also be into Now in this case, we're talking about liking a hobby. So I was really into Jack Johnson when I was Jack Johnson is an amazing musician. He plays guitar and he plays ukulele. So I was really into him and mainly when I Those are two activities I don't really do It isn't a priority for me to do those activities Although one day I would definitely like to any hobby or activity. Oh, I'm really into going hiking. I'm really into playing video games. So we use this with hobbies and activities Our next phrasal verb to bring someone down, But there's that transition, because that to bring them down, and now they're not happy, before. So I could say that movie really brought me Now notice here the my subject is. The movie, The movie brought me down. I could also use a person. My boss brought me down. So something or someone can bring someone That movie brought me down, so I was happy. And then I watched the movie and now I'm not the movie was very sad or depressing. Something like that #4 to cheer up. So you can think of this as the opposite. To cheer someone up is to make them happier. Now, we commonly use this in the imperative Cheer up. Don't be sad. Cheer up. So we commonly use this in the imperative, For example, I could say I took my friend To cheer her up. To cheer her up. So that's the reason why I wanted to make #5. To pick someone or something up. This is one of the most common phrasal verbs. You probably know it, but did you know you You pick someone up and you also pick something person from one location to another location. So of course you might know it in the sense my husband up after work, right? That's probably how you know it. But you can use it with a something. Maybe your husband could call you and say, home? Can you pick milk up? So you're going to go to a location, the store, your home. Can you pick milk up on your way home? It's very common to get a call from someone up, can you pick this up on your way home? And that something is a grocery item or something it with a someone and a something. I dropped my friend off at the airport. And what's the opposite of to pick someone also drop something off. When you drop someone or something off, it's location. So of course you could say I drop my husband Now you might also ask someone can you drop So they take the letter and they leave it office or a mailbox. Can you drop this letter off on your way to #7 to end up, to end up is a very useful phrasal We use it to say that you eventually do something So you might say I ended up asking Julie out. I ended up asking Julie out. Who is our first example. I can't remember. Well, it wasn't Julie, it was Jim and Maria. So let me give that again. Jim ended up asking Maria out. So remember before I said why hasn't Jim asked So now remember to end up, that's to eventually So after a period of time. So Jim ended up asking Maria out, but she Remember I said at the beginning, I'm going If Maria, I was going to see Julie again. If Maria says no, well, that's to turn someone That's our next phrasal verb, to turn someone Now you can also turn something down. Can you think of something that you might How about a job offer? Something like that. So to turn someone down. To turn something down is when you receive and you say no, You decline, you refuse, you You say no. So Maria turned Jim down. Now, you might also say, I was turned down I was turned down. Now you could turn that into an active sentence. They turned me down. I was turned down by the company. They turned me down. So in this specific phrasal verb, it is commonly So I would get comfortable with the passive, as well. #9 To fill in or to fill out forms. OK, so notice here I gave you 2 prepositions. I know students get confused. What's the difference between fill in and There is no difference. So specifically with forms, that's the only When you're entering information into a form, You're also filling out that form. It doesn't matter which preposition you use. And honestly, I use both of them interchangeably. So I just change between fill in, fill out. I use both, and you can too. So if you go to an office, they might say out this form, drop it off at reception. Notice drop it off at reception. So take it to reception and leave it there. Drop it off at reception. Our final phrasal verb, to find out, to find learn something or you discover something. So maybe going back to our character Jim. So maybe Jim could say, how did you find out So maybe Jim is a little embarrassed. He thought this was just a secret Nobody knew. But then a friend tried to cheer him up because her out. Notice all our phrasal verbs. So Jim could say how did you find out that So how did you discover this? How did you learn this? How did you find this out? And we use this when you want to get information So I might say I need to find out when the to drop off, but I don't know when they close. I need to find that out. So learn or discover that specific information. So now that you understand all of these phrasal again, and then you can compare your score So let's do that same quiz Now. Question 1, the phrasal verb used to invite The phrasal verb is to ask out question two. If you like a genre of music, you can say I'm really into country music #3. If a movie made you sad, you can say that That movie really brought me down #4. If you think someone should be happier, you Cheer up #5 Do you have time to the dry cleaning Do you have time to pick up number six? You see that box? Can you at the post office? Can you drop it off #7 We ended up at home verb is used to reject someone or something you can use both fill. In and fill out. This is true #10 How did you that Maria was How did you find out? Now, if you want more support to help you verbs, you can join the Finally Fluent Academy. This is my premium membership program where learn the most common phrasal verbs, idioms, And you'll have me as your personal coach you feedback. So you can look in the description for the Question one, Please bear me while I look Please bear with me while I look up your file. Question 2. The phrasal verb to attend to means to attend. To means to work on #3 Why are you so angry? You need to cool. You need to cool down #4. The phrasal verb for repair is. The phrasal verb for repair is fix up #5. The phrasal verb for to discuss something to hash out number six. If someone is being too serious, you can tell Lighten up. You're being too serious. Lighten up. #7 After years of studying English, my hard My hard work has finally paid off #8 We shouldn't We shouldn't rule out hiring a graphic designer, me out for being laid again, and #10 let's to settle in. So how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy? Difficult. Share your score in the comments below. And now I'm going to explain every single So let's do that. Now to bear with someone, This is a very common It has a simple meaning. It means to be patient with someone. So we use this a lot with customer service you with a service. Now, it's very common when that person is bear with me, please bear with me, Please So notice our verb tense. That's in the imperative, the imperative. So we're starting with the base verb. Now if you use this verb and other verb tenses, The past simple is bore and the past participle Any idea it's born? That's right, born with an optional E for same in the past. Simple. You could say I bore with him for 20 minutes, in the past participle you can use this. In the present perfect, you might say I've Our next phrasal verb is to attend to. Now notice we're using the verb attend, and But that's not a phrasal verb, that's just Because I don't have a preposition. I attended the party, I went to the party. But if we use the phrasal verb attend to, I could say I attended to the party. Now in this case, this means that I worked So how could you work on a party? Well, you could work on organizing a party, the invitations, buying the food, cleaning to the party. So pay attention because the verb attend and meanings. Our next phrasal verb to cool down to cool We use this when someone is really angry, Relax. You can say cool down, cool down. So let's say a client has been sending you angry, irritated, annoyed, frustrated with But before you call that client, you should You need to take a minute and relax because angry and frustrated and annoyed. You need to cool down. Relax, chill, our next phrasal verb to fix When you fix something up, it means you repair Now, in this case, when you change, it is It could be that it's functioning, but you to it. You fix it up. So for example, I could say Sally loves fixing cars so she repairs them. But it could also mean that she just changes Maybe the car is working perfectly, but she adds something to it. She fixes it up. Now, this is a very common phrasal verb around to fix up, right to change, to repair, to Our next phrasal verb to hash something out. When you have something out, it means you With other people. And you do that because you want to get agreement. You want to get agreement on the details, conference, planning a party, planning a project, And of course, with a project or conference, The date. The time. Who's doing what? So you need to hash out those details. You need to talk about them to get agreement. OK, we agreed to the time of the conference. We hashed it out. We hashed out the time of the conference. Our next phrasal verb to lighten up. Now remember, I already taught you to cool frustrated, annoyed, and you want to relax. Well, when you tell someone to lighten up, But they're not angry, frustrated, or annoyed. They're just being too serious. That's it. They're being too serious. They don't have a sense of humor. So maybe you were joking around with a coworker wanted to have some fun and joke around. But they're too serious. So you might say, lighten up, lighten up, You're too serious. So someone who's always like this, you know, They're just always very serious. You might want to tell that person to lighten But just remember it isn't the same as cool You're angry and annoyed. Lighten up, you're too serious. That's the difference between the two. Our next phrasal verb to pay off. Now, when something pays off, it means that So let's say you spent the last month at home exam and you passed. You got a really high mark. You can say all my studying paid off. So remember something pays off. All my studying paid off. I now see the benefits of all the studying So we use this a lot for any kind of work Now it can be mental work for studying for as well. So all your dieting you're exercising, paid You're stronger, you see the benefits of all So we can use this with both mental work and Our next phrasal verb to rule out. We use this when something prevents something So a classic example, we have COVID and we Now COVID is preventing traveling from happening, So we can say COVID ruled out traveling, right? COVID prevented traveling. COVID ruled out traveling. Our next phrasal verb? To chew someone. Out to. Chew someone out. This is when you tell someone that they've so you don't tell them. Comment calmly. You know you made a mistake. You shouldn't have done that. No, you're angry, so you might yell a little. You might use language that you normally wouldn't. You're angry somebody did something wrong Maybe your boss chewed you. Well, don't, because you were late for an So your boss was not calm. Your boss was angry. Why were you late? You shouldn't have been late. Why haven't I fired you yet? He choose you out. Or maybe you're on a sports team and your important practice. Now, if somebody choose you out and they're that phrasal verb that we've already learned? Cool down, right? Because if somebody's angry, why? Were you late? You can say cool down, cool down, relax, and Late Our final phrasal verb to settle in. When you settle in, it means you get comfortable is generally a new house, a new school. A new workplace. And of course at the beginning you're not right? But then you need some time to settle in. So settle in just means to get comfortable So let's say you move to a new city and a have you settled in? Have you settled in? So they're just asking you, do you feel comfortable And then you might reply back and say, yeah, in yet. Now that you know how to use all of these quiz from the very beginning and you can compare So let's do that quiz again. Now question one, please bear me while I look Please bear with me while I look up your file. Question 2. The phrasal verb to attend to means to attend Why are you so angry? You need to cool. You need to cool down #4. The phrasal verb for repair is. The phrasal verb for repair is fix up #5. The phrasal verb for to discuss something to hash out number six. If someone is being too serious, you can tell Lighten up. You're being too serious. Lighten up, #7. After years of studying English, my hard work My hard work has finally paid off. #8 We shouldn't rule out a graphic designer, #9 my boss for being laid again, my boss chewed And #10 let's give everyone a few minutes The phrasal verb used when you gradually introduce verb is to phase in question two. If you want to reserve a specific time in You can block it off. Question three when the fire alarm went off out of the building. Question four will have to. Air conditioning this summer will have to If someone is removed from a position against that position. Number six, the phrasal verb used when information Question 7. The government had to a lot of companies during The government had to bail out Question eight. Oh no. I think I behind my phone. I think I left behind my phone. Question nine, you don't want to miss this 10, the phrasal verb for arrive is show up. So how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy or was it difficult? Now I'll explain every phrasal verb in detail well. To phase something in. When you phase something in, it means that it gradually, which means little by little. And generally what we're introducing is a a new policy. So let's say that your company has a new policy A dress code will tell you what you can and Now, let's say they announced the new dress dress code over the next two months. Now, why would they want to introduce it little Well, maybe it's because they want to give You might have to go out and buy new clothing, So you might have to save money to do that So maybe the first week they introduce the And then the next week it's the new shoes, And little by little they phase in the new. Dress code. Code #2 to block off. Now the thing. About phrasal verbs is they're always used So in this context a block off. We're talking specifically about time in your So you're blocking off time. So what does that mean? It means that you reserve that time for a that time so no one else can schedule a meeting during those specific blocks of time because So let's say you're preparing for the IELTS, Friday from 7:00 to 9:00 in your calendar, studying for IELTS. Or if you have an important deadline at work, So you might block. Off Monday and just focus on that task so So this is probably something you do every and now you know how to explain that naturally To clear out. And again, remember, phrasal verbs are used And in this context, we're talking about clearing a conference, an office, a mall, any location And when people clear out of a location, it that location then becomes empty. So the majority or all of the people leave That's when you clear out of. The location. So let's say you go to lunch at a restaurant You get the last available table and you're You're talking to your coworker. And then around 2:30, you look around and in the restaurant. And remember, the restaurant was full when So you could turn to your coworker and say, left the restaurant #4 to do without something. This is a really useful one because it's a You're going to have to do without certain So when you do without something, it means lack of the something that you do without. So let me give you an example. Maybe finances are a little tight. You didn't get that bonus you were hoping out a cleaner for the next few months. Do without a cleaner. So a cleaner is someone who cleans your house. A house cleaner. Now, previously a lot of people call this I know many people in certain countries still In North America, it's considered outdated call someone a maid. We now call them house cleaners. So just so you know, it's more politically To use house cleaner. So you have to manage, manage your day-to-day, a house cleaner. We have to do without a house cleaner because So you can use this in a personal context in a word context as well. Maybe your assistant quit and you're having So you might say, well, I guess I'll have which means you have to manage all your work Do without something. It's a very useful phrasal verb because. We all have to do without certain things at Our next phrasal verb to force out. This is a very useful business phrasal verb. You're going to hear it in the media and newspapers When someone is forced out, it means that it wasn't their decision to do so. Notice the sentence structure I used? I put this in the passive to be forced out. For example, the CEO was forced out after Obviously it didn't look good for the CEO, The CEO himself did not want to leave, but was forced out. Now if you use it in the active sentence, CEO. So you might say the board of directors forced So you can absolutely use this in the active, our next phrasal verb #6, to sink in. When something sinks in, it becomes clear in is information, news, and event. For example, it took him a while before his So his mother died, But that fact, that event It didn't become clear, So he didn't process He didn't fully understand it. He didn't fully accept it as a fact, as a So the event, his mother's death didn't sink So we do use this a lot for tragic events, complicated information. For example, let's say your coworker is explaining technical. So your coworker is explaining it, explaining say, give me a minute to let that sink in. So that is the information, the information that the information to sink in. It means for you to fully understand it, to So we can use it for tragic events, but we #7 to bail out. This is another must know business phrasal life as well. When you bail someone out, it means that you difficult situation. So remember that CEO that was forced out in Well, maybe he had a sister that bailed him His sister bailed him. Out, which means his sister helped him financially, he couldn't afford his rent. She gave him food because he couldn't afford he didn't have any. His sister bailed him out, so we can use it But this is commonly used in a business context, companies because they're about to go bankrupt. And why would the government do that? Well, because that company is important for For example, in the US, the company Chrysler, bailed out by the government multiple times. Chrysler as a company has almost gone bankrupt in and bailed the company out. They bailed Chrysler out number eight to leave This is a very useful one in your everyday When you leave something behind, it simply location. So we do this all the time, right? We go to a restaurant, a cafe, we put our we go and Oh no, I left my phone behind. I think I left my phone behind at the cafe. So it's just the same as saying I think I You can use this with any object you can leave your computer, whatever you want. So this is a very useful one. So what about you? Have you ever left something important behind? Maybe you left your cell phone behind, or behind. Have you ever left something behind? Let us know in the comments #9 to miss out And this is when you miss an important opportunity missed. So let's say that you work for Tesla and Elon that day and you were going to get to meet But your bus was late and you didn't get to Musk. You, my friend, just missed out on an opportunity You missed out on meeting Elon Musk. So you could say. I can't believe I missed out. You can just end it there. I can't believe I missed out. If you want to continue, you can say I can't And finally #10 to show up. To show up has a very simple definition. It means to appear or arrive. Native speakers don't really use appear or For example, What time did you show up to I would never say what time did you? Arrive to the party. I wouldn't say that. That sounds unnatural, outdated. Too formal, I would say. What time did you show up? What time did you show up to the party? What time did you show up last night? Now let's say you got to work late one day you're walking to your desk and you're 45 and say, oh how nice of you to finally. Show up. That's obviously sarcastic, but this happens even if you're just having dinner at home But dinner is normally at 7:00 and you don't And your husband or your wife has been waiting they might say, oh, how nice of you to finally So we use this a lot in a sarcastic way when talk about getting somewhere. Oh, I showed up at and then you say the time. So now that you feel more comfortable with same quiz again and you can compare your score So let's do that quiz again. Now question one. The phrasal verb used when you gradually introduce verb is to phase in. Question two, if you want to reserve a specific You can block it off question 3. When the fire alarm went off everyone of the Question four will have to. Air conditioning this summer will have to If someone is removed from a position against that position. Number six, the phrasal verb used when information Question 7. The government had to a lot of companies during The government had to bail out. Question eight. Oh no. I think I behind my phone. I think I left behind my phone. Question 9 You don't want to miss this amazing Miss out on and question 10. The phrasal verb for arrive is show up. Question one. This new app I downloaded So much memory. This new app I downloaded takes up question When a company expands into other locations Question 3 the phrasal verb used when you Question 4. Can you the performance reports next week? Can you carry out question five? I'm having a hard time the assignment. I'm having a hard time keeping up with question If you enter your information in a form, you. Fill in or fill out. So see question 7. The CEO might this week the CEO might drop Question 8 If you delay an event, you you Question 9 If you cancel an event, you you And question 10, I'm not sure who's presenting. We're still the details. We're still sorting out the details. So how did you do with that quiz? Share your score in the comments. And now I'll explain each phrasal verb in To take up, this means to occupy or to fill. Now we use this specifically with two different You can take up time and you can take up space, For example, I could say this meeting took the amount of time. Now we can also use this with space. For example, I need a new couch because my or fills space. So remember you can use this with both time #2 to branch out. Now this means to expand, and we use this So let's say you're in a meeting and you're You might suggest branching out into new markets. So if you only sell in North America, you or in Asia, Africa for example. We need to branch out into new markets #3. This is a fun one to jot down. Now, you would probably understand this from In the meeting, I jotted down a few notes. I jotted down a few notes. So it's the exact same thing as write down. I wrote down a few notes that is very commonly So someone might ask you, maybe your boss jot this down? And then they might give you a number or a Now, of course not many people use pen and We take electronic notes. But if your colleague asks you to jot something and make a note in your phone. Jot it down in your phone, write it down in So this still applies even though we don't out this means to perform or to conduct. And we use this specifically in a business For example, next week we're carrying out we're carrying out our surveys, we're conducting So I'm just going to do the survey. That's the simplest way to say it. Next week, we're doing the surveys. We're carrying out the surveys #5. This is an important one, so make sure you This means to make sufficient progress on. Let's say that you have this many orders and Those orders. If you fulfill this many, you've kept up with You've made sufficient progress. But. If you fulfill this many, or this many, or number of orders, then you haven't kept up progress on. Now of course you can use this with many things You can use it with your studies, your reading Your performance reports, your filing, your You can use it with many, many, many other Number six, to fill out or to fill in a form. Now this is one that confuses a lot of students Do I fill in the form? What's the difference? The reality is there is no difference specifically Now when you have to fill out an application, out your passport renewal, you can fill in In this specific context, there's no difference This is a great phrasal verb because you can context. Now, to drop in simply means to visit. So if you're talking to a friend and you're how about I drop in Saturday morning? How about I visit Saturday morning? Now in a business context, you might have to visit. Or you might drop in on a client just to say So you can use this in both a social and a #8 to push back. This means to delay or postpone in the context So a scheduled event like a meeting, Let's but everyone is really busy on Monday. Well, then push the meeting back until Wednesday. Postpone it until Wednesday. Now you can use this in a social context. So you might be planning your wedding anniversary, and the actual date is March 30th. But everyone is busy, so you might push it can attend. Well, everyone's busy, so let's push back from now. So you can push back a scheduled event, which to call off. Now this means to cancel a scheduled event. So remember, in our last one to push back, But the other alternative is simply to cancel But generally when you call something off, associated with it, but the problem or issue couldn't attend. So let's say you were planning a conference everyone's really busy in the summer. So you might discuss it with your team and Attendance is too low, so let's call it off. Let's cancel it. Now, you can also use this in a social context. You might call off your wedding, but if you was a problem, an issue, a big one, right? So in that context, in a social event, most Why did they call off their wedding? Why did they call off their anniversary? They're going to assume that something is This means to organize or to fix if there's For example, I need to sort out my travel them. So I need to decide when I'm going to travel, I'm going to use. I need to sort out my travel plans, but I and I need to fix it. For example, my flight was cancelled, so I I need to fix this problem with my plans. So to sort something out, you can organize Now that you're more comfortable with these from the beginning again, and you can compare time. So let's do that same quiz now. Question one This new app I downloaded So This new app I downloaded takes up question When a company expands into other locations Question 3 The phrasal verb used when you Question 4 Can you the performance reports Can you carry out question five? I'm having a hard time the assignment. I'm having a hard time keeping up with question If you enter your information in a form, you So see question 7. The CEO might this week the CEO might drop Question 8 If you delay an event you you push Question 9 If you cancel an event you you who's presenting, we're still the details Still sorting out the details? Question one. You're not going to paying $500.00 for that. You're not going to talk me into question Mariah, this sales proposal Yesterday, Mariah Good news because everyone we met the deadline Question 4 If you keep skipping breaks, you're Question five. That's a great point. You should at the meeting, you should bring Question six Who do you the most in your family? Who do you look up to Question 7? How long do we need to at the party? How long do we need to stick around? Question 8 Your tires look. Really you should get new ones. Your tires look really worn out. Question 9. This seller tried to so we didn't buy it. The seller tried to rip us off Question 10. I noticed that this report our production This report honed in on how did you do with Was it easy or difficult? Share your score in the comments and don't every phrasal verb in detail. Number one, to rip off. We use this when someone is selling something the price. Is too high compared to the value of whatever For example, I can't believe I paid $200 for She ripped me off. Now notice the sentence structure. You rip someone off. She ripped me off. Another example, She told everyone that I So just because someone claims you rip them True #2, to wear out. We use this when something is damaged or weakened You've used it a lot. For example, I wore out my tennis shoes last If someone said that to me, I would assume They played so much tennis that they wore They became damaged from use from continually We also use this in adjective form to be worn So it would be very common to say I need to out. So of course are because shoes is plural and mine. My tennis shoes are worn out so both forms We use this when you need to prepare paperwork, an agreement, a proposal, generally something make it official. For example, I asked my lawyer to draw up Whenever you're dealing with a lawyer, the a perfect time to use to draw up. Or you could say we're waiting for our bank another very official document that you need And you can use the phrasal verb to draw up This is a phrasal verb that has gotten a lot pandemic, because to burn out, this is when from prolonged stress, Stress of work, stress a family situation like a divorce or an illness, You can be stressed out for a day, but when for a long period of time, several weeks, For example, I burned out at my last job, through this period of prolonged stress. I burned out. Another example, I burned out after caring So caregivers often experience burnout. So you can use this in a work situation or well. #5 to look up to someone. So notice we have two prepositions, look up We use this when you admire someone or you So I could say I looked up to him like a father. So of course I admire and respect my father else. I looked up to him, I admired him like a father. Another example, I really look up to my boss. So you admire your boss or you respect your You hold your boss in high regard. So you can use this in a work situation. You can look up to people. And you can use this in a social situation, You can have many different people in your Number six, to step up. Now, that's the phrasal verb, but we most it up. Notice that it it's very important to step This simply means to work harder or to try Now you can say we need to step it up if we're So you have this deadline, you need to work So it's the same as saying we need to work Step it up. Now what is this it in the expression? Well, the IT would represent. Work or effort. We need to step up our work. We need to step up our effort. Step it up. I encourage you to use it that way. Step it up because you'll sound like a native We have a really common expression with this. Step it up, and then you add the two words Step it up a notch. If you look at a dial, A notch is 1. Move on the dial, so it represents a little Step it up a notch. It's just like saying step it up a little So that's just a common expression. You need to step it up a notch if you want So you can use it with a notch, It's very Or you can use it without #7 to hone in on. This is another two preposition phrasal verb. We have hone in on, hone in on something and put all your attention on something specific. For example, if we want to get more customers, owners. So maybe right now you're not being very specific want to hone in on one specific segment of So you're going to focus on them, you're going Another example for the presentation, we should So maybe you're a global company and you have specific presentation, you're going to hone World South America now many native speakers, Many native speakers mistakenly say home in We need to home in on and that's because in Honan home in and hone what's that? It's not really used very much but everybody But this isn't correct. The expression is not home in on. The expression is home in on. So make sure you get that both in pronunciation And if you hear a native speaker say home phrasal verb to bring up. And this is when you begin a discussion on For example, if you're in a staff meeting, leading the meeting to say before we end the Does anyone have anything to bring up? Does anyone have a specific topic they want Does anyone have anything to bring up? Or after the meeting, you might tell another up the marketing proposal, so you didn't have marketing proposal. Maybe you ran out of time #9 to talk into, into something, and this means to convince For example, she talked me into helping her So when someone. Uses this. Oh, she talked me into helping her move. It gives you the impression that the person somebody convinced them. But please, I really need your help. I'll buy pizza. Or maybe you could say my team talked me into So notice I use bring up discuss a specific My team talked me into bringing up the bonus a little bit of a sensitive issue and nobody lucky you, so they talked you into it and This is a must use phrasal verb. You can use it in a social setting or a professional To stick around means to stay in a location So let's say you're at this beautiful park friend has to leave and they say, do you want And you say, no, I'm gonna stick around a So you're going to stay in a specific location, It's unknown how long you'll stay. That doesn't really matter. It's just the fact you're going to stay. I'm gonna stick around a little bit longer. It's such a beautiful day. I'm gonna stick around now. You can also use this in the negative. I can't stick around very long because I have Although it's a beautiful day, I can't stick I have a meeting to get back to. Now that you're more comfortable with these So here are the questions you need to choose Here are the questions. Hit pause now. Complete the quiz and whenever you're ready, So go ahead and hit pause now. Welcome back. So how did you do on this quiz? Let's find out. Here are the answers. So hit pause, review the answers, and whenever video. Question one I really because my new kitten to answer the question. So if you need more time, hit pause, take I really lucked out. Question two. If we the deal now we'll lose our deposit is only 10 minutes so make sure you don't We only have two days to fix all these errors. I don't know how will how will pull it off. Question 5 All travelers have to the COVID six. I once saw Brad Pitt in a restaurant but I But I clammed up. Question 7. If everything. We'll finish the project tomorrow if everything Question 8. The meaning was so long and boring, I'm surprised I didn't nod off Question nine. It just that tomorrow's our anniversary. It just dawned on me and Question 10. The proposal looks good, but let's take the To Mull it over. So how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy? Difficult. Share your score in the comments below, and #1 to abide by. This is more of a formal phrasal verb because or regulation. So we use it mainly with government rules, Rules as well. For example, as a tourist, you have to abide So if you see a sign that says no parking, You have to follow that rule. Now remember, we also use this to say you You accept, but then you follow it. For example, let's say you go to court because your favor. You still have to abide by that decision. You have to accept it and then follow it. So this is a more formal phrasal verb, but by many different rules, regulations, and #2 to dawn on This is an excellent phrasal To dawn on is when you finally realize or For example, one day it just dawned on me So one day I just realized I need to change So you can absolutely say realize we're just common. Now notice the sentence structure here. It dawned on me, something dawns on someone. So the IT is the realization. It dawned on me that I need to change careers. So just keep that in mind because the sentence on and then someone number. 3 To pull off, this is also a must know phrasal When you pull something off, you're able to to do. For example, let's say you're a wedding planner want to have this huge 300 person wedding That's really difficult and it might even person wedding in three weeks. So you could say I don't know if I can pull I don't know if I can do that because it's I don't know if I can pull that off the that Now let's say you do successfully plan the I pulled that off. I can't believe I pulled off planning a 300 out of. This is an excellent business phrasal verb. It's used when you fail to keep a commitment Now in a business context, A commitment could It can be formal and you have a contract in just agree to it verbally. So if you don't keep that commitment, then For example, I can't believe the client backed Now notice here I just said backed out. I didn't use the of. We only use the of when you specify the noun, I can't believe the client backed out of the at the last minute #5 to clam up. This is an excellent phrasal verb for all because when you clam up, you're unable to But this can also be used if you simply. Refuse to speak for whatever reason. For example, I always clam up when I'm public When I'm public speaking, I become unable You clam up now. My advice to you is if you feel like you're Number six, to Mull over. When you Mull something over, you think about you're mulling over is simply an idea, an And you Mull it over. You think about it. You consider it. So let's say you're in a meeting and a client you need to think about it. So you could say give me a few days to Mull over. the IT being using the tool, purchasing the a few days to Mull it over. Now, you can also specify the noun, and you I commit #7 to pan out. This is an extremely common phrasal verb. To pan out simply talks about how a situation For example, I'm not sure how this merger So the situation here is the merger and we're to go? How's it going to develop? Will it be positive, Will it be negative? Will there be challenges or difficulties, So here I'm saying, I'm not sure, I'm not Now let's say the merger had some difficulties You could say the merger didn't pan out, didn't expected #8 to ramble on. This is an excellent one for all you public You talk at length without getting to the So let's say I rambled on for 5 minutes trying at the end you didn't understand it at all You're a little annoyed because I wasted your I rambled on. So this is used as a negative and it's used So we generally use this as a complaint. The speaker rambled on for 20 minutes #9 to This is when you fall asleep, but is when period of time and usually when you're not So this isn't when you go to bed at the end OK, so let's say you're in a meeting at work topic is very boring and you start doing this head, what I'm doing, this is the verb to So when you fall asleep, what do you do? You nod your head. So that's where this phrasal verb to nod off And remember, we use this for short periods to fall asleep, for example, when you're driving. So I might say, I always listen to loud music And #10 I love this phrasal verb to lock out. When you lock out, you're very lucky in a There's this major sale on the new iPhone And you go to the store and you get the very You could say, I can't believe I lucked out You lucked out. You were very lucky in this specific situation. Or let's say you're driving during rush hour get a parking spot right in front of the office believe I lucked out and got such an amazing Or if you're telling that story to a friend, the building downtown During rush hour. They could say, wow, you really lucked out. You really lucked out by getting that parking Now that you feel more comfortable with the again so you can see how much progress you So here are the questions. Hit, pause. Take as much time as you need, and when you're Here are the answers. Hit, pause and compare your answers to the Question one, she's not. She's just really good at basketball. She's not showing off. Question two, It's hard to meditate when my Question three, we've been friends for 20 I'm not going to let this. I'm not going to let this come between us. Question four. It's amazing how fast the company after the Question five, I need to call the garage. My car's been all week. My car's been acting up. Question 6. His speech didn't the urgency of the situation. His speech didn't get across. Question 7 just can close any deal we can. We can count on her. Question eight. I can't give you the day off tomorrow, but By letting you leave early, I can make it Question nine. They said the price is too high, but give Question 10. My boss always makes me stay late. I don't know why I I put up with it. How do you do with the quiz? Share your score in the comments below and I'm going to explain every phrasal verb in Number one, to come around to an opinion or or to see a new point of view. Now notice the sentence structure. Because we have two prepositions around and We need a noun, an opinion, or an idea. For example, I came around to the new job So remember, this means you changed your opinion. So previously you didn't want the new job, changed your opinion. Now you want the new job because you heard We commonly use this without the preposition the something has already been mentioned. For example, at first I didn't want to move So. Notice I didn't say I came around to something So I came around to the idea after I visited And this is when you clearly and effectively For example, make sure you get across that So if you're having a meeting with a client or idea, the project is over budget and your effective way, Your boss wants to make sure Now we also use this when you're talking, aren't really coming out very well. And after a while you stop and you say what your point. What I'm trying to get across is the project This is when you deliberately display your people. Now this is frequently used in the negative. Don't show off. Don't show off. But there's definitely a time and a place For example, when you're going to a job interview, You should show off your skills and abilities. You should talk about all your awards, your you've received. You want to show off all of your experience So an interview is the perfect time to show Also, if you're going for your IELTS exam, of the English language. You want to show off your abilities by using of phrasal verbs and idioms and expressions. You want to show off to the interviewer, #4 Now this is exactly the same as to rely on So you have three different phrasal verbs And this is of course when you trust someone objective. For example, I can always count on Selma to the specific task or objective which is to And remember you could replace this with rely I can always depend on Selma. Now we frequently use this in a question response. For example, can I count on you? Can I count on you to close the deal and then can count on me #5 to come between now. This is when something disturbs a relationship relationship, a social relationship, romantic It can be any kind of relationship. For example, Jacob and Marcus were best friends So that's the image you could have. They were close, Jacob and Marcus, but then Sylvie disturbed their relationship. Now it's very common for a girl or a guy to have to be a person. It could be that Jacob and Marcus were very the new job came between them, their family them, their religion came between them. It could be anything came between them. Money. Is a good one as well that comes between people And remember you can use this in any type something or someone. And notice this is A to preposition phrasal With put up with and We use this to say that to put up with. For example, I don't know how you put up with I don't know how you tolerate your boss. Now of course we can be more specific and I don't know how you put up with your boss's distasteful jokes, for example. I don't know how you tolerate it. Now we commonly use this to say I'm not going I'm not going to put up with your constant Now to bounce back. This is when you recover or recuperate. Now you can use this when you recover from like for example a bad sales quarter or a But it can also be when you recover or recuperate those situations. For example, in a workplace situation, you from our laws in Q2. So I don't know how we'll recover. And then you could have a discussion how can Does anyone have any ideas on how we can bounce from an illness? You could say it took me a while to bounce to recover recuperate #8 to act up. This means to behave badly or strangely. This is very commonly used with parents describing their older children. My son keeps acting up, behaving badly, but For example, my computer keeps acting up, My computer keeps acting up. I hope it doesn't break #9 to make it up to This is quite a long one, so pay attention someone. Now, we use this when you try to compensate For example, let's say it's your best friend's So this is the wrongdoing not going to your Now, if you want to compensate for that wrongdoing, birthday party. I promise I'll make it up to you. I'll make it up to you by taking you out for I'll make it up to you by going to the movies I'll make it up to you by buying you a really So those are the ways you're going to compensate. Now you might be wondering, what is this it We use it with it because what you're trying so you don't have to say it again. Now you can use this in a business context. Let's say you went over budget on a client's are we going to make it up to the client? How are we going to compensate for our wrongdoing? The wrongdoing is you went over budget. And then maybe someone would suggest we can or offering a free product, offering an extra So those are how you're going to compensate #10. To barge in. When you barge in, you enter a place a location taking place. For example, I was in my office working and CV. But later I hired him. So by saying the kid barged in, it implies expected. He just barged in unexpectedly and he interrupted But in this case it was successful because. He got the job. Now that you understand these phrasal verbs from the very beginning. Again, here are the questions for the quiz. You need to complete each sentence using the So go ahead and hit pause now and complete Here are the correct answers. Go ahead and hit pause and see how well you Question one, you've been arguing for months. You need to, you need to make up. Question two. I said we need to diversify our product line Question three, I always have a cup of tea me wind down question four. My girlfriend is studying abroad and I'm really Question 5. Your suit doesn't look comfortable. Why don't you something more comfortable? Why don't you slip into question six? It's getting late so I'm going to. I'm going to turn in question 7. Salma took this job too. Her accounting experience to beef up Question Have you? Who's going to give the presentation? Have you nailed down Question 9? Sometimes it's easier to a trained professional The party was fun, but I when they started But I zoned out. So how did you find that quiz? Was it easy? Was it difficult? Don't worry, because I'm going to explain be easy by the end of the lesson. So let's do that. Now ache for to ache for This is a very nice Now, we really use this in the context of use that appropriately. And to ache for something or someone is when someone. For example, he was lonely and aching for a poetic, phrasal verb. You will probably hear it in novels, stories, He was aching for love, so maybe you won't hear it in romance movies or romance novels. Now you may be more likely to use ache for This is a fun one. Let's say your husband is overseas on a business You might say I'm aching for my husband. So if you're talking to your friends or family, really aching for my husband. He's been gone for two weeks already, #2 to When you beef something up, you make it stronger Now we do use this in the context of bodybuilders Become more muscular, so you can use that But we also use this in more of a business might say, I need to beef up my resume. I need to make my resume stronger, or more skills. For example, #3 to make up. And in this context, we're talking about to To make up with someone is when you forgive In a family context, young kids argue a lot, And. Older kids too. But you might say to your son, your daughter, You need to make up with your brother. You need to make up with your cousin or a means you need to forgive that person. Stop being angry at that person. Stop fighting with that person. So we definitely use this in a social context use this in a professional context. Co workers fight as well. There are disagreements in companies, so you make up with. Mark You work on the same team. You have to get along. You need to make up with each other #4 to exact details of something or you get a firm So let's say you're planning a conference It will take place in summer. It will be on this general topic or theme, What specific topics? Who specifically will be the keynote speaker? Who specifically will be presenting? Who will you hire to cater the conference? You need to nail down those details. So you need to either understand the exact on who's going to cater when the conference So that's a very useful phrasal verb, and social context. #5 to open up. When you open up to someone, you talk very things that make you quite vulnerable, things For example, after years, she finally opened So for many years there was this tragic death, it. She didn't talk about her feelings about the She started talking freely about how she felt, it, those types of things, her inner feelings Now notice I didn't use to someone. I could say she opened up to her family about So you have about and then the specific topic You'll commonly hear people say, I've never If someone says that to you, they're basically They feel like they can share their inner very positive thing. It shows you have a very close relationship, Now this is when you quickly put on a piece So this is a very specific phrasal verb. It's only used with clothing. Now, for example, this shirt is quite pretty, But let's be honest, it's not the most comfortable So after I'm done recording this video, I'm I'm going to put on a tshirt. Or if it's first thing in the morning and your doorbell, you might quickly slip into The door. So it's simply another way to say put on #7 When you stand by something, it's used to So I might say we still stand by our opinion So that's my opinion. That's my belief. Interest rates need to increase. I stand by that. I still support that. I still believe that. So you'll hear this a lot from people in power, They'll have an opinion, have a belief, and you know they still believe that specific Do you stand by that? And if so. Why I stand by that? Yes, I stand by that. And the reason simply is now we also use this When you stand by someone, it means that you has happened. So let's say that your coworker was accused your coworker didn't do it. You might say I stand by her, I stand by her, this difficult time #8. To wind down, to wind down. This is an excellent phrasal verb because day. So you might say, I always read at the end I always read at the end of the day. Or I go for a walk after work to wind down. So it just means to relax. That is another way of saying it, and it implies wind down #9 to zone out. This is when you stop paying attention for Now, we've all done this, especially when and you just zone out. Now generally people zone out because they For example, whenever people talk about sports, I just stop listening and I start thinking not listening to the conversation about sports. I zone out, I stop paying attention, but then again. So it's always for that short period of time This is a very useful phrasal verb because It's another way of saying to go to bed, and So of course you can say I'm tired, I'm going going to turn in, I'm going to turn in, and you use it. You can use it as a suggestion. Hey, it's getting late and you have that job You should go to bed. Or you can use it in question form as well. What time did you turn in? What time did you go to bed? Now that you're more comfortable with these same quiz again and you can see how much. You've improved, so here are the questions, Hit pause. Take as much time as you need, and when you're so you can go ahead and hit pause. Now, how'd you do on that quiz? Well, let's find out. Here are the answers. Go ahead and hit pause and figure out how question one. I used to play video games every day, but Out of it. Question two. Do you know why Sarah of the meeting earlier Question three. Can you add mustard to the shopping list? I just. I just used it up. Question 4 You. Should your old books to your community store? You should give away question 5. The bridge is because there was an accident, Question six, my boss said we can with canceling Go ahead. Question seven my company using cell phones My company frowns on question eight. I'm sorry I at you during the meeting I overreacted error sort out question 10. The presentation was really long, so I for So how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy or was it difficult? Well, now I'm going to explain every phrasal Number one, to block off. This is when you obstruct an exit to prevent This is a very common phrasal verb because to take a detour, which means take an alternative off. So let's say you get to work 15 minutes late. You can say, sorry I'm late, Main Street was Then most likely that street or exit is blocked Is also possible that there was an accident, or a protest that's preventing people from When you lash out, it means you react angrily. You react with very strong negative emotion. So this phrasal verb is negative, and it's So you might say she lashed out when I suggested So you shared an opinion and the person reacted They lashed out. Now, for this phrasal verb, it's very common She lashed out at me when I suggested a different The at someone is optional. You don't need to do it, but it can be very So if you want to specify the person, then At gym she lashed out at us. It could be the entire group. She lashed out at the client. And then you can explain the reason why she was late #3 to walk out. When you walk out, it means you leave a place So we have another phrasal verb with angrily. You leave a place angrily. So let's say you're meeting with your boss Now, maybe you were expecting a 20% raise. A raise is a pay increase, a 20% pay increase, You 2%, you might say. After my boss offered Me 2%, I walked out. So you left the room, You left the office, But you didn't just leave, you left angrily, That's the key here. So combining our last phrasal verb to lash lashed out at me, I walked out #4 to sort This means to resolve a problem. Now we can use this with a business professional For example, let's say your payment processor You might say we need to sort this out ASAP. We need to resolve this problem ASAP. Or who can we call to sort this out? So you can absolutely use this in a professional We commonly use this with personal issues, with another person. So let's say you and your sister haven't spoken Maybe your sister lashed out at you and then haven't spoken since. Well, someone might suggest some ways you You need to sort it out with your sister. You need to resolve the problem, and in this So this is a great phrasal verb to use for #5 to use up. This is when you finish or consume 100% of And that's very important because I could olive oil, but when I just say use, it doesn't How much olive oil did I use? I use the olive oil, but if I say I used up Of the olive oil, so there is none left for more. So I could say I used all the olive oil. When I say all the olive oil, all means 100%. So that is exactly the same as I used up the This is when you leave a place when you're telling other people. Now this is commonly used with children, so like a hawk or she'll wander off. So little kids, they might not stay in a room, room, but of course that can be dangerous So this is commonly used with young children, So let's say you're on a museum tour and you're Now you're supposed to stay with the museum You're not supposed to wander off and just you might say. The tour was boring, so I wandered off #7 in something. So to lose interest, you're no longer interested mature. For example, a lot of young kids play video an adult you might grow out of it. So you no longer do that. You no longer play video games for hours and You're more mature #8 to go. Ahead, this means to proceed. This is a very useful phrasal verb. We use it commonly to give someone permission So your coworker might ask you, is it OK if say sure, go ahead, go ahead, which means Go ahead. Now you can just say go ahead. Or you can specify what the action is. You can say go ahead and send the e-mail. Or go ahead with and we need a gerund. Go ahead with sending the e-mail and send So pay attention to that sentence structure To give away this means to provide for free. So this is a great phrasal verb for me. I could say I give away my best tips and advice YouTube channel. Now, let's say you have a lot of items from but you have a lot of their clothes, their You might want to give that away so you can for free. We gave away all our kids clothes when they So when you want to get rid of something in it away, provide it for free, and finally, something. So you might say my boss disapproves of casual wearing casual clothes. Notice our sentence structure frowns on wearing. We need our gerron verb. Now that you feel more comfortable with these quiz again so you can see how much you've Here are the questions. Hit, pause. Take as much time as you need, and when you're Here are the answers. Hit, pause, take as much time as you need. Compare your answers, and when you're ready, Question one. We should the party with some karaoke. We should kick off Question two. You don't need to your team. I've heard great things about them. Talk up question three. Make sure your team doesn't while the CEO Horse around question. 4 It really, when Jeremy took credit for my Question 5 He's been since he lost the contract, We're on a tight budget, but we have enough Question 7, the expense reports have been Question eight I've learned to my mother when Tune out. Question nine. She used to be very serious, but she's a bit Question 10 my boss is going to when she learns So how did you do with that quiz? Don't worry if it was difficult, because now detail. Let's get started. Number one, to tune out. This is a very useful phrasal verb because you stop paying attention to them because So you tune someone out. This is something that kids do all the time If your parent is giving you advice and you out. So your parent is talking, but you're just So you might say, I always tune out my mom Now, this can also happen a lot in a workplace Let's say the coworker that sits beside you a lot. You might just simply tune them out so you to hear all that negativity and complaining. So you just tune them out. They're talking, but you're not listening This is a useful one because it means to annoy, Now we use this in two very specific sentence It ticks someone off. It ticks me off when my coworker doesn't help, And then you explain the situation that causes Now the other sentence structure is just to John really ticks me off. He's so negative. John really irritates me, frustrates me, annoys John really ticks me off. He's so negative. But I just tune him out. Number three, to talk up and you talk someone in a way that makes that someone or something really amazing, maybe even more so than the So let's say you're in sales and you're trying Well, you're going to talk up that software. You're going to talk about that software in features, and you probably won't mention any You're going to talk it up or let's say that in your company. Well, you're probably going to talk up your You're going to speak about your friend very you want your friend to get the job. You're going to talk up your friend? #4 To pile up, this means simply to increase So in general you could say work is really Work is increasing in amount. You can use this with specific work. So you might say my expense reports are piling You might say the laundry is piling up, The They're increasing in amount #5 to mob around, This is when someone moves from one location way. A lazy way. A disappointed way. And it's generally because something is wrong. Something specific is wrong. So maybe they just lost their job or they So they move around the house all day. They go from the couch to the kitchen, back lazy and no energy, so this isn't really a We generally say stop moping around. You need to stop moping around and start looking If that's the reason why you're moping around and look for a job number six to loosen up. This is a great one. It means to be more relaxed, more comfortable, So you might say she was very shy at first, relaxed, more comfortable. Now we often use this as advice to someone. If someone is just being too serious, you It's similar to saying relax a little, relax You need to loosen up. Oh, just loosen up #7 to kick off. This is a great one because when you kick But we use this in the context of a sports So some sort of event with people. So when sports is very common to say the game time the match kicks off at 3, the game kicks Now you could also say, let's kick off the going to start the meeting. Let's kick off the meeting by introducing Or let's kick off the meeting by sharing the This is a fun one to horse around. When you horse around, you behave in a silly So basically what children do all the time. They horse around, but you might say the kids vase. Now, although this is commonly used in children, because adults act in silly and noisy ways Even in workplace context. So you might be talking about how your team you can also say goof around. It's an alternative, but they're both very #9 to get by. This is when you have just enough money to basically pay all your bills, and that's about. It so you might say, sense our twins were You have two new babies in the house. Well, first, congratulations. But of course that's very expensive. So now you only have enough money to pay your the groceries, pay your mortgage, things like We're getting by, We're getting by. You're just surviving. So if someone knows you're going through a job and they ask you, how's it going? Is everything okay? You could say, well, I'm getting by, I'm getting You have enough to pay all your core expenses. And finally #10 to flip out. Now this can mean to become very excited, or agitated. So it's when you have a very strong emotion, or it can be negative anger, and it will be So if you just won a competition or a prize very, very excited, right? The sports team flipped out when they won they lost the game. The team became very angry. So you can use it in both situations and for freak out, flip out. They mean the same. And again, positive excitement or negative So now that you're more comfortable with these same quiz again so you can see how much you've So here are the questions. Hit, pause. Take as much time as you need. And when you're ready, hit play to see the Here are the answers. Go ahead and hit pause and figure out how Now you're going to add 100 adjectives to All of these adjectives are very advanced here. To here, let's get started. First, let's talk about sentence structure. Commonly you can use to be plus adjective. Janice is nice. Of course you need to conjugate your verb Another common structure is to use adjective I met a nice person. Notice the adjective comes directly before So it's article, adjective, noun. I met a nice person. Pay attention to this sentence structure. I'll also teach you more advanced sentence Now let's get started with our 100 advanced Z. Adaptable, Adaptable. This is when you're willing and able to change So let's say one minute you're editing a report, analyzing financial information, so you're things. I'm very adaptable. Adapt, adapt. You're adept at something. Notice that preposition at When you're adept You're very good at something. I'm very adept at using SAP. Adventurous, adventurous. This is when you're willing to try new or We're looking for someone who's adventurous over the world. So if you're adventurous, you can apply affectionate, This is showing feelings of liking or love. She gave me an an affectionate farewell. So a very loving farewell. I've summarized all 100 adjectives into a the definition, and an example sentence. You can look in the description for the link Ambitious. Ambitious. This is when you have a strong desire to become I'm attracted to ambitious men. Does that describe you? Are you ambitious, artistic, artistic. This is when you're able to create or enjoy. Art. Would you describe yourself as artistic, assertive, When you're assertive, it means you're confident, fear. I need to work on being more assertive. I need to work on saying what I want, saying other people might think of me. I need to work on being more assertive, attentive, When you're attentive, it means you're very I try to be very attentive to my students, authentic. This means that you're real, you're true. You're not pretending to be someone that you're You're authentic. Sometimes being authentic around others is Sometimes being the real you is difficult you. Approachable. Approachable. This describes someone who is friendly and My goal is for all my students to describe Would you describe me as approachable, friendly, If so, put that in the comments. Jennifer, you're approachable, balanced, balanced. This is when you consider all sides or opinions Even though she's a Democrat, she's very balanced. She considers other sides and opinions other This is another way of saying smart or intelligent My students are all very bright. I know you'll learn these adjectives very broad minded. This is someone who is willing to accept different Being broad minded is important when you work Candid. Candid. When someone is candid, it means that they're To be candid, I left my job because I didn't This is someone who is happy and positive. Cheerful. I try to surround myself with cheerful people. Chill, chill. This is an informal adjective, but commonly who isn't worried, isn't anxious, who's very As I get older, I become more and more chill, I don't stress as much. I'm not as anxious or worried. I'm chill. Are you chill? Put that in the comments if you are, I'm chill. Clever. Clever. This is another advanced way of saying smart Someone who learns quickly. She's a very clever student. Communicative, communicative. This describes someone who is willing to talk Did you notice that Julie wasn't very communicative Compassionate, Compassionate. This is someone who is very sympathetic to situation and they want to help that person. They're very compassionate. She's a compassionate reporter, competitive, This describes someone who really. Wants to win and who enjoys competition? I am very competitive. Sometimes I'm a little too competitive because What about you? Are you competitive? Charismatic, charismatic. This is someone who is well liked and well to influence others easily. If you want to win the election, you need Consider it, consider it. This is when you care about and respect others. It was very considerate of you to change the Constructive. Constructive. This is usually information or advice that's their performance. Can I give you some constructive criticism? Can I criticize you, but in a way that's meant performance? Can I give you some constructive criticism? Coy, coy. When someone's coy, they intentionally don't that information more engaging or interesting. She's being very coy about the party, so she's but that makes you wonder about the party in the party. She's being very coy about the party. Courageous. Courageous. Someone who's courageous is able to control or dangerous situations. It was very courageous of you to quit your Creative. Creative. This is someone who produces or uses unique We're looking for someone who's creative, This is someone who is interested in learning The world around them being curious is a great Would you agree with that? If you agree? Put I agree in the comments. Dependable, Dependable. This is someone deserving of trust and confidence. My assistant is very dependable, determined, When you're determined, you want something anything or anyone stop you from getting the If you're determined, you'll become fluent. That's my promise to you. But it takes determination. You need to be determined. Direct, direct. When someone's direct, it means they communicate in a very honest way, without worrying about I like how our CEO is very direct, even when Dynamic, dynamic. This is someone who has a lot of different Has anyone ever told you that you're very This describes someone who is relaxed and My new manager is way more easygoing than Eclectic. When something is eclectic, it consists of I work with an eclectic group of students So I work with many different types of students Emotional, emotional. This is when you have an expressed strong John became very emotional at his retirement Energetic, energetic. This is when you have a lot of energy. Even though she's almost 80, my grandmother This is when you have an interest in a particular part of that subject. I love how enthusiastic you are about our This describes a person who enjoys being with with other people. Although I'm not very extroverted, I love Exuberant. Exuberant. This describes someone who is very energetic She's an exuberant speaker, fearless, fearless. Of course, this means you're free from fear. Good negotiators need to be fearless, flexible, This is when you're able to change or be changed My schedule is very flexible next week. Forgiving, forgiving. This describes someone who forgives easily. I'm thankful. I have a forgiving boss. A boss who forgives easily. Fruitful, fruitful. This is something that produces good results. He had a fruitful career as a lawyer, so it He was very successful in his career. He produced good results. Frank. Frank. This describes someone who is honest and sincere. Thank you for being frank with me. Now remember that Frank is the name of a man. So you could possibly say Frank is very frank. So a man whose name is Frank is very frank, Fun loving, fun loving. This is when you enjoy having fun and not Although I'm the CEO of a Fortune 500 company, Loving, gregarious, Gregarious. This is someone who likes being with other Being gregarious is an important quality of Because if you're a nurse, you need to like with your patients. Genuine. Genuine. This describes someone who is real and exactly Her speech was genuine, Honorable. Honorable. Notice that silent H honorable. This is someone who's honest, Silent H Honest She's an honorable boss and I respect her Humble. Humble. This is someone who is modest, who shows a Although she makes $2,000,000 a year, she's So this means she doesn't act like she makes She drives a regular car, lives in a regular She's humble, handy, handy. Someone who's handy means they're really skilled comes to tools and repairing, fixing, or even I am not very handy, which means I'm not very things using tools with my hands. What about you? Would you describe yourself as handy? Are you handy? Imaginative. Imaginative. This is someone who can easily think of new, Kamal is an imaginative designer, inquisitive, This describes someone who wants to know about Usually, someone who's inquisitive asks a I love when my students are inquisitive about So I love when my students ask questions. Impeccable. Impeccable. This is something that is perfect, that has Sylvia gave an impeccable performance. Intuitive, intuitive. When someone's intuitive, it means they can and feelings rather than facts or information. I'm very intuitive when it comes to hiring, feeling I get about that person rather than So they might have this amazing resume, but good feeling about that person, I'm not going Which means I'm very intuitive. I trust my intuition. I'm very intuitive. Ingenious. Ingenious. This is very intelligent or skillful. The way you handled that situation was ingenious. Inviting. Inviting someone who's inviting makes you situation. The new HR manager is very inviting. Jubilant, jubilant. This is feeling and expressing great happiness, The fans were jubilant after the game, so won. The fans were jubilant, keen, keen. This describes someone who is very willing She's very keen. She's already followed up with me, so maybe sent me an e-mail asking if I needed to know She's very keen, kind hearted, kind hearted. This is someone who really enjoys helping My doctor is very kind hearted, lively, lively. This is someone who's full of energy and enthusiasm. My team is so lively today. Logical. Logical. This means reasonable based on good judgment. You made a logical decision. Loyal. Loyal. This is someone who provides support in any Kirk is our most loyal manager. He's been with the company for 20 years. Laudable. Laudable. This is something that deserves praise. Even though there was number success or little So even though you didn't succeed or get the most likely because you acted in a very responsible Mature. Mature. When someone's mature, it means they act in Although Charoc is only an intern, he's very that makes him seem older because he's more age. Meticulous. Meticulous. This means very careful with close attention As a quality assurance professional, I need This is another way of saying very good. Marvelous. They did a marvelous job for the new client. Nimble, nimble. This is someone who is quick and exact with His nimble hands are perfect for repairing Antiques are very delicate but he can move His hands are very nimble, open minded, open This describes someone who is willing to consider their own. Doctors are becoming more and more open minded, This describes someone who is hopeful, who believes that good will come from a situation. I'm optimistic that I'll pass my oral exam. I'm hopeful. Out of this world, out of this world. This is something that's extraordinary, superb. Your design skills are out of this world, This is someone who is friendly and energetic other people. Now that I feel confident with my English, This is something a lot of students want to So definitely improve your English so you When someone is pensive, it means they're They're thinking very seriously. They're pensive. Julie was very pensive during our presentation, presentation and she was just thinking proactive, This means that you take action to change to happen and then simply reacting to the One of my best qualities is that I'm proactive, This means that you're very good at noticing may not notice. We really appreciate your perceptive comments. So you provided information that nobody else We appreciate your perceptive comments. Persistent. Persistent. This is when you continue doing something or challenges. When I'm solving a problem, I'm very persistent, This means you arrive or you do something So it means not late. Thankfully, the contractors are very punctual. They say they'll be here at 9:00 AM and 9:00 They're here. They're very punctual, qualified, qualified. This is when you have the skill, the knowledge, Ronnie is the most qualified accountant I Riveting, Riveting. This means extremely interesting. The speakers at the conference were all riveting, This means you're famous for something specific. Maya Angelou is a renowned poet, so she's But for something specific. Poetry. She's a renowned poet. Ravishing, ravishing. This means extremely beautiful. You look ravishing in that dress. Or if you're a male, you look ravish fishing Reverent, reverent. This is showing great respect or admiration. The reverent crowd became silent when she and admiration, the crowd became silent. So we can say they're a reverent crowd, self This means that you rely on your own skills You need to be self reliant, sensible, sensible. This means having and using good judgment. I like working with Hameed. He's very sensible, savvy, savvy. This means you have practical knowledge and She's very savvy when it comes to marketing, tech savvy, which means you're very skilled Tech savvy, I'm very tech savvy. What about you? Are you tech savvy? Put that in the comments. I'm tech savvy. I'm not tech savvy. Supportive, Supportive. This is giving encouragement and approval. As a teacher, I try to be very supportive Sincere, sincere. This means honest, not false, not invented. Her apology was sincere. So she said I'm sorry. And she said it in an honest way, not I'm Where clearly she's not actually sorry, I'm Her apology was sincere, straightforward, This means honest and not hiding one's opinions. I love how straightforward surely is sage. Sage. This means wise, and we use it specifically and with their old age, they gain wisdom. They're very sage. The consultant has 20 years of experience, Steadfast. Steadfast. This means staying the same for a long time, Jose is a steadfast assistant. Tenacious, tenacious. This is when you're unwilling to accept defeat Felicity is a tenacious student. Thrilling. Thrilling. This means very exciting. Fabios plan for the company is thrilling. Tender, Tender. This means gentle, loving or kind. It's important to be tender when you're delivering Tactful. Tactful. This is when you're careful not to say or Yousef quit in a very tactful way. Upbeat, Upbeat. This means positive, with hope for the future. Marie is very upbeat about the proposal. Unrelenting. I like this one. Unrelenting. This means extremely determined, never weakening I appreciate my parents unrelenting support. Their support never weakens. It never ends. It's unrelenting, versatile, versatile. This is when you're able to change easily can use one thing in many different ways. Brad Pitt is a versatile actor, so he's one ways. Romance, comedy, action, drama. He's a versatile actor, vibrant, vibrant. This means energetic, exciting, and full of I love how vibrant my work environment is. Witty, Witty. When someone's witty, it means they're funny, My pilot was very witty, useful, youthful. This means having qualities that are typical Her youthful enthusiasm makes coming to work So maybe she isn't youthful, maybe she is But her enthusiasm, her energy, is youthful, So it's more enjoyable coming to work. Zealous. Zealous. This means enthusiastic and eager. I appreciate how zealous she is. You're doing amazing. Now you're going to learn 100 idioms. Adding idioms to your speech are so important time. So understanding idioms will help you improve help you sound more natural and more advanced. So now let's learn 100 idioms to play something This is when you make a decision in the moment So let's say you're talking about your weekend do you want to do this weekend? And you might say let's play it by ear. Let's decide as the weekend happens not in We use this to say that you're ready to listen So let's say you tell your boss you want to and your boss replies, I'm all ears. I'm all ears to wake up on the wrong side This is a great one. We've all done. This is when you wake up in a bad mood, you So let's say you wake up. You go in the kitchen and your wife, your How are you? Would you like some coffee? What do you want for breakfast? And you're grumpy. Don't care. Where's my phone? And you're being grumpy. Well then your wife, your husband can say, the bed, and that's just to let you know you're When you wing something, you perform a speech So you definitely don't want to wing your of a molehill. A molehill is really small. A mountain is really big. So it's when you take a minor problem or issue So let's say you got one question wrong on serious. Someone could say don't make a mountain out They're letting you know it's really not that This is when you have to make a really important Let's say you've been a graphic designer for to school and changing careers and becoming. A lawyer or a teacher, so you might say. I'm not sure if I want to be a graphic designer I'm at a crossroads because that decision This is when it rains heavily. So let's say your friend in a different city did. It rained heavily. You can say yeah, it rained cats and dogs This is when you're really, really happy. So let's say you've got a new promotion. You can say I'm on top of the world to give This is when you ignore someone and you ignore mad at them, annoyed with them, they did something So let's say your husband or your wife is You might say. Why are you giving me the cold shoulder? It's another way of asking why are you mad What did I do wrong? Why are you giving me the cold shoulder to This is when you delay making a decision, and you don't want to make it. For example, I asked my boss for promotion, answer me. He won't say yes. He won't say no. He keeps just saying, oh, I need to think He's sitting on the fence to hit the nail This is when you accurately explain a problem For example, you hit the nail on the head So you explain the situation accurately to This simply means you feel great, you have So maybe you could say since I changed my I feel as fit as a fiddle. This is a great one to get something out of This is when you do something or you try something For example, let's say you've been talking You research it, you look at different websites, actually done it. Someone might say just go skydiving so you So once you do it, you can stop researching I like this one. Speak of the devil. Speak of the devil. This sounds negative because of devil, but This is used when you're talking about someone about them. This has happened, right? Let's say you're talking to a friend about about Bob. Oh, is Bob going to come to the party? Oh, I'm not sure. I haven't talked to Bob. And then your phone rings and guess what? It's Bob. And then you can say, speak of the devil to This is when you trust someone, when they So if a coworker is late and they call you him the benefit of the doubt. Let's trust that he's actually stuck in traffic. No pain, no gain. No pain, no gain. This is a classic one. This is used to say that if you want results, hard and get uncomfortable. So I might say, if you want to improve your You have to be willing to get uncomfortable. Hang in there. This is a great one. It simply means don't give up. I know learning a language is hard, but hang This is used to ask someone what they're thinking. So let's say your friend is just staring out what are they thinking about? You can turn to your friend and say a penny It's not rocket science. Rocket science is complicated, right? But if we say it's not rocket science, this So I could say becoming a confident English It's not complicated. You just have to practice speaking to let This is a great one because it means that or a wrongdoing. So your boss could say, I know you came in hook. I'm not going to punish you. To make a Long story short, this is when you and you make it very simple by sharing it So you could say Long story short, we missed So there's a long story about why you missed you just say. Long story short, we missed our flight. Easy does it, easy does it. This is a way of saying slow down. So if your friend is at the gym and they're weight, you might say easy does it slow down This is when you need to start over and create failed. So let's say you were trying to solve a computer You came up with a strategy, it didn't work, go back to the drawing board and try again This is an event that happens in frequently. For example, I only see Kara once in a blue This is a great one because it means without For example, call me if you need anything It means I'll come instantly if you need anything. So it's a really nice, reassuring thing to To add insult to injury, this is when you So let's say you're going out on a first date That's already a bad situation. But then to add insult to injury, your date of you to hit the sack. This means. To go to bed, for example, I'm really tired. I'm going to hit the sack, the balls in your This is used when you need to make the next So I might say we offered her a great promotion, So it's up to her to decide if she's going job, or do something else to be or to go barking This is when you look in the wrong place or For example, if you think I lost your ring, You're accusing the wrong person to get or This is when you're well prepared or well So you might say the conference was supposed They should have gotten their ducks in a row. They should have been organized or prepared This is when you enjoy the advantages of two She works in the city, but she lives in the She gets the best of both worlds. The lion's share. This is the largest part or most of something. So you might complain. I did the lion's share of work on this project This is when you're performing really well. Wow, you completed all those reports already. You're on the ball to pull someone's leg. This is when you're joking with someone, so only joking. Don't get upset, I'm just pulling your leg This is when you need to calm down. You regain your composure after being really you calm down. So I might say pull yourself together. It was a false alarm, so the alarm made you down. So far so good. This is how you reply when you want to let How's the project going? So far, so good to be the last straw. This is when you have no patience left for So I might say this is her fifth time being That's the last straw. No more patience for her mistakes. Time flies when you're having fun. This is used to say that you don't notice So you might look at your watch and say, oh And then someone could reply and say, yeah, out of shape. This is used to say you're upset, you're angry. For example, Janice is bent out of shape because worse. Matters in this sense means problems to make So I might say I have to work tonight. And to make matters worse, to make that situation Don't judge a book by its cover. You've probably heard this one. It means that you shouldn't judge someone For example, let's say I'm hiring people and Look at his hair. And then my colleague would say, well, don't By his cover, look at his resume to fall between This is when something fails to achieve 2 So let's say you plan to watch a romantic That movie is supposed to be romantic and 2 objectives. So you could say that movie fell between 2 It wasn't romantic and it wasn't funny to This is when something is exceptionally expensive. Now, airline tickets are usually expensive, Even more expensive than usual. I might say my flight cost an arm and a leg This is used to remind someone that you only So your friend might be concerned. What if I forget all my words during my IL cross that bridge when you come to it? Worry about that problem when it happens to This is used when someone complaints about So let's say I had a party weeks ago and now I can't believe John didn't come to my party. Well my friend can say don't cry over spilt It was 3 weeks ago. Why are you still talking about it? Curiosity killed the cat. This is used to say that being inquisitive unpleasant situation. So let's say your husband or wife is planning to ask a lot of questions. What are we doing? Where are we going? Who's coming? Then your husband or wife can say curiosity. Killed the cat. Just to remind you don't ask so many questions This is when you lose an opportunity because For example, the application deadline was I missed the boat to be on fire. This is to perform really well. Wow, your presentation was amazing. You were on fire to spill the beans. This is when you reveal a secret, when you So let's say you're planning a surprise party And then you tell everyone, don't spill the the weather. This is when you feel unwell, when you feel I'm a little under the weather today. A blessing in disguise. This is when something a situation seems bad positive at a later date. So let's say you get fired from your job. Obviously that seems bad, maybe even unlucky. But later on you get a job 10 times better. It pays better. You have a better boss, better coworkers, Everything about this job is better. You can say getting fired was a blessing in My new job is so much better, a dime a dozen. This is used to describe something that is So you can say tech startups in Silicon Valley They're very common. They're everywhere, and they're not very special. Everyone's a tech startup in Silicon Valley, This is when you avoid seeing what you mean So let's say you want to end your romantic Your friend could tell you don't beat around Be direct and tell that person you want to Better late than never. So let's say you've been working with a company promotion after 10 years, and you're telling Little annoyed because you've been there for late than never. To remind you that yes, it took ten years, Better late than ever to bite the bullet. I love this idiom. This is when you force yourself to do something or inevitable. Inevitable means eventually you have to do For example, just bite the bullet and ask Break a leg. This is a very common idiom that we use to But we especially use this before someone performance. But when you're going for a job interview, Or when you're doing your speaking exam for So before your speaking exam, your friend, means good luck to call it a day. When you call it a day, it means you stop is up or because you've done enough work for For example, it's getting late. Let's call it a day, Let's call it a day. So that means you can go home. To cut somebody some slack. So let's say there's this coworker who has not doing a very good job at work. They seem very distracted, They're not working But that person's dad just died. So you might say, let's cut him some slack. His dad just died, so you're not going to To be glad to see the back of this means that you don't like them. So let's say it's Jane's last day at work. She quit. She has a new job. You didn't like Jane, you can say. I'm glad to see the back of Jane to be the This is a compliment used to say that something, useful, excellent, or high quality. So you could give me a compliment and say sliced bread. If you think that's true, then put it in the There are plenty of fish in the sea. So let's say your friend went on a date and it's been 3 weeks. You can encourage your friend by saying don't come rain or shine. This is used to say that an event will take So let's say tomorrow is a vacation day for But you might say I'm taking the day off tomorrow This is when you do something in the cheapest, or by not following rules. So you might say we felt pressured to cut your act together. So your parents might say to you or your sibling live at home and you don't have a job. You need to get your act together. You need to organize yourself so you can live Get your act together to break the ice. This is such an important one because this other to feel more comfortable around each the first time. Let's break the ice by introducing ourselves Clear as mud. This is used to say that something is very So if somebody gave you instructions, but all, and they ask you so is everything OK? Do you understand? You can say clear as mud, which tells the Crystal clear something is very clear and His instructions were crystal clear to rock This is when you do or say something that Don't rock the boat until the negotiations So don't say anything that could upset someone the deal. And then? You can cause problems if you want to to get This is another way of saying to get out of over a situation. You could say the party. Got out of hand, which means you were no longer The party got out of hand and some valuables A bad apple. This is used to describe a bad or corrupt You could say there are a few bad apples in To cut to the chase, this is when you only subject or topic. So if you were running out of time in the out of time. So I'll cut to the chase. I'll only say the most important points to This is used when something is very useful rain outside. You might say an umbrella would come in handy. An umbrella would be very useful in this particular This is when you waste time trying to recreate So let's say you ask your boss, should I create boss suggests using last year's presentation. It's already created and your boss can add. Don't reinvent the wheel. So we often use this idiom in the negative When you go with the flow, it means that you with the opinion of others, the majority. So let's say you're having a company dinner but the majority of people say they want pizza instead of burgers because that's what the This is when you do something that is dangerous He's skating on thin ice by lying to his wife. It involves risk. It's dangerous. Don't do it. A silver lining. This is something positive that comes from So the pandemic is negative, right? But is there anything positive? A silver lining, maybe we could say 1. Silver lining of the pandemic is that it made are with friends and family to have a sweet This is somebody who likes eating sweet foods, So if people offer me dessert, generally I'll I could say no thank you. I don't have a sweet tooth, which means I This is when you agree to share the cost of So let's say you're having dinner with a friend, they say I'll pay for the meal. You could say no, no, no, let's go Dutch. Which means you're going to divide the cost This is when you have just enough money to food prices increasing, we're barely making This is when something, usually a person, So let's say you're having a conversation met Fred from accounting? And you're thinking Fred, Fred, Fred from That doesn't ring a bell. The tip of the iceberg. This is used to describe a small part of a These small local protests are just the tip This is when you say or do something that energy. Strong emotion. After our fight, I went for a walk to blow So when you were on that walk, you were able A piece of cake. This is something that was extremely easy. That exam was a piece of cake to be out of This is when you no longer have a problem Our profits are in, but we're not out of the This is when you recover from an illness. It took me two weeks to get over that cold, This is used to describe a type or category Thanks for the invite, but camping isn't my I don't like that category of activity to This means to be rich, to have a lot of money. I just found out my cousin's loaded to nip This is to stop something before it has an We need to nip these rumors in the bud before Out of the blue, When something happens, out expecting it. My boss gave me a promotion out of the blue. You weren't expecting it. How awesome is that to keep one's chin up? This is to remain cheerful in a difficult we tend to put our chin down, but when we're For example, I know the economy seems bad, clock. This is when you try to finish a task quickly I raced against the clock to finish the audit guard. This is when you surprise somebody by doing prepared for. The politician was caught off guard when asked If something is on your radar, it means you're of it. You could say leaving the company isn't on It's not even something I'm considering to This is to betray someone to do something She told the client she did all the work on I can't believe she stabbed me in the back This is when you move quickly and directly So let's say you're at a wedding or a conference lunch. Everyone made a beeline for the food. They went quickly. And directly to the food to be in hot water. This is when you're in a situation where you The politicians in hot water, after his comments This is when you're dressed formally, smartly We dress to the nines for our wedding anniversary, occasion to be between a rock and a hard place. This is when you're in a difficult situation If I accept the promotion, then I'll have won't come with me. So I either accept the promotion that I really with Matt and I don't get the promotion. I'm between a rock and a hard place. It's a difficult situation. It's a difficult decision. Lo and behold, this is an expression used I was on vacation in Japan and lo and behold, So it's very surprising that I see my childhood lo and behold. And finally. To let the cat out of the bag. This is when you accidentally reveal a secret. So let's say you're planning a surprise party know about it. You might say you know about the party, don't Who let the cat out of the bag? Who told you? Who revealed the secret? Who let the cat out of the bag? You did an amazing job. You now have 300 advanced English words added Woohoo. Do you want to keep learning more advanced If so, put more, more, more in the comments where I share 6 tips on how to speak English You can click here to download it or look get started with your next lesson right now?