It's April 12th 1945. At 2.30pm, 9 Mitsubishi G4M Betty bombers soar over the East China Sea. In the lead bomber, Lieutenant Saburo Dohi puts on his oxygen mask and lies back Breathing deeply, the new secret weapon, a weapon the Japanese hope will change Radio operator, Lieutenant Zenji Sugano, His face is solemn. &quot;We've made it.&quot; American ships have been spotted below, a pair of destroyers and smaller vessels. The attack is on. Flak opens up on the Betty and the crew scramble to their positions. Everyone knows, if they haven't their position will surely be reported now. It's only a matter of minutes until superior allied air power arrives. Saburo approaches the trapdoor in the bomber. The trapdoor has come to be known But Saburo is undeterred. &quot;Petty Officer Sugano, For a moment, there's a calm exchange of understanding and mutual respect between the two men. Sugano salutes Saburo and Saburo smiles at his comrade. It's time. Taking a deep breath, Saburo and down a small ladder, and he descends into his fate. The weapon that Saburo will pilot In the bomber's modified bomb bay He feels the tug of the wind buffeting him as he eases himself down of the cramped cockpit and controls. He takes a deep breath and tries to get his bearings. Through the narrow gap of the Betty's he can see a slither of the unfolding battle below. Three Zero Kamikaze bombers head straight for the US destroyer, The crew fights desperately as turning every weapon they have as three Zeros soar towards the ship. One Zero is destroyed, and another is driven off, but the third barrels on. Encouraged by their success, the Mannert L. Abele's crew manages to score hit after hit on the remaining plane, but the determined Zero can't be taken out. It slams into the destroyer's starboard side, the bomb it's carrying penetrates the deck... ...and detonates. Above the chaos, Saburo has made his final preparations and taps out a Morse code His heart pounding, Saburo waits for his contraption and for the hurtling dive to begin. But a minute passes... And nothing happens. Cold fear begins to pool in Saburo's stomach. He's suspended helplessly over enemy fire. If the Betty covers much more distance, he'll lose track of his target. Back on board the bomber, the aircraft commander The explosive release bolt has misfired and Sugano must manually jettison the rocket bomb. Sugano closes his eyes, unable to bring himself to watch With no warning, Saburo plunges downward through the sky. Despite it feeling like the floor Saburo desperately follows his training. He activates a dial on the dashboard and shifts his thumb over to a button He has just activated capable of granting him incredible speed. An overpowering force, stronger takes hold, and he's thrown A deafening, unnatural roar drowns out everything, the battle cry of the Thunder Gods has been sounded. Just eight months before the mission of April 12, 1945, on a hot, humid evening, fresh out of flight school are assembled The cadets sit on tatami mats awaiting their commander, barely able to contain their excitement. All they know is that they've been summoned and if they display the required attributes, they will be given control of a single weapon, Amongst the group are cadets Saburo Dohi and Hideo Suzuki, friends and classmates from flight training. Group commander Captain Junsaku Takahashi enters the room. His face is solemn. If you are married, if you are the only or if you have only one parent alive, raise your hand. Hands go up around the room as Takahashi watches gravely. You, men with your hands raised, leave the room. The stunned silence is followed Men exit quietly, Takahashi begins the briefing. He reveals to the cadets that, despite the Japanese propaganda, But this weapon could be the answer. It's capable of taking out an American The men are in disbelief - this is a gamechanger. But Takahashi isn't finished. There's a catch. &quot;Operating this weapon is a one-way mission. You will die.&quot; Saburo Dohi and Hideo Suzuki nod to each other resolutely. They are determined to serve Japan at whatever the cost. Takahashi stresses to the men the urgency of the project, but also assures them that giving them three days to consider. Despite the stark requirements of the mission, They are now the 721st Naval Air Group and they will soon become known as 'The Thunder Gods'. Hideo and Saburo soon begin and finally discover what the miracle weapon Named the &quot;Okha&quot;, The title alludes to the sacrificial pilots as &quot;falling cherry blossom flowers&quot; The &quot;Okha&quot; is constructed During training, the pilots train using Despite the brutality of the assignment, Hideo Suzuki is in high spirits. His friend Saburo wishes him and Hideo eagerly climbs aboard Once the bomber is cruising high in the air, Hideo settles down into the &quot;Okha&quot; K-1 It's now that a rush of adrenaline passes through him, He confirms that he is ready by &quot;Maintenance preparation. All good.&quot; Hideo also taps out in Morse code The Betty pilot is not to drop the K-1 until he has confirmed Hideo's message In the cramped cabin of the glider, Hideo waits an eternity for a reply. There's only silence from the Betty's pilot. With no clue of what to do next, Hideo frantically starts to repeat But before he can finish, as the explosive charge detonates prematurely and releases the &quot;Okha&quot; from the bomber The aircraft plunges through the air, Hideo grapples with the joystick and threatens to overwhelm him. He can feel the weight acting And his eyes slowly start to close... With a jolt, he wrestles and the pressure slowly subsides. Gaining confidence, he sights the airfield, before lining up for the final approach. If you enjoy this video, Thank you. Now, only three feet over the airfield, Having been warned not to force until he feels the skid bite, finally touching down on the ground But it will not be an easy landing resting on the wingtip as it comes to a screeching halt. A grin slowly breaks across his face, knowing that the successful training flight After months of intense the Thunder Gods gather to celebrate Having been granted leave, to reflect on their spiritual values they'll soon be required to make. Saburo and Hideo are among them. The men drink sake, eat special rations when the anticipated sound of the large rings ominously throughout the night. Struck by the priests 108 times caused by the earthly desires of man. The pilots fall into silence as they listen to the deep tolls As the dawn creeps closer, the pilots walk to a humble hill, The normally festive atmosphere is muted by the effects of over seven years of war, as the pilgrims trudge exhaustedly up the mountain. The icy ocean breeze meets as it bursts over the horizon. The men take a moment to watch the dawn from the heights of Tornado Mountain. Ajiguchi, a pilot from the Thunder Gods that day, stated, &quot;We drank a cup of sake and shouted, &quot;BANZAI! BANZAI! BANZAI!&quot; We all knew it would be our final first sunrise.&quot; In April 1945, Saburo Dohi and Hideo Suzuki Twice now they have waved off on two previous Thunder Gods missions. These task forces have been annihilated but Saburo and Hideo are no less eager Finally the day comes when Saburo is assigned although Hideo is again left in reserve. At the air base, Hideo and Saburo Devastated that he is unable Hideo congratulates Saburo on the great honour and says farewell to his friend Rubble and jagged pieces of ship as the USS Mannert L. Abele However, its troubles are far from over. Suddenly, a lookout sights One and a half miles out, skimming low The crew have never seen anything There's no time for them to react. Saburo and his &quot;Ohka&quot; hurtle towards the vessel, ripping through the sky, takes a deep breath He takes himself back to the beautiful The 2,600 pound warhead of Saburo's &quot;Ohka&quot; has collided with the side of the ship. Having activated the manual launch of Saburo's &quot;Ohka&quot;, Senji Sugano has been watching and see the tremendous blast. &quot;He did it!&quot; Saburo's &quot;Ohka&quot; obliterates the vessel's and severing all power, lights and communications. Aboard the ship, water pours in and those below deck don't even have The &quot;Ohka&quot; has done its job. The captain of the Mannert L. Abele gives The bow and stern drift apart Dozens of men are trapped inside. As the stunned survivors clustered in the churning waters, the crew of the nearby destroyer, has sighted another &quot;Ohka&quot; zipping towards them. The Jeffers guns open up on Saburo's squadmate, but the &quot;Ohka&quot; streaks on relentlessly, An explosion rocks the ship. The decks are smashed... At just 50 yards, an anti-aircraft shell The &quot;Ohka&quot; and its pilot are destroyed before not so lucky as Saburo and his glorious death The initial strike by the Kamikaze, the &quot;Ohka&quot; kills 83 and wounds 35. The operation is later deemed the most Saburo would never know would be the one and only ship, or that he had given his life but a small destroyer acting Despite their sacrifice and commitment, would only damage 6 other US ships Of the 74 that were used in action, most &quot;Ohkas&quot; were shot down still within the slow, and in failed attacks. The &quot;Ohka&quot; pilots would come to earn the nickname: Yet the dignity of the Thunder Gods' sacrifice left behind from the operations who would mourn the loss of his friend and the chance &quot;I felt that I had missed out on my chance Hideo would later say. Of the 17 cadets who were assigned only two others survived the war. On March 21, 1948, the surviving pilots fulfill their promise to meet at Tornado Mountain, the same mountain the Thunder Gods The men share cups of hot green tea and bittersweet memories of their friends, Especially for this video we've made Please grab it, before it flies out