Freddie Mercury made his mark with a legendary stage presence. But as out there as his public persona was, From his nights on the town with Princess well, here are the most remarkable things died. Freddie Mercury's body was cremated, but there his ashes or even an announcement of where Only one person knew what he wanted done with the secret. According to Rolling Stone, former fiance person who knows where Mercury's ashes went. As she told the magazine, &quot;He suddenly announced one day after Sunday put me. But no one's to know, because I don't want I just want to rest in peace.'&quot; So Austin kept Mercury's ashes for two years, attracting press attention. Then she told everyone she was going out for Because fans will be fans, there remains plenty remains might be. Some think Austin took him all the way to would be a weird way to try and cover that Others think he's under a tree in his own All that guessing is unlikely to amount to knows for sure where Mercury's remains went In the 1980s, it wasn't uncommon for people to HIV to just not want to know for sure if At the time, HIV was a death sentence. Now people are encouraged to get tested for passing it to others. But in Mercury's time, much about the virus' Tests for its presence weren't considered people was bleak. It's understandable why someone wouldn't want it. According to journalist Tim Teeman, Mercury showing advanced symptoms of AIDS. While he might have suspected he carried the until 1987, after a type of cancer called Longtime partner Jim Hutton said that up until that Mercury was ill. Even after his diagnosis, Mercury was never He kept his condition secret from the public the day before he died. Much has been made of Freddie Mercury's incredible the depths of &quot;Somebody to Love&quot; and the heights His vocal range has been rumored to span four 2016 it inspired a team of scientists to look Mercury professed a belief that his voice's That's why he never tried to have his overbite it. But the 2016 study concluded that it wasn't his vestibular folds. These are a pair of membranes located just called &quot;false vocal cords,&quot; as they're not Mercury could use his to create subharmonic he's famous for. Whether or not his voice was really capable weren't able to determine, so that aspect for music fans. Freddie Mercury was able to navigate the line but for some famous people, being anonymous Lady Diana Spencer, Princess of Wales was of her time, and the constant media attention According to Rolling Stone, Mercury befriended her situation. Along with some friends, he conspired to take town. They disguised Di in drag by dressing her a leather cap, after which they snuck her The plot worked flawlessly. The bar patrons were so dazzled by Mercury to the princess, who was able to spend the Diana was so thrilled with the experience she hoped to do it again. Because Mercury was one of the first celebrity hear that he was once engaged to a woman and he started having relationships exclusively While the Bohemian Rhapsody movie glossed accurate. Even though they never married, Mercury often a 1985 interview he once said, &quot;All my lovers asked me why they couldn't I couldn't fall in love with a man the same Mercury was involved with Jim Hutton for the the former hairdresser with a pittance compared She received the bulk of his estate, including royalties. And Austin wasn't exactly kind to Hutton after In fact, she kicked him out of the house shortly Hutton ended up taking the 500,000 pounds in his native Ireland, where he remained until Sexuality is a lot more complex than just But in Mercury's day people would sometimes other. When the public learned of Mercury's AIDS associated only with gay people. It was then widely assumed that Mercury himself But Mercury wasn't gay in the strictest sense He continued to profess his love for ex-fiance relationship ended. It has also been asserted, in biographies greatest love affairs of his life were with So it seems that the singer was emotionally It's a state of affairs that seems to have even though he spent his last seven years thought of Mary Austin as his soulmate and &quot;Y'know she's been a girlfriend of mine for together right now in the interim, I sort Freddie Mercury knew he was dying, but he He wanted to remain productive, preferably So he chose to keep his diagnosis a secret. As bandmate Roger Taylor told Entertainment &quot;He didn't want to be looked at as an object And he didn't want circling vultures over Mercury kept recording throughout most of difficult for him. According to GQ, Queen released the single Mercury's death, and the singer was so ill concern about whether he'd be able to perform Mercury put those doubts to rest, though. As May later described the events, &quot;I said, 'Fred, I don't know if this is going And he went, 'I'll f---ing do it, darling,' lacerated that vocal.&quot;&quot; He couldn't keep it up forever, though. While recording &quot;Mother Love&quot; he stopped before not feeling that great, I think I should call I'll finish it when I come back, next time.&quot; But there was no next time, Mercury never last verse of &quot;Mother Love&quot; himself. Mercury's bombastic stage reputation didn't into his relationship with his bandmates. It's said that Mercury was really the most it came to disagreements between his fellow Mercury once said the band, quote, &quot;argued Yet somehow the band persisted through it According to writer Lesley-Ann Jones' biography the guy who ended up keeping the peace, an As Brian May recalled in 2007, &quot;It was normally Roger and I who were at opposite Everyone thinks that Freddie was difficult. Actually Freddie was great. He was a great diplomat.&quot; &quot;We argue a lot, we fight a lot, but in the we must come up with some product.&quot; Freddie Mercury was friends with Michael Jackson music together at some point. But as it turns out, Mercury was just too That's right, the guy who owned a chimpanzee, of building himself a giant robot replica to hang out with. According to Mercury himself, quoted in Lesley-Ann to record several songs together, but could The three songs they worked on together, &quot;Victory,&quot; Than This,&quot; ended up being completed without Ultimately, the two stars had a falling-out, doing too much cocaine in his living room. &quot;I think one of the tracks would have been But I missed out.&quot; The HIV virus doesn't kill directly. It attacks the immune system, which makes in. That's what makes AIDS such an insidious illness; of diseases, and the symptoms patients end bacteria, fungal organisms, and other microbes Kaposi's sarcoma, which was Freddie Mercury's herpesvirus 8, which wouldn't cause symptoms As the symptoms of AIDS progressed throughout complications. In 2017 guitarist Brian May told the Sunday symptoms was in his foot. As May told the publication, &quot;Tragically, there was very little left of Once, he showed it to us at dinner. And he said, 'Oh, Brian, I'm sorry I've upset Ultimately, the singer was killed by pneumonia common end for an exceptionally uncommon person. Check out our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Grunge videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel, and hit