Juvenal is not as calm as he looks. The last time he crossed the old bridge, These mechanics are in Look, there's a broken tree trunk. There's actually two broken tree trunks, The truck will never be able to cross There is a solution, Some villagers but after five days on the road, We created this detour right here. That's all well and good, The truck is going to drive through here. We are here to help people, so that vehicles can drive through. In return, we ask for a bit of money. Okay, do as you wish. But we are not paying to drive through. Juvenal, jump in the truck, We've got nothing to give you, Annoyed, the truck drivers Thirty thousand Congolese francs, around 16 pounds for right of way and would result in even less money However, if the truck gets stuck, unless they cough up the cash. Juvenal largely relies For once, strength doesn't lie in numbers. I told you to put a wedge which has meant that the truck is Go and put the wedge in place. The car always drives up It's really difficult to manuever, so that the route is passable. You have to stay focused and The villages are miffed, while the mechanics The road has not been rebuilt in years. I don't even know when the last I've only ever seen it in this state. In Congo, there is a proverb that says: does not know the value of men. In South Kivu, It takes courage to traverse that has been abandoned by the government. To get by, you need to know how Towns are almost completely cut off Bringing them supplies Even old army trucks can't reach them. Oh, god, what a disaster. It's been eight hours since we left Nothing works with this truck. Each mile is like a never ending saga. Congo is not a country for living, Even the children suffer. In Congo, system D, in other words, While on the face of it, the subsoil of South Kivu is bursting like coltan and cobalt. An ecological crisis. The Ulindi River is being contaminated although this does not stay I have already been robbed twice. By motorbike, by bicycle, in front of the six million Congolese refusing to ever give in. Juvenal's old German military truck It's struggling to transport Juvenal is delivering this to Shabunda, This title will not be taken over The road is a truck killer. We've just broken down, That's why the truck is spinning so much, it's been overloaded The truck was manufactured in 1978 This is the 10th breakdown they've They're only a few miles from Shabunda, Juvenal tries to convince them to stay. We've been on the road for Yes, I know, it's hard. and get to work right away Let's not waste time, let's sort this out It's going to take lots of morale. All they have is a few adjustable spanners weighing more than 100 kilograms. Ten hours later, Their only prize is satisfaction. Move over, get behind me, I'm the oldest, The following morning, Juvenal Only three trucks The drivers take it in turn but every time it's a nightmare. The journey here was really tiring. It took us a week to take a route It takes a huge amount And in the middle of the wet season, we can sometimes spend We know when we are leaving, The city is running dry given that it's been almost three weeks Give me a litre of petrol Four pounds per litre, a small fortune. Shabunda is so difficult to reach The cost of living is more expensive here Whilst petrol arrives in trucks, food The small twin engine planes two tonnes of merchandise, The 80,000 residentsmust pay Four wooden planks are enough Five hundred grams of beans, please. In his shop, three to four times more expensive Look at this bag of flour, I buy it for 16 pounds then I pay 24 pounds to have it where I then sell it earning me It's the same for water. I buy this and when I transport something by air, So I don't have a choice, I sell each That only makes Do you manage to find clients that will It's true that the items are expensive, They buy them, If the goods were brought by vehicles, and we could reduce our prices, but given the conditions Shabunda is beginning to feel cursed. The road to paradise, Every time they approach the city, Malou This is a very dangerous, There have already been But if no one goes to or flies to these We should, however, be very cautious. Especially given that the landing strip is located The locals regularly cross it But this is not without its risks. A few days before we began filming, a little girl was hit The problem with this runway is I have to use my whistlr On top of this, I'm the only person Walking along the sides of the runway There are landings that have skidded The reality is that the control tower to guide the pilots. No radar, Papa, Kilo, Shabunda. At least when it's working. Golf, Papa, Kilo, Shabunda. Thirty flights a week are just about The 2000 litres of petrol has swiftly been sold. The next day but this time it is Junior Juvenal warns him about the Be careful, the bridge The old German military truck, of Junior's last journey. And that's not all. On the way here, he ran out of petrol, This is our back-up fuel. There's nowhere you can top up en route, and we have no idea The poorest travelers, Don't move, little one, Mummy's coming. This is the case for Maria They could not afford I'm going to the city of Kindu, My husband recently left me, I can't afford the airplane, The travel conditions are very difficult but life in Shabunda is so tough. We don't have enough money They pay 10 pounds each There was space to sit in the cabin, but even 20 pounds Okay, see you later., Reaching the town of Mugembe It can take anywhere between three days to cover the 43-mile route. Junior is not even out of the city There's a big tractor blocking the road, With this truck, I can go anywhere, For this road, it's the only way you can drive here. This truck really can go anywhere at all. Well, obviously, sometimes things What happened to the windscreen? A huge branch hit the windscreen Does that happen a lot? Yes, it happens a lot, it gave me this big cut on my arm. In the back of the truck, You have to watch where you sit, that can hit you in the face. If you get a branch in your eye or mouth, It's good here because Look out, there are branches! It's so dangerous! Junior and his truck They are the jungle deliverymen. We're here to collect the engine. The villagers are sending it Watch out, I'm about to let go. Turn it on its side Come on, are you drunk or something? The engine weighs more than 200 kilos. It's fine, we did it. It's difficult because we load the truck We're not machines. What's going on over there? Duer rushes to split up Junior who were having a drunken fight The mechanic has been Calm down, kid, I want my money! If you want to take me down to the station the driver owes me nine quid! Are you with him? The guy's drunk, and now he wants it back. But Junior hasn't got Why are you slapping me? The crew have just lost The police take him To make matters worse, in a few miles, will begin to take its toll on the team. The baby is well protected. Maria's mum, however, seems to be enjoying According to Duer, We can laugh and we can smile, We suffer a lot. He doesn't use this word lightly. Over the next few miles, The 28 ton old German truck becomes Oh God, what a disaster. Junior has ended up in a ditch This happens sometimes, when it starts to rain. We don't know what's out there and I skidded, but it'll be fine, It's a very tricky situation. This section of the road is terrible, it's We need to dig to free the whell But with God on our side, It is 11:00 pm. For Maria and her mother these six hours have been spent waiting She's had enough. I'm fed up, I'd rather go and sleep And I haven't had I need to protect my child. It's been eight hours since we left Nothing works with this truck. They will walk for two more hours The mud is taking its toll on others too. Francois and his brother for three days. They are returning to Shabunda. They went to buy some much cheaper food an 87 mile round trek that allows I'm transporting rice, oil, Is it alive? Yes, it's alive. How many kilos There are 250 kilos on the bike. Congo is not a good country to live in, It's a country of suffering, We lack a leader of good will. Damn it, the oil can! What's happened, Francois? Our oil can has fallen over, I'm afraid. As soon as I get home, She'll think that I sold the oil on our We will eat it, And that's used as a light? Yes, so we can see I work for the Congolese government at but for a pitiful salary. I earn nine pounds a month. Francois and his brother and his mired truck at around 1:00 am. The mechanics are still hard at work. They commend the two brothers They're faring better with their bike Junior is hoping that tomorrow to not only escape the mire, the remaining 40 mile journey An isolated region you may wonder why some 80,000 people Well, because everyone has a disease Gold fever. The Ulindi river is sitting atop a huge treasure trove. In Shabunda, precious metal trading houses On the scale, there are The dust is sent to our bosses in Bukavu, who then sell it onto foreign countries, In Shabunda, one gram of gold is worth it resells for 200 pounds. Since the discovery thousands have come to seek their fortune I'm inserting some cotton If the water gets in, The cotton helps seal To make a bung, This creates a hard paste like real glue. Dozens of old small boats almost like a floating coffin Gutie is the only one Two weeks ago, his boat sank Of the 17 people on board, I lost several friends I survived thanks to He managed to throw me a gas canister, and keep my head above the water. There were whirlpools It was hard to swim back to shore. I feel afraid when I have flashbacks of the dead bodies. I frequently suffer from panic Being a miner is a little you never know Between the shipwrecks and the armed the Ulindi River is beginning to look more Get the hell out of here! With more than 200 illegal mines scattered it's hardly surprising Clear off, what are you doing here? Hey, you shouldn't film here! Hey white boy, quit filming here, We're going to give Kojak works on a dredger, What he's about to do is very hard, and It's true, diving is dangerous. A good diver must be supple, and of course, be a good swimmer. And this pipe is my lifeline. Right then, wish me luck. He'll need it. On average, the river claims the life Fifteen metres underwater Kojak with this large pipe The gold is recovered with this filter. It really is luck of the draw, and then sometimes nothing at all. Look there at those Kojak resurfaces How did it go? Good, my work here is done. The depths of the river yields 500 and 700 kilograms of gold a year. The Congolese benefit very little Kojak tells us and that Chinese companies with much more efficient dredges. This dredger sank, It's now completely ruined. When the gold runs dry, The Chinese pose a big problem for us. They make arrangements with the Congolese And on top of that, they pay They steal our money and resources, while we remain poor. The City of Shabunda from all this gold. The majority of miners work illegally and the officials in charge On top of this, the city has The river is their only source Gold panels release almost one ton It's a poison that slowly kills, no one wants to believe this, We are used to drinking this water, Not at all. I only use this water, that's why we are never ill. If you drink this water you will have stomach problems. Our body can't handle bottled water The poison is not going According to the NGO Global Witness, an estimated 23 billion pounds in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo. Enough to make bandits As for the rest, all they can do is dream Despite their efforts, Junior's truck In the space of a day, they've travelled just three miles until they reach their destination. After slaving away for 10 hours, But for how long? In the early hours of the morning, with little hope Junior doesn't average and the track Mechanics like Beyanfae So far, I have never injured myself. But it's true that I try to be careful on each trip. I earn something like but nobody knows The longer the journey, Over the past six months, I've only made Without me, my family can't eat. I work like a slave, but if I want to provide for my family I don't have a choice. There are many others on the road so they don't starve to death. What's going on over there? There are motorcyclists Are they stuck? Yes. There are bicycles too. They are slaves to the road, who transport the impossible, for the shopkeepers We transport food because As bikers, it's very difficult We are suffering, I'm angry. Someone needs to ask our president how he can leave Roads are being improved but for us here in South Kivu, It takes four days whereas if the road was in good condition we could do that in one day I make 4.5 euros to travel this road, The government really needs to help us, Come on, hurry up, They need to get a move on, so if the bikes stay there, Move it! The team have now travelled It's just as well given is patrolled by armed groups. Many hijackings take place here, Not that he has any say on the matter. It's no use, we're stuck. I've already been robbed What did they steal? They are interested in solar panels, The militia need them therefore, Some have even fired shots at the truck, It is 30 degrees A man has gone looking Parched, Maria and her mother Hey, over here, we're thirsty. Palm wine, to motivate We're going to give Give some water to the baby's mum. Hey, save some for the others. It's really hard, A little further on, road workers are trying to put They're not paid by the state, that have pulled their resources. Except they haven't got any tools. We work with spades like these, Is it not enough No, it's just not enough. For one day's work, That's the way it is, if they give it to you, That's the way it goes. Why is the government not doing They're poor. No, they aren't poor, They've forgotten about this territory. 0ne hundred miles is like Since the day I was born, I've never For our country's suffering, On Junior's end, him and his mechanics Tomorrow morning, they have a meeting to pick up more cargo. Except the man is still far away. He's coming via a different route. But since setting off, the truck driver In every village he goes through, he comes across a toll or rather a hole that's been expertly maintained What! You want me to give you money, What's the problem? The problem is that and they are asking It's not our fault that Let me through. I'll give you nine pounds. Nine pounds is not enough to pay everyone. It's annoying having to put up with this, A passenger has come up with a smart idea. He fears that the detour to ask for more money. Listen here, If you take the detour, and that will cost you even more money. Whereas if we fill the hole with Okay, quickly bring me some trunks Follow me. For 20,000 Congolese francs or 9 pounds Carry on chopping trunks, Come on, let's lift it all together. We're always chopping trees for this road. Add some sand and soil! Give us the money first. What are you talking about? Come one, Towards the end of the Yes, I'm afraid. I'm only human. It will take him two days In the jungle, never mind being on time. Reaching your destination As for Junior, he will reach Mugembe punctuated by countless pitfalls. Why are you hitting it? We are exhausted, We're angry and very tired, to show how we don't want to work anymore. If we had a good road, we could have Their ordeal is endless. The drive back to Shabunda as the way there: nine days. Despite its the region is not about to escape The blame mainly lies that plagues the country. For as long as they remain active, will see modernity as an impossible dream.