[MUSIC PLAYING] I'm sure you've read, seen, and Well, today, I'm down even means. [THEME MUSIC] Today's episode, we'll from the perspective of That means no Hawking and no quantum Trust me, if I do this right, Now, it's a lot I want to say about make this video self-contained. To treat gravity Einsteinially from the outset, if I can rely on technical spacetime&quot; and if I can draw We all need to be on the same So if you need a refresher, go And finally, to minimize I need a favor from you. I need you to put about black holes aside and become &quot;tabula rasa&quot; and let a pony, and a very Suppose that I'm very and there's a pony She's close, but not Don't worry. Fact-- events that as far as the pony is concerned, according to me. A day for her might This is called and the same thing to a lesser degree. Atomic clocks in will get ahead of by a few microseconds but GPS doesn't if you don't take OK. Now suppose that I falling radially As he tumbles on, I become more slow see him pick up just as I would if he That is, until he gets really eventually, the monkey will without him noticing But that's not what I see. I see him weirdly until he's floating right At a certain point, I see not rotating, not And the pony agrees with me. So does another pony that's to hover much closer to In fact, so would any observer, who is always outside Even if the ponies and I would agree that the monkey's past this frozen moment. The monkey knows he I mean, he was there. But everyone else does, even after of time on any of our clocks. Do you get how freaky this is? The monkey is saying that but everyone else says that those events In other words, there are according to us out here a &quot;when.&quot; From our frame of reference those events just don't an infinite amount of time. OK, you got all that? Here's the thing-- a black According to observers like the those events take place inside that black blob But the blob, the black hole, It's all the events that take place there, who are physically there. The black hole is not a region with the outside world that unable to see. It's not a visibility issue. Instead, the black hole is that we say don't happen at all. And that black blob is just what it ends up looking and temporal terms when you from every external observer's of the history of the universe. By the way, for every particle some event on its the last event that of the history of the OK, this final batch of enter that black is called the event The horizon is not just a It's not a shroud. It's a surface in spacetime. It represents the you can even assign a &quot;when.&quot; So if a black hole then why do we talk about Here's why. For simplicity of pretend that the Sun It determines the spacetime the resulting geodesics to things like radial Now, if I replace the Sun that's around six and I'll tell you later the geodesics beyond to be remain unchanged. Earth will freeze, of won't be any different. So as far as Earth is generates the same that the Sun does. In that respect, the behaves like an object, an So we associate one solar mass In fact, if I give you a a spherical black hole called the Schwarzschild leave the spacetime that's object unchanged. A black hole that mimics the of 3 kilometers. One with the mass of of just under 1 centimeter. But hold on a second. A black hole is a So is that collection of or does it actually have mass? Is there even a difference? Hold that thought, want to debunk a few and then we'll come Misconception one, that black don't do that. They're not vacuum cleaners. You can orbit them just fine. I think this idea in a misunderstanding used to be inside the Sun but See, spacetime geometry in For example, that is an allowed That region also has of which there are no So a freefalling observer inside will go radially inwards. But it's not because any more than the Earth He's just falling. As long as he stays he can use rockets to hover just like on Earth. Misconception two-- black because not their gravitational pull. That's not the my guess about how this In Newtonian on the surface of needs a minimum speed called to get really far and pulled by the planet's gravity. If a planet's radius equals of the equivalent-mass it turns out that the escape But that's just a In general relativity, remember, So even though it's true that including a photon, will it's not being &quot;pulled.&quot; Instead, the insane has made geometry so is simply not an Loosely speaking, in an episode of &quot;The Twilight way you turn, you're Now, that's really freaky, black holes are black. Remember, from there are no photons inside. A laser pointer never enters the black hole, Because of time dilation, we that the monkey sends with a redder color, than So just before the monkey the time dilation is so gets redshifted to That means that to black holes are black because outside the horizon is So even though my story I shouldn't really have because the infinite from seeing him at all. Misconception three, are super dense-- on what you mean by &quot;density.&quot; If you mean that mass divided by the volume More massive black holes For instance, the 4 million at the center of the Milky Way Strangely, the Schwarzschild is based on circumference, By the way, bigger have smaller tidal effects So even though a would spaghettify you you could enter a billion completely unscathed. But maybe that's not what Maybe you mean that are infinitely dense goes into the black to an infinitely dense at the center, right? Again, we have to be careful. Misconception number three back to the mass question Astrophysically, form when a sufficiently a very heavy star, more compact than its In this situation, the and the associated will indeed be the same. However, the horizon forms first and then expands. So to external observers, never crosses the horizon. Remember, it's all frozen. So in this scenario, sidestep the whole mass issue. To us, it's not But here's the problem. The Einstein equations also that has an eternal black hole a spacetime that even though there's including behind the horizon. This is the prototypical and I've always we're going to say a black it should apply equally well and to these And in this supposed to assign the Remember, there's So is the mass a property Personally, I don't You see, the a thing or a place or an event. It's like a hole that's been So the geodesics no way for them to continue. So where's the mass? Is it associated with the with all of spacetime? I'm not sure what the right questions like this or even in vanilla general relativity. But this may just My goal today was some common misconceptions some of the philosophical with thinking about Of course, I've only scratched There's tons more There's rotating black holes, evaporation, what goes on supermassive black holes, you might hear about, I didn't realize how much were having on you of the lovely things you that I was leaving. I haven't responded because I don't really know and I want to say that I Nevertheless, I have So even though I will be back to the challenge questions, this of &quot;Space Time.&quot; Our last full episode dealt causes ocean tides on Earth. You guys had a lot to say. hauslerful and Andrew Brown said take myself less seriously, on one versus another metaphor. I can be accused of many things, is not one of them. And in case there I'm not claiming to be the into the mechanism of tides. This is how tides to work since the early 18th worked out the details. But it doesn't change the including physicists and seen in our comments, wrong in our heads for And I just wanted to make sure of the mechanism was Ivan or Ivan Chagas, all asked how of physics and could get this All I can say is it happens Science Asylum actually to this question. He's a physics teacher there are some don't focus on in our seem kind of trivial. And unless we have a specific depth, we just don't. He, for example, never thought don't have tides because It happens. Romesh Srivastava-- that right-- and shoofle are some more mathematical could give you explaining There are. I dug some up. And remember, this since the early 18th century, contemporary resources. I added them into under the tides video. You can check them out. Madhu Sujan Paudel-- hope and gottabweird both asked has tides. It does. There are gravitational that do the same thing, but by the much more dominant and pressure variations on around the Earth. Finally, Tim VanBuren and Dox Lakes do have tides. No, they don't. Well, they do, but they're between high and low tide, What you are seiching in those namely resonant due to the shape of the lakes. It's easily mistaken even has approximately the same And I've added a link in episode from Noah