I like adrenaline rush, but I really don't want to do skydiving or put my life at risk. I really like the chaos and trying to put some order to that chaos. You never know what happens in an emergency department, and any day can be different. I work with a great team. I get to meet patients every day and try and help them as best I can. No day is the same here and I love that. I'm genuinely really passionate about making people feel better. You can directly see the care that you're giving and the results. I love it. Just taking up some blood tests for a patient, but they're not quite back yet, so I'm just going to go see a gentleman with a finger cut. One of my friends calls doctors a waste of a scientist. Learn all that science and you do medicine. I actually got into law, and then I kind of realised I actually really like arguing for fun instead. So I went into medicine. I actually got a lot more joy out of doing medicine and helping people than I would have with law. That is definitely going to need stitches and you're going to have a gnarly scar. Think of a good story. So I've never seen behind the doors of the waiting room in an emergency department, what goes on? I like to compare emergency medicine to like, you know, this Japanese game shows where you're never quite sure what's going to come through? You're not sure what the plan is. You just get thrown in. It's more chaotic than you think. It is very loud, it's very noisy. There's lots of people. There's lots of things going on. We get hundreds of patients coming every day. It can be very, very difficult trying to manage them all at the same time. Our door is always open, so it sometimes feels like the flow of patients coming in is unlimited. There's probably like five different spots they can come in through. Most would be coming in just with family or friends, someone driving them. Some patients are coming in by helicopter and then also Queensland Ambulance Service. As soon as you walked through the emergency doors, someone is automatically assessing you. There's a lot that we can tell even without hearing your history or what symptoms you're having. So patients who are coming in pale and diaphoretic, are often seen from a distance. If you're grabbing your chest curling over in pain, we can see that immediately and our triage starts from there. They get seen by our triage nurse. They are brilliant, by the way. They have 3 minutes to get your story, assess you, and decide where you belong on a triage category. I'm a huge history nerd, so triaging as a concept was actually brought about in the Napoleonic War. And then we've now expanded that into three categories 1 to 5. We use the Australasian Triage scale. Category one will be patients that need to be seen immediately in that they have a life threatening problem down to five where it is less time pressured. The sheer volume of patients means that patients that are deemed to be sort of more suitable to sit in a waiting room will have to wait before they get to be seen. You can take a seat if you'd like guys. They're certainly not forgotten about. There's often a huge amount of work going on that you may not see behind those doors. I've always been doing emergency medicine. I graduated as a doctor in Ireland in 2004 and I came out to Australia just for a six month working holiday and I accidentally landed in an emergency department and I haven't left ever since. The thing that probably struck me the most was the teamwork aspect of it, and that has continued for nearly 20 years. We joke about it sometimes, but emergency really genuinely is a team sport. There is a whole team working in the background to make sure that you get what you need and to make sure that you're looked after. You've got a nursing staff or medical staff or senior medical staff or allied health staff. There's administrative offices as well as therapists, occupational therapists, emergency pharmacists, emergency social workers. Even if you don't see them, we might be like behind computer screens or making phone calls, continually checking in on your blood test results, continually checking your scans. We might be advocating for you, but you might not see that. How many minutes away are you? Okay. 2 minute ETA. All right. We'll see you shortly. Okay. So let's head into Resus. Okay. So we have just gotten a back call for a lady born in 1931, they're querying sepsis. So I'll write that stuff up, a couple minutes away. So it really doesn't fit as something really scary going on. So that gives us a bit of time. Clinically, fortunately, she looks well. Well done, you did great. It's quite a few patients who are really unwell tonight. We all work as a team in resus, so I'll go around and check everyone else, check everyone else's patients. They've all got a lot of really sick patients as well. I've always wanted to be a nurse since I was a kid. I used to watch a TV show called 24 Hours in A&amp;E with my with my mum, and I just fell in love with some of the nurses in that show who just advocated for the patients so well, they were really cool, but they were also really compassionate, really caring, and I wanted to be like them. People call me a Murse because I'm a nurse like, Murse, can you go to give me a cup of tea? Can you give me a blanket? but at the same time, we also very highly trained. We do everything from really, really complicated procedures, figure out how to save your life and how to resuscitate you. What medication you need, and who needs to be contacted to. Yeah, like looking after people that's there sitting with them at 2:00 in the morning when their family can't get to them and holding your hand and. Yeah, I'm going to get emotional if I start thinking about stuff like that. I think the team environment when you're dealing with life or death is so important. You know. We do see some really hard stuff. I'm always talking to colleagues and getting support and giving support. We have access to employee assistance. We've got access to our peer responders who might understand some of the concerns that you're going through and making sure that you've got someone who you can talk to and reach out to. We've got a huge, huge, huge number of varied presentations here to the department. Everyone comes to emergency. Emergency is like a we will see anyone. You can get patients with sort of minor issues such as like insect bites or blocked noses and you can get the patients who are more severe like cardiac chest pain or transplant patients, things like that. We open our doors to everyone so we actually get a lot of people coming in for even a lot of non-medical reasons. They are homeless. It's cold out there. I think a lot of people come to the emergency department as a last resort, and I don't know where I would go, but an emergency department if the world was ending and you've got no one to talk to and no one to look after you and you've got nowhere to go. Nobody comes here for fun. It's a pretty traumatic time for, for anyone to be, to be a patient in an emergency department. We try to provide top quality care to our patients regardless of the medical problems they come in with. He was sitting there eating dinner. Got a little bit lightheaded. He closed his eyes. Woke up on the floor. How are you feeling at the moment? Completely fine. It's one of those precautionary things like because you hit your head it's better safe than sorry, but your blood pressure is still looking good. Your heart rate's going down a bit, so it's all good. Right, this is a lady who has presented to ED after a fall. When I fell, I didn't know I had fallen. I just put up with the pain. And now it's so painful. I'll just have a chat with the ambulance. Will probably get you into this bed. Okay love. Thank you. Just being that softer side of the emergency team makes our job quite fulfilling. Being able to be a supportive human when it can be incredibly overwhelming for patients. Alrighty you tuck yourself in there. We would love emergencies to be saved purely for emergencies, but everyone has a different definition of what's an emergency. And when you're at home and you're in pain, it's really difficult to say, you know, that you shouldn't come up to an emergency department. It's just based on your triage category. There's wait times associated with that and there's lots of options that are available to you, before presenting directly to an emergency department, we recommend touching base with your GP, urgent care or the walk in clinics. Queensland Health has the 13 Health where people can ring and have a telehealth appointment. Queensland Health have also implemented the virtual ED where you can do a face time or a phone consult and you'll be seen by an emergency doctor virtually. But my recommendation is that if you are concerned that this is a medical emergency call 000 and ask for help. So is the emergency department like what we see on TV? If you're watching a drama series, it's nothing like that. I can tell you now. They probably think I have a more glamorous Gray's Anatomy style shifts than I actually do. I think sometimes what you see on TV is that you come in and immediately you're seen by a team of like three doctors. There's never any nurses around in them. TV is often capturing the biggest and best moments that we do. Yes, we do see very unwell patients, but there's also a lot of other different types of problems that are not as exciting for the TV. We maybe get a handful of Category one patients, the people that need lifesaving treatment immediately. But on most days it's actually just being the face of the health care system and just meeting patients where they are and providing the best patient care that we can. I love it. I really love it. I love the variety of the job. I love coming to work every day. I love coming to work. I love that every day is going to be different. I really do love working in the emergency department and the high intensity, constantly changing environment that we work in, I thrive on. I really love the emergency department and emergency medicine, and I really, really get a lot of satisfaction from trying to help patients. I love being able to make people feel better in the time of an emergency. There are some days that you come and go, Yeah, I definitely helped people today, so that's always a good feeling.