Tu Yen welcomes everyone! Wishing everyone a happy new day. Tu Yen is very happy to meet everyone again in this video. I'm sorry everyone because Tu Yen cannot release a video on schedule. Tu Yen takes Tu Chau to class and harvests. vegetables right next to my child's school because I have an appointment to eat with Mr. Long this afternoon, so I will go harvest right near the market in time to see how large and beautiful the vegetable garden is. These are the beds of cauliflower and kohlrabi . Hello uncle! Do you have vegetables to sell here?/ There is a doctor who sells cabbage. Yes , what price do you sell it for?/ You sell it for 5,000 VND/ plant/ yes, then sell me some so I can take it out. Let's sell it at the market/ Well, you can go cut it, you can choose to cut it, I'll put the old leaves in a pot for you so I can feed the chickens/ Yes, I'll cut any fruit that's big and beautiful/ Yes, there are too many, right? ?/ Um, over here too, things like that This can be cut, right?/ Um, the fruit can be cut. I'll put the old leaves in the pot for you/ um , just cut it. I'll go to work in a bit and I'll pay later/ Yes, I'll pick out the beautiful fruit. market so it's easy to sell/ Yes, perhaps this cabbage garden was planted early so it has already been harvested, but my cabbage transplants may take another month to be harvested . How many are there?/ Yes, 16, I'll send you the money Please let me know/ um all mine is 80,000 VND/ yes/ no money back for me, thank you I'll tie it up a bit please help me lift it up/ um please help me up on my shoulders/ um let me It's heavy for me , sir/ It's too heavy, thank you. Hello sir/ um please stay and work, I'm going to the market/ um I'm going to the market, it 's close to the market from here. I hope to sell it all quickly so I can go home early. What should I sell?/I sell cabbage/um, can you buy vegetables/cabbage? Looks delicious/ Yes, please give me 3 plants to eat later/ Yes, they look so fresh and delicious . How much do the vegetables sell for?/ 10,000 VND/1 plant/ Give me 2 plants and sell me 2 cabbages . How much does it cost? ?/ Yes, 20,000 VND, how do I sell this vegetable?/ Yes, 10,000 VND/plant/ Please give me 3 plants so I can quickly get the vegetables, how many plants will I take/ I'll take them all/ yes Yours is 20,000 VND/ Well, I paid you so I sold it all early. I'm going to buy myself a pair of hairpins to go have lunch with Mr. Long today. I want to buy a pair of hairpins/ Well, just put it in the other corner and take a look. There are a lot of beautiful and elegant hairpins. I'll buy one. Hey, let me send you some money./ I'm all 30,000 VND, can I have a bag please?/ Um, wait until I get the bag so I don't know if Mr. Long is coming over yet? Or should I just go change my clothes so Mr. Long doesn't have to wait for me when he comes? These pigeons are so annoying./ Um hello, how long have you been here?/ Yes, I just arrived. I've already ordered you a drink. / Thank you , but Mr. Long didn't come with you?/ Long was busy so he said he would come later / Yes, I invited you to drink, but today Mr. Long knows that this meeting is about me. Can you arrange it? Long doesn't know, I just said that there were two of us sitting together/ Yes, thank you/ It's nothing , I have to tell you today, I want to go back to Mr. Long like before . I think this will be difficult, because the day I met Long and also mentioned the problem of the two of us. But Long told me that he has a new lover, do you know that? I know that Mr. Long has someone new, but I still believe that Long and I still have a chance to get back together. I know that, but are you still deliberately pursuing him? If you do that, the person who will suffer will be me. What do you think when Mr. Long falls in love with a mute single mother?/ Is the single mother mute?/ That's right, the single mother who is mute is probably Tu Yen? Yes, that's right, it seems her name is Tu Yen, and you know her too? Do you know her? You were the one who helped her when she first came here. Later, she met Mr. Long and was helped by him to move back to his farm. But I also didn't know that those two people loved each other. Today you told me that I just found out that according to me, she is staying at Mr. Long's house and is also a dumb single mother. I see that she has nothing in her. So I think the chances of me and Mr. Long getting back together are very high . Love is very difficult to talk about. I also advise you to stop because love cannot be forced and the person who will suffer in the end will be you In comparison, she is inferior to me in everything/ love cannot be compared like that, it also depends on fate. No matter what, I still want you to help me and Mr. Long get back together, it's very important. awkward with you. Long is his close friend and Tu Yen is familiar with him. I'm the one in the middle right now, but it's very difficult for me to influence you and Long to get back together. I'm sorry, I can't help you . I think you should keep your distance from Long. You two can still be friends. I think you are a beautiful, talented person. In society, there are still many good, suitable men for you to choose. Please have a drink. Yes, I also Drink Long hello everyone! Now I'm going to pick up Tu Yen to go to the appointment to say hello to you!/ How are you?/ What are you doing?/ I'm looking at the tomatoes, you look so beautiful today, even with this bow/ I just bought a new pair of hairpins, you look so beautiful . Have you been waiting for me for a long time?/ It's been a while, please come in/ Um , sit here and let me pour you some water/ it's not water, honey Don't you drink water?/ Well, it's not water. I guess I'll sit down Let's go in a bit. How long has it been since you got home from work? / I'll go home and change my clothes. I'll come here to pick you up. You're wearing such a beautiful outfit. / You look very different today. You have a very nice new pair. From now on, please keep wearing this. / Yes, where are you going with your new brother? Just wear it, it won't be convenient for me to wear it at home, but are you going to do anything this morning?/ This morning I went to collect or sell the cabbage that I just came back from ?/ I thought it was sold out today ? Today I'm staying at home/ the morning is long so I'm harvesting corn Is it far to sell cabbage at the market ?/ It's also right near the market I usually sell. They grow many types of vegetables in that area. There's kohlrabi, cabbage, beans, tomatoes too/ Um, is that a good price? / It's okay, I bought 5,000 VND/tree and sold it at the market for 10,000 VND/ Well , can I get a lot?/ It's a lot, I got 16, so that's a profit of a few dozen, right? Today I went to the market to buy this pair. I thought it was so beautiful so I bought it/ it looked very nice, it suited me very well, but are there many people today?/ I'm very embarrassed if it's just Thanh and the two of us. He usually just sits together and there's no one around, so don't be shy. He called me just now, he's at the bar waiting, I guess we should go now/ Yes, shall we go now? he waited for a long time/ um let's go I'm hungry yet?/ not yet , why is it taking Long so long? Try calling him/ um, let me call him back to see how it goes, Long! where did you go? I'm still waiting for you. ok where has he gone?/ he is about to arrive/ so let me go up and order food okay what do you want to eat let me order. I can eat anything, sir/ Yes, I'll go and order. Hello, let me order lunch./ Yes, can you help me look at the menu? Please give me 1 plate of boiled chicken, 1 plate of salt-roasted frog, 1 fried shrimp. . 1 stir-fried spinach with garlic, 1 fried corn for me, 1 more plate of beef salad and fruit for dessert. Where do you want to sit?/ Let me go to that hut over there. Yes, just go sit and wait, I'll bring it to you. The clothes will come later for you/ Thank you, have you been waiting for me for a long time?/ It's been a while, hello Tu Yen/ yes hello, can you say it?/ yes/ Tu Yen also just said Back to the day I was beaten there. In misfortune, there is luck. If it weren't for Tu Yen that day, I would have been seriously injured. Congratulations on being able to say it again. Have you two been in love for a long time?/ We've been in love for a while. Okay/ but you keep hiding it/ so today I'm going to introduce it to you/ I'm a bit surprised, but let's go in and the things are already done. Is our table up here, Mr. Long?/ Oh... why? Is there even Snow here today? Why don't you tell me I'm sorry for Tuyet's presence today. But anyway, you two just sit down and we'll talk , Thanh, I probably won't be able to sit with you today. You and Tuyet, let's eat together. I have to take Tu Yen home . Anyway, you're here. Sit down and eat. Please let go of my hand. Because you love Mr. Long, don't you agree to let Mr. Long sit with his friends? ? Since we're here, let's sit down and talk, what do you mean? After she agreed, I sat down here to have fun. Come sit here, thank you/ I'll order all the food here and everyone will eat until it's hot. Everyone eat together/ Yes, everyone, please eat, Mr. Long, I'll pick it up for you/ okay, I'll leave it to you I'll pick it up myself/ I'll pick it up, then you can accept it. I'll invite you. Yen, I've also eaten . It's been a long time since we haven't sat together. I'll pour some wine for us to drink together. The wine is fine. I'm sorry because I have to go to work later I can't drink/ It's not often that we meet each other, please drink. I invite you/ I probably can't drink because I have to go to the office this afternoon/ If you can't drink, you can sip your lip, ma'am . Tu Yen, can you drink alcohol/ I can't drink alcohol/ Tu Yen can't drink alcohol ? I thought you were dumb, but it turns out you've been lying and cheating all along? You should be careful with your words and you should respect Tu Yen. In fact, she couldn't tell the truth before and she just spoke again recently , so congratulations. I'm so happy. Let's drink wine to celebrate/ I can't drink so please understand. Tu Yen can't drink alcohol so don't force Mr. Long! Would you like to have a drink with me? It's been a long time since we've had a drink together. I'm sorry because I'm at work this afternoon so I can't drink this. This is a cup of wine that I congratulate Ms. Tu Yen. Say it again. Don't you? Are you happy for her? I'll drink this cup with you okay okay this cup I'll take Tu Yen's place and drink with you I'll just drink this cup okay go back to your place/ yes everyone please eat, I'm too stressed I'll eat Don't be afraid to go/ I invite everyone, I invite you all, please eat. I'll get you some soft drink, Mr. Thanh, would you like some wine with me? It's been a long time since we last met and I told you that I had to go to the office in the afternoon so I couldn't drink with you. I'll just click my lips/ Yes, I can click my lips too. I invite you to wish me good health. Please/ Yes , good health, please eat. Tu Yen and Long can also eat/ um everyone, please eat, Mr. Long, I'll give you chicken, I used to like chicken a lot/ I'll let you I picked it up myself the day before and I ate there almost every weekend Is this a shop?/ That's right, today I'll meet you guys at noon and you can't drink alcohol, or should we sit together in the evening and drink 1-2 cups of wine to be happy? Or on the weekend? We just drank wine/ Yes, is it good? Ms. Tu Yen, please eat, I'll pick it up for you/ yes, please have it, Mr. Long, please eat . Tu Yen, what have you been doing lately? I just stay at home growing vegetables and raising chickens/ that's good, how about the baby? Are you good? Tu Chau goes to school so he's very good, bro/ that's great. This time I also gave Tu Yen some chickens and fish to raise for fun and she grows more vegetables so that's okay. Okay everyone, let's eat , Ms. Yen says it's okay then why don't you go find a job to give her a house and a stable income? Growing vegetables and raising animals is hard but the income is low. Tu Yen still has a small child so she hasn't worked yet. Okay, when my child grows up, I will arrange a job for Tu Yen later , but I also forgot that if you don't have a degree, no company will accept you . Tuyet... everyone, please eat , you should eat/ you should eat, eat. Miss Tu Yen, please eat too. I'll have some fried corn for you Okay, okay, I'll eat a lot and it'll be delicious, Snow. Would you like me to pour you some wine ? Okay, okay, I'm the only one who's sad to drink. I'll just call the office later, please. Can you take a break this afternoon so I can buy you some wine?/ That's great, please eat/ Let me peel the shrimp for you to eat/ Yes, just eat and wish me good health/ Thank you, work How are you doing these days? My work is still the same, sometimes there's a lot of work, sometimes there's little work, just eat naturally/ me too okay you two should eat too/ well everyone eat too do you often have to go on business trips? I also often have to work far away, sometimes it's hard for me to go for a whole week just to return to Italy/ I eat a lot from my job / Mr. Long, eat it, it's all the food I like, what do you eat? Let me pick it up for you/ leave me alone, I can pick it up myself and Thanh can eat it too. Miss Yen should eat too/ yes Let me roll the beef salad for you/ you can eat, I still have a lot left in my bowl, let's have a little more wine, okay?/ I agree, I'll take the afternoon off anyway, Mr. Long, where's your cup so I can pour it? Let's drink a little bit/ I just sip my lips, I can't drink so please eat/ I invite you please eat a lot and wish me good health. Mr. Long wishes you good health/ drink it, Ms. Yen, take it and eat it naturally, please use it/ you go ahead and eat it, everyone, eat it naturally, eat it, Long. Tu Yen, eat, why is there still so much food in the bowl?/Yes, I've eaten a lot. You can eat naturally, you don't have to be shy. They're all old friends./Just make yourself at home. I mean, you see the food. Is it good today?/ good sir/. If it's delicious, please eat a lot. Do you want to drink water?/ Give me some filtered water. I have to eat a lot. Everyone, please eat. There's still a lot of food. Ms. Yen, please eat. Mr. Long, please eat. Hi, where is the bathroom?/ It's on the other side, Ms. Yen, please go down and turn right, Mr. Long. Do you often have to work at night?/ I'm usually on duty at night . It's been a long time since I've seen you. Is your mother still healthy these days ? You've made it so difficult for me today. She's here and you didn't tell me soon. I'm sorry. It made you unhappy. I also promised her to arrange a time for the three of us to meet someday/ well. Yesterday she called so I met you and told you to come out today so we could sit together , but she was here just now so I told you not to drink. But we arranged to meet each other, so this afternoon I took a break and wished you good health. Please use it/ It's been a while since we sat together, so you and Tu Yen are planning when to have the wedding. We are still in the process of finding out. But I have a new lover and you look like you should find a lover so we can sit and eat together as a couple, it's too difficult, sir/ If you just keep being picky about your job, it will be stable, your house will be spacious, just let it be. Take your time and get along when the time comes, then it's good/ stop trying, thank you/ and our love life is also very difficult , so does your family agree with the relationship between you and Tu Yen? Oh, my family all supports me and Tu Yen/ so congratulations/ thank you, stop eating, Tu Yen is a good girl/ well she's very honest/ try to love her that. She's disadvantaged too much/ Um, can I go to the bathroom? Ms. Tu Yen/ yes/ I have something I want to tell you, is there something wrong? I told you last time, it seems like you don't remember or you did it on purpose. Mr. Long and I used to love each other, now I'm back, Mr. Long will be mine. I already told you, but you have this. What is worthy of Mr. Long? I have warned you. You don't have anything to compare me to. You should remember that Mr. Long will be mine, I'm just saying that, but don't let my patience reach its limit. I forbid you to go up there and tell Mr. Long that you're back, right? Please sit down and eat more/ I've had enough. You guys go ahead and eat , so I'll eat the melon, please go ahead and eat/ um, I'll eat it. Let's eat, guys. The food here is still delicious, right? I ate so little, I'm afraid you're hungry/ You've eaten enough so you don't have to be shy/ Yes, I'm full. Don't worry about it. Or should I sit in a crowd without supervision? eat/ I've eaten a lot and now Tu Yen can speak again, it's great, someone is talking to Tu Chau and teaching Tu Chau to study/ yes, I'm also lucky, congratulations again/ yes, thank you , What are you guys talking about so happily? I'm asking Just talking about Tu Yen for a little while your cup of wine is empty, right? Let me pour you some more. Please put the melon plate near me/no need, Miss Tu Yen, don't you want to eat anymore? / Yes, I've had enough, please eat/ Um, Tu Yen, please eat too/ Eat melon/ I've had enough, but do you think I'm tired?/ I'm okay, sir/ So let me take you home to rest Okay , it's getting late, I probably have to take Tu Yen home. You two can stay and eat and drink together. It's okay, let's sit together another time. I'll take Tu Yen home and it's not time to go to work yet. I have to take Tu Yen home and change my clothes do I'll go home/ hello, hello Miss Yen, hello to you/ both of you be careful on the road, are you very tired? Let me take you home to rest. Once Long and Yen are back, the two of us will just sit and eat and drink together a little longer/ Yes , I'm cold. Take your shirt and put it on. Don't drink alcohol or you'll get cold. I have a cold/ yes, please use it too, Mr. Thanh 1 According to you, does Mr. Long truly love Ms. Yen? I've been with Long since I was young, so I know that whoever Long loved was very sincere and sincere. When I met Tu Yen many times, I found her very nice, so I think Long chose to love Tu Yen sincerely. Well , I don't believe it/ that's just my opinion, but you know what I said, the day before, when Mr. Long and I were in love, he was very different. But in my opinion, Tu Yen is not the type of person he likes and he chose this Yen girl. If you don't believe this, it's hard to say. Just let time prove everything. Okay, I'll eat it. Go/ Yes, I'll eat it. Is the salary at the company I work at high?/ Yes, it's okay, it's worthy of my study abroad degree/ that's great.