Questioner: You said that one can untie the How does one go about to achieve that? Sadhguru: First of all why are you so knotted (Laughs) Why are you knotting yourself up? After all you just have only one thread of This one thread why are you making it all See (Pause)... The two ends of life are fixed. If you see this life as a thread, the two Tell me how do you knot up a thread which You must be real veteran, some kind of a specialist (Laughs) If the ends of the thread are not If the two ends of the thread are fixed, how (Laughs) When you are such an expert in knotting, It's very, very hard to knot it up when (Laughs) Is it fixed? Is it fixed or no? Meditators: Yes. Sadhguru: In birth and in death it's fixed, So how do you knot this? (Laughs) It may not even be knotted. Life is not knotted. It is just that because of such terrible sense of calculation has risen in your mind. Because of these calculations it looks all "No, no, no, but what about my karma?" Karma is also the same nonsense. It can all be straightened out in a moment are fixed. You're born one day, you'll die one day, If you live here with a certain sense of abandon, There is no chance of disentangling it from Anyway that's how life will go. So what is there? Just living totally. That's all there is. As intensely as possible. If this intensity has come... has to come, these in-between few days you have to handle just silly nonsense in your head - if you You will just ease off. Sadhguru: When you come to utter ease... People have always understood ease as lethargy. Now, only one who is at ease is capable of of activity. One who is constantly resting within himself One who rests at certain times and acts at of activity. So I am talking about ease not as lethargy, Life is at ease. Only the mind is at some tension. The tension has come because mind is disaligned You're trying to build your own creation You are unwilling to live in the creator's You're making up your own creation and trying Oh, that is... that is true torture. Trying to create all kinds of fake things give you an exercise. I don't want to dent the vessels in the to get the tumblers or vessels. Try to hold twenty-five vessels in your hand to you And especially if the vessels are not real, hold it up, not let it fall. When it falls and shatters you have to cry, When you have to keep the whole drama up from (Laughs) That's real stress. And that's what you are doing. Sadhguru: The knots are made up. Unknotting is also made up. When we say "meditate" we told you, "shut act for some time at least." Even there you want to unknot it in your meditation doing that silly act! (Laughs) Yesterday was India's budget so to the budget. Have they given any tax relief for yoga?" (Laughter and applause) So I turn on the television, budget and when I turned it on there was or something. The product is called "babloo". This "babloo" is a liquid gum, chewing Okay? Like chewing gum, you chew for your teeth It's in liquid form, it's called "babloo" So this babloo ad is an animation and this the liquid into the mouth squeezes on to the (Mimics sound as falling liquid) And it just Again squeezes on the mirror, looking at the and it just falls off. Then he realizes, he gets it, and puts it that's the ad. I was just thinking the whole world is just (Laughs) Sadhguru: If you try to feed the image in talk to the image in the mirror, if you try it's just such a waste of time. And especially if it's a distorted mi... That's all that's happening right now. Whatever is happening in the image of your of images you generate and you play with it interested in the creator's creation. Somewhere you are so horribly egoistic that bigger than the creation, something more interesting And that's your pain. That's your loss. That's your knot. If you don't suffer, life will not be good. You must suffer, you know. One who manages to ignore a creation of this suffer what is the point of life? They must suffer. Sadhguru: Your suffering is not happening happening because of anything - just because You have no eyes for the creator's creation. There is no other reason and don't you ask I am not a game for that. That's your nonsensical business. My business is something else. My business is with the creator's creation. For me this is good enough. This is not just good enough, it's too good. I am not busy making up my own creation. I think its silly generating anything in this My brains can be sold, because they're They are not working overtime and (Sounds They're just unused. I just use it very sparsely. (Laughs) Just when it's needed, that's all. Fresh. (Laughs) Brand new, you know? Old model, but brand new. (Laughter) So, you and your knots... (Laughs) There are no knots because both ends If one end was left loose, it could be knotted. Both ends are fixed. No knotting possibility.