There are many YouTube channels that talk about Some subscribers have pointed out that some Paradox of special relativity seemed to be fellow YouTuber Sabine Hossenfelder. Given were saying the opposite thing, I thought (intro music) time passes more slowly for moving observers than like interstellar travel, because it means that a than a stationary individual. The twin paradox arises in the following way. stays on Earth, while the other travels at very If this happens, you find that the traveling twin on Earth. The paradox part seems to arise from equally well qualified to claim that they Earth-bound twin says that they are stationary and for the twin on the rocket to say that they aren't In that case, the twin on the rocket would younger. The paradox is that it seems that both twins can makes no sense at all. Sabine made a recent video in which she said that twin experienced acceleration and therefore the link to her video in the description. On the other hand, I made videos a while ago, in at all. Instead, the solution to the twin paradox frame, while the rocket-based twin experiences is also in the description. So, Sabine says that acceleration is key, while who's right? Well, I am sorry to say, that no, Everything she said in her video is completely correct requires that you pay close attention but I find that they confuse more than help. It's compare the videos, a spacetime diagram for this Earth on the x. It takes time for a spaceship to go from so a simple round trip by a rocket looks the cartoon of the Earth and a rocket. Relativity tells us that we cannot pick any we can pick a reference frame for illustration. rocket. I'll show you later, why this choice illustration In that reference frame, we see that three is stationary with respect to the Earth. That's rocket inhabits. That's two. And then there is That's three. One, two, three. There is a clock in the Earth's frame. During is co-moving with the outgoing rocket. There is a And, just to be complete, there is a clock at is if you add the time experienced by the person at turnaround and then add the time experienced by the time experienced by the clock on Earth. And that's certainly true. I sketched out the those can be seen in the video I made. So, why do I say that acceleration doesn't by someone on the rocket is the time outgoing and set it up so the acceleration time is essentially out plus rocket time in is less than Earth time. Now, I said in my video, and I still maintain clock exists in one frame and the rocket clock paradox. And, in my earlier videos, I invented a third observer, who moves in a coasting there is no acceleration anywhere, nor is there just one clock in an inertial frame compared acceleration isn't the key point. Now Sabine says that acceleration is key and classic twin paradox, the only way for a single So, saying that one twin inhabits two frames And Sabine also points out that which observer you have a mass on a spring in all frames, the really saying the same thing, but in different that the rocket inhabits two frames and, instead, transition between frames possible. Personally, but the two explanations are not at odds in they are essentially identical. Now some of you might think that I based my being stationary, but I really didn't. rocket was stationary, a person on that rocket but see the incoming rocket zooming to That observer would still see three frames. And of the incoming rocket as stationary. All three in the twin paradox, one observer measures time clocks on the rockets exists in two frames. However, getting back to the supposed and Sabines, I hope that I've helped you Furthermore, we both agree that other explanations including ones that invoke general favorite...that all of the weirdness of relativity The bottom line is that our classical intuition is Okay- that was kind of cool. And it really talking about complicated topics that English can say truthful things that seem to be in conflict, this video, be sure to like, subscribe, interesting physics discussions. And that's what (outro music)