Prepubescent psychopaths commit the vilest evil you. A tyrannical teen becomes a serial These are just a couple of cases in our gruesome you won't believe are real. We'll start with a boy that we will a young man who perfectly fits The date is August 10, 2012. A 15-year-old normal day. He's a quiet kid. He doesn't have too bit strange. He's obsessed with serial killers methods. One of his pastimes is Googling types gore. His favorite book? Stephen King's "Misery." Not long ago, he wrote in his notebook, laughter." This is a kid who is loved and triathlete who adores Zachary On this day, all three of them go and see knows both boys have not been right since Zachary to see a psychiatrist. While the from a depressive disorder, Melanie decided understanding. This was a mistake, a grave one. goes to his room and starts packing things into a and a toothbrush, but what's entirely disturbing and a claw hammer. He has plans for the future. which means waiting for Melanie to go to bed. can hear the sounds of her slumber, he calmly his hands. Towering above Melanie, he strikes her maybe 20 times, until his mother is well and Blood is everywhere, splattered all over the He looks like a maniac, clenching the weapon in game room and takes whisky and gasoline to and Zachary, purposefully leaving his hoping his brother will die in the fire. Thanks the game room door, his brother will survive. up by police about ten miles away from his in what can be described as a voice that The detective already knows some things about distress, and what seems like a willingness to explains what his plans were; what would have "I didn't feel anything when I killed Something was obviously very wrong with issues. His father's death obviously unlike the majority of the serial killers he a young age. Zachary's evil seemed to come like all the kids you'll hear about today. when he was shown photographs of his mother's he'd used a sledgehammer because there was He smiled when describing the sound the "It was a wet thumping sound," he recalled. When the judge sentenced Zachary to life in "You became evil, Mr. Davis; you went to Can we beat this story? You know Let's now have a look at one of the murders impressed with, a crime that he admitted Nevada-tan this next crime is that the murderer was only 11 little girl who was as harmless as the teddy a brutal killer of the highest order. That's On June 1, 2004, Girl A is at her elementary It's lunchtime, and Girl A walks up to It's just an ordinary lunch break for all the others napping, but most are still eating Satomi's desk and says to her, "Hey, come outside Satomi has never really had any issues with Girl out of the classroom, and Girl A leads the way what this funny thing is. Girl A's face infantile rage. She whips out an incredibly Soon after, the teacher realizes the girls when she finds young Satomi lying in a pool she hears the reply, "I have done a bad thing." A had read too many violent comic books. Maybe but she wasn't the only case of Satomi's father later said, "I can't Sometimes, the reasons for such acts are not is so young and seemingly innocent. Girl She was sent to a kind of special school for Others did not. They knew about the stories of knew that she was very capable of violence. Girl A scared the hell out of her classmates and a knife not long before the murder. which was looking at violent images story and was a big fan of the death-themed You can, of course, hope that become a functioning member of society. It we seriously doubt that's ever going to didn't just kill one person. He became Craig Price was arrested at the age of 16, like many of the ice. He had that look of a psychopath - which It's July 27, 1987. Craig is just 13 years stealing, breaking into houses, and even a up the ante. He has a plan, and that is to Rhode Island. The owner is 27-year-old Craig around the neighborhood, Craig crawls through her window. He after which he goes to her bedroom, where is a boy whose friends like to watch Scooby Despite some bad behavior, Craig is liked in the face. He's good at football, given his bulk, and still just a kid. No one suspects that he's once he had a taste for blood, he needed more. becomes frozen with shock when Craig's own family someone who's done the most terrible thing. no idea they are talking about him. By all and he is loved and cared for. His home life, The other night, he broke into the He had one intention as he sneaked into her house 15-year-old savage stabs her as she sleeps. She sound she makes when she's hurt. After stabbing kids, both now awake and shaking with fright. are later found in a similar state to their mom. it's a sight they never thought possible. Soon the newspapers are talking about the their doors. They never leave the windows before nighttime sets in. They are literally someone they think is a little bit cheeky The police know something they don't. They are which is not a common size at all. Believing these their heads together and find a kid who's been That's Craig Price, and when they find a collection of knives. They bring "Where did you get that big gash on your finger?" almost proud of his work. The newspapers were most notorious serial killer, but what most people 240-pound kid was 15, and he'd started killing It was unheard of, even in ultra-violent America, propagating like tadpoles in a large swamp. crimes when he described them to the detectives. it was like he was explaining One of the detectives later said, "He talked I mean absolutely nothing. It's incredible." because he was a juvenile, he'd soon be out who'd seen the bite marks on the mother's face arms of her young daughters were furious. All they and we believe when he says that he will make actually told them he would, bragging about it. to his wife and children and bawled his eyes out. person on the scene in that triple murder, and him. Detective Kevin Collins reacted differently. long as he lived, this kid was not going to walk With relatives of the victims and local Opposed to the Release of Craig Price" group. a law that allowed juveniles to be tried This is why Craig is still in prison Since his arrest, he's seen many psychiatrists. a loving family. There's no evidence of He has said in the past that white people on occasion, people issued racist slurs at him. people generally don't mutilate children said Craig is a psychopath. His violence has "I suspect from all that I have seen and psychotic rage at the time of these events as a serial murderer, a disorganized type." in the neighborhood for two weeks. They'd day. Craig later said he felt a racist "aura" act of killing Joan Heaton was the answer." in prison and, on occasion, has attacked other 2019 and was sentenced to 25 years for it. face harassment and "Kill on Sight"-type violence shows that he's the one who initiated most Can some people be born evil? Can the brain We'll tell you our theory soon, but first, you Jasmine Richardson Craig Price was one, and we have no doubt that Like Craig, she had a few screws loose. As we there is a history of extreme childhood trauma it's never obvious where they got their evil This story contains two killers, but one of was the lover of Jasmine, Jeremy Steinke. She she met him. Sure, you can say he made her do it. The story takes place in Medicine Hat, a city in They meet at a punk rock concert. Jasmine is think is way too old for her. He's an unusual guy, an angry goth, a rebel without a cause, more Jasmine's parents don't want their daughter seeing and he's a young adult. They don't actually angry alcoholic, and his stepfather has who love her dearly, try and stop and Jeremy becomes enraged. He writes online: regret the BEEP they have done. they are gone...Their blood shall be payment!" writes. He does claim to be a werewolf after all. a child throwing a tantrum because Santa didn't bad plus bad doesn't equal good. There is someone online and says, ok, good idea. Let's do it. her husband, Marc, are stabbed to Just after Jeremy has done this to them, he goes is pleading for his life. As he whines at them, stabbing him. Jeremy then finishes him off by on the run with some help from a third party. have been taken advantage of by a very Jasmine also a victim? We think not. but she had made this plan with her lover, whom her parents was her idea. Police records show the in an email when Jasmine wrote to Jeremy, saying, me living with you." She received the reply, little more creative with like details and stuff." you do anything for them; I did anything." a similar nature, saying about I thought it would bring us closer together." as was her lover. She spent some time a psychiatric unit. To some people's dismay, she Steinke is still serving a 25-year sentence. means to be human. Even though it happened years oozing with anger and tears. The question you when you're just a kid, we mean barely past a light glimmering in your bedroom. It's February 12, 1993. Two kids, Robert years of age, are in a shopping center not Like they often do, they're skipping more pleasure in going to the local shops they've stolen a bunch of things, including some vilest way you can imagine. They're looking at people in the shopping too young for school. What they are actually jaguars assessing their prey. They intend and take them to a quiet place in the street, That would be evil in itself, but They find their prey, a two-year-old named Just for a second, she lets go of Jamie's she's just bought at a butcher's shop. When he's gone. CCTV is right now showing images that will soon be seared into The boys take Jamie to a canal not too far away their torment by dropping the small child on total by about 38 people. Some adults naturally to which the reply that he is their young even going into a pet shop for a When they get to a secluded bit of they begin their sadistic torture, which do things to him with batteries, bricks, and do to an old doll. They finally kill Jamie with a will later say the child suffered 42 serious Jamie is already dead by the time they place talking about how cool it will look when a so just leave him there, and later a train These kids were not criminal masterminds. remembered their faces. When the police spoke his shoes. Does this sheer lack of cunningness them actually asked a cop if they'd make him Barely anyone in the country didn't want even though some argued that they literally didn't had violent upbringings themselves. "Hang them!" them. These boys were sick in the head. they were released under new identities; had never been able to photograph them, so even though the outrage-inducing tabloids heads. The question was, can people who've The British system, perhaps quite thought the answer was yes. It should be with Robert's mom drinking her way through home. Jon's mom was less prone to violence, she had a "serious depressive problem," Venables has now been in and out of trouble all in prison for various things, including some been kept a secret because he will be killed and have to protect him. At least Robert Thompson Do they even deserve to be living among the northern England still want their pound of flesh. say leopards don't change their pots. Once a a similar predicament, as you'll see later on. kids never get better. There's a line in a movie that goes, "You evil so singularly personified as you did We imagine that was true for the victims of Edmund decapitated heads that he kept in his bed. But It's August 27, 1964. All is quiet in the house of been living in their house for a while. Truth and living with her is a nightmare. She used to end with the spiders and rats, sometimes screaming "You deserve this, Edmund; this is what you disgusting little pervert." editing a manuscript she's written about the boy doing the grocery shopping. As she's busy with "Hi, Ed darling," not even looking up. Ed walks He then grabs a knife and stabs her three times. and waits for the return of his grandfather. grandmother's body to one of the bedrooms. off the 6'9" and 250 pounds he will become. He As soon as he hears his grandad's car pull into his grandfather. Ed's always adored this man. He's As the grandfather gets out of the car, Ed is carrying a rifle, although Ed's always has had to confiscate it now and again because grandfather. Ed lets him walk in front and points about an inch away. Bang. The grandfather When the cops pick Ed up, this well-spoken They ask why he stabbed his grandmother three to make sure. I didn't want her to suffer." to people you obviously love?" expression on his face and says, "I just That's what evil looks like. It looks unconcerned. of the absence of emotion. Heightened senses coldness of violent psychopathy on their skin. you start to see patterns. Physical and sexual being shown no love whatsoever is the story of quite a few serial killers have very controlling, often narcissistic mothers. tortured him. She systematically ounce of self-worth he had. This never bodes becoming serial killers. We'll explain why soon. him. He played them like fools. He stayed in doctors and staff loved him. They thought intelligent. Right before Ed was released at "I would see no psychiatric reason himself or to any member of society." later said, "When I meet a pretty girl, one date her. The other side of me says I wonder One of the conditions after Ed's release was that who were now saying Ed's juvenile record that taint his good character. That was that, On September 14, 1972, Ed saw fifteen-year-old he picked her up. He was already an He choked her to death, then went for a and buried the body parts. He kept her play with the heads of his victims. Her head his usual appointment with his probation "If I were seeing this patient without getting the history from him, I would think young man who had initiative, intelligence, Another that day said Ed's motorcycle was any threat he is presently to anyone else." people in all, including his mother, whose everything he'd done, the many detectives, and doctors all liked him. Ed was a star and The question is, how did he fool everyone? How should be taken out of society forever? With this mistakes were made. It's 1991, and the 15-year Juan Fernando He's raging inside, tired of his deaf is hardly ever at home. He spends most of Ecuador's capital city of Quito. This is the day After drinking away much of the day and later the driver pulls up at the destination, Juan head. The others laugh nervously, some are quiet, They push the dead man into the back outside town. This is just the beginning Juan and his gang visit their regular hairdresser, Charlie to go for drinks and shoot her dead. his buddies are just too scared to say anything know how dangerous he is. Not long ago, he came showing it off like it was a Star Wars found out he was adopted, something had snapped. all shot with a 9mm pistol. 11 of them are someplace and then executed. Eight are taxi and they shoot two of its occupants. The killing people for nothing, a serial killer. people not to go out alone at night. The gang's shoplifting. The cops interrogate the boy, These delinquents all seem to know each other. until they give him the customary beating that The game was up. It was time On the night they planned to capture Juan, they get into his house through a skylight. his gun. Bullets flew in the darkness; and then another. There was so much firepower the rubble. Juan, still not hit, saw his Hundreds of rounds were fired, but the only She lay dead with 11 bullet holes in her body as window. The place was surrounded, and he was taken The people of Ecuador couldn't believe who they named "Nino del Terror," The Child and so when the judge handed him four years for judge asked Juan why, why did you kill them. Juan kept quiet. He was a psycho, no doubt about it. in the juvenile prison, not through brute managed to get a gun sneaked in for him. On June outside the prison with that gun, shooting he fled to Colombia but was captured again and short sentence, and he was let out in 1996. you don't shoot cops and kill innocent Juan's 20th birthday, in another city, while over their heads got hold of him. His body was cut to pieces with a machete, and then shot so To many people in the country, that but necessary. Leopards, they said, don't At the time, the media around the world was What kind of kid starts serial killing at Eric Borel tried to figure out what went wrong with this When the brain is wired a certain way and you can get something monstrous. Maybe that's intertwine to form a human weapon of mass environment and biology don't cancel each other Such as with Eric Borel, whose fundamentally him he was the "child of sin." Most kids would be their rescue and tell them not to go through with with Eric. Eric's frontal lobes hissed and Here's the story. quiet in school. He studies electromechanics, and he goes home to admire the pictures Adolf Hitler. Swastikas are painted above scattered around. He has a particular interest It's September 23, and at the age of 16, Eric family kitchen and shoots his stepfather four anger, he takes a hammer to the dead man's head. stepbrother is watching TV in the living room. see Eric staring at him from the living room suffering the same fate as his father. Covered in and turns over the channel. He waits patiently she's learned he is sinful: her beloved church. I'm home." She screams when she sees her husband's For some reason, Eric doesn't go to work on Outside in their beautiful, scenic village of He looks outside, thinking about his next sheets. He takes a backpack and fills it and a handgun that fires only rubber bullets. He and now dressed in all black with the rifle as his one-man Blitzkrieg through pastoral France. passing sprawling vineyards and terraced having a cookie or two while thinking about what when he gets to the next village, another quiet He knocks on the door, and his buddy from What happens next, we don't know, but it talk in the garden for a while, and then Eric blasts him in the back, killing him. busier now. No one thinks anything is wrong. and murder is almost unheard of in this part of calmly brings the rifle sight up to his eye, it was like a Hollywood movie. It was surreal. shot and killed. Eric runs closer to a house in killing an elderly woman and injuring blinds in the next house to see what all her dead. He then kills another elderly man Eric moves again, firing at two young boys. baguettes. He shoots a shopkeeper, a man buying old man walking his dog who is on his way Now people are running, alarms are ringing, diving under cars, jumping into doorways, he's chased toward a vineyard but doesn't and his life ends there. Many people have been But why? Because his mother called him evil, we said, certain bad elements all have to meet malevolent. People read in the papers that Eric Terminator and The Silence of the Lambs, and but it still didn't make sense. last two evil children, who, if you meet them in psycho-sensitivity reader. August 2, 1993. A four-year-old is playing outside in his quiet, tree-lined There's another kid playing outside, who's the perfect picture of youthful fragility. Eric seems like a normal kid. He has being impoverished. But he's experienced many bright red hair, and his speech impediment, beaten up frequently. Inside him about to explode into something terrifying. their bicycles when Eric stops the younger for a reason perhaps only the devil This is not to bully him or even hit him rational thinking. Eric strangles the boy and he's done. He has time to consider the product of He takes a large rock and drops it on Derrick's two rocks and chosen the larger one. If this from Derrick's lunch box and wipes it into the as serial killers sometimes do when they take for serial killers is their art form, the piece de this is unheard of in the annals of murder. and tells her, "Mom, I did it. I killed a strange fantasy, but he is telling the truth. sentenced to nine years to life, to be served in a In 2002, the parole board agreed that Eric, then he started talking about his murders a bit explaining that the bullying he'd anger and rage out on someone who had In 2009, just before another parole all that anger inside him back then was saved "If I could switch places with him and take the The Robie family didn't believe a word of a bat, a knife plunged in rage. It was In 2021, during his eleventh parole board hearing, a job, and kids, and after a risk He's now free. He'll have to see parole officers crime, he can kiss goodbye to freedom for the rest The question is, will that rage reappear? to the kids who tortured and killed Jamie those boys haven't resorted to extreme possible? Can you rehabilitate a killer This is a question you need to ask yourself at some point, too. October 21, 2009, St. Martins, Missouri. an utterly wicked plan. Her father is in prison. Her mother is an She has no sense of self-worth. She hates She is lacking the love and attention all children next. She's like a million troubled girls and ready to commit evil deeds. She has experienced that wicked compound we talked about. grandparent's large property, the perfect place running around the woods and even attending her today, she has something different on her mind. that lives down the street to come out That she does, and Elizabeth never returns home. day they turn up at Alyssa's house asking was out playing with you" "Where did she go?" has no idea where little Elizabeth is. "I just...killed someone. I strangled them they're dead. I don't know how to feel atm. It was I can't do this' feeling, it's pretty The cops find this diary in her messy bedroom, some words written in what looks like blood. In her house down with everyone in it. Another entry Police see what looks like a shallow grave close dug that grave five days before she committed the suppressed rage. It was carefully planned. the girl to a wooded area, strangled her, slit her Psychiatrists later said this kind depressive disorder and borderline she said she just wanted to know how The victim's mother called Alyssa "an evil appalled when the judge sentenced Alyssa to life release in 2024. That's coming up soon. "Repeal Law That Could Free Elizabeth Olten's far, it has 3,565 signatures of the 5,000 "She doesn't deserve any kind of freedom. This Elizabeth didn't get to have her life with and there is nothing I would love more than to Who do you think are the worst Now you need to see how the old-timers did it Got Caught." Or, have a look at "WW2 Serial