What is the most famous Italian pasta dish in the world? Whose origins are legendary? The pasta dish that makes people argue at the kitchen table, that dish that everyone insists only they know how to make? That symphony of strong and complementary flavors... it's Spaghetti Carbonara! Are you sure you know how to do make it the right way? Prepare it with us while we reveal the tricks and secrets to make Spaghetti Carbonara to perfection! And if you are among those who are afraid of raw egg, we also have a perfect solution for you. Let's begin. We've put the water on to boil. Now the first thing you do is toast the black pepper. We let it go until it releases its aroma-- about a minute. If you have watched our video on how to make Cacio e Pepe to perfection, you already know that the toasting of pepper is essential to release the maximum fragrance and scent of the pepper. As soon as you smell the pepper, it is time to turn it off. We do not want to burn it. Absolutely and above all we do not want to intoxicate our kitchen. Here it is, what a scent! The pepper is ready and now we transfer it to a small container. We will need it later at the end when the dish is finished. And now it's time to brown our guanciale. As you have seen, the guanciale --we've cut it into strips. I like them this way: about 2 centimeters, 2 and a half centimeters long and it will be half a centimeter thick, something like that. Now the secret to cook the respectable guanciale is to cook it over low heat until it becomes translucent. Then, raise the heat until it browns well or until the color is a golden a golden brown. We want it to be tender inside and crunchy outside --a bit like roasted potatoes in essence. If you are impatient, move the pan to cook the guanciale more or less homogeneously. If you have the patience, do it like me: move and turn the bacon piece by piece. It is the only way that guarantees a homogeneous cooking of the guanciale on all sides. Look what a beautiful golden color! Our guanciale is not drying out, that is, it is not losing an excessive amount of water nor is it releasing too many juices which means that it will remain soft inside and at the same time crunchy on the outside. And that is exactly our goal! And we let it go for another minute or 2 until it becomes even more crunchy. We're there- look at that golden bronze color. You cannot perceive it, but these pieces are very crunchy. Perfect! We turn it off and now we transfer our guanciale into a small bowl and it will then be added into the pasta at the right moment. As we will see, we keep the fat present in this pan because it will be very important to create the right cooking base when we add our spaghetti. Incidentally, we put a little less water than usual to cook the pasta --as we do for the Pasta Cacio e Pepe-- because we need the starch present in the pasta to create the right cream. Ok the water is boiling now. Let's throw in the pasta and in the meantime we prepare the beaten eggs and pecorino. Usually we put one yolk each plus a whole egg in for the pan. We say this because the egg white is not necessarily your enemy. The secondary protein of the egg white is a very important protein that will help us a lot to create the right viscosity and density in the final cream. The pecorino in the carbonara must be felt -- it must not only be good but must be abundant. We put about 20 to 30 grams of pecorino each. This is our proportion. And here is our pasta --cooked three quarters of the way --in a pot. And now we finish the cooking of the pasta in the pan. We'll bring it a bit closer... We also bring over a bit of water because we need it. Here's our pasta ladle and we put a bit in our famous cream. Great! Look what a difference the water has made already. Now the cheese has melted. It has melted, it has not made clumps. It has not made strings. And look at how creamy it is already now. And look at how shiny it is. Look at the sheen on the surface. And for those of you who are afraid of salmonella and the like, I invite you to watch on our channel the video of the carbonara with pasteurized eggs. This cream is simply made from the starch of the pasta and the fat of the guanciale. And look how beautiful it will be-- the union between the pasta and the egg cream Ok now quickly incorporate the cream. Take a few strands of spaghetti to get all of the sauce out of the bowl. By making a nice 'scarpetta' we avoid wasting anything. And now we quickly mix in the cream it is already so dense that it is not so easy to toss the pasta at this point. It is thickening very, very quickly. Now let's add the beautiful pepper. ! What a creation! Whoever created it deserves a Nobel Prize. But look, look at that! Look at that stuff! Mamma mia ... Maccaroni you have provoked me and now I'll destroy you.