Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. and found that Kansas is in fact literally Of course, the Earth is not flat, the Earth Otherwise travellers would be falling off Right? Wrong. If the Earth was not a ball shaped, but was with the weight, density and thickness, living But as you move toward the edge, gravity on a disk Earth would slightly skew, pushing at a greater and greater angle back toward the centre. My friend Nick from 'yeti dynamics' put together The person and buildings obviously aren't diagonal gravity would work. to a runner headed toward the edge, like they were fighting to climb up a steeper and steeper hill. The building foundations behind the runner reflect how you would have to build structures, closer and closer to the edge, so that people living in them always felt like down was at it on our big, round Earth. scary. Remember, this is a flat Earth, but it would feel like a sheer drop off. What's really cool is that contrary to the &quot;don't fall off the edge&quot; fear, on a flat actually be falling away from the edge and Once you stepped over the edge, instead of It would be a nice level place. This model, of course, neglects the fact that such a planet shape would be impossible. Anything as massive as the Earth, shaped like a flat disc, would, under its own gravity, This is why in outer space everything more Or so we've been told. What if the Earth is, in fact, flat and science It's a misconception that Christopher Columbus Virtually every scholar and major religion at least the time of the Ancient Greeks, who, bottom first when sailing away. in and out of the view. The misconception that only a few hundred years ago lots and lots of people believed era, as a sort of insult. was flat, so why should we believe you now? it became accepted as historical fact. It might seem flat over short distances, but darn curvy. The Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, connecting Staten Island and Brooklyn, had to be designed Its 2 towers, separated by 1300 metres, and further apart at the top than at the bottom because of Earth's curvature. In the 3rd century BC, Eratosthenes measured in Syene and Alexandria to calculate, more the circumference of the entire globular Earth, Word got around that the Earth was a round But in 1906, Wilbur Glenn Voliva became head pretty much ran the city of Zion, Illinois. Voliva believed that the Earth was actually flat and he enforced flat Earth's teachings He also enforced that belief on really anyone Voliva believed not only that the Earth was miles away from Earth. He also believed that the sun was only 32 He sounds crazy, or does he? measured could be explained by a flat Earth, and 32 miles across - the math would work Today, with the power of the Internet, modern left off. They have quite good explanations for any evidence you throw at them that the Earth is round. Circumnavigation is really just a flat circle path. The round shadow Earth casts on the Moon during disc. remember how gravity would be totally different Well, they argue that gravity, as we know The flat disc of Earth is merely accelerating As for all of the photos and video evidence to space exploration, well all of that material A hoax, perpetrated by Big Globe. They are reaping the rewards of our ignorant They know, of course, that it's flat. Is it merely a coincidence that the logo used of Earth, centred on the North Pole, and also Nations? Are these people for real? Probably not most of them. An adage that states that at their extremes, are difficult to distinguish. Although clever, flat Earth theories are predominantly ad hoc explanations - excuses made up on the fit all the evidence. Science, of course, rejects a theory if a better one fits more of our observations, observations? A cosmic ray particle could use the very same scientific method we use and conclude that You see, at speeds near the speeds of light, One way we know this is that unstable muons, of cosmic rays with the atmosphere, should But yet, we detect a lot of them down here, means that, from our perspective, their physics the distance they have to cover to the surface much much shorter than it appears to us. 99.9999999999991% the speed of light, Earth the direction you travel. So Earth is flat to them, but round to us. It is ball shaped to some observers and flat to others. There doesn't appear to be a single most correct-est, Susan Haack compares knowledge to a crossword puzzle. New answers interweave with old ones, they The clues are the questions we ask, and the grid, well, that's our confidence that we're But that doesn't mean one day there will be Recall The New York Times famous 1996 crossword election between Bill Clinton and Bob Dole. You seemed to need to be able to tell the It simply said, &quot;Lead story in tomorrow's newspaper (blank) elected&quot;. Well that blank could be Clinton or Bob Dole There's no way to know. or Bob Dole. clues fit. either be a cat or a bat. Our knowledge about the outside world might be the same. A puzzle with no answer key, just the reassurance that the answers we think we know fit together, Though there's always the possibility that fundamentally not have a single definite satisfying answer. The puzzle may be playable forever. I like what Richard Feynman says about this. &quot;Some people say 'How can you live without always live without knowing - that is easy. You know? And as always, thanks for watching.