The 10 million inhabitants has always been the most North Africa. Cradle of Carthaginian civilization, to the French to the Arabs and has known how to these multiple traditions, Tunisia Independent since 1956, it was the scene then transformed into the Arab Spring by a wind of freedom. Tunisia is without forgetting a certain European influence, Along its boulevards there are superb never-ending cafes and appetizing pastries. is the authentic and historic heart of the city. is a center of life where few foreigners reside. district where traders and artists coexist. It is a labyrinth of alleys lined with into the medina, a detour is necessary via the colonial city, it is the belly of Tunis. where flowers on the ground find buyers in it is present in all homes. Dates from southern palm groves is full of countless varieties that southern Mediterranean knows how to be generous, even if the occupies a special place in the cuisine. The sweet scent of Makrouds, a great fills the medina and mixes with the more robust scent around small tables. Now that the political situation has treasures contained in the Medina, where major historic buildings. Many Medersas, Koranic schools, now home to associations which bring unique architecture. The prayer room, which dates from 1650, is also carry on ancestral trades. Mohamed We often place original orders on him. carving, and carving is one of the three And that involves removing material. marouding technique, it pushes the metal back in order to cafes attract a large population who come to key element of social relations that young people have appropriated has given them a voice again. The chechia is part of Tunisian heritage. a lot of attention and a certain know-how. so we knit the wool, then we leave the with Marseille soap and a little oil to is shaping in clay molds, finishing work as you see. >> The chechia must be perfectly adjusted and discussions. The view we have of the roofs of the Medina Tribunal Square, the Khereiddine Palace has been cleverly 's restoration Exhibitions follow one another, such as that of the of the medina. We sometimes manage to penetrate the intimacy of ornate architecture and refined decoration. or even guest houses. The medina comes alive at daybreak: , everyone passes by! The Zitouna mosque is undoubtedly the most during the Aghlabid era, its minaret the transformations it has undergone over the From the 18th century, it was also art and religious culture were taught. Further away and not far from the Bardo Museum, ornate decoration, such as the El Bai mosque. Bardo was first a palace built during the in the 13th century. It takes its name from the and by extension, a garden[]. It was princely residences of Muslim Andalusia of the Beys and then the Pashas, it was transformed into a the first museum in the country. It is in the process of changing and its unique and spectacular collection of mosaics Some pieces date back to the 4th century and are Nearby is the government square, which It is one of the symbols of newfound freedom. Avenue Bourguiba is one of the major it is now symbolic for having been the Arab Spring. Away from the tumult of Tunis, Carthage is a At the time, it had a formidable all trade in the region. the Romans finally took The few fragments still visible had been given to France by Hussein the Pasha Since then, the cathedral of St Louis de Carthage is exhibition site. Carthage has remained a chic place where ancient residences undergoing restoration coexist. Only a few blocks of marble remain of the amphitheater, idea of the original size of the building, around the hill bear witness to the refinement mosaics, sophisticated roofs and, not to The rooms were preceded by a courtyard central courtyard decorated with a garden Punic port, today's fishermen are busy of this civilization is the a few columns remain housed baths of an thermal baths in the Roman Empire after those of Rome. bath complex. The pediment confirms that Emperor gigantic construction. Its neighbor Sidi Bou Said has always occupied blue and white, have contributed to its legend. the village attracted many artists. The village is also undergoing renovation. Baron d'Erlanger's palace is a haven of peace. Built between 1912 and 1922 the residence has a refined interior decoration Spanish and Italian arts. Today it houses the Baron d'Erlanger, its first owner, musicians of the time and was interested in began the colossal project of translating, among and his interest in music are of of Egypt charged him with the preparation of the first Tunis region towards the nearby Cap Bon, the In Beni Khaled, Habib Yazidi owns The Maltese women require 6 months of work per depending on the weather conditions. But the increase his passion for this ancestral culture. next year, it must be treated, cultivated next year, it is expensive, it must then be this flower requires a lot of attention" He picks the last oranges himself, the east coast from Cap Bon to the port of Kelibia, the boats trawlers set their nets around 5 p.m. the of the morning. Kelibia is one of the major sardine ports of quay with wholesalers. The excitement goes up a notch with magnificent Manta rays, impressive but sought after by restorers. The largest weighs 165 kilos and will of 230 euros. The east coast of Cap Bon corresponds to the image from turquoise blue to indigo, lapping the of Kerkouane is one of the most remarkable it is the last vestige of a Carthaginian city. sophisticated bathrooms with bathtubs, can only imagine what this city was like with these its temples. The northern end of Cap Bon, the closest point to part, a sort of ecological sanctuary, flown over Cap Bon Falconry club is located. Falcons mainly hunt partridges, of hawks. The falcon can be lazy several decades. He is often surrounded traditional hunting remains very popular. The falcon has just spotted a prey: with a "In the countries of golf and during the Middle Ages more affluent social class while it is a more precisely popular tradition. And with a falcon in Tunisia of the country's breadbaskets with its cereal fields country's agricultural production comes from these lands. On the Menzel lagoon, pink flamingos Cape Bon migratory corridors to we arrive at Kairouan, considered the 4th In the 9th century, the Aghlabids had imagined the city with fresh water. The Kasba is surrounded by thick walls The vaults and elaborate ceilings of basements which formerly housed the prison, there is tea rooms. The Grand Mosque is considered the Also called Sidi Oqba, named after of the most beautiful and harmonious by the different dynasties that will succeed one another the galleries or the prayer room with its 17 at the time. 'origin. The vast prayer hall, with its imposing two red marble columns we can see is also often visited. a Muslim religious building, which is located 17th century. The faithful worship a local saint from Kairouan, Prophet Muhammad. According to legend, it would have hence the name given to the building. During the 8th century, Kairouan became The medina became very prosperous in the 10th century, we find the best Makrouds in Tunisia. These dates, sugar, water and lemon. this is an ancient tradition. Makroud Kairouan, it has existed for at least 2 centuries. but it remains a specialty of Kairouan. It is one of the most popular dishes in the country. Kairouan also has a reputation To find beautiful local productions, of the medina. Located in the former Governor's House, made on site. Each room has cedar and marble. This residence of the striking contrast with the austere style of the city. Most of the carpets are produced in The work is long, tedious and requires of effort. Tahar Oueslati believes that the Llouche carpet the dowry of a young woman from a good family. from natural colored wool, the wool is square meter, we make them in all which constitutes the wealth of a home" The Medina hides other astonishing homes also belongs to the Allanis. It dates from the 18th most of the family's children left it. museum, its owner hopes. Reaching the coast, we arrive at Mahdia, which was the capital of the first Its foundation in 916 definitively made important in the country, is relatively calm. The boats decided to go out to sea. The fishermen brought back octopus, small or which will accompany fish couscous. Tahar's boat has just spent the night in catch: around 200 kilos of bonito. Located on a narrow peninsula, the city is enjoy a magnificent view of the Mediterranean. This place is a privileged place for walks. In the medina there is a very that of Karim Arous. This silk weaving workshop specializes made from gold and silver threads. Even if the main piece in which create several additional workshops "There is the outfit like this one that meters in length per piece and 1.5 meters per It is a draped dress, the traditional Djerba, Gabes, or Tnine, etc. >> Impressive rows of olive trees line riches of the region. From afar the impressive along with that of Rome, of one of the all the popular shows in the Roman Empire, Its capacity is estimated at 30,000 people. Today, stages are still often set up there the Kerkennah Islands is taken by regulars: continent, men and women who come to tourists will come later in the morning. Located 20 kilometers from Sfax, the harsh and captivating territory, a long wild palm grove where the landscapes alternate between palm trees, sand very characteristic, bear the different fish protect them from the evil eye. The women shelter from the sun with the 14 villages of the island, resists the temptation build a tourist complex. The few more than 3,000 boats including 2,400 feluccas. where we still fish with lateen sails. The where everything is consistent, for these men the wind doesn't blow strong enough, the motor was going to have a lot of work to remove all mounted on eucalyptus stakes which extend and octopuses are drawn inside placed all around complete the work. trapped octopuses. This old-fashioned fishing is undoubtedly living its has taken over with large motor units, under sail. Octopus is Kerkennah's specialty. Before cooking it, Najet spends at to soften its flesh. tenderize it and prepare it for cooking, I cook it in water and at the same time I with tomato paste, red peppers, secret of course lies in the proportion of the everyone. the island's gourmets for over 20 years. summer and winter, and we prepare it in particular dish of the Kerkennah&quot; Apart from the octopus which is entitled to its festival, like this group Ouled Bouali which sings the sweetness the visitor with kindness. For the visitor, Kerkennah remains a parenthesis use the ferry to get to Djerba. turbulent history where the a long time ago. We fish for octopus with these jars. Each series unstoppable trap from which the octopus cannot escape. The village of Houm Touk is the vital center of caravanserai now transformed into a hotel, large merchant caravans came to rest. The fortified architecture of Djerba bears witness to defended their autonomy with imposing underground pools which were used to keep rainwater beautiful fabrics by hand. The closer we get to also in Houm Touk that almost 30 kilometers long. Centenary trees indicate that the cultivation discover centuries-old, thousand-year-old olive trees over 2000 years old and date from Roman times. variety of olives whose oil has surrounding plains are mainly cereal. Before the barley, sorghum and lentils, which Barley couscous with fish or olive oil and small urban planning. The hotel complexes are located in the Lagoons and long sandy beaches are becomes drier, a harbinger of the nearby deserts. Matmata is a troglodyte village. Seen from the sky, He has also inspired several filmmakers, in Star Wars. We are at the Turki's. The family has occupied to generation, for 2 and a half centuries. air circulation system which allowed a recipe based on red peppers. Large jars serve as pantry. family's own crops. Above the entrance hangs the we serve bread with olive oil strong tea. Messaouada prepares wheat and different cereals, flour is . Going up the valleys towards the interior of the abandoned, others survive thanks the particularity of having a second courtyard, built around the 15th century. It for food reserves, called ghorfas, by a door and the nomads, to access the first dunes of the desert, the village of left the old part to settle noises still indicate a presence. We are at Omar's house who presses be disturbed by possible comings and goings. After being crushed by the millstone, the an antediluvian system of pulleys which allows press. With 300 kilos of paste, Omar produces everyone is happy to be back in the open air and marks the entrance to the great desert. It is an nomadic families and adventure-loving travelers. The oasis is fed by a hot water spring one of the large palm groves of southern Tunisia. many fruits and vegetables are grown there, and of course dates. Here, the weathered faces and headdresses attest the old-timers meet up on the In Douz, we wear Balgha: these allow sand to be evacuated easily. made from camel leather. camel leather. It is flexible and comfortable. >> The dunes are formed by the winds and their crystallization can create at the bottom of some of them to our route west to reach Chott 2 salt lakes meet. The Chott extends over a hundred being victims of mirages there. When summer approaches, only sought-after salt is extracted. At the foot of the foothills of the Jebel mountain oases fed by high altitude springs. of fresh water from the mountains. The border cut landscapes have served as a setting for several films. The Tuaregs do not go near the large The Mides canyon is formed of several layers course of the Oued. In these gorges with colorful minerals, millions of years old, was present here. The oasis of Tamerza is at an altitude of 300m. In still used during Ramadan. The oasis of Tozeur has been inhabited for more than 8,000 great caravans between the 14th and 19th centuries. revive the palm grove, structured in 3 the fruit trees in the middle and "We are starting to feel a rebirth of a huge decline twenty years ago because the region was a agricultural products, whether fodder or market gardening. >> Dates are still the pride of Tozeur. They palm trees. The date palm is said to be the oldest years ago in Egypt. Each garden is divided into Durgha. The land drainage. Nearly 200 springs produce of dates, the "Deglet Nour", or finger of city center market. Fruits of lower quality will be And those of second choice for making and his friends to promote the production of come from Tunis and its region. Thus ends our journey. We leave cultural and architectural heritage and our senses colors. the land of jasmine offers a range