This episode was sponsored by Skillshare [BLING] [bing] One of the most controversial balance updates the devs have ever introduced was patch 1.3.1 the update which banned and nerfed the vast majority of dinosaurs marine reptiles and pterosaurs And so it should come as no surprise that one of the requests that the devs get the most is to reintroduce Dinosaurs back into the game the devs have never unbanned any classes before But what would the meta look like if the devs actually obliged and allowed players to spawn as dinosaurs again? Well to answer that question. We first need to understand why dinosaurs were banned in the first place and believe it or not, I was actually given the opportunity to ask one of the devs this very question So a lot of people have been wondering: why were the dinosaurs banned? uh you know I get this question a lot because the dinosaur class was one of the most popular in the history of the game and we definitely got a lot of pushback when you released the first extinction pack, but to be honest the meta was just getting stale Especially players opting to play larger and larger land carnivores like the t-rex Like one balanced update, we tried to buff herbivores by putting two additional horns on the Uniceratops But of course the t-rex players just specced into higher attack Then one time we even tried to nerf the rage ability of the T-Rex players by increasing the frequency they want to engage in sexual behavior, but then players thought it would be funny to shorten their arms So eventually we figured it's not worth dealing with all these complications and we should just go for the hard reset lower the oxygen levels to limit the size wars of different classes and encourage more nuanced skill trees and while we are seriously considering a dinosaur remaster due to popular demand, To be honest, even now if you look at most character model, they're just shrunk down reskinned dinosaurs we put fur on so you couldn't tell Thanks so much. I really appreciate you taking the time to comment on this matter Okay, so what would it look like if dinosaurs were unbanned? First let's talk about dinosaurs in general The dinosaur builds main advantage is its massive size. At fully-grown, the only things that could take it down were other giant dinosaurs and potentially pack hunting builds While size is an advantage on defense, it can be a challenge for overall survivability Dinosaurs require a massive amount of food potentially more than the current game could provide And so if the devs were to unban dinosaurs They'd likely also need to buff the spawn rates of pretty much everything Your average dinosaur build also tends to be pretty modest when it comes to speed and intelligence having speed comparable to an elephant and intelligence comparable to crocodiles This means that most of the current top tiers will out speed and outsmart them on a regular basis YOINK! But this isn't the case for all dinosaurs. So let's get into specifics now. Let's start with the herbivores So I don't think hadrosaurs would be very viable at all seeing as they have no good defensive abilities to protect themselves with. Their best trait is that they can communicate effectively and keep watch over each other But the best hunters today rely on stealth, a strategy specifically meant to get around his problem. Hadrosaurs would be great at spotting tall carnivore players from far away But not stealthy builds that stayed low to the ground and move through the bush Now, you might be thinking &quot;Oh, that's no problem, the herbivores could just outrun them&quot; But large herbivores had much lower mobility than today's top predator builds They'd be most comparable to an elephant like I said before but where elephants lack in mobility they make up for with intelligence You can't say the same for dinosaurs But not all herbivores would be in such a bad position Hadrosaurs lack any form of weaponry but other herbivores are much more well armed. Triceratops is perhaps the most well known armed herbivore and it's easy to see why. At full speed, a triceratops could one-shot even the tankiest of opponents. But with that said, the carnivore playerbase has gotten much better at dealing with front facing weapons like horns and tusks. So Triceratops may find itself struggling to fend off attacks that come from behind or come from multiple angles. Getting behind an opponent has become a staple trick of every carnivore's playbook Especially for canine and feline builds Sauropods were at an interesting place in the meta back during the Mesozoic and would definitely still be if they were brought back today. Their late game stats were simply impossible to beat one-on-one. No other land build has ever achieved even close to the same base stat total. Even the top predators of the time barely stood a chance even in teams. But they only reached this potential in the late game and have relatively few defensive options during early and mid game aside from just relying on high-level teammates. This means that their teammates need to be able to stop an attack before it's too late. Because of their extreme height, predators would just about never be able to sneak up on a sauropod clan in open field. But approaching using stealth isn't the only way to catch a vigilant opponent off guard. Hiding in trees is another option; one that's employed by some of the most powerful builds of present-day. Big cats tend to target the neck of their opponents and well, it would be pretty hard to miss. Even the top-tier Jaguar probably couldn't 1-shot a high-level sauropod But all of the arboreal big cats would definitely be a problem for juveniles Potentially so problematic that not enough of them would be able to reach the late game to defend the lower level players It's hard to say. Overall, they could be completely viable or completely helpless, not much in between. In my opinion the herbivore builds best suited to survive in the current meta would be the ones with tail weapons, specifically Stegosaurus and ankylosaurus. As previously mentioned, the top predator builds will tend to attack from behind, avoiding a face-to-face confrontation and staying out of range of being hit by counter-attacks with horns, tusks and bites. This strategy works great against the tanky herbivore classes of present-day But an attack from behind would be an awful idea against a build with a club or thagomizer In addition, the armor on their back would make it much harder for assassin builds like big cats to land their critical strikes. Of all the herbivores, I find these to be the most likely to become top-tier if they were unbanned. Now on to the carnivores So this might be an unpopular opinion but I don't think large tyrannosaurs would fare well in the current meta Tyrannosaurs are min/max to optimize for damage which was great when their goal was to be able to bring down tanks with HP levels as high as the dinosaurs. The only build of present-day that this would be important to have against would be the elephant and while that is important, having only one good matchup is not a top-tier strategy. All elephant players need to do to counter this specific tactic is spec into slightly higher mobility since the T-rex's top speed is extremely low compared to builds of present-day. Smaller tyrannosaurs like Albertasaurus and Daspletosaurus would still be viable though since they haven't sacrificed as much mobility as the T-rex has. Mobility really is the name of the game for predators right now and it's the reason that I'd put dromaeosaurus like Velociraptor and Deinonychus as the best contenders for being too OP for the current meta and not just because of their excellent mobility but also because they really wouldn't need to adjust much from their play style in the Cretaceous. Raptor builds in the Cretaceous preyed mostly on small animals like prehistoric mammals and occasionally banded together to take down mid weight and heavy weight builds. This niche is still very much available today and raptors would have little trouble in combat versus builds like possums, raccoons and birds Waaaaah! This is the same role that the fox and coyote occupy right now. So the question then becomes: could Raptors compete with them? In one-on-one combat, I do think Raptors have the edge. While Raptors do have lower HP than any canine, they also have much more burst damage potential. Canines use the persistence hunting strategy and need to land several attacks in order to bring down a target. Raptors on the other hand deal much higher damage because of their sickle claw that can potentially one-shot an enemy. Both employ team strats and both have high mobility and intelligence. So all else being equal, the ability for Raptors to out damage the canines would in my opinion win them the day. So overall, if individual dinosaur builds were unbanned, the Stegosaurus, Ankylosaurus and dromaeosaurus would most likely be top-tier while the others might end up struggling Dinosaur players would need to learn a lot of new abilities to be able to contend with how advanced the meta is. Especially when it comes to how OP humans are. Luckily if you're looking to quickly and easily learn new skills, Skillshare has you covered. Skillshare is an online learning community with over 20,000 classes in design, business, technology and more. Premium membership gives you unlimited access to high-quality courses on must-know topics So you can improve your skills unlock new opportunities and do the work you love. I especially love their course on motion graphics which is taught by the folks behind in a nutshell Join the millions of students already learning on Skillshare today with a special offer that's just for my subscribers. You can try Skillshare for free for two months by using the link in the description. Act now for the special offer and start learning today. And special thanks to my patrons on patreon. If you'd like to see more from me, my patreon and social media are in the description. Thanks again for watching and good luck out there.