(upbeat music) - Hello I'm Bob Ross and I'd like to welcome you to the 28th Joy of Painting series. If this is your first time with us, let me extend a personal invitation for you to get out your and paint along with us each show and all. I'll show you how to put right up here on canvas. And if you've been with us before, please allow me to thank you for inviting us back for another series of painting shows. So I'll tell you what, and get right to it. Let's have them run all the that you will need to paint along with us. While they're doing that, let me show you what Today I have an 18 by pre-stretch canvas up here, but you use any size I just picked this size because it seems to work well. And all I've done today with a very thin, very very And the clear is transparent of course and so it's very easy to put too much. Very thin, very very small amount. I thought today we'd just have some fun. Let's do a little painting today that'll just make you feel good inside. I'm going to start out using alizarin crimson and sap green in about equal proportions. I thought today I'd show that looks like it's on wood, but it's really on canvas. It's very very simple. And if you've never painted before, this is one that you can do, this is an easy one. This one you'll have immediate success. There, we just mixed the color up like so. And as I say, this would make a beautiful beautiful warm brown. And when you're mixing the you can pick if you want or toward the reddish side. Normally I sort of like it but that's just my personal preference. Now we'll pick a little and then mix it right This is a very transparent color and I put a little white in there just to give it a little Alright. Let's go up here and once again we have liquid clear up here, so I'm just going to try to just about like so. It really doesn't matter. Just going to make so streaks There and you can make them as dark or as light as you what them. It's up to you by adding you can change the value of the color. And just let it go. Wherever, wherever. Something about like that. There. Sometimes you might want to put a little more of the crimson in just to give it a little reddish tone, little reddish flavor. Sometimes maybe even a little touch, little touch of black Just depends on what kind to make here. There. That's continually mixing that's already on the canvas. There. If this was not a wet canvas, you'd have a devil of a time just slide on there. But since it's wet with the clear, this is very easy. And I'm sort of doing this in streaks so it looks like wood. I want it to look like old boards that maybe somebody's Alright. There we go and that's really Once again, when you're doing yours, you change the flavor If you want it to be darker it's up to you, any way that you want it. Okay. Now, the most fun part of this whole technique is washing the brush. So let's do that. We wash our brushes, since these are oil paints we wash them with odorless paint thinner. I have a screen down here that I scrub the bristles against, shake it off. And then just (wacks brushes) (laughs) just beat the devil of it. I'd recommend if you do you get some kind of protection because it'll change your whole decor in a matter of seconds. Now let's have some fun, We'll take a fan brush, put in a little paint thinner, shake off the excess, and very lightly, very lightly, I'm just going to allow that thinner to work right down through here. Just a little paint thinner, and it'll take a second But paint thinner, and liquid clear have quite a violent little reaction and it'll make it look like wood grain as it begins to work. And think about individual boards here. And sort of change the grain a little bit. There, and you can make this This piece of canvas really is your world. And on this piece of canvas, you have total and absolute power. You can create any allusion See there, but just let And if you have a little it'll pay you great dividends here. Just let it wiggle and jiggle and carry on and it'll begin to look Maybe over here, maybe this one sort of goes like it. Wood grain is not always straight, it goes in every old direction. Just sort of depends on if it had a good easy life or sometimes maybe the and wood grain's all gnarly. There. Alright. But you just do this til you It's very very simple. There. And it doesn't have to just be with brown. You can do this with any color. You may want it to match the decor of a certain room or something and maybe you need it done in blue. You can certainly do that. The secret is the liquid clear and the reaction that it There we go. That's all. Maybe over in here, say there. Isn't that fantastic? So, so simple. Alright. And as I say, if you've this you can do. Okay, now we've got a to look like old wood. And it'll take a few But while that's working, let's just have some fun here. Let me clean off a little spot to work. Let's take some black, we'll use a little bit some crimson, maybe even a little bit of Van Dyke brown, what the heck we don't care. Pull it out as flat as we can get it, and then cut across and see that little roll of paint, lives right out on the Okay let's go up in here. Maybe back here in our world, maybe let's get brave, maybe there lives a happy Just something very simple. And I'm just going to of the edges. Just wherever you want it. And you decide how many live in your mountain because you can create that you want in your world. There. And we'll take our two inch brush, be sure it's good and dry, and pull that paint. Just let it move here, give it a little pull. There, that's all there is to it. What I'm doing here is removing excess paint, and I want it to be misty at Something about like yeah. Alright. Now let's come back, take a little bit of the titanium white, I'll put the least little just to warm it up. Be very careful, the bright A little bit will set Once again, our little roll of paint. Let's go up in here. Now then, you have to where's your light coming from. I'm right handed, so most right handed people find it easier to have the light come from the right. Left handed people will find that it's because left handed to do right handed Most of them can do it either way. Maybe they have an My brother's left handed with either hand. I have trouble working with just one. I'm going to take a little thalo blue now, I want a brighter blue, a little white, mix them together. Something like that. Now when you're doing your painting use any color that you want. The only thing that we want to do here is just show you how What you make is totally, Little roll of paint once again, because as you know painting is a very individual thing. Everybody sees nature And what you see is what you should paint. That's the representation you There. There's no right or wrong here. Just makes you feel good let's you be creative. I think we all have a that lives within us here. Go back to a little bit of the white. Maybe just put a little, yeah, a little bump on the mountain there just to break up that edge. He needs his own shadow though. And allow it to pick up a and pull it down. Looks like light sort of It's a very nice little effect and it'll happen automatically for you, don't worry about it. There. Now then, we get a good and I want to create the allusion of mist right down here at the So tap, but pay particular see the angles coming down? follow those angles. Over here, go in this direction, just like so. There. And then very gently, two hairs and some air, just lift upward like that. So that it creates a nice soft misty area right down at the base. Okay. Now we've got to make what lives back here. And our world, let's just That was Prussian blue, black, some brown, some crimson, and we'll We just basically have all Mix them up, wipe off the old knife. There. Let's have the fan brush. Gonna load a lot of color in there, and maybe let's go up here. Maybe in our world lives, yep you're right, a happy little evergreen tree, right here. Maybe there's several evergreen trees, they live right here in There we go. See? That's all there is to it. Give him a little friend. Everybody needs a friend, There. Maybe, yep. You decide. Just sort because each person's painting Different in every way. We don't try to teach We try to teach you how to be We only want to show There. Because if you you can paint a million. It's up to you. Maybe, oh what the heck, maybe there's a bigger one over here and that'll be the last tree. We'll just sort of let this There we go. Maybe there's one there that's, he's not totally straight. He didn't want to be a There. He just wanted to be an individual. You decide. Where ever. I didn't know I was going to do a forest, but that's okay. You put as many trees in As many as you want. Let's get brave, over here on this side, big old tree. We need a daddy tree here, there he is. Big tall guy. There strong tree. Alright, maybe another one. We really are going to Something about like it, We just want to put in some of trees and bushes Let's take some white, mix them together. And we'll make a bass brown, cut off a little roll of paint once again. Practice loading you knife if you're just starting. That little roll of paint and we'll put the and there and here. Lots of little tree trunks We don't know how many's there. You can cut in the Maybe the trees passed away. Because that happens in the woods, and he just leaves his There. Now, we just use that same brush. What the hay, we'll go right into some, oh cad yellow, yellow Just sort of mix them on the brush. But since there was blue then we're gonna automatically Okay, load a lot of color in the brush, see both sides are full. Let's go up in here. Now, we said our light in this painting. So place more emphasis on then the left. You knew that. I know, there just a reminder. And a little bit in here. And each one doesn't have Because you won't see each one, especially down toward the base here. We just need little indications. There. See? That's all there is to it. And leave the base of the There, because not as much Not as much light. It's dark and shadowy down there, that's where all my little See my little squirrel Pea pod, he lives up here in the tree and then the little they live down here at the base. Maybe we'll show you some I've got some little Okay, let's go back and Take a little bit of and I'm going to pull it straight down. Straight down. Let's make a nice reflection down here. Maybe this is water. Pull it straight down. That easy. When I was traditional painting, painter, one of the hardest things Now it's one of the there is to do. That's all there is to. Pull it down, go across, and it creates that little allusion. And we can go back to Yellow ochre, the color that was on there, once in a while a little bright red. And we can go back up in here and let's make some decisions. Maybe there's some little bushy areas back at the base of these trees. Wherever you want them, Right there. Just wherever. Make it all jagged so that maybe you can take a and big 'ol trout live in there. I like to fish, but I'm not a very good fisherman because I caught them and take them out of the water, take the hook out and give them a little CPR, and put them back in there. So they'll be there the next time I come. Take a little of the And just cut in indication here and there of a little water line that just sort of floats around. Just sort of a little light There. That's all there is to it. But act just like you're right through the canvas. Right through the ol' canvas. And canvas is tough. Chances are you're not going to hurt it. You'd have to take a to damage it. Okay, let's get a small brush. Now a small brush in our style of painting is a one inch. (laughs) That's all right. I want to pull it through in one direction. Notice that the brush is straight down, pulled in one direction, load a lot of paint in it. So then when you turn it, We want that rounded Let's go up here. And maybe we'll have some little bushes and stuff that live Just push in, don't let the brush slide. Just give it little upward push, bend it, bend the bristles, just bend them. See, and it'll help create Maybe comes out like it, we don't care. Doesn't matter, anywhere that you want it. Anywhere that you want. Now then, one of our golden rules and if you've painted with us before, you certainly know this, a thin paint will stick to a thick paint. The paints that we use they're very dry, they're that are soft and creamy. Very dry. So then we can take and right over the top of it between each so layer. So I've dipped the Now I'm going to pull so I've got a little sap green here. Just pull it same way, one See when you turn that brush over, then you have a rounded corner Okay let's go up in here again. Now let's pick out and stuff to live in here. You don't have to push hard. Do one little bush at a time, he's your friend, take care of him. Vary the color a little little bit of the yellow ochre sometime, just to change the flavor. There we go. See? One little bush at a time though. Think about these little rascals, they're your friends. In a painting, these create depth. So take care of them, you There. You can put a little bit a little bit, of paint and go into color if you don't Because the liquid needless to say, will change It'll make the paint brighter A little paint thinner only make it thinner. Okay. Maybe, I'll tell you, Let's take a little Van Dyke brown, a little dark sienna mixed together. Let's have a little path. You need a way to get up in here to put your canoe in the Make up little stories when you paint. It really helps if you know in your mind what this world is like. Then it's more personal to you. You have a better time when you paint. And painting should be relaxing. It should take you to a world there's no hassles. Little brown and white just barely touch, just graze, just like you were laying There, see there. Now we have a little path. Now we want to set that Take and put some bushes that See how that pushes it We don't know where it goes back here, we don't care where it goes, it's just a happy little path, it takes us back into that's very special to us. There. Something about like that. See, wherever you want them. All kinds of little There we are. Then we can come back, take our knife, and in bushes there's always and limbs and arms that You can take the knife and just scrape right through the paint. And just allow the canvas to show through. And it looks like all kinds and just little things that live in there. These show different layers and those planes, that's what creates the illusion of depth. I know you've looked at paintings and they look flat to you. That's the reason, because haven't been done. So you can put little hanging down limbs on the evergreens back in here. Wherever you want them. All kinds of little things. Maybe a little stick lives over here. Just sort of let your imagination take you wherever you want to be, like that. You can also take the script liner brush, that's our only small brush, put little thinner on it, we'll use a little bit of brown just to show you how. But the big thing here it should get very thin and the liner brush has there you can see them against that, very long bristles that So, don't be bashful, And you can come back and you can put in little limbs and twigs and sticks and things that live here. Wherever you want them. Just let them go where it's dark and then you can use a There. Because there's little that are light colored. Something about like that. That's all there is to it, many or as few as you want. Shoot I think we've about Let's sign this rascal. For that we'll take And I use bright red, but you use any color that you would like. One of the things that it's over and over say, what do I use to sign my painting. That's very individual. Let's go up here. Some people use initials, some use their entire name, some use last name, some use first name. You come up with a way And however you sign So that 100 years from now when collectors are they'll know what to look for. And they'll know that on this day, you had a fantastic day and today you experienced And from all of us here I'd like to wish you happy painting and god bless my friend. (upbeat music)