And we are at the Boston Federal Reserve They're holding their 68th annual And we're joined by the president of the Thank you very much for being with us Delighted to be here. It's great. but it's 39 degrees. Seasons are wonderful. you have another Fed meeting. questions about whether or not the Fed this week we got some firm inflation Retail sales were okay, but not Are you thinking that we should see a So I think it's important to say there's I do see rates are still in the time some amount of easing will be But, you know, the economy's in a very coming back down to target. We're seeing solid growth. that healthy set of conditions, on both sides. I certainly wouldn't take another ease But again, we're not on a preset path. the data and see what makes sense when Well, the data this week showed had been in the CPI and the CPI. for the PC say we're going to see the Should you keep your foot on the brake a not back down to your target. any one data point. holistically. first of all, inflation has come down I focus on the, you know, a couple of And if you take food, energy and in inflation has actually been in the range Exactly what we'd like to see. And that is taking time to come back And a lot of that really reflects shocks I'm not seeing evidence of new price And so I think it's important to stay But that thought it was really appropriate for us in, you know, environment where we are perhaps patiently to be normalizing conditions that I talked about a moment Well, let's look at the other side of We had a very strong employment report report granted affected by hurricanes So what's your judgment of where the holistically at all of the labor data? and you're absolutely right, there have been some readings over time that were a factors. looking at the range of information, similar to conditions that we've So in terms of job openings and quit been coming down and given the high with staying there that is near 4% low by historical So yes, higher than than a year ago. market conditions, things to watch any one piece of data. All right. down, even if it's stalled a little bit, stronger than people had forecast. saying there is nothing telling you? quickly. I don't see a big urgency. preserving those healthy conditions. I mean, that's what our mandate really maximum employment sustained over time. And so, as I said before, I do see policy stances being in a restrictive think is going to be important. careful in assessing the data and making timing. think about that. room, and that is the new president His policies have not been fleshed out. don't know exactly what's going to But his fiscal plans are will affect the another look, say at what your economic projections are for 2025. the economy, certainly that includes Of course, it's really important to And there are lots of things we look at. But I don't want to speculate on what implemented might look like. economic concept add to inflation? And again, we would have to see if there More about the specifics and the Now, if there's a fiscal impulse in do, is the economy growing too fast for Would that be a danger or a worry? things that determine how the economy Fiscal policy is certainly one of them that. through that. has has also said this, that, you know, that's not sustainable. decisions to focus on our mandate from that we have available and the analyses that basis. has never threatened to fire you. the relationship between the Federal So what I would say is that the Fed is body and that that is important in terms well. that independent central banks are more stable. is to keep inflation low and stable in prices past inflation have had. good structure to enable us to do our So the things that come across social background. focused on doing my job and there is and very busy. if I can see them out there. Tell us when you're going to do this Can we basically say because of the the data that we have seen that the dot those are kind of out the window now and even later to get a good idea of where economy is going to be of things I think And so in about a month or so, we will the policymakers about what they think. you know, in the middle of the RCEP much from what might have been written number of weeks earlier, a lot of the What are the people who have these tall leaders in your district telling you forward and their plans? that. things that I do that my colleagues do lots of different sectors. England and what I'm hearing is pretty outset, that people are cautiously They see an economy that seems Labor markets have moved into much more of unsustainable, more overheated And the price pressures really have So that's all very consistent. data masks a range of different sectors and regions. hear all of that and pull the the statistics. At your conference on financial spin in the middle of financial coming up at the top of the hour, we So let me ask you, a lot of tech talk been tech talk. of impact on the average person from I realize you have fed now in place, but this is something different and are we currency adoption, whether it's private So, you know, the the impacts of And I think we're already seeing some fintech are playing across our economy And the conference today and tomorrow is together who have knowledge and and done to see, as we put together the things we don't know and need to know better. a number of different themes, including What are some of the implications of the services? implications of technological innovation for our supervision and regulation of financial stability? and the risks, and I think we are implications, but it's still unfolding. quickly. understand. all here while we're in the midst of a Well, thank you for having us. Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.