You can have great leadership but unless the great leadership won't last, you can't rely on good leaders, that's the key. I think artificial intelligence is a misnomer So it's artificial something, it's a mischaracterization to call it as a mischaracterization We need a fundamental change about what is it makes a good life for? What is it makes for happiness? Hi friends and fellows. Welcome to this special series involving personalities coming from including Stanford University. The purpose of the series is really that I think would be of tremendous value I wanna thank you of your support so far, GITA WIRJAWAN: Hi, today we're honored who's a professor at the Harris School James, thank you so much for your time. JAMES ROBINSON: My pleasure. You were born in the UK. You spent a lot of time and then you found your way here How and why? - But that's a long story. My father was an itinerant engineer who started life working in so he basically worked overseas and then when I was a kid, in Barbados and Trinidad, and then we moved back to Britain He stayed overseas, I went to the London School of Economics. I studied economics, and I tried to study political science; And then I ended up in the United States. I ended up going to the United States I got very excited about learning economics And then I realized that economics didn't actually And then it's been a long story that I feel kind of serious about and that's taken me to lots of places: and I came here in 2015, and it's been fantastic; actually, I love it. Yeah. You've written so many books, and the best one to which And do you think and feel that the success of that is because of having lived in those areas to the extent that your personal experience relates to the developing countries' I think that's right. I mean, on the one hand, the book is trying to summarize a lot of the scientific research that Daron Acemoglu and I had done but many of the examples in the book of kind of field work. Also, the first place I started working We talk about Botswana in the book. I've worked for many years in Sierra Leone; I've worked in Zimbabwe; I've taught for the last 30 years So I've done a lot of research in Colombia; So of course I'm English. I grew up in the 1970s in England, And so I came to the U.S. So I think you're right that a lot of Professor Acemoglu, of course, He grew up in Turkey; straddling Asia and Europe. One of the things that I've learned, one of the things that I found myself for example, as an economist, was it's just obvious to me So many things I just don't understand, and you need to get out there; you need to understand you need to understand other people's the way they think about them. There's only so much you can learn Yes, there's a library full of books, but many things you want to know And so I kind of threw myself into that, mostly because I felt so ignorant, because I enjoy it terrifically also, but just as a way of just generating ideas. And far too much of economic development is also about people sitting in their offices and imagining what might be true and the voices and the ideas of the people are not on the table, it has to change; it will change, and I guess that's something to kind of embrace You kind of dispelled the theory that geography would determine and you talked in depth about how inclusive institutional building and culture would be far more important Explain that. Well, one of the sort of for some of the academic papers that We were at a conference at Boston University, and Jeffrey Sachs, He was talking about and how poor countries in Africa because of tropical latitude, and I sort of thought Having lived in places of tropical latitude, I just thought this was And so, Professor Acemoglu and I and we started discussing it, and we agreed immediately but like, why was there a correlation It's true that there's a sort of correlation but that has nothing to do with There was no causality. It doesn't mean anything. So what could have created That's when we came up with that this is actually related to In some sense, European colonialism in tropical latitudes than it did where Europeans were much more So that was the start of a whole that we had trying to look at on the kind of modern world income distribution. And then it turns out that geography has no effect on anything. So I think this idea, this idea that somehow human society I find that completely wrong. There are 9,000 species of ants. When ants moved to Canada, they speciated because Canada They speciated to kind of be When Homo sapiens got to Canada, They didn't speciate; they developed a taste for sealed blubber, I think humans are just incredibly creative in terms of technology, institutions, So they don't succumb I think we overcome it; humans. So I think a lot of our early was sort of showing that that Professor Sachs and other people just actually were not right What do you think is for the difference between the same people You're interested in what outcome? Just like, why is it that - I mean, you could have and they happen to be living in, let's say, But for some reason the two of them One would be of superiority over the other. I don't know. I think humans come up with ideas; they come up with ways of thinking and that can lead societies to diverge. Think about New Guinea. In New Guinea, You go from one valley to the next valley and they're organized in different ways. So societies can kind of and there are evolutionary processes But I think there's a lot of freedom. I don't think human society is I don't like this evolutionary idea the famous finches they had different beaks because and so the finches evolved beaks But I think humans create all sorts that are not necessarily They can be. they can lead people but they can also be very different. My experience working in is that you see lots of things as being adapted to particular circumstances. So I think that's part of The emergence of Homo sapiens and symbolic culture I want to take you to Southeast Asia, and I want to bring up the topic of If you take a look at Singapore stands out and being able to vis-a-vis the others. If you take a look at the FDI for the big guns of Southeast Asia such as Thailand, the Philippines, they range between a hundred dollars Singapore does it at about Then comes the small country argument. But that gets displaced also because Singapore was able to get in 2021, compared to the next biggest recipient This kind of confirms your theory, geography doesn't determine It goes back to the institutional building. How would you describe - Of why Singapore is so successful? And I want you to peel the onion a little bit, so that at least Singapore can be in some context to others. Yeah, it's an inspiration, It's interesting, the Singapore's experience. I mean, the big story we try to tell this idea that if you want to have economic success, then you need to have by which we mean economic institutions that create and opportunities. The way I think about this is very simple. We know what drives economic development innovation, and creativity, and that talent is sort of spread out I think all the evidence suggests that So how do you find that talent? The government doesn't know where it is. You need to create a kind of that allow those people to get to the top, that allow them to get credit, to have access to markets, and to kind of take patents out to build businesses So that's what inclusive economic But how do you create such an economy? That's about politics. That's the story here. So we say, but lying behind that is the politics.&quot; And if you want to have you have to have an inclusive political system, and there are two dimensions to that. One is this state capacity, like having a state which can really and provide key public goods, But you also need political power in the sense that to use state capacity in the interests of the collectivity, It can happen in some circumstances, And the reason why Singapore is kind of yes, there is state capacity; provide public goods, invest in education, and enforce the law, but the political system has been It's not like China or whatever it is. But Lee Kuan Yew didn't like opposition You've had the same kind of family dynasty So that's a difficult thing, I think in society, there are lots of sources Human motivation is very complicated. Did Deng Xiaoping do what he did No, he didn't. Nor about Lee Kuan Yew. The guy was charismatic, and he didn't like criticism, but he actually acted in what you could say But my observations as a social scientist One, that's a very unlikely type of autocrat You can have people like that; it's unusual. Two, it's more usual in East Asia for a reason that social scientists So, you've got Lee Kuan Yew, even like Soeharto maybe for a bit. There are examples of this. There are no examples in Africa. Maybe you could say Latin America; name one such person So there are interesting regional differences in the presence of these kinds of But even so, that's an interesting fact. But even there, And I think what we know in social science is that the best way of actually finding is to have a relatively democratic process. How can you guarantee that who really wants to act When I look at China, whoever comes after him and destroying society or some kind of idiosyncratic ideological I don't see anything that will stop him. So that's the kind of basis So you can see that Singapore is It's a small country where one person one personality. But you can't really understand big patterns by focusing on individuals like that. The other thing which is very interesting is that whenever you meet a dictator, they always say their model is The former president of Kazakhstan, announced that his model was Lee Kuan Yew. So I was in Kazakhstan and I met the Prime Minister, &quot;You don't understand Go to the National Museum of Singapore.&quot; If you go to the National Museum of Singapore, it's about Singapore; it's about the history of Singapore, He appears; Lee Kuan Yew appears at his appropriate place in history, You go to the National Museum of Astana; President Nazarbayev, totally personalized; that's not the Lee Kuan Yew model at all. He built institutions interestingly enough. Okay, you mentioned democracy. It's probably fair to say that and we're seeing an increasing number where talent has been selected more on loyalty and/or patronage. Is this you think episodic, or is this something that's going to last I think there are different things going on. If I talked about the United States, that there have been lots of terrible leaders People who did far worse things Roosevelt tried to pack the Supreme Court he egregiously violated this norm of Also, lots of people tried to do that. Ulysses S. Grant tried to do it People have just forgotten these names, So, the U.S. people have forgotten than President Trump did, honestly. I mean, I'm not defending but there's a long history of that And one of the things we point out there are these feedback loops. And the institutional design stopped Federalism stopped President Trump. He couldn't interfere with because it's controlled by the states, and that's why the constitution If you read The Federalist Papers, for why you have the constitution, he makes it very clear exactly because you expect that are going to come to power. He says, &quot;If men were angels, All right? So I think the constitution did its job. I think it's actually a big triumph Now, I understand it's still kind of running But my sense is that everything is going to revert back. Now, people are scared of him but that's very tied to him personally, and I don't think anyone is going to be able But as I said, I think that you said, so, I would say this is actually not so uncommon This kind of polarization, One of the points about of course, if you're in an inclusive society there are always incentives We give the example of Venice, probably the world's most successful society basically just went completely and destroyed all the institutions to kind of cement this oligarchy. So I think elsewhere in the world, what I see in Latin America, but what I see in Latin America is there was this so-called third wave of and like the 1990s, you see all of And what you see is that that can't be met in some sense. This has something to do with or the limited ability of governments to actually change society I think there's an enormous disillusionment I think you see that in Eastern Europe also like the 1990s kind of European integration, which was a benefit but that brought a lot of benefits But there are also a lot of problems and people have the same sort of disillusionment so that creates instability People look for radical alternatives, and quite how that will play out, I think my view of democracy is similar which is that it's the worst possible except for the alternatives. And I've done a lot of empirical work, What I can say is that democracies are associated with better education, but of course, there's a lot of heterogeneity in the sense that and there are other Paul Kagames of the world. And that can bring a lot of benefits, How do you sustain that? Maybe they can do that in Singapore. I think it seems likely they'll do it but that's not the general pattern at all. I want to ask you about social media. It seems to have distorted the way people look at people, and it seems to have basically in the ability to find a proper intersection What we're seeing in many places for anybody to attain a position it's got to do with how much mud on your face as opposed to how well you intellectualize. That kind of inevitably will undermine and the ability to choose leadership that's going to be able to intellectualize and that's going to be able to build Is that the right way of looking at this I don't know, all of this social media, The academics are scrambling to catch up in terms of trying to understand And the first impulse of academics as a positive thing, like Tahrir Square, people coordinating protests against dictators Even Facebook, there's research on to different languages democratization, and things like that. But I think the current view would be which is having some very corrosive effect Somehow humans, for some reason, which they can't document, I think it's very isolating. One of the hypotheses about why on earth when he did and not years before, whatever is that he got so isolated in COVID. He got isolated, so people are not giving you feedback And that's what humans do. It's not a coincidence that the most famous works of philosophy What did Plato write? Dialogues. What does Cicero have? Dialogues. Because we need to talk to each other, And sitting on your phone... I'm not sure I have a very intelligent view I think it's sort of frightening I'm not sure I know what the good... As I said, academics are scrambling But I think the unintended consequences of it just seem to be huge; it's frightening, but I'm not sure I'm equally basic about this. But just within intuition, at the rate that for anybody who wants to it matters more if he or she can dance by way of popularizing herself or himself as opposed to intellectualizing. And to me, that is a discount especially in an inclusive manner, right? And if this thing were to carry on then I think there's less hope for institutional building I think that's a challenge. I mean, I think if you went back and thought about some of the great scholars look, what was Locke doing? He starts his famous secondary system by sort of characterizing, &quot;What are the main problems?&quot; Well, we have this natural law But that doesn't work so well And then he sort of says, We have to design these institutions, etc.&quot; But perhaps what you're saying is that It creates such a different world in a different way, and we have to come up with I mean, it'd be sort of ludicrous to say And so if the world changes, and the institutional solutions I don't know if there are too many people but it makes sense. I'm just concerned because, it's a region of around 700 million people, it's about a 3.5 trillion-dollar economy. I think what's at stake for is not small potatoes, right? The more we need institutions the more we need to make sure that that could happen politically, geopolitically, I'm just not sure, social media, I think, has changed culture at the rate that people look at their handphones and most of what they're looking at And whatever they're looking at, for the most part, are not exactly economics they're just stupid stuff. I hate to say that. And that, I think, is a discount to anybody's ability But I want to take you to the topic of I want to try to bring up I mean, if you talk to the people they're all focused on achieving which is only about 27 years away. But if you take a look at most people who are living in developing economies, they're more worried about and for them to understand sustainability, And if you try to figure out there are so many metrics, And for them to be adequately electrified, it takes countries like India and Indonesia There seems to be this awkward, irreconcilable nature and the narrative of modernization. How do we fix this? I don't know. that are the big guilty parties here I mean, I guess it seems to me that that created this problem; it's the people in rich countries and they're mostly responsible I would say I think it's completely unreasonable poor people in developing countries, who didn't create this problem So I think whether or not we can actually I don't know. I think it's a sort of indictment that humanity, for whatever reason, this sort of economic materialistic Even the terminology of &quot;natural resources,&quot; like the world and nature is a resource Whose idea was that? We're all on the same planet, and we're living with I feel like that has to change I think the very economistic way of thinking and that doesn't resonate. We need to find a way of resonating, getting this to resonate with people, and seeing ourselves as kind of part of in a much more fundamental way It seems like the whole terminology But just in terms of what you're talking about, yes, I think you can't expect people it's not ... And they're not responsible now it's the U.S., China, Western Europe, and of course there are a lot of So, that's one question. But it seems to me that to solve we need a fundamental change about what is it makes a good life for? What is it makes for happiness I don't know, it's just like... I work a lot in sub-Saharan Africa and you see different ideas in Africa much more embedded in the community, much more respect for the kind of nature than you have in this Western Society I find myself personally How do we play catch up then? I mean, at the end of the day, we gotta catch up; How do we scale when the alternatives are not sufficient? I mean, if you want to go with solar, Well, I mean the long view is that they said the economist view is; well, prices will change, and there'll be And I always like the joke, - that in Jared Diamond's book ... when I was talking about geography. No, but that's fine, We edited a book together; We disagree about many things But he has this great joke which is like, what did the person think did they say, &quot;Hey this is my tree, I can cut it down if I like, This sort of characterizing towards natural resources So, I think this idea that we can have electric cars or we can have that seems unlikely to be true to me. And so we need some more of what modernity is about, I want to ask you about leadership. What would it take for a country to have the right kind of leadership? Oh gosh! That's a very hard topic There's no good social scientific research like there's no good ... I mean, I think it's just undeniable in reality getting people to work together turning a country around or a university, even, so an institution, But it's very difficult to understand and how do I find good leadership and why do I have bad leadership. And most social science is all about and it's very hard to take into account the ability of individuals And it's funny because you spend trying to get the right person But there's not a good social science theory It's frustrating especially, looking at comparative economic development, we were talking about Singapore why did he do, what he did, and why did he come to the top why did he come to the top, And then look at Ferdinand Marcos, Many military governments when you get some person comes to the top. Why is it that in one context, who wanted to really develop his country or you get Ferdinand Marcos who was just much more interested in that's a huge consequence but we just don't understand why that happens I mean, in history, you've seen cases where you could have the most fantastic and you could have whereas on the other hand, you could have but awkwardly you end up with who could put all the pieces of the puzzle Is it some sort of an act of serendipity? Yeah, I think it has elements like that. I mean, I guess my emphasis would be; you can have great leadership but unless the great leadership won't last, you can't rely on good leaders, that's the key. So that's sort of Why Nations Fail's perspective. I think it does have that element of serendipity. I mean, sometimes leaders emerge and they're good for one problem, I see that a lot. Like in Colombia, for example, with these Marxist guerrilla groups, and the government spent 20 years and it never worked. And then, people just decided; And then, there was someone there, President Alvaro Uribe and that's what he wanted, But, &quot;Okay, we don't want that, &quot;Okay fine, now we have to fight, And they put the guy in power, and he did, that's what he did, and it was fantastic. But he was also a disaster he tried to undermine all the institutions, And then they got rid of that. but I think sometimes people are good and they're not necessarily good that's something about leadership. I would say, like Elon Musk, he seems like but he's not good at everything. Like Michael Jordan was very good at basketball, So, I think that's also very difficult, So, that's another problem Maybe some people, he was very intolerant and he was autocratic or whatever, but he was also very serious about And he got that. This was not about him, and it was not about his personal aggrandizement. And that was just him, that's just And again, so, that's great. But how do we know he will have come And I don't think it's necessary either. If you look at, say, or other places that have been then could you name One prime minister No. But those in Mauritius have been finance, it's peaceful, you have people of Indian descent, English, French people. I mean, it's just an incredible melting pot, It's been extremely dynamic And Barbados too. So I always find it curious whenever I'd say, &quot;Well, why don't we talk or why don't we talk about Barbados, or why don't we talk about that have been successful Also, it's kind of odd this... Well, I think the reason why people is that Singapore has been at projecting ideas and soft power And they've always consciously to be at the intersection of ideas whereas the Mauritius of the world not because they couldn't, right? And one would argue that that Singapore is not but you got to give it to them for having been able to not just to some extent, but they've been very good at health care, welfare, education, Things that I think matter So I would consider Singapore for many countries around the world, not just many of us in Southeast Asia, because they've been able to the rest of the world when it comes I agree with all of that. But as a social scientist my question is, how do you replicate that What is it that allowed Singapore, You just just pass laws? Like Saint-Just, one of the leaders "There have been a lot more But they have good laws But where does that come from exactly? Is that to do with Lee Kuan Yew? Is it something deeper I don't think we'd understand that So that's my problem. I think I completely agree with My question is, how do I take that or in the Philippines, That's the challenge. How do you see inequality? I mean, one would have thought inequality would be less, If you take a look at for some of the most developed economies, they're not small potatoes. And from a social scientist's standpoint, Is it just because money I would say if I just looked at the big picture in the Americas is that North America has been for hundreds of years. So it's true that in the last 30 or 40 years, inequality levels in the U.S. have kind of started moving But that still masks enormous differences and I think that's really a lot to do Why is it that Zuckerberg Because the world is his market, Facebook is everywhere. Why are all these people so rich? It's because of this enormous globalization. So I look at that and I think, &quot;Okay, I don't think that can have all sorts But fundamentally, those people made In the start of &quot;Why Nations Fail,&quot; we say, &quot;If you want to understand the difference look at the difference between Bill Gates made his money innovating; Carlos Slim made his money by getting to privatize the unregulated That's the story of Latin America, And I still see that. I still see in the U.S. and have high status is through innovation, I don't think that's... It's just that the world has changed in a way that makes that I don't think that's the whole story, There's also a domestic story about and the kind of accumulation of to keep wages down. So this is being combined with almost within the U.S., and the sort of dispensability of workers. I think that's a lot to do with the sort of fallout of Reagan, this kind of embracing of the free market, this kind of free market view of the world. So I think that's also going on So it's a combination of different things, which is creating this upsurge But as I said, I think it's also I mean, in the sense that there's still far more social mobility here. There was a recent calculation looking at how many generations it takes to go from being in the poorest 10 percent And in Colombia, and it was like 200 years or something, So the U.S. is not the best. I think it's like Finland and Denmark but the U.S. is still up there, And I think there's... Think about China, again, because China Well, inequality is enormously so you just take the lid off this thing; all this entrepreneurship is about So, I think it's complicated--inequality. And I see kind of good reasons and maybe bad reasons but for me, it doesn't really change or extractive institutions. I still see the economic institutions here - By way of social mobility? you can get to the top. There's enormous openness still I want to go back to Africa. I've got a couple of questions on Africa. I know you spent a lot of time there. Where do you see the future in the next, I don't know, a few decades? Because it is the region or a region and that continues to be underrated And where do you see the role of Africa So I've written a little bit about trying to sort of look at positive aspects of Africa, and potential positive aspects And one of the things I sort of point out is that, talking about social mobility, If you look at the data, it's probably the most socially Nobody talks about that, but it's true. And my personal experience in Africa Anyone can get ahead in Africa; there's no kind of the caste system or all this kind of inequality You don't have that in Africa. So that's an enormous kind of asset, And I think the places I've worked a lot particularly in Congo and Nigeria, was just enormous amounts of talent, It's just that the institutional quality that it's just focused on rent seeking I mean, Congo is just so... I would say I could imagine Nigeria; If you ask me, that you could see making a transition for the next 50 years like China? And you say, &quot;Okay, there are all sorts Sure, but did Deng Xiaoping solve No. In fact, they talk about policy reform. But what about trying to introduce where capitalists were evil? &quot;To get rich is glorious,&quot; as he put it. So he had to change people's cultures as well. So I look at Nigeria and I say, &quot;How much do you have to sort of push all of this talent Towards producing instead of And so I think Congo is more difficult. There's all this talent and energy, Maybe it's like Indonesia; There are no roads in Congo, so it's just a hundred different societies So if you could link that together, maybe things could happen, Nigeria is not like that; People mingle; you can get from A to B. So I think this energy, this social mobility, And I also think that culturally, I always think that South Korea isn't just an economic phenomenon; Just think of K-pop and Netflix. It's just like South Korea it's just amazing, And I think in Africa, just all of that: Africa will take over the world culturally, And so, I think there's so much... I always find it frustrating when No, that's not what's going It's not what's going to happen in Africa. So I think Africans... I talk about many things in this work And I also find Africa is very globalized. So every African I know Maybe in Indonesia people speak but actually, if you look at the data, Africa is the most multilingual part What do English people speak? English. What do Americans speak? English. But the world is rebalancing, And I think if anyone is equipped to They're so used to... Africa's so diverse, and everyone is so used to Who's best? The English? We couldn't even stand the French, It's just that mentality is just That English mentality is pathetic. Africans are not like that at all. So I think, as I said, I don't know when these They're getting sorted out. Kenya is doing very well; There are bits and pieces where and there's economic dynamism, and you see things moving in Rwanda, but I don't think But there are parts and I think there are many places to get things moving because underneath But there's still... Nigeria just needs some basics. I mean, it's going to be very interesting because he was formerly and he actually did fantastic things So Lagos State has sort of in the last 20-25 years the kind of the capacity of the government And so he's got a heck of a job But if he could do half of what he did then Nigeria could take off big time, Wow. I want to push on social science How do you see the role of in the future of social science I don't know. I'm not such a... - Me neither. - Yeah, everybody's talking about And playing with ChatGPT and... - But young boys and girls, And if we think positively about this for purposes of better humanity from a social science standpoint, I'd like to think that it's got to be I think so. I mean, what I see so far is kind of very boring derivative things like just kind of doing something but in a more sophisticated way I don't see it leading to conceptually but I agree you could say... I like technology, but I always think depends on the kind of institutional context, like this example of the radio. When the radio spread what you see is that in counties people were better informed and then they got more services because the politicians had to But at the same time that was happening, Hitler bought every German a radio So the technology is the same, but the context is completely different, and the consequences are very different. So I think all of this stuff that they're doing they're using that to kind of try &quot;Big Brother is watching you,&quot; Well, it wasn't technologically feasible when Orwell wrote that book, So that's sort of frightening; it may allow a kind of totalitarianism How do I see it in kind of I don't know. I think the human mind Creativity is a sort of emergent; what a physicist would call it's not just a matter it's a matter of putting things together And I don't see AI as substituting And so without that creative input, it doesn't matter how much capacity or whatever it is; So maybe I'm just a dinosaur, - Me too. I think it's great for some things. It's great for, like, if you come into the hospital what's the probability you're going to die Well, it turns out that the computer than the doctor because the computer can just look than it can understand, and so that's a great application of But social science is a very different thing than figuring out if you're going Well, radio was net good because it brought about which actually led to But what we have seen recently is that it brought about but it led to the polarization of ideas as opposed to That's, I think, what's paradoxical So I'm okay with any new innovation to the extent it doesn't... I don't think it's going to help in a more inclusive manner. Are you suggesting that I don't know. I mean, I guess you could summarize I think artificial intelligence is a misnomer So it's artificial something, it's a mischaracterization to call it as a mischaracterization It's as if intelligence was like doing long division better, That's not intelligence. Intelligence is creativity; it's about how you put things together; So I don't see... Computers could do that, but they wouldn't know So there's the left brain, right brain, like the left hemisphere So I guess that was my first point; So I don't feel threatened by computers. None of us should feel threatened But it's good for some things. Could it be dystopian? Yes. I think our view about China, is actually China doesn't have a model it's all going to end horribly, and it's going to end far more horribly because China is so much more than it was at the time the Great Leap Forward, And I don't know what's going to happen. But I think if you look at human history, you see this accumulation of this getting rid of these term limits That can only lead in one direction: All power corrupts, absolutely. That's my sort of simplistic view but I think there's a lot of evidence Everyone says, or &quot;The Chinese are different.&quot; We kind of had a discussion about So it could be. It could be. But I don't see that honestly yet. And going back to Lee Kuan Yew, what I find striking is that it was not a... Lee Kuan Yew did not have He didn't have his little green book that was not his project. - Yeah, but that is President Xi's project; And that's a big, big difference. So could it be dystopian? More possible than in the past. I mean, the interesting thing is, or going back to Hitler and his radio, even without this kind of incredible technology, Hitler managed to basically maybe get to buy into this project. He didn't need to brainwash them; They bought into this cultural project and so that can happen without AI, We've got to end in Southeast Asia. Tell us a little bit about your personal You've been to Yogyakarta How was it? Yeah, it's absolutely fascinating. I mean, it's a place with such and such a kind of innovator historically it seems to me, like politically. I mean, it's just they're sort of dramatic. The gap between, like, and then you go to Bali and then you go across to the next island, It's just that for a social scientist, that amount of variation is just sort of absolutely astonishing. So I found that incredibly interesting. And I think, just in terms of there's something about... We don't really know but there's something about East Asia to a type of dynamics that you don't see in terms of sub-Saharan Africa, in terms of Latin America, I think a lot of our research, comes from you make generalizations based on sort of statistical analysis but also from the places and you think you kind of understand. But the world is very diverse culturally. I mean, I think one of the things that Professor Acemoglu and I is trying to think through the different of different parts of the world. Confucianism is something very different You look at Islam; or Confucian political thought, is very different with this tradition going back to They've had this very different a very different idea of the relationship very different idea of what the state So I think we've been trying to understand, but that means that your experiences because they've involved a particular type So I always feel a little inhibited talking where I haven't done research, and I feel I can read books and I can kind of experience But I don't feel I have much of a handle how do I think about this, I think one of the strengths is we came up with this language which you can apply anywhere and you could sort of say... We have this one chapter, where we kind of go &quot;Well, North Korea, Uzbekistan, these places are all very different, and what they have in common &quot;Okay, great.&quot; But the nature of those extractive So for one thing, if you wanted to then all those details became and you had to get into them And I think that's obviously true the details are different, the culture is different, Like, what's going to happen The way out of where they are And that's when, as a social scientist, &quot;Well, there are lots of things We don't really understand why is it that you have all these developmental or Taiwan to some extent, Singapore. Look what's been going on Also Cambodia under Hun Sen. Another pretty successful under a very autocratic government, the kind of thing that just doesn't seem and you have to admit to yourself, Last question, James. Do we smell a sequel to Well, we wrote &quot;The Narrow Corridor.&quot; I think I can tell you what we're thinking I think one thing we thought about is to sort of focus much more I noticed I was telling you talking to a lot of people involved They're sort of struggling to create and they're very concerned They just want to pick your brains What are these successful transitions? What do they look like? And then you see the limitations So, for example, is this glorious revolution in Britain and the kind of construction But in 1688, when that happened, they didn't have an army in England, right? So parliament wouldn't let the king because they didn't trust the king. But that turns out to be Yes, there's an army, and the big thing is, Maybe you've heard of that So I think we know a lot more than like focusing on these transitions. But I would say the thing that is we wrote a lot about I mean, the first book that we wrote was a very technical academic book called &quot;Economic Origins which is this kind of mathematical model So we've been writing about democracy But I think what we've decided is we haven't taken a kind of on human society at a deeper level. Are humans really democratic? And if so, where does that come from? And if you go back deep into history, you can see that the primates chimpanzees and gorillas, they have these alpha males; And so, this is one of the most From what we can guess about that emerged out of primates, it's that they're wildly more egalitarian Somehow there's a transition, and there are different hypotheses One hypothesis advanced by is that the emergence of language coordinate, and basically kill So he called this And then you get genetic selection; Because if someone comes with the other people gang up and And so humans kind of create almost through a sort of but I think it's also obvious kind of adapting to hierarchy I always give the example of If you join you have to choose your title which is now globalized But it has the entire British And British people love that sort of stuff. So I think we're thinking about I think this is very relevant Is it the case that Chinese people Look at Chinese history, you say, &quot;Well, it's been like this since two and a half thousand years almost. The Chinese have fitted into there's no history of accountability You have this confucian idea and you self-improve, and the state will function well So I think we've just been trying Is there a sort of cultural system and which people buy into completely, which can underpin or do all humans want democracy? I think that's what we're thinking about. - Sounds like it's going to be a great book. - I'm not sure it's a sequel to - Whatever it is, Thank you so much, James, - Okay, my pleasure. - My pleasure, it's been very fun. That was Professor James Robinson Thank you.