Maybe this was a mistake. The United States has always had when it comes to train travel. The country was literally built and the US used to have the biggest and the most well-funded But if you ask anybody they'll tell you that that's not exactly The US has fallen woefully behind when it comes to train travel. So what the heck happened? How did the United States And does it have any chance To find out the answer to that, from here in Los Angeles all the way And I'm going to have plenty since it's a... 70-hour journey. I guess I better get started. The entire length of my journey from Los Angeles to New York and for the first leg of my journey there weren't any sleeper cars available. So, this is what my living space looks like for the next two days which as somebody that's should be really good for my back. The journey I'm taking than it would have been about To see the differences, The year is 1916 and there's about the highest number there's ever been The Pennsylvania railroad, or the Pennsy, I feel like that nickname could have probably used Nevertheless, it was the largest corporation in the world at the time. It's difficult to illustrate how influential and how much railroads were into woven into the fabric They were responsible for like Penn and Grand Central stations. Also, you would not believe how amazing train travel could be back then. Sure, they had basic boring train cars But the upscale trains featured chandeliers, barber shops... pianos and food service that would make the Four Seasons One menu featured oysters, and celery fed duck. The bad news is my train didn't have ducks that were I ate the Thai Red Curry Street noodles which, although I'm pretty sure they were were actually pretty good. And although the accommodations they were comfortable enough. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is the conductor speaking. It has now been 5 hours and 15 minutes which is the time it takes to fly from LAX And we are still in California. It's only 9:00 but it already got dark outside so there's nothing to look at and there's no Wi-Fi, apparently. So, I guess I'm just going to They leave the overhead lights but luckily I brought I also brought some earplugs, because I'm sitting right in front who are watching movies at So, that's fun. All right. I'll see you in the morning. Did I sleep well last night? Hmm? I'm going to say no. I'll spare you the details but imagine getting literally by the woman in the seat next to you. I wound up retreating to the which was less than ideal. Like an astronaut in space. I'm trying to move around so that my muscles don't deteriorate So let's talk about how American trains went from gilded pleasure palaces to... This. Part of the reason why railroads became so wildly successful is because they were run by what were affectionately termed Men like Cornelius Vanderbilt... Jay Gould, James Fisk, These guys were ruthless, anti-labor, which was great when it came to building an expansive kingdom of highly profitable but bad when it came to... As a result, the train companies became by the general public. As seen in what passed for "Now then, Jim." "No jockeying, you know." "Let em rip, Commodore." "Don't stop to water or you'll be beat." The federal government saw the kind of crap these guys "Whoa, whoa, whoa, So they instituted a bunch of regulations... which, among other things... set fixed rates for the railroad companies. And also prevented them from raising their fares or without the government's permission. This didn't seem like that big because as historian Robert Selph Henry said... "The problem , to some minds at least was how to keep railroads from After all, railroads were still by far the most efficient and the best way This all obviously changed when and later air travel came into the picture. So much so that by 1956 only 4% of passenger travel When you take into account that number was 98% you can see how much had shifted when it came to travel. The train companies were far from but they were still being regulated which was killing them. Okay, so, right now we are being to let a freight train pass. And this is actually the perfect time Private commercial passenger trains have never been very profitable. The lifeblood of the industry has always been these: But rail companies were always passengers service as a benefit So when the rail companies began to suffer and then eventually fold, the government to take the responsibility for passenger service off the plates of the rail companies who could then focus on the profitable They took all the passenger service and combined it into one company. Which is how in 1971 we got Amtrak. Which stands for the American Train Track. Again, what is up with these nicknames? "Amtrak makes it easy come, easy go to more than 450 cities in the USA." But here is the thing. Amtrak was designed to fail That may sound ridiculous, First of all the government created Amtrak despite the fact that virtually anywhere has been profitable. After all, the government broke off from the rail companies because When the government formed Amtrak they tasked it with employing innovative to develop the potential of And how much did Congress give them first year of operation? Just $40 million. Their budget has gone up Their budget for the year 2022 which sounds like a lot, doesn't it? But when you take into account that for the same year was $64.3 billion you begin to see the inequity. To put it even more the sum total of all the subsidies has allocated to Amtrak is less than one year's funding for This right here shows where America's priorities lie when it comes to travel... and why Amtrak has failed Okay, so we just got to Chicago. I got off the Amtrak about 45 hours And needless to say... I do not smell very good. I have about a 7 hour layover And right now I'm in Union Station... which is actually kind of amazing. As you see I got a chance to put on which feels amazing. And now I'm just here rolling around with my suitcase And I'm just trying to enjoy... not being on a train before I get on the second leg. The second and final leg I've achieved the Holy Grail... of my own private room. I want to show you my favorite feature You're going to like this. Hidden sink. This train is a little bit more... dynamic, shall we say, But I'm hoping that all will just help rock me to sleep. When I woke up, we had about 2600 miles through and 50 something hours. There are a lot of reasons why people still want to A big one is the environment. According to a study by a long distance train trip produces 37% less emissions Trains are also much safer than cars. You're 17 times more likely to die while driving than Flying and driving can be faster and sometimes even cheaper But they're both often Going through TSA dealing with flight delays or and not being able to do anything because you need to be While I've been on Amtrak I've been able to just and see the country go by... or read a book or take a nap I've been able to wander whenever I want and stretch my legs. And I've had the enjoyment And this is with Amtrak being perpetually and profoundly underfunded. Imagine what it would be like if this were evened out. So, I made it. All total, took me about 72 hours which granted it would have 5 and 6 hours to fly that distance. I don't actually know the distance but I'm going to add it in post right here. But here's the thing. I had a good time. It was actually really fun. Aside from a couple of hiccups It was a really pleasant, I got to see parts of the country And overall, dare I say, it was Right now, Amtrak covers roughly 21,000 miles of passenger rail But when you look at the map, routes that don't connect... And sorry, Wyoming and South Dakota you don't get any trains. If the United States took Amtrak it would revolutionize the way When he was retiring former Amtrak President Graham Claytor said... "When I came to Amtrak But finally came to the conclusion that only the American public "...when they say they want it." Now, if you'll excuse me I'm going to go take a much needed shower and go to sleep I got to rest up for my flight back For me, one of the best parts of riding the Amtrak is just throwing on and wistfully staring out the window