Welcome back to the backyard bunker project. Today we're going to be installing an elevator using an extremely tall, This is really high. This video is sponsored by KiwiCo, To catch you up to speed, six months ago I dug an incredibly deep hole in my backyard. I stuck two pieces of 12 foot diameter then put the lawn back on top. Easy peasy, lemon squeezy. There's a whole 7 episode series if you want to get the dirty details, and I'll leave that playlist in the description. Today though, we're going to drop an elevator into the shaft to make my backyard bunker wheelchair accessible. Regular elevators, For example, the one I installed in my living room costs over $24,000, and this bunker has a budget. So to simplify things, I found a used for just $3,000, and it goes up and down perfectly great. Just the wheels are a little wonky, And fingers crossed, We are in the garage. This bad boy is the Snorkel S3219E and is capable of lifting 550 pounds to a max height of 19 feet, which is exactly what we're looking for. It looks like there's And just like in that one Martian movie, there are a lot of parts on this lift that need to come off. Not for weight saving in our case but more just to use our space down in the bunker more efficiently. The snorkel scissor lift is powered using a hydraulic ram for rising up and down and four hydraulic motors, one on each tire. Getting We need the ram obviously, We don't need those tires anymore. And we can just put plugs into the removed We also don't need the I'll be relocating the We have plenty of I'll be upgrading these Lead acid requires We also need to make sure it all works down If we wait until it's perfect, Oh, it's heavy. The ride's on there. So that all the weight is transferred on The real reason we're modifying the base is so we can add some adjustable leveling capability to the elevator. An elevator that rises up at an angle doesn't We have successfully turned a mobile Partially. There's Building a secure foundation for the elevator also requires a lot of concrete, which we poured ourselves. One interesting thing that I found at my for rebar, I found something Turns out the same company that makes the glass reinforcement that's 8% cheaper than steel rebar and 7 times lighter, Without internal reinforcement, concrete The ridges on the rebar and its grid light We know that our bunker tubes are designed to last about 100 years underground, and I imagine this concrete slab will now One additional thing to keep in mind is that in it, like silica, which can shred your lungs from the inside, the list of things that sound fun, We're mixing the dry concrete with water to get an oatmeal-like consistency, and then dropping it down in Nice. Dad, just clean it up! Before the concrete has time to harden, These don't have to be perfectly level yet, Huge thanks They've sent me one of their Eureka crates, which has a two-in-one lantern inside, which is perfect for the bunker. If you haven't guessed already, I'm a huge fan of science and engineering, KiwiCo allows kids and teens of all ages monthly hands-on projects of their own. These projects Designed by experts, KiwiCo has shipped more than For ages 0 to 100 the fund innovative project expand the mind with constructive educational entertainment, Cambry and I like to give these KiwiCo subscriptions and they're especially fun during the Glad I have this lantern to illuminate the bunker because first impressions Use code With 9 different lines, KiwiCo.com/JerryRig. Now that our two-in-one lantern is finished, let's elevator down in the bunker so Cambry While we're waiting for the concrete to dry, bracket in SolidWorks and had it laser just like The more perfect and square we can make our mounting bracket now, the easier it will be when the elevator goes into the shaft. The leveling ability comes from the 5-eighth massive nuts, one on either side. Once the whole metal brace is set down into the elevator shaft, as a template to weld and position The 5-eighth inch pipe is sitting inside make sure the The extra wide spacing gives us a little room for error, making any mistakes, and that extra wiggle lift down onto the bolts easier. And now that it's being done used as a template, to the base of the scissor lift And finally, the elevator is ready to come With all the excess metal removed and the hydraulics taken off, what's left weighs more than 1,500 pounds, which can handle about 15,000 These telehandlers are pretty much the They can never crab walk like a hummer. Down, Nate. It's going to work. Okay, how are we looking? Just keep going. Alright, start going slower. Go slow. You looking at those two? Yep. What? Come up a little. Woo! There we go, I'm on. On both? I'm on both. Down. Woo-hoo! Good? That's it. Take a look at that. I'm excited, we got an elevator. First try, baby. Drop it. Let's go. Drop. That's the hard part though. We have an elevator in the bunker. Success! And thanks to all that planning and prep work we did earlier, extremely And now we can tighten or loosen these make sure each platform is level with The platform is bolted and leveled, and since safety is one of our top priorities, we've made a little special something for the top. I'm not worried about me or Cambry, but for little kids we have to make sure the walls as the elevator is going up. Which is why we've made this aluminum platform, makes sure that little And using that same hydraulic pump, hydraulic ram, came with, along with the little ramp and perfectly sized bolt-on platform, there is now a fully wheelchair accessible elevator All for about $3,200. And we have a total of Now all that's left Alright, Cambry, you ready I'm ready Okay, so grab that controller right there, Okay, so grab that controller right there, Okay. And then stop it. Perfect. Can it keep going? It can go higher up like two feet higher. Sorry. Oh god. It's a little wiggly huh? I'm a little nervous about this especially because there's like brakes are going on. It's like wobbling right now. Oh don't make it wobble. It's gonna make me smell like drop. We'll make it more secure later. I'm nervous. Does it just go fast? No, super slow actually. Because I feel like it came up kind of fast. It does go up faster than it goes down. That's not bad. Yeah that's not bad. Say goodbye to civilization. Oh my god. Oh okay. Here we are. Oh is this it? Does it go down any lower? No that's it. It smells like a bunker. Come on in. Okay. Oh this does not feel safe. Is this safe? You're fine. 100% safe. Hey. This brings up a little thing of like meaning to you're in the dog house. This is a grape house. What do you think? I'm still just taking it all in. It's bigger than I thought. Like this is kind of cozy. I think I was expecting it to be more like, I don't know, creepy. This is cool. Yeah. This is like bat cave-esque. Is this, did you think we could do this? What were your thoughts when I mentioned the bunker project? I mean like anything else you'll ask me to do something and I'll be like yeah but I don't actually think it comes to fruition. So this is just kind of wild that it's really here. Like it's so weird because I've seen the process. I've been watching out the window and it's buried and then I kind of forget about it except for the one little like entrance. But like it's really cool. It's yeah. I like it. I still feel like I'm just taking it all in. Like it's bigger than I imagined. Like I don't feel claustrophobic down here. Like it feels cool and cozy and legit. And so knowing there's a quarter million pounds of dirt above your head doesn't bother you too much? Hey don't bring up that aspect. You want to tour? Okay. Alright so over here in the far corner is the master bedroom. This is going to be where you know people, you know, master bedrooms sleep. And then there's the exit shaft over there on the far side. And so we're going to have a dividing wall right here. It's so short. It's the same as the other side. No I mean...oh yeah the ceiling. Is there going to be like a little hidden door that opens up or something? It just seems so cool. Yeah I think so. And then up here in the top we'll have either like a library or like an armory that like folds down. And then here's going to be like And then here at the middle point where we welded both the pieces of tube together is going to be the largest TV you've ever seen. And then kitchen on this side. Combustible toilet over there. Whole thing powered by EcoFlow batteries. And then like a couch and stuff over here. So it'll be even more cozy. And now you can come down whenever you want. Probably won't be that free for a while. It's a little sketchy getting down here. Well, want to finish this off? Thanks a ton for watching. We'll see you around.