E=mc2 has got to be the most famous equation it countless times and saw it derived in lecture think I've ever read Einstein's original paper I'm guessing that you might not have read is, doesn't it seem important, or at least the flesh, to read it for ourselves? Well, where he first mentions the relationship between long, and it's not too difficult to understand. you might not have read the original paper But math is a universal language, right? So to see where E=mc2 appeared. And I couldn't to the English translation because Einstein Instead, he said it in a sentence. If a body its mass diminishes by L over c squared. Rearranging change in mass times the speed of light squared, familiar form E=mc2. The equation's message The title of this paper is, in English, &quot;Does content?&quot; we can read inertia as mass here. in 1905, a year known as his miracle year, understanding of the fundamental concepts papers that Einstein published in 1905 were and special relativity. They were all published This one about the mass energy equivalence was an addition to another paper, just more so short. The paper starts off by saying that led to a very interesting conclusion, which referring to are from his recent paper called presented his theory of special relativity. laws of physics must be the same in all non here is one from the Special Relativity paper, it is the change in energy of a wave as seen Doppler effect that he's just discovered in what else it can do. L is the energy of the is the relative speed between the reference and the receiver. The Doppler effect is the who is moving relative to the wave source. the waves, then those will appear to be more example of the Doppler shift is when a car that is higher than that of the emitted frequency, The relativistic Doppler shift takes into relativity since frequency and energy are by the same factor. Now that we know how light's reference frame, Einstein then comes up with a stationary body in the system XYZ, and let Let the energy of the body relative to another moving system might be a rocket, let this phi with the x axis, plane waves of light and simultaneously an equal quantity of light body remains at rest with respect to the system and the principle of relativity. As we hit the energy of the body after the emission two systems. These equations just say that plus the energy of the light pulses in each with. That's the conservation of energy. The but the light pulses are multiplied by the their energy will appear different to a moving of the same body. In E0, it's from a frame difference between E0 and H0 will be the kinetic to the rocket, it's the light emitting body rocket observer thinks that they are standing the emission of light. And H1 minus E1 is The difference between the two kinetic energies here, which represents the energy of the light of the body with respect to the moving frame light by an amount that is independent of difference in kinetic energy, like the kinetic At this step, Einstein then makes a Taylor That means approximating this function as c, and centred around zero. And approximation decompose a function into its Taylor series, in the limit, and can simplify the expression behaviour. For us, the term v over c is so and higher orders to get the change in kinetic v squared. Einstein mentioned that this right the kinetic energy of an electron, which was see if it fits that form? Well, it does if that's how Einstein concludes If a body gives its mass diminishes by L over c squared. The becomes energy of radiation evidently makes general conclusion that the mass of a body energy changes by L. The mass changes in the Finishing off Einstein say something visionary. energy content is variable to a high degree. may be successfully put to the test. If the conveys inertia between the emitting and absorbing his head around the idea that a mass emitting loses mass, and that mass can be transferred and absorbing the bodies. At first, he didn't the whole thing saying the principle of relativity that mass is a direct measurement of the energy decrease in the mass must then occur in the But whether God is laughing and has played between mass and energy has been tied to Einstein's reason that you might not have encountered of emphasis on the history of science alongside was a bad proof. There are claims that Einstein's and there are better ways to derive the same The correctness of Einstein's first proof Here's a paper published last year summarising proof contains circular reasoning, and that for kinetic energy. Discussion boards online bringing in additional factors like the distribution famous this equation has become. What's important is correct. Disputes over the rigour of the result. Einstein himself perhaps unsatisfied over a dozen versions of the same result in been written by others. If you don't like other creative ones to choose from. In a physics energy momentum relation, which is an extension the first term massless photons would have disappears and we get E=mc2. And if you're take a look at Terence Tao's version of the a more mathematical language then points out simplified his proof. Another reason why the might be because of another heated controversy physics for 100 years. That is the fight over E=mc2. I only just made it up for air after reading I fell into the cavern of reading about the and how they likely deserve more credit than energy and mass. Even Newton himself pondered gross bodies and light convertible into one their activity from the particles of light working on electromagnetic fields knew that field, its mass would be affected. Poincare of momentum in electromagnetic systems that stated, Einstein seems to have been the first was independent of electromagnetic fields, time and effort to establishing E=mc2 as a and energy. So in this sense, it does seem that association would come as a curse when nuclear weapons. After the bombings of Hiroshima paper, E=mc2 was featured in the Smith report, development of the atomic bomb. E=mc2 can or consumed by nuclear reactions, which convert of all the constituents and the mass of all by c squared, you get how much energy is released and heat. With c squared being such a large large amount of energy can be released from more so than in the combustion of chemical the amount of energy released, it was not the atomic bomb, especially since the fission to learn that the neutron wasn't discovered and a much more crucial discovery to the development a letter to the US president in 1939, urging that an atomic bomb was theoretically possible. Newton please forgive me, he would write, standing on Newton's shoulders, for taking flipping it, building upon it and driving The mention of war in the story reminds us to both amazing and sometimes terrible consequences. our lives has also contributed to the destruction in efforts to use science and technology to consider this video sponsor Wren. Wren is footprint, discover ways to reduce it, and reduction projects like tree planting, mineral of their innovative technology projects is forests, which would normally be burned to is instead turned into biochar, which locks is then mixed with compost and sold to local your own carbon footprint on Wren. The first 10 trees planted in their name. Thanks for supporters for making it possible. A special Mi-Jin.