Channel Fisherman Digger welcomes you! Pavel got ready to dig, and then a month's worth of precipitation fell in the form of snow. When I left the house, everything was calm, there was no snow. Within 15 minutes, several centimeters of snow fell. I hope I get to the place where I planned to dig. I was going relatively close to home. Let's see what comes of all this. There is more and more snow. Winter has arrived in Kaliningrad. Let's go. With God. Subscribe! Give it a thumbs up! Write comments in support so that I don't give up and get there and dig! I reached the village along the highway. This is already making me happy. Of course, no one has cleaned or cleaned the roads yet. Interesting point. But last year, about a year ago, I already found myself in the same situation with snow. And exactly in the same place. I remember I came here, and while I was digging, everything was covered with snow. That time I had to ask local residents for help to push me out of the snow. I couldn't move. I simply could not get going and move further along the forest track. And this despite the fact that I had good winter tires, and even studded tires at that time. I found myself in an emergency situation here. We will dig in a large German village. Part of this village is still inhabited and people live there. And under the Germans the village was really big. There were a stable, a forge, an apiary, a school, and a church. Several residential streets. Now, of course, everything here has been dug up. You can always find something interesting here. I hope that today's departure will not be an exception to the rule. Let's go! There were houses on the right, and on the left too. Here the General and I dug up more than 200 horse shoes. It seems that the precipitation has stopped. The forecast said it would snow until 9am. Wonderful winter landscape. Beauty! Now we will climb into the very jungle with you. Now is the time to check the bushes. I'm ready. Today I wore warm boots. They allow you to walk at temperatures of -60 degrees. But they are heavy, huge, but warm! It became dark again. I made my way through the bushes and came out to the pond. I don't know if there was water here or if it was further away. But I had the first signal. Copper belt from a projectile. This is not surprising. The village was a battlefield. There were even tank battles here. So anything can get caught here. Copper. We take it to storage. A spent brass aviation casing from an IL-2 attack aircraft. These cartridges are constantly found around this village. I don't understand. Is it a roe deer or a deer? Or a horse? Now let's wash it and take a closer look. I didn't find any water, but I did have snow at hand. What detail! Probably a deer after all. Let's move on. Are the chanterelles really late? The soil varies greatly. 10 meters away, and it's no longer black soil, but sand. Bronze buckle. There are some colorful finds, that's good! Another place that looks like a pond in the past. Interesting brick. It's as if a mark was left on him. Don't you think so? They say that such bricks are not energetically good. Others, on the contrary, insist that they are very valuable. Do you think this is an animal's footprint? Looks like I just got a little richer! I am supposedly on the site of a German pond. There was such a powerful signal. First I took out a brick, then a ceramic utensil handle. And look what I pull out. This is a copper casing. It is not clear what it was intended for. Nothing is clear at all! Looks like copper braiding. Or is it matter from above? It's definitely copper inside! What about the fabric on top? Here it is, copper. Someone's barking is heard in the forest. Maybe this is how roe deer communicate? I remove the top layer. Smells like a trip to Zanzibar! The only thing is that there is a steel ring on top. The barking comes again. Maybe these are phantoms of German dogs? It is absolutely unclear what it was. It's like some kind of hose. 3-4 kilograms. Real copper. Classic. By the way, this is not fabric, but also copper! Just look! And she also gives a signal. I really like it! The copper perforated pipe was in this braid. Maybe it was some kind of catalyst? Write your versions and guesses in the comments. I don't understand, did the dog come running from the village? Shards of pottery with a mark. Inkwell. With a shovel I feel glass in the depths, but digging is very difficult. All this had to be done in the summer. Bike parts have arrived. Exactly! These are bicycle pedals. Where's the emblem? Where is my logo? I took out parts of the bicycle from these holes. But here a large signal is heard. It looks like a steering fork. If you have spare parts from a bicycle, always dig until the last signal! Q.E.D. Here it is, the long-awaited emblem. Now let's try to find the steering wheel. It could have been a bicycle bell. But first, let's clean the emblem. Very dirty. It's hard to see. Now the brush will help me. I managed to remove it with my fingers. It's even more convenient. Something even became visible. Preston. This is the emblem. I'm glad. Now let's try to ring the steering wheel again. This is the emblem after I washed it with a sponge and soap. These are the remains of the steering wheel. There he is, a German designer. Maybe the bell is here somewhere! There was a very deep signal nearby. I don't understand, are they pedals again? Another bike? Hello again! This is a different bike. Let's continue. There are some pieces of wood and broken bottles here. Someone barks again. Dog phantoms? Digging is difficult in a bent position. My back gets very tired. Another signal. Dugout candle. From a cartridge case. Soviet sleeve. 1940 A wick was inserted into it and it burned like a candle. I'll change my clothes. My back is very tired. It is especially difficult to dig in such places, and it is also very dirty. The boots also fall through and are sucked in. We still need to drag the copper to the car. So let's take stock. And I'll head out to the car. Today it worked mainly on non-ferrous metals. I think I dug up about 5 kilograms. I was very pleased with the emblem. It's most likely a deer. For such weather, I walked very well and productively today. Don't forget to subscribe and give a thumbs up! Write your comments! Bye everyone! The season continues! I love working with non-ferrous metals!