"Human predators populate our society." Psychopaths are human predators. They coerce, manipulate, lie, steal, defraud, or remorse. A leading expert on psychopathy, Robert Hare, while the clinical psychologist Martha Stout Studies indicate that psychopaths are over-represented In this video we are going to explore the can help us minimize the damage they inflict large. "...compared with other major clinical disorders, to psychopathy, even though it is responsible than all other psychiatric disorders combined. Psychopaths are found in every segment of will have a painful or humiliating encounter Your best defense is to understand the nature Robert Hare, Without Conscience Individuals such as Ted Bundy, Charles Manson most people think of the psychopath and while an extreme of this disorder. Most psychopaths, rather than committing violent the radar of the criminal justice system; their well-being, they will cheat others out others for selfish ends. "...many people know nothing about this terms of...people who have conspicuously broken will be imprisoned...most [psychopaths] are They are out here in the world with you and Martha Stout, The Sociopath Next Door The reason most of us refrain from routinely possess a conscience. We empathize with the suffering of others, Psychopaths have no conscience, and they lack In fact, a psychopath does not feel love, anyone at all. If psychopaths maintain ties to other people, resource or tool. This emotionless void which exists in the of repeatedly engaging in acts that harm other "Even experienced and case-hardened professionals reaction to a gut-wrenching event or listen as if an apple had been peeled or a fish gutted." Robert Hare, Without Conscience Or as he continues: "[The psychopath is] a self-centered, callous, in empathy and the ability to form warm emotional without the restraints of conscience. If you think about it, you will realize that qualities that allow human beings to live Robert Hare, Without Conscience In place of the emotional connections which the internal life of the psychopath is driven continual excitement. Many psychopaths are alcoholics, addicted behaviors. But the most seductive stimulant for a psychopath No matter whether they are a career criminal, a CEO, a financier, bureaucrat, or politician, controlling other people. Or as Martha Stout explains: "The prize to be won can run the gamut from always the same game--controlling, making Martha Stout, The Sociopath Next Door Robert Hare shares a snippet from a psychological "The most salient thing about Earl is his He values people only insofar as they bend into doing what he wants. He constantly sizes up his prospects for exploiting Robert Hare, Without Conscience While from our vantage point the psychopath psychopaths see nothing wrong with themselves their "condition" is a blessing. Their lack of emotional attachments and inability advantage in what is a dog-eat-dog world - or Ted Bundy, for example, referred to guilt that "does terrible things to the body." Given that they see their psychopathy as a attempts to "rehabilitate" psychopaths In summarizing the literature on the so-called explains: "...many writers on the subject have commented should be the one on treatment. A one-sentence conclusion such as, "No effective works," is the common wrap-up to scholarly Robert Hare, Without Conscience To make matters worse, psychopaths are notoriously For although inwardly they are as different their predatory nature with what the 20th a "mask of sanity". Psychopaths are akin to predatory creatures their prey. In his article Snake in the Grass, the psychologist in Australia that smell and behave like ants: allow a spider to live permanently as one This spider will then feast upon its new friends, number; instead, it extracts resources slowly, (Daniel Jones, Snake in the Grass) Like the Australian spider, on the social In fact, they tend to be more charismatic, This social allure is partially a function less stress, fear, and anxiety than the rest But it is also the result of the psychopath's their achievements, and their character in paralyzes, their victims. "Most of the victims I have known in my with a [psychopathic] person, and their continued pain, was a direct result of how charming Countless times, I have watched people shake was the most charming person I ever met," or "He had an energy about him that other Martha Stout, The Sociopath Next Door Luckily, there are cracks in the psychopath's One of these cracks is a pathologically inflated find impossible to hide. Or as Robert Hare explains: "Psychopaths have a narcissistic and grossly a truly astounding egocentricity and sense center of the universe, as superior beings own rules." Robert Hare, Without Conscience The eyes of a psychopath can also reveal their looking into the eyes of a psychopath is akin matter their mood, their eyes are the same This commonality between the eyes of a psychopath of the contemporary myth that there exists "Some people respond to the emotionless discomfort, almost as if they feel like potential Others may be completely overwhelmed and intimidated, into what is happening to them. Whatever the psychological meaning of their is an important factor in the ability of some Martha Stout, The Sociopath Next Door Another way to see through the psychopath's manner of speaking. Psychopaths find it difficult to maintain often contradictory and littered with inconsistencies. They tend to jump from one unrelated topic are known to respond in a way that is irrelevant "Psychopaths are notorious for not answering a way that seems unresponsive to the question." Robert Hare, Without Conscience Some psychopaths also accompany their speech Researchers believe the hand movements of processes words, ideas, and emotions. But the hand movements also function as a and make it harder to catch onto their inconsistencies Regarding one psychopath undergoing a psychological "His narrative was accompanied by expansive dramatic display that blinded our interviewer Robert Hare, Without Conscience The root cause of psychopathy is unknown, born with a predisposition to psychopathy; not nurture. "...there is no convincing body of findings is, the absence of conscience--with childhood that [psychopaths] are influenced less by Martha Stout, The Sociopath Next Door While psychopaths have plagued all societies is amplified by contemporary trends toward Governments are reaching their tentacles into are attempting to place the entire globe under in technology are creating the potential for invasive than anything that has come before. As psychopaths crave power, as they are naturally by empathy, fear, anxiety, and guilt, it is gravitate towards, or are actively established In his book Political Ponerology, the Polish the name pathocracy for the type of political more people are aware of the threat of this a full-blown reality. "I shall accept the denomination of pathocracy pathological minority takes control over a in a position of political power is a psychopath, in people who are not, essentially, psychopathic...Under develop normally, whether in economics, culture, Pathocracy progressively paralyzes everything." Andrzej Lobaczewski, Political Ponerology