In today's video, I'm going how to start an Amazon KDP Now, in this video, I'm going to walk you So by the end of this video, you will have your business Now, if you guys have seen my this video is going to be one of those where I switch you over and we are going to walk so you can follow along With that being said, just before we switch a couple things I wanna say here. First is I've been in online business for just about 10 years now, and Amazon KDP is a business that I am personally So if you're someone who's looking for an easy online business to get started, Amazon KDP is going to And this specific tutorial is going to be really helpful for you, 'cause it'll walk you through every step. All right, so without further ado, let's get straight into this content. By the way, if you do find throughout the video, please and let me know now in the comments. All right, so first things first, let's get on the same page So KDP stands for Kindle and this is done entirely through Amazon. Now, essentially what this is, is you create a cover design for a book, and then you create the You upload those two files to Amazon, and Amazon creates a virtual And people who are coming on Amazon looking for that type Amazon will receive that order, and take care of all the Now, if you've been and you've learned about print on demand, this is the same thing but Now, the reason that I really is because if you're familiar if you want to sell print you have to apply to be a seller, and not everyone gets accepted. Well, for those of you who have to sell print on demand, KDP is a great option because there is no application, and everyone can become So with that being said, let me switch you over to the computer and show you some real examples So if you go over to Amazon, you type in something now, this is just to give you an example, and you scroll down here, these are going to be real products. This is not with KDP, same thing here. But once you come down, if you see these, it's kind of a mock-up of a cover, &quot;EntrepreneuHER&quot; for a woman, &quot;Mind Your Business,&quot; this is a notebook. &quot;Millionaire in the If you click on any of these, you will see that this It's six-by-nine. It has 100 lined pages. And this is the front cover. This is exactly what a The seller is essentially both front and back. And this one you can see is very simple, but it's still ranking on the first page. And then the inside of this There's no words. There's no graphics. It's essentially just a So creating these kind where you just create the cover, the inside is just these are known as low-content books, essentially meaning there It's just lined pages. Now, this whole business strategy of creating these types was popularized a couple People were sharing how to do this. A lot of people got into this business. So there's nothing unique about that. However, the new way of doing this that not many people have access to, if you go back to Amazon, and you type in a word search book, these can also be done with Amazon KDP. However, you need to know So I've gone ahead and I've to show you an example. This is a six-by-nine size. This is an 8 1/2-by-11 size. We will talk about this later on, but let me just show you This is what the inside of It is a simple word search, and what I'm about to show you how to do is create these word searches in just a couple clicks of a button. We're going to use free I'll show you all the on how to do this. And then you can sign up You don't have to apply. And you can start uploading in a much smaller pool because not many other people know how to create these word searches. So guys, I hope all of I'm about to switch you We'll go through this whole But the last thing that I wanna say before we get into this is that this has turned into being a very fun and addicting So I think as you guys you may get hooked on this as well, and it turns into something that's really fun to do on the side. Okay, so switching back the very first thing we have to do is come up with different ideas that we wanna create Over the years that I've been doing several different online businesses, I have learned kind of shortcuts that are actually going to be profitable. So come all the way up to the top, and what we're going to We're just going to do word and then type in a. And then go through here and Adults, Alzheimer's Okay, let's take out a. Let's go to b for boys, bathroom, baddies, beginners, black women, Let's do c for children, These are all going to be ideas that people are actively searching for. That's why Amazon is suggesting that. So this is what's known of doing research, and you So for you, just getting into this, this is the initial way that I would recommend getting started is just to go through all the way through the whole alphabet, and pick out some initial ideas For this tutorial, you just We might start with Christmas. That's what we'll use for Now, a question that as you start to get into this business, do you have to stay within one niche? Do you have to make only The short answer here is no. You can make one Christmas word search, and then you can move on to whether that's Christian word search or whatever topic you wanna go into next. So like I said, let's for this example. So let's just type in the Give that a search. Now, as you start scrolling you're going to see the first thing that stood out to me So in word searches in general, This is just normal for word searches. But as someone who's for many years now, seeing that there are basic covers, and these are the ones means there is a huge opportunity for us. That means that all we have that looks as good or better than the ones that are already ranking and our product right to perform well as these listings. This is something that I really like about word searches for KDP. When you click on one of these, it doesn't actually show you You see the front cover and then all you see is the When you actually look they're all word searches. So the inside is all generally So all we're competing on is This brings us into the second step, which is the most important This is actually creating Now, in order to save you guys as much time as possible here, I'm just going to bring you into the tool that I use for this. This tool is called Book Bolt. It's kind of an all-in-one tool that you can do everything you need for Amazon KDP in one place. If I have learned of doing online business for so long, it's that you need to have something that other people don't have. So having a tool like this to do things that the mass of other people that are trying to sell can't do. That's where you are going to succeed when other people aren't So with that being said, I This is a paid tool. It If you go to the pricing, they have both a Newbie It's 9.99 and 19.99. I wish I could say that you but again, this is going for a lot of other people. You need to have the Pro plan Again, it's kind of a double-edged sword. You need to pay a little bit but that means that the vast are not going to have access to it. So you automatically Now, the bit of good news is that they do have a So you can do this entirely You can follow along in this tutorial in the next couple of days and make as many puzzles as you can, and I have a 20% off So it brings it down to Trust me, I understand, when you want to be making but this is that one thing and can either make or break So with all that being said, I will put a link to that and I'm going to go and show you how to do this. Okay, so once you get logged in, what we are going to do all the way at the top, and then click on Book Bolt Studio. This is then going to bring you right into their graphic design tool where you have everything you need to create the covers for So this is where I left off on the last one that I was creating here. What you were going to and then go to New Project, and then this is how I would The first one is the most important. So we're going to do and then type in TEMPLATE. I would do it all capital. And then go 6x9 Word Search. Okay, and then leave the trim size on 6x9. You'll see a ton of 6x9's what I recommend. And then black and white And then page count, this again This is how yours should and then click Create Project. Okay, so when you first you are going to see this This is explaining how the So you can kind of pinch to zoom in here, or you can drag down here. This will help you zoom in as well. And then if you do zoom in, you can just click on Fit. It's going to bring you right This is just a quick button to help you see everything at once. Now, essentially what this is explaining is a couple important things. So first is this is where Amazon is going So if you click back to they will automatically put So what that means for in your cover design over Leave that open. And then the second thing is that once you see these red this is going to be where that So you wanna make sure that whatever you are is within all of the white. You don't want it to be in any of the red. That means that it has the when it is printed. And then the last thing is that this is going to This is going to be You do it all on one page here, and you upload that file to Amazon. They are the ones that into the front and back image for us. So let's come back over here. The very first step we wanna do here is click on the little transparent icon, and then we're going to That's just going to and now it's just a lot So essentially what we wanna do here is we wanna create an that we can then customize into every other niche If you've seen any of my it is all about efficiency. So you wanna have a pre-made so that as you're going you only have to change out the wording, the coloring, the graphic, and everything else is So the first thing to do here You have your elements, you have text, you have images, and puzzles. The first thing we're So just click on here, and we are going to click on Rectangle. What this is going to do is that we can use for this template. So I'm going to click on Fit. Again, this helps you see And we're going to stretch Just know that this can totally overlap. It doesn't matter how big this is. You can go as big as you want, as long as it is covering So what we are ultimately although it's starting as black, you just click on this button up here. You can change this to any color. So you can drag this around. You can change this to whatever So this first one is going So maybe we'll do this as a Let's kind of get a Okay, that's starting to look And just remember, this So although I'm going to when we do our next topic, we are just going to duplicate this, and then we can change the colors again. So once you've got your I would recommend adding Drag it up to the top. Something that I like to and then drag this in It's going to round those corners for you. Click on OK, and then kind of the title or the When you drag this, it is going to center it So once that snaps to center, that's where you want that to be located. Okay, and then the next is grab some text to put in that heading. So let's just click on the text over here. We're going to go to Add Heading. And then I'm going to switch this to white just so we can see it right now. Drag this all the way and put that over here in the heading. I'll make it a little bit And then we are going Let's type in Christmas. And then come back over here, and we're going to click on it. Now let's right-click on this, and we're going to go to Duplicate, and we'll just drop it down. And then we're going to Okay, as you can see, So let's just make that And then I'm just trying but I would recommend perfectly centered here. It all looks like it's aligned. And then I would recommend So as you click on these, you can click on a This is going to show you Now, kind of a little efficiency is, if you close these you can zoom in until you get this to the right side over here. So if you zoom in to the left side, it's going to move it to the right, and that way you can see it. And then you can click on the word, you can click on the font, and you can still see it So this will show you what all of these look like in real time. You don't have to close Okay, we'll use that for I'm just going to change that to a light. Okay, that's a starting point for us here. Another small pointer is just to make the and then make word search That way when someone's just looking through the Amazon search results, they are going to be able to see what that theme is very quickly when they're looking at your listing. Okay, so there we go. Again, this is just a very basic example. My specific template that I've been using looks something like this. You can create something similar to this, or you can go back to Amazon, you can look through all these results, and you can get some template ideas as to how you wanna set yours up. But the other two things that are pretty important for your cover is you wanna have some kind and then a word search So in order to do that, let's come back over to our editor here. The graphic, something that I really like about using Book Bolt, This is going to bring you into your graphics that you have used, but then also you can click and these are all going to be that you can use. So let's start on Pixabay. Let's just search for What I'm specifically looking for when I'm scrolling that have a transparent background. So to show you an example this is a full graphic, so But things like this, it has This has a transparent background. So if we click on this one, it will add it right to our cover. So let's just drag that down here, and just know that you can add So if you come back here, you can keep looking through You can click on more things, and you can add 'em to your cover as well, if you can find a spot for this, or if you wanna put it on Remember, you're going to have So don't put anything in Now, as I had briefly mentioned before, the last thing that you want on your cover is one of your actual word search puzzles. So this is very easy to do, but the first thing we have to do is actually create one of those puzzles, so then we can paste it on our cover. Okay, so let's get into So if you come over to the left side, you're going to see Now, these are all the that you could use for As you can see, these are the lined pages that we saw in the but if you click on Word Puzzle, this is going to be all of these puzzles that other people don't This is what makes our listing unique compared to other people. So right here is the Word Search Standard. That's what we wanna click. And another important step here is, what pages do you want to put this on? We want to have the first half of our book be the word searches, the second half of the to those word searches. So we made this book 110 pages long. That means that we are So the easiest way to do and we're going to say and to page 55, click OK. This is going to select all of without selecting the cover. We'll click Continue to Options, you only have to change a couple things. So we're going to change to 9 words per puzzle. Now, the reason we're putting this as 9, just to show you an example here, when this software it's going to be listing So we wanna make sure that that's an interval of three so it evenly shows however in each one of these columns. So you can do 9. You can do 15. Just make sure that you Now for this example, we will use 9. And then go ahead and click on Reverse Words, turn that on as well. And then scroll all the way to the bottom. The only other thing we have to do here is click on Choose CSV File, but we don't have that CSV file made yet. What that is is the list of words that's actually going to So let me take you into the next step, and we will quickly that we can then upload here so it can create the puzzles for us. So the best tool to use to create this list of words is ChatGPT. This is a totally free and if you give it the right prompt, it will write you out a full list of specifically themed words, formatted exactly how we So again, in order to save you guys as much time as possible, I'm just going to paste in the I would recommend pausing your video and writing this down word for word so that you can use this prompt as well. Getting this prompt right in making these results formatted exactly how we need them So write a list of 495. I'm going to put in Christmas, but then also put in some other niches that relate to Christmas, just there are no very similar words. Let's put in winter. Let's put in Santa. And that should be By the way, when you start of other word searches on Amazon, you will see that the most common reason for a bad review when someone purchases is because there are repeated words or very, very similar words, or the words are not related to the niche. So write that out, and then related words that are under 12 without any repeating results. Put each result on its own numbered line. Put a percent character on its own line. Put a space between two word results, and write them all in one response. Okay, that should work. Or click the Start button here. And you can watch ChatGPT It does a really good job We are just going through that all of these words look correct, making sure that there are spaces between any to word results. I haven't seen any yet, and generally looking through to make sure that there are no obvious repeats. So, so far everything's looking good here. If you do see that it stopped before it finished your results, you just have to go back and say, write them all in one response. And then I couldn't tell if there was supposed to be or if those are written as one word. So I'm just going to say, &quot;and put a space between Click Enter again. And this is going to hopefully correcting any mistakes that it had the first time. This is just something that but it is free. It's definitely the to do this without paying for any of the premium artificial The good thing here is so they're not going to be We don't have to worry about that. We just need a bunch of words and a list that is going to be formatted that works to create these words searches. So if you do come down here, and it says that it has stopped but then it says continue Just click on Continue Generating. It will continue the list of results, just building off of the initial list. Okay, so once this has Now let's go ahead and copy it. So I'm just going to drag all the way up to the top, and then I'm going to Now let's go over to Google Sheets. If you don't have a Google Sheets account, it is tied just to a Google email account. It's totally free to use. But once you are logged just go ahead and click This way you don't need If you do have Excel on I don't have it on mine. You can use Excel totally the same way, but Google Sheets is free and it's online-based. You don't have to download any software. Click on this first box here, and we're just going to paste this. I just hit Command + V on my computer. It's just a shortcut for paste. You can hit Control + V depending on what computer you are on. And then as you can see, this This is where a really So as you can see, all we need to have those as blank boxes in between all these results. So just go ahead and click on depending on what computer you were on. This is the Find feature, and we're going to type So type in the percent. It's going to say we found Then click on these three and then click on Replace With. Leave it blank, and click Now you can see you have a blank cell in between every nine results. So this list is ready to go. I'm just going to name this as &quot;Christmas 495 words 9 per puzzle,&quot; just so I know what this is And then just go ahead and click on File, and we're going to go Download as CSV. Okay, that's already named. We'll save it to our Downloads folder. Okay, just like that, that's ready to go. That's how easy it is to create this list. And then we come back over to Book Bolt. Now we're going to click Choose CSV File, which is now saved on our computer. Just select that file. You'll see the little &quot;Christmas 495 words,&quot; and then that's it for We then just click on Essentially, what we and then we have all of the puzzles that are on the first 55 pages. The solutions are going to So just to ensure everything and then just uncheck the And then this is going to just start making all of these puzzles for you and putting them into It's all done automatically, so we don't have to So as you can see, when you this is going to be your first puzzle. The only thing that you is just scroll through here, looking at each of these results. I'm looking at these little words in here, but on the small preview And I wanna make sure that none that they're going to be and it messes up the formatting. This is why on our prompt on ChatGPT, we said limit the That's because we don't want that are going to be split and So as you can see, as you could run out of space and they were a really long result. So I'm just scrolling through that there is no issue Just doing one quick quality is going to save you from on Amazon from people finding this because you didn't spend So yep, all of these look good. And then you're going to see, once you get to the last it's going to start these solutions pages. Book Bolt does all of this for So if you scroll all this entire book is complete. Now, I will say, though, Obviously, I was just showing but the last thing I wanted is how to get one of these word searches on the front cover of your book, which is what a lot of when they're looking at So there's only two steps to do this. We're just going to go We're going to go to Square, and we're going to change that to white. Okay, we're going to drag that over here. I'm just going to hit Fit so I can see what I'm working with. Drag this a little bit bigger, And then I'm going to I'm just going to click on it, and I'm going to copy it, Command + C, or you can just right-click, And then come back over And as you can see, it is see-through. That's why we had to But then we are just in this white box, just like that. Align this to the center. And then just a couple quick steps here, come over to the right side. This is going to be all of your elements. Click on the puzzle box, the three dots, and click on Edit Contents. We are going to delete out We are going to delete all of the words down here. So all you do is just and click on Delete, okay. And then just select all and we're just going to And there you have it. There is your word search on the cover. I'm just going to come and this Santa Claus image, I'm going to drag it to the front. That way we can see it in front And again, you can move on this cover. So guys, I recommend spending You want it to look something like this. This is one of the templates that I use. Now that you know how to you should be able to spend some time to create one like this. But that is all of our work So once this cover is complete, we have everything inside Just go to Download. And we're going to do CMYK, Printed Books. It's the first option here. Just give this a second here. It's going to download for Amazon KDP, and then Okay, this is going to ask us, So I'm going to name this and that's it. Okay, let's save that to our downloads. And now we are on the last step here. So we can now go over to Amazon, we can create our free Amazon KDP account, and then I'll show you how to So if you just go over to you can click on the first result here. It is Kindle Direct Publishing. It's going to say Self-Publishing. And now you can just click on Join KDP. You can create your account your email, your password, and click on Create your KDP account. This is then going to bring you into just two steps to First is going to be your identity, so it's just information on you. And second is going to be So how do they pay you? Where For this part, you can enter what bank you want to You don't have to have You can use your personal bank. And if you don't have a bank account, you can go to payoneer.com, and you can use that information as your banking information. So once you create your account, you can start uploading right away. You don't have to wait on So once you come into your and then go to Paperback. And then we are going to fill I'll show you how to So our book title is a And then for the subtitle, you wanna explain a little Now, a couple pieces of I would go back to Amazon are using in their subtitle. And secondly, I wouldn't copy them. Also, I would not stuff as many keywords into here as possible. If you put too many keywords, and you try to make this Amazon's not going to accept this listing. They will send it back to you and say, take out all of the extra keywords and make this look professional. So let's come back over to Amazon. Let's look at what other people are doing. So you can see there is the title here, and then you have the two dots here, and then you have the subtitle after it. So &quot;Christmas Word Search is their title, 1,800+ words, fun holiday themed word This is an example of a longer subtitle that you could put in here. Again, you're going to run that risk of them rejecting it for too many words. I would look for something simple here. So a fun and relaxing, cozy Christmas-themed word Let's do something along those lines. So let's go with &quot;A Christmas Themed Word Find Puzzle.&quot; Now, I'm using word search and word find in case someone calls We are going to have both And since this is Christmas-themed, I'm going to say &quot;for Okay, so this is a nice It tells Amazon what our book is about, and it's nice and professional-looking. For those of you who want a real deep dive on how to use all the keywords for this, let me know, and I can make another video. I don't wanna go too far but just know that this to do this. And then as you can skip over Series. You can skip over Edition Number. And then for Author, this is So you can use your first and last name. You can use a pen name, which essentially means you The only thing is you can't use something that someone else is already using. So think about big companies. What I would recommend as a is to put in your first and last initials, and then just put in an S after that, and then call it something or word search books or brain activities. This is just a very And the other thing to know here is that, for every book that you release, you can use the same author name, and then they will all be or you can use different There is really not much to especially when you are getting started and just getting the hang of it with your first couple books. I would recommend doing And then continuing to scroll you can skip that as well. For Description, this is to ChatGPT and quickly that is formatted in another specific way. So let's go back over to ChatGPT here. And this, again, I'm just so you guys can see it, and Use this format to write a description about a Christmas-themed word search book. And then this is a description that I got and I edited a little bit so I like it, from a another listing here on Amazon. So let's say that you that is similar, and you You can go to Read More and and make sure that you are putting it through ChatGPT to change it up. The worst thing that you it's so unethical, is just to What I've done is I've copied one of these as a good formatting example, and then in my prompt, So all of these lines are different. They've been changed to So it's not a direct copy. More or less, it's just that I'm looking for. Now, if you do use this specific and again, I'll scroll through this slowly just so you guys can pause this if you do want to use a version of this, the only thing that you're is the size. So in our book, it is six-by-nine, not 8 1/2-by-11. Again, to show you that, 8 1/2-by-11 here. This is a really big book. I prefer the six-by-nine size. But with that being said, both of those sizes are pre-formatted. So I'm just going to because this book is six-by-nine. And then we're going to click on Generate. So this is just going to Again, no matter what niche or what topic you are going into, you just change that Christmas theme to whatever that topic is. It will customize everything else for you. So that's that. Let's go ahead and just copy And we're just going to All of this is ready to go. Just read through it one time. Make sure everything makes sense. Okay, there you go. And it's It says, &quot;Perfect Christmas Just by giving it that prompt of what theme you're it customized all of this for you, and it does a really good job doing it. So that's the description right there. Then publishing rights, and I hold the necessary publishing rights because we created all this ourselves. Does it have any sexually No, it does not. There is no minimum or maximum age. Primary marketplace, for Categories, click and then click on Select one. Scroll all the way down And then come over to Subcategories. We are going to click Puzzles &amp; Games. And then we are going to click on Puzzles, Word Games, and Word Search. That's all we need to do here. And then just click on Save Categories. This is a little box here that but remember we were talking Those are low-content books. That means they just have lines inside. We are actually what's considered kind of a medium content book, because we have actual generated content that we've created and so we don't have to check that. And then the next one Since we did a six-by-nine size, the font is somewhere Now, if we did select an 8 that font would be 16 to 17 points. So we would be able to This is generally for or they need bigger font. They wanna be to sort to see which ones have large font. I just wanted to spend a but again, you can leave Now we get into the keywords. This is additional things that you want to tell Amazon so that they also show you for it. So the most important that you are not stuffing You're not putting any and you wanna just type in You don't have to get over-complicated. So I'm going to do Christmas word search. I also want to do Christmas word find. And then what I'm going to do go all the way to the top, and I'm going to click on this search, word search for Christmas, and see what other people are searching. So Christmas word search for adults, let's go ahead and use that. We'll come back over to Amazon. Christmas word search for kids, Christmas word search books for adults, Christmas word search Christmas word search. These are different ideas that people are actively searching for. So I'll use the &quot;for Let's type those couple in. And then I've got kind of all the ideas I wanted to get out of here. Let's go back to the results, and let's see what other people are using. So winter word search, that's Holiday themed word find puzzle, we'll use a variation of that. So let's do winter word search and then holiday-themed word search. Okay, that's going to of additional things that we haven't put in our title and description that we also want to show up for. So that is taken care Publication Date and You can leave that. Release my book for sale Let's go on to the next step. Okay, and then in this next This is Amazon giving you a free kind of identification It's what they'll put on the barcode. You can go out and purchase ISBNs. They do get pretty expensive. I have heard of no advantage to doing that compared to Amazon just So that's what I would use for that step. And then black and white you can leave that as is. Make sure that your If you did change this to an 8 1/2-by-11, that's going to be located right here. But that's going to It's going to give you a really big book. And when we are creating that we would've had to change that size. Then we are going to go That allows it to print all the way to the edges of that book. And then you can go with a So let me try to show you this on camera. This is a glossy finish over here. This is a matte finish over here. They are both good options. I don't think anyone's going to be upset by getting either a matte This is really going to be I don't think you can go They both come out great. So now we're down to where you can upload the inside and the cover of your book. If you click on Upload Manuscript, you're going to see that this file that we've saved from Book Bolt is still in a .zip format. So it's actually a folder that we have to open on our computer. So just click on Cancel real quick. Go to your downloads, and you can click on This is going to open You really just have to click and open it once on your computer, and then it turns into It's a little bit confusing, but if you just click on it once to open it on your computer, it will unzip the zipped folder. So now when you on Upload Manuscript, you can see Christmas 6x9 Word Search. Let's open that. And now we have the paperback Click on this one and open it. This will take just a second to upload. Okay, once that loads, and go to upload a cover. You already have, upload your cover file, and now come down to the That's when we want to upload here. Give this one just a And now both of these will It's going to give you a okay, the interior's been uploaded. The cover's been uploaded successfully. Next up is, did you use AI tools in creating text, images, or This we are able to say no because we only use ChatGPT to come up with those words list. They are not artificial Rather it's just a list for the Book Bolt software, which is not done with So that takes care of that section. And then just click on Launch Previewer. This is going to take This is typically where I get and I'll go make a cup of coffee, or I'll do something around It typically takes about five minutes to process all the files and then give you kind of a digital proof as to what that would look like. And then we can move on to the next step of setting the price. Okay, so once this loads, this is what the previewer looks like. We've got our cover here, It auto-added the barcode with the ISBN like we were talking about. And then you can go into You can see all of the puzzles. It's going to show all that you could look at. Since we know that we created everything's going to be formatted right. So we just go over to And then this is going to bring Just go to Save and Continue. And this is where we So we want this to be available worldwide in all territories. Our primary marketplace This is where we get to set our price. So I would recommend selling So let's put in $5.99. This is going to tell you that You are going to get $1.27 Essentially, what this means Amazon gets 40% of the profit. So if we're selling this for $5.99, they are going to That's the cost to print it. And what's left over We get 60% of it, which is $1.27 cents. If I've learned anything from selling and online business over the years, it's that even a small is absolutely okay because you're selling on such and you don't have to to fulfill each order. Amazon is going to do after we upload it to their marketplace. So even if we get 10,000 we don't have to do any additional work compared to if we got So that is for the United It's going to auto-generate for the corresponding marketplaces below. You can adjust these a little bit. If you wanna go to something like 4.99 just to make it look cleaner, you can do that all the Just round to the closest 99. And then you're just going to have two boxes to look at here, basically saying it's going We're going to review your book, make sure all the formatting, make sure the title and the And then you will get email saying that your product is live on Amazon. And lastly, you can request a proof if you want them to ship one totally at cost, so it would And then you can have one which is actually pretty cool. So once you've got this far, all you have to do is click on and then this will go and be live on Amazon. Now, I'm not going to because as you know, this I was just showing you how to create it. So I don't want that But the last thing that I'll say here is, once you are ready to all you do is go to Project We can leave all of this as is. Just change the template to the next one. So let's say we were doing This is where it gets kind of cool. So let's go ahead and just just like we did before. But now we can open up So My Projects, we'll that we created, and I'm going to select select all of this, and Let's copy it. Now let's go to that project Halloween, open that, and I'm just going to Now we have that whole template We can switch this from We can switch this graphic just by coming over here and swapping it. That is how you start You have the template made. You have ChatGPT to create your list with the prompts that you can copy-paste. And once you start getting cruising here, I find that it takes from total start of finding an idea to total finish of having that uploaded and submitted for review on Amazon. As a reminder, the 20% off is down in the description below. Guys, I hope this video has been helpful. If you have any questions at all, just let me know down in the comments. And if you did enjoy this video, please just give it a thumbs up. All right, guys, that is it for this one. I will plan on seeing you