SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk My last month in this clinic begins the day after tomorrow. I have decided that this will be my last month as a doctor in the hospital. I don't want to continue to carry and endure these working conditions. I've been through this for too long. * The phone rings. * Minkley. I'm coming. Who? Oh yes, K5 he bled, I have to do a check. My name is Stefanie Minkley. I am 33 years old and I am a doctor. I worked in surgery for six years and decided to quit and get out of this job. * She takes a deep breath. * When an emergency comes, he shoots up the entire program. I just had a grandma with peranal bleeding, so that's blood in the stool, in the emergency room. I haven't even seen her properly, just walking down the hall. Then came a shock room, which means an absolute emergency with an emergency doctor to accompany me. The abdominal aorta is about to burst or has burst covered, that's what we call it. He has to go to the operating room right now. Yes, we have now done everything for it. I tried to finish everything quickly. They are already operating and I'm going to do it now. By the way, don't even think about food. Good that I have something with me. And now I don't even know when I'm peeing. I decided to become a doctor in the hospital while watching the series &quot;Emergency Room&quot;. I must have been about 13 years old then. I found all the hustle and bustle in the hospital really exciting and the work with the people and the action that happened there. It was very clear to me that I would, that there would be no obstacles. * Door is unlocked. * So, it's almost 4 a.m. now and I'm going to my on-call room to get some sleep. From 8 p.m. to 12:15 a.m., i.e. midnight, a quarter past twelve , we were in the operating theatre. We literally fought for the patient's life. Because he was on the verge of circulatory collapse several times and almost bled to death. He's had a lot of transfusions and he's far from over the mountain, but hey, hey, hey. We keep our fingers crossed. And of course, after an operation like this from 8 a.m. to midnight and even longer, your back hurts, your legs hurt, your knees. You have big feet. We were incredibly thirsty afterwards, because of course we hardly got anything to drink or eat beforehand. I had something to eat this afternoon around one or so. My colleague didn't even come for lunch. Yeah, and now I'm brushing my teeth and kicking ass for maybe two hours or so. Hope nobody calls again! Good night. I'm the first in the family to go to college. Neither of my parents did high school, but did an apprenticeship. Luckily I had a good average with my Abitur grade of 1.5, so that I could start studying right away. I was lucky that I was immediately accepted in Frankfurt and was able to study seamlessly. By the way, this is what you look like if you had 1.5 hours of sleep, of which you were woken up three more times. Good morning I'm so tired and now I have to relieve my colleague. I'm going on the IMC visit now, we'll see if the patients can be transferred. And then we'll see if we need to give another blood transfusion tomorrow when we check it again. At the latest when you ask yourself what the weather was like outside because I have n't been outside for over 27 hours , something is wrong, isn't it? It's sunny. I think I'm dressed properly. Because I was the first in my family to go to college, I felt a bit small at first. I thought: &quot;Wow, they all have an idea about it, maybe they're more educated.&quot; In the first four semesters, my self-confidence went from really little to more. Then in the clinical part of my studies I really grew into this profession. Just before my practical year, which is the last year of our studies, I was appreciated by doctors who said that I do things well. Those were a bit of my role models that I saw there, i.e. doctors who are already working. Then there was such a break that I also felt self-confident as a doctor-to-be. So I've been called back to the OR. It's really chaos today. We have now canceled the emergency room because we can't do it. We only have one person for the ambulance and the entire consultation. Two people look after all the patients on the ward, but they are also constantly registered for surgeries. We still have to operate on two patients with gallbladder infections. I'll go there now and do it with a senior physician. I screwed it up. - I am sorry. * They're talking at once. * Unfortunately, Corona is still not over. We now have the third Covid case in the college and yes... For us that means we have three people to balance. We're very understaffed anyway. They're constantly cutting doctors' jobs. In any case, I'll still be here at 6:30 p.m. I might write a doctor's letter for tomorrow when I'm discharged. All the time we had to discharge patients without a doctor's letter because we couldn't do it. I'm not too keen on being on call if I'm here by 6:30pm and have to be back by 7am tomorrow. I don't want to do so much work anymore. I'm totally through today. I just want to go home. At the end of my studies, I decided to go into general surgery and become a surgeon. I got a job and then I went to a clinic and I was really thrown in at the deep end. I started on Friday and had a bit of an introduction to the whole software. You have computer programs that you have to get along with and processes that you have to know. From Monday I sat completely alone in the emergency room after my studies without ever having really worked as a doctor before. I'm driving up from the operating theater to a patient to tell her that unfortunately there will be no more surgery today. We're banging our surgical plan so full because sales are to be made. Patients keep falling down the back because they can't be operated on after all, which is very frustrating. When I came to the station, it was similar. There, too, I had hardly any care and was supposed to do a complete round without really being introduced. The reason was simply the lack of staff. They simply didn't have enough doctors to do enough training. That made me feel overwhelmed, but somehow I just kept doing it. I didn't question it, I thought, &quot;Maybe that's normal.&quot; * Cat grumbles. * (mobile phone) Take a deep breath! (voice repeated) It's like war here. This is insane. - Yes. What is going on today? The whole emergency room is full. I can't keep up at all. The patients have already been pushed into the corridor in the waiting line in bed. It's way too crowded here. So I'll give you the anesthetic first. The patient stunk so bad. I'm really sorry, but the feet were completely fungus. She has such diabetes, she doesn't even take care of herself anymore. I've already made two layoffs, and I still have to go to one. I've already had my first call from a patient who became unstable during colonoscopy. She has to be transferred to intensive care, I had to organize that quickly. * Martinhorn from the background * Mh. - Both are Camembert. Please. - Thanks very much. When I close my eyes after a long day, I dream of what it would be like if I had to work less and finally had more free time for the beautiful things. * Music * At the end of the first six months, i.e. the probationary period, I had a conversation with the boss and the senior physicians. Then they told me that they didn't keep me fit enough or not suitable for the surgery. Of course, a world collapsed for me at first. That was the dream I always wanted to make. My self-confidence was so low then because I didn't survive the probationary period. I was thrown in at the deep end and I drowned. After the conversation, the senior doctor approached me again. I said: &quot;Why is there so little staff that one is simply well trained in the job?&quot; She said that's the way it is and that it won't change. I found out that a young doctor was employed there after me, and the same thing was done to her. She was there for half a year and was then released during the probationary period. I just had a long talk with a nurse. So what is a long talk? He got very upset because we still have recordings, stationary recordings, but the station is already very full. So a nurse currently has 15 or 16 patients to look after on the ward. About half of them require care, many also have dementia, so you have to be careful that they don't pull out tubes etc. The patients come to us via the emergency room. Although there are only two of us in surgery this night, as the first surgical doctor on duty, I am responsible for everything from thoracic surgery, vascular surgery, bariatric surgery and general surgery. Hi. That was the first time I felt really depressed, i.e. the first time I did the dream job and failed. Luckily there was a surgeon in the clinic who believed in me. She saw that I was talented in this job. She recommended me to another senior physician, another senior physician from another clinic, I was lucky. That worked well. In fact, that was the first time I noticed women's solidarity in surgery. Here you can see the fatty liver. Look! Let's check the gallbladder. Take a deep breath. To hold breath. It pricks. I had admitted two more patients with abdominal pain. They both need surgery. That means it's 1:15 a.m. now. The night will be long. When I started working at the second hospital , I started with a bit of experience. I've been trying to regain my self-confidence. I had a colleague who was already a specialist at the time. She taught me a lot. Because of such people, I have developed a lot of self-confidence in my job. It's not easy to develop self-confidence in surgery because the hierarchies are still very, very steep. It is expected that one must be glad, must be grateful to be in such a clinic in order to be trained. As a woman, you are still more of a minority in the profession, so I was the only woman among the assistant doctors at times. He was two surgeries. On the one hand, I'm happy because I like the surgery, but I'm really tired, I've yawned 5,000 times. At least I ate earlier. Sometimes you celebrate the little moments when you can finally go to the toilet or drink a glass of water because you're already getting thirsty. The mood is kinda good today. Yes, somehow everyone keeps us happy, even when there is a lot going on and there are stupid patients. One came with a tiny wound on his foot where the plaster came off in the shower and he once accidentally grabbed the wound. He came now so that we could disinfect the wound. What a crap! Such patients clog the ER and real emergencies. In the first year of training, I think I had around 3,000, a little more than 3,000 by the end of the month. Now in the sixth year of training with all the services, I still worked as an emergency doctor, with participation in the pool, at the very end I actually had 10,000 euros there. Sure, minus taxes and so on, it's about half. But that was a blatant moment when I saw, okay, I ended up at a salary level that my dad only reached after 30 or 40 years of work. For me it's still increasing. That was awesome. Oh, finally sit down for a moment! My back hurts really bad. I think I'll smack myself for a second because the next surgery is coming up. It's now 2:55, good night. At least half an hour. I'm dead tired because I only slept twice for half an hour. After a year in general surgery, I rotated to other disciplines. I got to know other teams there and for the first time felt really valued as a doctor. Then I came to the intensive care unit and that was a completely different blatant experience. Honestly, I enjoyed being so energized and having so much to do. I noticed that I like making quick decisions and acting quickly. I could say: &quot;We need two canned goods here. We have to get them ready for the surgery.&quot; I think we did a good job there. After the intensive care period, I did my emergency doctor training. I then have a rotation for one year in trauma surgery/orthopaedics. That was sometimes very exhausting. But I felt much better as a doctor after the years of experience. Maybe that was my last surgery. I'm really a bit sad to be leaving people. Yes. You know my reasons why I want to stop. * Martin's horn in the background * It's half past six now. The official service runs until four o'clock. Actually I wanted to call some relatives who wanted to know something about their patients. But that I can't make it anymore today. And I haven't made rounds yet either. * Calm music starts up. * I noticed from the start that numbers and money are a lot at the clinic . But I was still seeing r busy with myself and my education. After a few years, it became more and more of a criticism that I noticed it more and more. Patients received interventions because they can be billed or because things have been documented. I've also heard that from others in other clinics, that things are documented because they make money for the hospital. But they weren't made at all or were made much smaller. There are a lot of gray areas there. A senior physician once said when I asked why the patient was being operated on: &quot;Because it makes money.&quot; * She sighs. * I was so mad at the lack of appreciation yesterday. I mean, the last few weeks really haven't been nice. We really worked a lot and I was still here twice three hours after the 24-hour shift and did a lot of work. If you're still being shitted on, still being mobbed, I get really sad and angry. I just get mad. As a result, an inner resistance developed in me because I couldn't reconcile it with my conscience. But I was just a small cog in this health system apparatus. Of course, I did what my senior physicians asked me to do, otherwise you would get screwed. Above all, the chief doctor put the pressure on. That was a lot, which has accumulated over the years, which I didn't think was okay. I did not see the error in the clinic, in the senior physicians or the boss, but in the system. The hospital does not have enough money to treat the patients in a way that is purely for their well-being. Otherwise we would not have to make such decisions. I thought the system had to be changed. So, I quickly ran through the rounds and now I'm going to the demo for better working conditions in the clinics. How fitting! * Bicycle bell * * Bicycle bell * (via microphone) Before Corona, during and after Corona, many professional groups here in the hospital were what they still are today, namely systemically relevant. Thanks! * Cheers and applause * * Cheers and applause * Colleagues, it can't stay like this. We have to change the situation. That is why the Frankfurt alliance for more hospital staff was formed with around 40 organizations. *cheers and applause* I'm glad to see familiar faces here and that the work we've done is getting somewhere. I was involved in the alliance and called for it. Of course, I'm still exhausted from work and ran here quickly. Above all, I think it's super important that something changes so that people like me can enjoy their job again at some point. I gave my job full throttle for six years , and at some point you reach your limit. Society needs to get more involved in the fight for better working conditions because it's about the patients. It can be anyone at some point. There wasn't one point where I said: &quot;Well, let's not go on now!&quot; That really evolved over time. In addition to my specialist training, I was politically active in the SPD the whole time. First with the Jusos and then at the age of 30 I made the leap into the SPD , so to speak, and was then also on the board. Because I was in contact with people who are in positions, with members of the state parliament, members of the Bundestag, who can change things, who have a certain power, I saw that things can be changed and the system can at least be improved. That's why I really wanted to get out of the health system and try to change something in politics in the health system and do something for the better. I really have pee in my eyes. Ah! They say, &quot;Another good guy going.&quot; It was really fun with the staff here, but I really can't anymore. Not with so little appreciation and so much work. Oh man! O God! - Oh, dude! I'm happy for Steffi. But something like that... But it's really not good. - It was really fun with you guys. Yes, with you too. Well, maybe we'll be bought out, then we'll see. And then you come back. You know what, when you start your own business, you think of us. Yes, in any case. - Then we operate day and night. Oh man. A workroom, adios! Adios, adios, adios! I can't believe it. last looks. After six years of surgery. But I'm really looking forward to the time that's coming, I think it's going to be good. * calm music and siren in the background * * siren in the background * subtitle copyright: hr 2022