Somebody say, life has seasons. The Scripture He right away said that there will be time there will be sowing, there will be reaping. God is broken into seasons. Now every year has four clothes. Somebody say clothes. You can't be change your clothes. Now most of us get sick when are not used to the new season that we enter in. Joseph had four seasons in his life. And if you that each season was marked with a change of a colorful garment given to him by his dad, changed when the brothers took off that if it's okay with you. The Scripture says, they Bible says his season quickly changed because he season didn't last very long because Potiphar's well that change his season. Let's take that that The Scripture says that in prison he had prison you get different clothes. We know those when he got the call by Pharaoh, the Bible And then came the last season when Pharaoh and the Bible explicitly says, There are people in this room, your clothes of seasons. There's coming a day when no man can take, no Potiphar wife will lie God changes times and season. And today I want to speak to you about that. Let's give them round of applause. Welcome let's go together with with me to Psalm 105 and to share with you some thoughts, and I believe believe the Lord's going to save people tonight, Psalm 105:16. I apologize it will be verse 17, from verse 17 and down. &quot;He sent a man before They hurt his feet with fetters, he was laid highlight, &quot;Until the time that his word came The title of my message will be &quot;If You Will We can finish the message now and do an alter His word will start to come to pass. Now let's with a dream. Now his daddy loved him, showed him receiving from God. God gave him a dream. The a dream that he will suffer. It will be a dream seem like God's dream. What God failed to tell for that dream to come to pass. What He failed to before somebody will bow to him and everything something. When God gives you a prophecy and a Because His goal is to get your faith up. Write do great work through you, He will send a great God will do a great work through you, He will say, before God will do His work through me, He He's not playing with your feelings, He's not starts to work when His word comes. In Joseph's through him, God sent him a great word. For me youth pastor. A guy before me quit after six and then I found out the honeymoon period of youth uncle turns to me and says, it's your turn. Now of age, you're excited. You're like, man this is 6 months past. We just had about seven, eight were crazy. Pastoring your family is not easy. the stuff and after six months I had it enough. I the camels back was one youth service when one of to pick up another teenager. And he was half Now in America at the time I was only two and a but I was trying, and so he was making fun of my they were having a great time, having a comedy at And I don't know just that night something just am I doing here? I don't even have a theological would do. I told my worship leader to play a song just disappeared. Went to the bathroom which was and I said, God make a hole, hide me there. Do not making a hole. I realized our worship leader and that night I made a decision. I will call I didn't have a cell phone, didn't even have have a car. My parents picked me up. This is On the van they came, and they picked the you know pastors have parking And we went to a grocery store to do shopping. I'll stay back. And that day changed my life. As knew that it's going to be hard to convince him, says, look at this, look at this grocery store. He a church where people will come. You see how they says, they'll come in empty, leave healed. It will 24/7. He says, there's a pharmacy there. People preparing a speech to tell my uncle, I quit. And I want you to see the vision. And next thing it felt like an audible voice. I never made the next year we and I'm moving to a field facility Now what God did not tell me at that parking lot me is how much it will take. What God didn't tell difficult season of my life. But what He did is dream. If you have a dream you will no longer I'm preaching to somebody already. God will give most of us think, well that was just the word, no. That was the work of God when He gave you a there be light and let there be sun. God didn't receive a promise before he received the son. See my world. In my world you become a father when father and then he had a son. In my world, if you God's world, on day one God creates the light. On My word will create a reality that one day will give God some praise if you receive a prophecy, if you have a promise from God. Come on for the promise, for the dream, for the prompting, So about, we're married maybe three, four years I'm from Ukraine, my wife is from Russia. Our two by the way. I'm in Ukraine in the grocery store, you will have a son and you will name him Samuel. that I saw in my mind, minds eye, I saw an image and it's stamped, the time stamp is still from I said, babe we will have a son. His name is three years pass by, we don't have children. cannot have children and you cannot have children. did you forget to tell the doctors or did you when You gave me the promise. And see this afterwards people came and they even asked me, God said it. He settles it. To me, I didn't grocery store in Ukraine. Before God will do God did not do anything in Joseph's life until promise. Let me tell you about the promise because speaking, you're like yeah, but it's so long. we practice what your pastor mentioned today. We free. I believe in that what you were sharing. But about giving sacrificially every year and then we we were about to give. It was a Toyota Camry. dealer because I'm Slavic so most of us get cars have salvage titles. So when you buy it from a Sorry for exposing our secrets but this one straight from a dealer. Zero miles. I got it as and I agree it was a mistake. Nevertheless church loses a car to an accident. They have two me and my wife feel this prompting, we need to this is the only car we have. But we didn't have worked very close to our house, so we're like, make a decision to give, don't sleep on it. So we we're meeting and we have a news for you, because I know myself. I can talk myself out of anything. house and we break the news right away. We said Now they knew we only had one car and it was a well the one we drive. And they're like, but one we want to bless you with. They broke down in the money for a new car. This is such a, such a one little problem. I actually can't give you the change the tires and repaint the bumper because that be all right? The car is yours but I need to the time you need. If you want to repaint the car, without the keys. They called their family and well, we have a promise and the person who They stopped looking for a car. They away. They became owners of a car when [Speaking in tongues] See when God you can trust in Him why? Because God is not throw word in the wind. When God says He's My question to God then, why are You not giving going to change your life. The reason why you the promise because sometimes you're not Bible says He didn't take Israel to the promised not reached to the top yet. Meaning the land it's not the car. It's the driver that's I want to let you know, that word is word is alive and God will begin a Let's go to point number two. Before God will great work in you. See He gives a word to Joseph, Joseph. See God gave him a promise, you will the favor on your life. But the famine wasn't word. The world wasn't ready for that word. So Now God doesn't tell you that when you get world. God doesn't tell David that he's persecuted when he anoints him as a king. But when the promise of God comes into your God starts a process in the spirit realm. See looks like an attack is a process what looks accusing you is actually God's process. What process of fulfilling the word that the nations God's process. Somebody share a process. with my generation is we have a desire to be When we got the word our biggest desire is the a word He starts to hide you, not reveal you. Why? when you get pregnant with a baby? You want to see she wanted to see how little Samuel would look. earlier, the damage it does to the brain, development. In fact the longer the baby womb could never happen outside. The womb is a you get the baby as an embryo, you don't put Why do you hide that? Because it needs to be life it needs to go through a season of training. and nurturing. And some of you, have gotten a says an inheritance gain hastily will not last. with his gift. He spent it on prostitutes, womb, you don't know how to handle the pressure, don't have a spine. You are snowflake. why? Because the womb develops things in you things in you finances cannot develop. The womb Look at David and look at Saul. Saul got He didn't know what to do with it. On the day of though he was cute and handsome, he was insecure. womb. He hid him. And he learned how to slay a the bear. He learned how to be under abusive authority. He learned humility and when David He's called the son of David. the Bible says and he was in the manifestation. And the Scripture says, God, when He gives you a great word, He will desire is to be discovered, God's goal generation, we find value from visibility. That's why we're addicted to the Most of us don't know we're valuable unless Did you know that my heart is not visible. It's because my heart is valuable, I will never make it some people's assignment will actually kill you. ministry, I get it, faithful in small, God rewards heart for pumping blood by sticking it on the top You don't take your lungs out after 20 years of When you find your value from visibility, and you find your value from the fact you're made not your position, not how they call you, not the made in the image and likeness of God. You find for a rebel like you and I. You find your value chose to reside inside of you. No, no, no. I living God. You find your value in the fact that Not how many likes, not how many subscribers, not not how many hits you get. Your name When God made Adam, the Bible says before to the dirt. And He says, let the ground produce to the water and said let the water produce fish God spoke to Himself and He said, let us make man the trees came from the ground, without the without the water they die, and because man came in Him we move, in Him we have our being. Your because you came from God you If you don't find your addiction in the presence serve, and the only time you'll serve is so the church to advance your brand. You will use Jesus will be a means to an end instead of a God will serve and look at the clock, when am I going When am I going to be having an opportunity to be When you develop, ambition desire to be known dies. You start in the gave you a promise. By the time you come I just want to please You. Jesus, I just want a placKard YouTube. I don't need a verified by with me, because while this starts an ambition, a Joseph. Joseph was developed. See the day God calls you is The day God anoints you is not the day men God anoints you when you're 15. Man did not Joseph, gave him that dream when he was just Pharaoh didn't confirm anything, didn't appoint with. We're like well men, remember this the same time when God anoints and it's not lack They're just not spiritual. No, no, They're just not, they're just honey. This is not that. God always works like but He calls earlier. So God's call on your life, men will confirm it. If it's a genuine call of they will anoint you. Listen Joseph, Pharaoh would place his garment upon on you and position that God promised you. But I want to You will have a vision, and then you will will have you and God will make it happen. million deaths so that you can live, not for Why? Because God is more concerned with who I am again. God is more concerned with my character am becoming than how many people I am impacting. Israel, you will not get promised land in one day. the beasts are too wild. But he says, little I'm far more interested in your development will take you to your destiny, but between the as concerned for it as you are with where you are I will hide you in the wilderness. I will hide will feel not recognized. At times you will feel feel rejected and alone. At times you will feel you will be alone in the room full of people, I am forming you. I am developing you because I don't want them to prevail against you. How mine they have destroyed. I don't want you to I want you to plunder hell, and to do that I got to develop you in the womb of where where your patience and where your passion Fast. Fast success grows your ego, And God will on purpose allow a person next to expose frustration, to expose, what am I doing time going to come? God will cause all of that to and Jesus is walking, and Jesus is walking with Him and gets a healing, but you've been fair. God will allow that. When Joseph, you days it comes to pass, but your dream has you're praying for women in the court of Abimelech will allow that. Jesus, You're healing the man prayer. Yet on the cross, God why did You allow that. You're not the only one. You're You're being pruned, you're being prepared. He's making something out of you and He makes them in the dark. When I say dark, I demonic intrusion. I'm talking about obscurity. than your position. I'm talking about when your I'm talking about when your shadow heals the with ushering. I'm talking about when you come in they see the anointing that I carry? My friend The word you receive cannot come to pass if you mentioned that earlier in the beginning. The word the test. Remember how we started with the verse, here. God gives you a great word. It excites you. will give you a microphone, the business will it usually happens is begins the process, where you He develops you. And He does that because He for life because the light is too hard on you. in the dark that could never be developed in and I'm going to use this one word. The I've met people who said this. Pastor Vlad, life I lost my faith. And I said, respectfully, My Bible says faith is like gold. I've never seen So...But I had faith. You had faith in faith, you not in God. Real faith in God is like never gets reduced by fire. It changes removes impurities out of gold but it never I had purity. See you know how much purity you After temptation I lost my purity. My it. Temptation didn't take your purity. It and this is not God showing to you that you are I want to work with you. I want to change you. I One test that he faced and you can just write long. The first test that he faced is the test We all lack patience, and as a gift because it's only developed as a fruit. And according to the man of God in when he came to that lady who ran from her husband crazy. And he said this thought over there in that does He just give you patience or does He give you bring your family together, does God just bring opportunity? See God will not develop patience where patience is there is power. When patience is completeness, there is stability. And God impatience, impulsiveness. Those people who are their moodiness and their crankiness. All than you expect. This is what I've learned Always late, yet always on time. Have you ever for them and day for you. And they're sure it's zones. My thoughts are higher than yours. God's why? Because He's in a different frequency. He but because of the time zone you That's why Habakkuk says, he says that though will surely come. But it will, you'll have to wait of patience. Somebody say, patience. The other and Joseph was waiting but Joseph also was tested because of his purity. He eventually end understand that Joseph did not fight lust, he Paul says to young Timothy, young people. joy with those who seek on the Lord's, call on lust. See God never anoint you to fight lust. You can cast out demons but you got to run from we run from demons and fight lust. We're like man, Well number one, you're running from him, and run from. If God thinks you cannot win against you're not smarter than God. Run! Joseph did I'm going to flirt to convert. Uh-uh. There I know missionary dating is popular, it is Let me just come in agreement right now. let me tell you about the Father's love. why? They will drag you to the pits of hell. Why? and you trust God to send somebody who isn't them. Why? Because your purity cannot be purity in places and with people you're People come up and they say, but I want one secret. To walk in purity Prison of restrictions. You have to put don't put restrictions on your desires and but the Bible says it does not edify. not of your restrictions, but in prison where your freedom and ends your life in the funeral. or somebody's imposing. No one can walk in their liberties. Can I drink? Yes, but I don't, don't trust myself. Bible says to contain your to be a slave of my passions. I want my passions in prison. I want my passions not to rule my life you to walk in purity. And you cannot walk in you got to choose that. That means you put those Would you talk to that person that same way means you start preparing for a husband not man who finds a wife. That means she was I didn't mess around, chill, go one-on-one hang Why? Because I was preparing for marriage today it's not hard for me to say no and we're not going to go on lunch and dinner. We're why? Because that is a habit that I had purity. Yes it made me weird a little bit, but Joseph offended Potiphar wife, but he did not choose who you're going to offend. better offend your boyfriend than offend God. if you don't sleep with me I'm not going to if you love me, number one, you'll get a job. you will get on your knee and propose. We're You're going to talk to my dad and and if you're not ready for Oh but pastor, you don't understand. He's so Pastor, he said he will change. This when you're not even married and you're already Let God bring you a man He changed. Wait for that man. You will either wait for God God to change the man you found in the club, but his way to the top. He didn't sleep his way to man or a woman that wants to walk in purity has will be made fun of, some people will not like quickly, and those people who went in 15 years you'll be leasing your there trying to qualify in. Trust me, trust immorality. Immorality is a black hole. You you'll never have a good ministry, you'll never development is God purges immorality and purifies place is offense, and He purifies forgiveness. And another thing is serving. Joseph had to learn prison while his own dream was on hold. I'm going when his own dream was on hold. People ask me on hold? Find somebody doing their calling, help God will do for you what you did for them. That's up, amen. As Pastor told me that I have how was 2 hours? I think it was just 14-15 minutes. Matt told me. That's a good sign. He says if I more over there, okay all right. We can wrap this no, no, no, no. Let me, let me finish. Let me land finish where it's like three finishes. At the Genesis 50:20, &quot;But as for you, you meant bring about to this day to save many people.&quot; don't see this right now, but this is what you're Joseph did and that is this. Things don't have But there's one word that Romans tells us is being rejected by brothers, it's a very bad, bad, with being in Potiphar house. If you isolate that he abused her. That's a really bad incident, together. See you have to understand there is in their own they look like a case against you, and he had a stallion, beautiful horse, and he we want you to sell this horse. We know no that's my prize. It's going to be passed on to this horse. Would you sell your children? he said. and it ran and he lost the horse. The villagers to sell the horse. You didn't sell the horse. Now he says, don't jump to conclusions. He says, don't have a horse. That's all we know. Don't by not selling the horse. 10 days later the horse to the man and said, we were so wrong, you that horse came back with 10 stallions. And he is the horse came back with 10 stallions. We no you're just playing humble. He says, no we son is training one of the stallions, and the hard and it broke both of the legs of his son. The conclusions too fast. Look now you have a crippled we don't know that yet. Don't jump to conclusions breaks out and they take everybody's Every man is lost in battle, and now man we knew you were right. He says, we don't judge your story based on the season you are in, and he said, there was one season they ripped another thing with my garments. Then they did this in these seasons I felt abandoned and forgotten. life it says, the Lord was with him. It never says that when he got promoted. It only says twice Why does it say the Lord was with him in those and I. He doubted that God was with him, you feel abandoned. You feel like this is sour, something the Bible says in Romans Now we don't know how but somehow Potiphar's house. He takes an unjust thing, and takes that thing, connects it to My mom is a cook. When I was younger and she and Matt can testify. She can cook amazing young, she would have ingredients for the supposed to taste because I tasted the But the ingredients that make the cake Every ingredients that goes into two fingers in baking soda and then put it into peanut size brain I couldn't figure out how could [Speaking in tongues] But when you got a cook, when there is a God in He takes the sour things of your life if your life is in the hand of God, He's still arranging things at your life. And the things you meant for evil God, Your baking soda season isn't the final product. what your life is going to be like. It's just I quote it, we know all things work together. together, they'll work for you. He gives you He'll test you and purify you. He'll develop you shift in your season you will look back in your Joseph did. What I complained about, God had it surgeries. When I look up one eye looks up, one as a teenager? How insecure I was? There was a accident. Committing suicide was not an option am an accident. I know my life has no meaning and headaches. I was born around Chernobyl and bullied, I was made fun of. It was very difficult. not having friends. All of my insecurities rose up a disadvantage. It is a baking soda. I'm not going prayer. I didn't know where to go. It drove me to my heart. Interestingly my eyes are the same. sometimes people, you know when I look at people, didn't have a lot of options. And I thank God as a handsome man, I was like, I don't want that Girls looked at me. They're like. Nobody liked me. In fact my biggest I thought, I'll never get married. I didn't brains and in your wallet than how your And the guys they flirt with they don't like baking soda, little did I know is that who will listen to a guy whose face looks in this one hour weren't bothered by it. Do God will make a cake out of ingredients you don't those ingredients right now. It's okay because control of my life? Me or God? Because if it's if you're just an ingredients on a table, I'm just my life goes backwards as long as I'm in His hands It's how you propel an arrow forward. As long as as there are ingredients and God is my chef, as developed me in the process. As long as He gave me God and though He slay me, I will trust Him, why? want you to rise to your feet and give God some have the prophecy, if you still have the promise if you receive the word from God before, if you you're a pastor, if you're a minister, if you're you abandoned that that thing that God gave you, spirit, like a baby that dream like Elizabeth's quickened to your baby. The dream that I carry you don't need to miscarry, you realize you don't carry this thing to a full term. Close your eyes Holy Ghost, begin to pray in the Holy Ghost for for that promise. Say, God I trust You, God work God search me, God make me into a person