Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and today we are taking a look at a pistol that is not in any way forgotten. This is the M1911A1, the standard US service pistol of World War Two, Korea, Vietnam, and everything thenceforth until 1985 when it is ultimately replaced by the Beretta 92. However, I think there are a lot of to the 1911 during World War Two that a lot The US had just barely adopted the 1911 And when the US entered the 1911 production as In fact the government scale it up even further And in total the US had manufactured During the course of the war a number of ideas But there wasn't ... an imperative And even after the war the and didn't really need to make So these changes would eventually and the first batch of 10,000 were But then it wouldn't be until 1938 And it was only in 1938 that they were and another batch of 10,000 were Now just thereafter, in 1939, bids for what it called As well as, by the way, And the idea here was an Educational Contract was the US government would to build the tooling and the all of that material in its warehouse somewhere Late 1930s, ... you don't have to be Einstein And so Educational Contract bids were Some of the classic gun companies: as well as non-gun companies like And a couple of adding machine companies, And ultimately only two of these and be awarded an Educational Contract, But making those 500 required and essentially proving it out by Now these two were H&amp;R, Harrington &amp; and Singer, the sewing machine company. And interestingly H&amp;R failed. They were behind schedule, ... ultimately and the ... Educational Contract for them Singer produced its the quality was very nice, But by the time full-scale contracts were the Singer Company's facilities were already In particular M5 Artillery Directors which Singer was also making, and those ... The US government wanted a lot of [pistols], Everything in the various Ordnance and the higher priority stuff steels that were needed So there is, by the way, this rumour and the factory was wasted on making pistols so It didn't actually work that way, but they weren't particularly anything Anyway, I'm getting ahead of myself here. Singer makes its 500 guns, but In 1942, in the spring of '42, the US is now at war and the day of Educational Now it's not &quot;We want you to sit on this tooling in So they went straight to &quot;Let's bid some Specifically 1911A1s, because that was even though it had only just been ... So three new companies They are the Ithaca Gun Company, which had failed to get an Educational Order The Union Switch &amp; Signal Company, which had Now this pistol we have and first off, I want to point out that It was originally founded by the same people, but long before World War Two the company split and you had the Remington firearms making company, The Remington Typewriter Company (that made other office supplies) That's the company that got the pistol contract. The Remington Gun Company was making In fact specifically the company had its that had previously been used for both But it had been vacant Remington Rand retools this seven-story Now it wouldn't be until November of '42 that they There was some time involved It's interesting, they got a Springfield Armoury's purpose as a produce tooling so that it could be handed And so they got a bunch of that, They also got a bunch of the stuff that had been built, But ... it still wasn't There were some interesting little things like the drawings from Singer that were unique to Singer's And they had to like go in meaning of various things on They didn't have all of the jigs and there was a bit of trouble taking and making them work And at any rate, this took some time and it wasn't until November that By the way, Remington Rand They were able to make that they needed for this And it was good enough that they the tooling for Ithaca's production. with a lot of capacity to do So Remington supplied Ithaca was apparently constantly was going to cheat them &quot;We're only going to get the dregs, and Remington Which doesn't appear to have happened, but ... At any rate, ... full-scale Remington Rand would continue They were the first main company ... of these In total, Remington Rand produced 877,715 That making up a significant portion of the And by the way, that that after 1945 there was never That provided enough pistols to be sufficiently supplied until 1985 So let's go ahead and Let me show you some of the features and the changes from Let's start by looking at the differences These are basically ergonomic there's really no mechanical It's just making them fit the hand So first off, the trigger itself. On the 1911 it is fairly long, and you've got this The A1 is looking to make the for people with shorter So they have checkered the trigger face, and they've added this scallop cut to sort of get a little bit more distance The original 1911 was made with a The 1911A1 has an And this was done to support change the grip angle a little bit and This is one of those connoisseurs and devotees will argue However, what almost no one when they extended the tang (you can see it's pretty short on the 1911 that is a good thing, because from coming in and biting the back of On the original 1911, just right there, And you can get a nice little red, if you have a good high and tight grip on the gun, And lastly, the sights were made larger. So we have a pretty narrow front sight And then the same is true on the rear sights, The sights on the 1911A1 are quicker, Now let's take a look at the markings Remington Rand Incorporated, You will also find four other The other two major companies that as well as Springfield Armoury and Colt, who had Now [at] Remington, they made On the complete Remingtons there's However, their replacement So if you find a gun that has 1911A1 that means it's a replacement slide. Down on the frame we have This one I believe has been ... re-Parkerised But we've got &quot;United States Property&quot;, In total Remington would and each contract came So they didn't make all going up to their total of 877,000, Interestingly, there was a little bit of whoopsy and there were a couple of serial number and issued to multiple companies. So if you find a gun with an that indicates that it's a gun whose and after the war they gave Anyway, we also have M1911A1 US Army. We have an Ordnance Department That's the final Ordnance taking the gun into military On this side down on the frame we have but that is FJA, those are the initials He was the Chief Ordnance Inspector he was in charge of inspecting pistols Different companies in different parts of the country Now a lot of the parts on Remington Rand made all especially the slides and the But they actually subcontracted other Remington organisations in places Ilion being the location of the Barrels were manufactured as well as some being made Those companies already had and it was easier to have them also make like Remington and Ithaca and Union So springs were outsourced, The magazines were we have a little &quot;R&quot; (there it is) That doesn't actually mean Remington, was made by the So a lot of outsourcing for components just So disassembly is remove the slide-stop pin, we can then pull the slide off. Take out the barrel bushing, we got Here on the barrel lug we have an &quot;HS&quot;, that indicates that this was As opposed to any of the other companies, The finish on virtually all the World War Two Parkerising by the way is kind of like &quot;Kleenex&quot; or &quot;Escalator&quot; that So it's actually zinc phosphate, it is it's pretty durable and it has this This is not the fancy commercial For what it's worth, Remington Their ... first contract for the By 1945, by their last contract, they had which was actually like They had managed to pay for all of the And they were making these guns very cheap Fully interchangeable with all the other By the end of World War Two, of course the They do look at whether There is in particular a look at the German P38 So you don't have to carry it cocked and Just that double-action to have a ... gun safely carried And the determination was the and it should definitely be considered when other But by itself it doesn't .45 calibre was seen as a very good thing It was intended to be a ... Also there were concerns about for the purpose of the gun. We'll talk But anyway, as fate would have it they did adopt It just wouldn't be for another They did rebuild a bunch of these guns. Primarily the Rock Island Arsenal rebuilt re-Parkerised the guns, refinished them. You will find ... like actually a lot of that have parts from different from different mismatched manufacturers. where they didn't try to The whole point of having is that all your parts interchange So this one still has all of its The US would sell something like through the Department And in fact, this is one of those DCM sale guns and I have the original sale paperwork So here it is, this is a pretty cool We have the Rock Island This is the name of the guy I'm not really worried about his so this is 80 years old and There is a nice bit of This is a bill of sale, it is evidence of lawful transfer It's kind of funny that they actually because this is ... 2381715. And on the paper it has 2881715, Interestingly, the guns were written so that they could be sold as surplus. This is in fact a like-new out of refurb 1911. And the cost here was $14.15, for a grand total of $17 when it was Needless to say, they are And for what it's worth, here is the box It contains one pistol, automatic, and originally came with 2 magazines, It's just a simple box, some Hopefully you found that to be a pretty decent I particularly like the contrast they are very much this very nice Colt to the World War Two guns where they very A dull, rough Parkerised finish, It's the same basic design, expressions of the pistol between Anyway, hopefully you guys enjoyed the video. Thanks for watching.