In 2019, US media accused China of "bullying" operations to create artificial islands. One of the major consequences of these islands the possibility of an all-out war with the That's not how China explains things, nor wrong with those islands. As you'll see in this video today, China could turn into a supremely expensive catastrophic Before we get to those failures, we should are and what they might mean for countries We'll finish the video with our thoughts war with the US. Let's start with Fiery Cross Reef, said in the South China Sea. China claims the island, a part of the Spratly Philippines, and Vietnam. Before 2014, there really wasn't much going a place that would be useful in a war. As you can see on any map, the area is surrounded China claims much of the region as its own, Spratly Islands, and also other places such Bank, and the Scarborough Shoal. China places a nine-dash line around the areas get the idea everything within this nine-dash Who gets to make such decisions when so many The most powerful country might be China's China was the world's superpower for centuries. If you look at the history of global GDPs, other powers in the year 1000. It's believed together, their GDPs made In the year 1600, that share was 51.4% of and India's 22%. From around 1700 until the late 1800s, China Depending on which historian you ask, sometimes one disagrees that China and India led the China called Europe a backwater for centuries compared to the highly advanced civilization This is one reason why China can confidently show various dynasties, including the Song, of the South China Sea. An official Chinese statement to the EU in texts, as far back as the Han dynasties, China trade, and fishing, with the South China Sea activity at the time." It goes on to say that China discovered these Other countries, and the EU, might disagree. Nonetheless, it explains China's claims. Before China's so-called "One Hundred in 1839, China's economy was six times bigger and 20 times bigger than the fledging USA's, quickly. During this period, much of China's territories Due to many factors, including China's isolationism its military, and corruption within the Qing losses. With them, it lost much of its territory. The British kicked this off with the First That's when China lost Hong Kong. In the Second Opium War, 1856 to 1860, the This was not a good time for China as it signed The French and English even looted China's history, which even the West now admits was This period was certainly a humiliation for say is a reason for its sometimes aggressive The words "Never Again!" are now part of China's political rhetoric. In The Sino-French War of 1884-1885, China Later, after the First Sino-Japanese War (1894-1895), fell under Japanese colonial rule. The Qing dynasty of China had previously annexed As you know, Japan was defeated in WWII, and the areas we're talking about today. In 1949, the Chinese nationalists were defeated The nationalists escaped to Taiwan, but importantly, Prior to leaving, it was this regime who'd around the South China Sea. That's why Taiwan still claims to own this way. The reason the line was reduced to 9 dashes China and Vietnam. The history is a lot more complicated than is heavily disputed by a handful of countries. Given its history, China doesn't think there's Nonetheless, China and Taiwan claim the region claim parts of the region. For example, in 2009, China said, "China in the South China Sea and the adjacent waters." Malaysia, Vietnam, Indonesia, the Philippines, disagreed. It's Vietnam and the Philippines which seem Over the years, Vietnam has created 49 outposts Islands. The Philippines has built nine outposts. But both of these nations haven't done the As you'll see at the end, the Philippines China doesn't try and take any more reefs Such disagreements might make more sense when worth of global trade passes through the South That's about a third of the total trade Almost 40% of China's trade passes through its energy imports. Close to 14% of all US maritime trade passes If this trade corridor was ever blocked, it It's said around 30% of all global crude do about half of all the world's fishing Then you have the rights to fishing there oil and natural gas - about $11 billion natural gas. So, if a great big war were to break out, feather in your cap. That's one reason why it really matters over these territories - obviously not China, Still, other countries also have a strong It should also be said that the United Nations China's nine-dash line claim. Also, in 2016 an international tribunal said by building those artificial islands. Ok, back to Fiery Cross Reef. We hope after hearing what we've just told of land is so darned important. The Philippines, Vietnam, and Taiwan might construction there, and there's not much The process of reclamation involves dredging vessels from close to the reef. The materials are taken to the site, where This base is compacted, and more heavy machinery is just right. Once the land was raised at Fiery Cross, Chinese the infrastructure and buildings. This includes an airstrip, aircraft hangars, accommodation, port facilities, and various The island is protected with coastal defense In such a wild place, coastal erosion is more Creating bits of land in the sea and hoping maybe even a little foolhardy, not to mention No one knows exactly what China spent on just $12 billion. That was years ago. As you'll see later, the upkeep might prove In 2014, China stationed about 200 soldiers In 2016, after the 3,125-meter-long (1.9-mile) civilian and military aircraft there, including It was subsequently reported that anti-aircraft a missile-defense systems. There are also early warning radar sites on This was reported after China had said it It didn't look that way to outsiders. The US State Department soon issued a statement to publicly commit to a reciprocal halt to new facilities, and militarization of disputed China's artificial islands soon became known While much of the rest of the world is talking to stationary aircraft carriers or fortresses they're military installations while they China has good reason to want to keep this It makes sense in a world dominated by power people talk about the balance of power shifting power balance (bipolarity or multipolarity). China might not want to get into a war with will want to defend one of the most important Still, China won't admit that. It has said it is just "improving the working on these islands" or that the islands are shelter, or helping out distressed ships that Nonetheless, the Western media has pointed aren't generally required for protecting Not all the islands look exactly like military also claimed by Vietnam, Taiwan, and the Philippines. At just 210 acres, we are talking about a soccer pitches if we take those professional It's now home to anti-aircraft guns and fisherman-friendly. The aptly named Mischief Reef (1,380 acres) Islands. Yet again, when China first started bringing China was doing there. It lies just 135 miles (217 km) off the coast When the Philippines asked what China was shelter." It now looks very much like a military base. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative Studies released satellite images showing weapons systems." That said, China is arguably only doing what politics. China has also built a 2,644 meters (8,675 The country at least admitted this when it "freedom of navigation." The Philippines has said this is about one conflict. An international tribunal later ruled that elevations that do not generate entitlement or continental shelf, and are not features or otherwise." In short, these reefs are not for building And since they're not classed as a nation's legally make a so-called "innocent passage" law, there are no islands to speak of. China made something out of nothing. You can see China's progress through a series which amounted to turning almost nothing into It's a similar story with Subi Reef, once of land with a military base, a harbor, and feet) long. Some of these islands are home to laser and Fighter jets could land there. There's absolutely nothing about this island In the past, when US Navy reconnaissance aircraft warned they've strayed into China's airspace. One of those radio messages said, "China as well as surrounding maritime areas. Stay away immediately to avoid misjudgment." The US pilot shot back (not literally), "I aircraft conducting lawful military activities state. Exercising these rights is guaranteed by international the rights and duties of all states." It's on these missions that US aircraft than places where fishermen can put their Images show harbors that can take at least They expose runways big enough for bombers ugly. A US Navy spokesperson said, "They threaten all the international sea and airspace." That's the reason for the sojourns through missions. These operations, FONOPs, are what the US maritime claims" whereby the US "demonstrates China is no fan of FONOPs, once calling a on China's sovereignty." It's not only the US that conducts them. In recent years, Japan, the UK, Australia, China usually invokes words such as "escalation" But critics of this Chinese mission in the when China started building the islands. In all, there are seven reclaimed pieces of miles (13.5 square kilometers). It might not sound like much when you put and runways in that amount of space. Also, to put these great chunks of concrete ecology. At Mischief Reef alone, which is about six natural reef under millions of tons of sand For all the islands, we are talking about that had to be dredged and dumped. When China started building these islands, strategies and war warned that there was a back into the sea," which, in short, would hard. You have oil and chemicals and all sorts of the sea doesn't need. One professor argued that all we've really threat has been largely ignored. He told the media, "The worst thing anyone tons of sand and gravel ...There are global It is likely broad enough to reduce fish stocks On top of this, Taiwan is saying China is up its Coast Guard efforts. Some say China has done this as a warning on Taiwan's military. In 2020, the Taiwanese military cracked down vessels, which was a 560% increase from 2019. The country says these operations are wrecking cables. So, we have islands in the sea that, by international They've been built on unstable ground, and back into the sea. There might be no way of stopping this. China might be a technological powerhouse, OUT!" Reports have stated that on some of the islands, very foundations of these islands could wither This is reportedly happening not because of are in such an unforgiving area. Matters could be made much worse if a typhoon There is also tectonic activity that could erosion could also cause the subsidence of There is also a natural process called sediment This means the material that was laid down the entire island could move downwards, aka, These islands are so low-lying that global If the sea level rises, it might swallow the It's said the global average sea level has to 0.14 inches per year (1.8 to 3.6 millimeters but global warming may accelerate this. It's not certain what will happen, but low-lying In fact, it's possible that within decades be totally swallowed by the sea. That's if war hasn't finished them long These islands might well be sinking, and if of money. Being so far away (about 500 miles from the to maintain in terms of structural problems. But even if they're not sinking, you have If it ever came to that, the US would likely missiles, using electromagnetic warfare technology The US might also just form a blockade and materials. This would be quite the task given China's - although it doesn't have the same combat The main islands can hold a few fighter planes or two, but in the larger scheme of things, That's why one military analyst asked, "Are There's no doubt that if war did happen, with cruise missiles. One analyst believes it would take 30-50 outposts. As the aerial photographs show, the critical together. It would not be hard to hit something important, to structures that it seems are already eroding. The U.S. Air Force could send in strategic a number of bases. China may have enough aircraft shelters for it would soon start to look congested down runway unusable. With US submarines, you also have supply issues China does have enhanced anti-submarine warfare pose a problem. This could be one reason why China has invested China's islands have rightly been called but in the event of war, it's hard to see They certainly are a substantial presence The US could deal with them...we think...the over the years. The US would suffer greatly in the effort about that. That's if China can save them from sinking we imagine will become a very costly venture It seems the country is willing to spend the largest suction dredger" that is 50% more used previously. The old one was 6,017 gross tons and has a That was said to be the largest in Asia, so What does this mean? Well, for one thing, it seems China is certainly That's why the government in Manila believes the region. It's the reason, or one of the reasons, up its doors again to a US military presence. US troops will have access to four new military As China digs, the USA is setting up shop, How this ends is anyone's guess. Now you need to see another aspect of global Manufacturing Overnight." Or, have a look at "Why Apple is Rushing