Yep, you're probably right. I don't know what Forget about my What's important, after You tell me you like girls? Great, go for it, buddy. You like boys? All the better. You do what you feel. I could tell you give you a condom, but it'd before you picked Unleashing all your carnal walked through the door, yeah. But I won't stop you. Nope, you enjoy your herpes. What the fu...? Lord can you give me Oh can you hear me, it's Oh oh oh oh, Oh oh oh oh Tastes like s'mores. I like it black. You're missing out on a Hey, nice car, man. Belonged to my ex. What was his name? Lord can you give me a Cause I keep reliving Oh oh oh oh Please don't delay Dave Hopper, my savior. Get in here. Look at you, big boy, look at, you look good, Let's go take a look at Well, show me the way. It's a closet. It's a start. Uh huh, the door is You stole my title. One of the best student How do you do it? Well, when you're in you got a lot to pull from. Most of us used to swipe Until that landed in front of my You really should not have I just couldn't take of Dr. Nessey's, The Four The tortures of the What ever happened to him? His wife left him for a woman. I'm sorry, I didn't mean... It's too soon, right? That's all right. At least she left And the car payments - and the... that is all behind you. Now you are back with friends. So where are you staying? Aunt Patty. Ah. I'm surprised God knows I'd save your ass God knows I'd save your ass But there was not Patty? Patty? Patty? Whoa, what? Mm, uh mm. Yeah, I need to Gotcha, Dave. Gotcha. I've been waiting What took you so long? Good morning, everyone. Good morning. My name is Mr. Hopper. Welcome to Psych 101. Now, as far as I'm for our understanding can clearly be and that's where we'll begin. Now we're gonna start each class by answering one question. Any question, I will give you my honest black Give me something tough. Anything. Mr. Uh? Nate. Why does God hate gay people? There it is. The issue of your We hear things like an acceptable lifestyle, and others who oppose that Nate, I'm not afraid I just know that it's wrong. It destroys people and families. I've seen it. Come in. What's this? Building a house? Uh huh, for the We have a psych department? Not yet. We wanna get the Cash Feed have it ready for the fall. Oh yeah, love that building. Who's gonna head it? I was hoping that you would. I've taught like one class. Nobody cares. You've got real-world You're young, you're committed. Board eats that What? It's ridiculous, we may not be able to get it. Well, what ever happened to attempt great things, There's a support group, okay? The recently deceased willed it to them could raise money to and it's only rumors, I have but it sounds like Is there no other building? Not like that. Not at that price or It's breath-taking. It smells good Do you need any help? Do you like vajatas? What? Vajatas. Do you like them? Fajitas, I love fajitas. That's what I said. Go have a seat. Let me go check out the group. Hmm? The support group, Not say anything, find out how I don't know, Dave. That sounds a little deceitful. It's research. Where do they meet? Over by that hippie I think. Hi, are you I think so. Great! Come on in. That's how it works. Hey, am I at the right place? It depends, are you gay? It's not a trick question. Your shirt says Hey guys, Alyssa's gonna be late so I'm gonna lead Oh, no he didn't! Yes, right in the We were at the alter-call-thing and the pastor says to are you a lesbian? Girl, he didn't. And I said, I'm not here for and I'll go find it That was like eight More things are much Some of us are changing. I guess, let's everyone says their name Rosa, can you start? My name is Rosa and I'm although I don't think of a baby sitter. And to make sure she grows up in a less hateful Bruce? Hello, my name is Bruce. And I've been a member of the Hi everyone, I'm Richard, and I'm here to That's what you are, His family doesn't like him. Well, I'm Kyle, and I've for about four years now. He's not gay. I'm Mark, I'm the pastor I love people, What about you? Mm-hmm. Oh, uh, I don't really... It's okay to just Right, oh okay. Um, my name is Dave. Just moved here a few days ago. Uh, living with my to talk about my sexuality. It's okay, we all understand. We're really glad you're here. We've all been there. Erika, do you wanna go? Pass. We can do that? Okay. Does anyone have anything they need support with tonight? That little shit behind Every time I go to that I catch him spewing his hate! Your god is love, It's okay. Hi. Hi. Not gay. I just got back from and we're all set to We just need to get the money to cover the taxes Well, how much $50 thousand in 30 days We need everyone at Yes, please. Uh, sorry, car wash? Yeah, yep, a car wash. It just seems like Honey, you have not Okay? Right. Girl. We'll see you soon. - All right, now. Only one cookie now. I deserve it, thank you, okay? I'm Dave. Sorry, I'm so sorry. Mm-hmm. I had to do something So I hear you're not... Not what? Uh, afraid of a challenge. No. 40,000 in three weeks. This shelter is gonna happen. Shelter? It's for everyone who Well, isn't that what Not if you're gay, darling. Bruce, have you met Dave? Yes, we have, we And Dave is new to and he lives with his aunt. And he hasn't talked about Oh, that's understandable. It gets better. Be seeing you, Dave. Oh. Why didn't you tell me? Do they have it? Did you know? Do they have it? - No, they don't. Not even close. Gordon, it's a gay group. All right, that would That would have been and you know you'd think or maybe some sort of sex house. But they want it for Did you know that? No Dave, how And so what if they want You want those poor kids taken off the street - No. But like I said All they have are car washes. You haven't seen I will this weekend. Will what? You're going back? Why would you you do that? Because what if I... Sabotage it? Jesus flipped over tables to rid the temple of evil. Desperate times, my brother. Ha, great idea. So who's got a question today? Yes, Nate. Does a person Wow, obsessed? Okay, well it's complicated, the psycho-social choice to some kind of abuse or Call it a distant father, Sometimes it's as has never had a chance hindering his So they're attracted because they never Psycho-social. When have you kissed a man? I'm sorry? I don't know, maybe you Maybe if you kissed a man you'd find you really like men. Stop it. Patty? Patty? I ain't Patty. Holy, clearly. Who are you? Frank. You must be Dave, Patty tells me you don't know how Um, okay Frank, that and it's mostly untrue. Ain't nobody ever told you Um... A 60 minute man. 15 minutes a cuddling, 15 minutes a rubbing... Whoa, okay, wow. Thank you, please stop though. Why are you here, Frank? I'm whatcha call Patty's We share our Social I give her my downers and Okay. Where is she? Frank. I tell you what, you but you gotta wear this. Um, mm, I don't... Oh, it'll freak her out. She's all the time and she'll get you before long? She already did. Here's your chance. Gonna regret this. Mm-hmm. It's a bad idea. Bad, bad idea. Frank, where you at? Frank, I'm ready for you. - Oh! No. Gotcha Patty! Frank. At night? Woo, our first customer! Your wash will be but then you gotta help. Okay, none of Okay. Show me what you got for me I wanna see what I want it all like I want y'all on top of me Show me what you got for me I wanna see what I want it all like I want y'all on top of me Watching you wine And hit rewind on that ass Caught the pause I guess the time moving fast Slow motion like juvenile I'm a have to call Get 'em daddy I don't think they gone Came from a dollar Was some commas to But we ain't tryin' to Bought a white house Was Obama with that No. Oh, I'm not asking. No. Go. No, no, no. Gimme a second I'm trying to select the Watch where you steppin' Them snakes all around you When I was a kid My grandmamma told me So I stopped praying Oh no, keep that You go ahead. Got nothing to Walking the edge, Enough of the lies, I don't understand Keep your money. This one's on us. This is a site, grab all I'm waiting, don't care Watching and waiting For that first mistake Go ahead. Just checking the listings I'm always aware of I just hold out till Coming alive Whoa oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Heat of the night Whoa, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Now is the time Whoa, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Don't try to hide 'Cause I'm gonna hunt Benefit of the doubt We the ones Kyle? I didn't do anything. How was the baptism? Success. There's no way they I don't wanna know. So what's the I mean, make up Am I right? And you guys, you've Raising that girl. No greater responsibility. How does it feel to know thinks you're not gay? Hmm. If it were me, I'd find a I look at you and I look at don't near cares like you do. Where's their passion? I see it in your eyes. Don't see it in theirs. You've been here what, a year? Still no gender Must be tough. Do they have to get Get their kid to school? Nope. You know why? They're too busy having fun. What is it I've been saying, for the love of God, But I'm so gay I make There's always been this You know, inside my head, I It's true. Dude, I use the ladies room. Right. Hey, how's everyone doing? That's I just wish everyone would care as much as I do! Don't act like with a bunch of hypocrites. Do not talk to us like that. Bruce, apologize to Erika. Y'all, snap it together! Get your lives. Do I have to remind you? This is not who we are. We're together because and to make sure who don't have Erika, honey, we know and have grown stronger for it. That's why we love you. Bruce, you keep your Miss Gina, Miss Rosa, you're doing a beautiful but that blessing was Yeah. And Kyle, poor child, you are not gay. So let it go, boo boo. We still love you. All right, good. So, the numbers are in from It's like $130 bad. Uh-huh. But we washed like Yeah, we But after the and the sound system, Kyle! I told you I didn't touch it. It's fine, it's okay. Everyone had fun and people so that's good. We also have the 5k next Speaking of which, after group I need help making Uh, I could, if Okay. Bruce kinda Kind of? Well he mouthed it to Well that man does too So? No. Oh, no? Um-hmm. Then why the meetings? For support. Seems like you You kinda run the place. Yeah. How long have you lived here? I'm actually from here. Yeah, I um, just moved Well three years there was another guy He was confident, handsome. Great with people, very gay. A little bit like you. The shelter was his dream. He would bring in homeless and try and get them but their sponsors didn't want The image of a So he would take them Mark volunteers there sometimes. And then Ryan realized that there is enough gay youth here that we needed our own place. So what happened to him? One night he was some guys jumped him. They found him the next morning. Beaten, and strangled with He was my brother. That's why I'm here. To make his dream real. You know? Bruce was right. You are kinda cute. What? It's too bad you're gay. Excuse me? You're just so refreshing. So many new people feel the need to overemphasize What I love about you is your gayness just Do you have any idea if you were straight? Your gayness flows naturally? Not funny man, they All of them? Apparently, something about not having to Look Dave, this They trust you now, you What? They want me to go to some It's a gay bar, Dave. A very classy place. Phenomenal. Should I go? Absolutely, the door Get in there and strike. You be careful okay? Make sure you bottle up that You look so handsome. Just like Frank. Perfect. First It's not a date. Don't come back fore 10. You might see something Yep, looks pretty gay to me. Hey. Hey. Wow, you really clean up nicely. Thanks. You are... also wearing clothes. Yeah, you like? That scarf though. - No. I'm glad you came out tonight. Yeah, uh, and thanks I haven't really been out since Sam... left me for a woman. He did? Oh, Dave. Yep, a woman. Two timing man-whore. Mm-hmm. I don't know, I guess I feel like I must not to leave Sam the only Most days are okay though, but then all it takes or I could be at a but realize there's no hand. Ah I just wish I one more time, Sama... man. Sam-a-man, I used to because he was so much man. Good evening Alyssa. Hi, Jason. Here you go. Deep breath. Ready? Um. Come on. I see what they did there. Not as gay as I expected. Give it time. How does a straight They don't mind? No, they don't mind as long as I follow the My vagina has no power here. I mean the straight girls are and being the center That doesn't happen here. Makes sense. Straight guys can be here too. They just need to need to know that around midnight can get a little crazy. How crazy are we talking? You'll see. What does I've just never been I saw things no one Disturbing stuff. I wouldn't wish it And then Frank, that He was downstairs laughing. Yeah. I'll never look at my Aunt She sounds amazing. No, she is a dirty old witch is what she is. I didn't want to I had no choice, Well, you can always Mi casa, su casa. Ooh, almost time. I should probably get going. No, no, no, stay And three, two, one. Oh, are we going to wash cars. - Yeah. Let's go We them rebels everybody We stay up all night and Get on the floor, on the Don't take it slow, take it Jump up and down, Jump up and down, Jump up and down, Jump up and down, Oh, oh, oh Make it super loud Oh, oh, oh Make it super loud Oh, oh, oh Make it super loud Oh, oh, oh Make it super Dave? I can't even get And I was just drunk. Drunk and dancing Okay, I on this thing right now. What if we're Wrong about them? Who am I talking to right now? Not Dave Hopper. Not the guy who's world was Not the guy who's wife was and ruined his practice. Totally destroyed his chance I wanna talk to that Dave, okay? 'Cause I'm in his corner, buddy. I can give him another chance. When he shows up, 'Cause I'm ready to help. All right? Just not sure we're Sweet creeping Judas, Dave. Stop going to the get a grip on your Okay? Okay. You ready for this? The 5K? No, the shelter. Huge job. You know, operations, One thing to own a property, another thing to keep You know? You're right. I am? Yeah, we don't really Well, better to be Maybe we should just... Field trip. A what? Field trip. Mark volunteers at the He could take us all show us how it's done. Give us a tour. Great idea Dave! Bloop. You betta' stretch. Good morning, everyone. Oh, you look amazing. Are you ready to do this? Yeah! All right, let's count down. All together, here we go, ready. Three, two, one. Come on, come on Strut up to the scene Let's all move Oh a heated fever Up so high I'm Never coming down never Oh, sorry. Hey, I love your shirt. - Oh thanks. - just like it. - Yeah. Yeah, I do. Woo, woo. Woo. Really? A church van? Am I the only one afraid Hey, if Jesus can handle that's happened back he can handle a Ooh, ooh. Ah, ah, ah, ah, gayin' Ah, ah, ah, ah, gayin' alive Gayin' alive, gayin' alive That's good. - Thank you. What's he doing? It's a game that Kyle plays. You take a song and with the word gay. Yeah, but it Right, so Bruce, Uh, yeah, let me think. Gay you, gay me Gay for everyone That's the way it should be. - Good job, Bruce. Oh okay, me. No gay, but to-gay Oh my god. It's a beautiful gay Don't let it get away Okay, okay, I got one guys Hey I just met you So here's my number, No, nope. Hmm-uh, uh mm. That was painful. Nope. - Well I give up. I'm sorry. I appreciate You got anything? You go. Uh, mm. Oh c'mon, this Yeah, it's a no judgment zone. You don't wanna hear me it, you don't wanna hear me sing. Please. Ah okay, you asked for it. This is the gay, That the Lord has C'mon, I only know church songs. Now we're gonna Yeah, a little bit. This is the zebra house, where &quot;sexually when their parents or I'm intersex, it means I'm not biologically My insides are kind of a mix up. But I was raised in and I get to hear about man and woman. When I'm not strictly either. I identify as gender-fluid, which means that I believe I didn't fit into that people thought I should. That my mom thought I fit into. That physically I should have. The first time that I thought I was probably about nine. I was in Catholic school Actually got kicked out at that point in my life. When I was 11, I used about wanting to wear 'cause I had four brothers. I have seven siblings. I knew back then that was way more masculine People ask me, they're and I'm like no, not gay. It's always one of the or the normal question of &quot;What I just kind of roll my I'm like what does My family aren't as Even though they say that and they love thy neighbor, but just not when it's I used to cry out to why did, if he formed why did he choose to My mother has allowed but she's like I don't just don't be someone Just don't mess with That's how God made you. You've already proven by liking the same sex. This person that isn't this body, that I hope can I love my mother, though. She is a wonderful woman. I think the world of her and I'll always love my mommy. Even if she doesn't want me Just have a hard time with my family as with one another they don't feel Not knowing what they say What does my mom tell her that I'm doing? I learned that she doesn't even I wonder what my mom I wonder what's her And I wish that I was good worth just telling people about. I just come to hang out This is, this is the only place where I feel like I Like I actually matter. I'm sorry. Nate, Nate. What are you doing here? Were you following me? No. So you're here with them. How's that gonna look Look, you can't tell Is that really what Why am I gonna tell them, huh? Oh hey, Dr. Woodman, I was when your puppet came visiting. Oh why were you at Because I'm gay. Yeah, I'd be done. We could help you. Help, seriously? I've heard a month of your help. No thank you. And you know what, don't worry. I'm not gonna tell anyone Can't have anyone knowing you've been spending time Nate. Nate! I had no idea. Why would you, huh? All you do is answer the I don't have any But I think... You know what, I don't But this place, it's good and I feel Call from That's rather inappropriate. Call from Hot Sweet Muffin. It's coming from your pocket. Call from It's my aunt. Hello? Patty, I told you, you You know a hug than words right now. You don't understand, You know what, nevermind. This girl doesn't Every time she thinks Well look, Patty, take it Thank you. The paramedic said You all right? Tell me something Today has not been great. Bull shit, tell me Learned a new game. Ah good, will No. Oh it sounds bad. What were you doing I was unraveling a into student's deepest wound. Have you seen my silk flowers? You can't miss 'em. I had Frank plant For the emphysema? Just wanted my flower beds to look beautiful all year long, no matter the season. Except they look fake. Most people go thinking they can They love the beauty of summer without the growth of spring, or the doubts of fall. My favorite part is the line where the black and white meet. It's clear, it's obvious, I'm not so sure I'm late for class. So why don't I join you. Good morning, everyone. Carry on. Hi. Morning, everyone. Morning. Let's continue with What about the question today? Right, question. Who's got a... How is the gay thing Or oppression of women? I'm sorry? The Bible has been used to Before the Civil War, by white pastors should respect their masters. And men have always to keep women silent How do we know that than these things the church Nate, these are Now, pardon me. Um, Nate, is it? Yeah. Nate, you are The Bible has been to justify racism, slavery, and the oppression of women, and that is shameful, All right? But as you start to you're gonna find that there this opposing narrative that to be in leadership as contrary to God's will. Dig in there, read it closely, you are gonna find However, even though some to fit their own there is no narrative anywhere in the Bible that or calls it anything But love is the ultimate message Uh-huh. If we love, then affirming our gay friends? Okay. Nate, we have certainly and gays who think have suffered at the Which many times has failed to treat them with compassion, but we all know that God's We agree on that, we believe it. And the greatest expression of God's love is to speak his truth. Case closed. Have a blessed day. Okay. So what's important Nate, what are you... Nate. Hey guys, Rosa and to Chloe's birthday It's over on that new with the weird Hey, are you sure you attending her 10th Her friends will but when we asked she said her 2nd family Please say you'll come. Of course, we'd be honored. Thank you. Okay, now to business. We are not even close. We need 32,000 in two weeks. So time to brainstorm. Give me what you got, Hey, listen to this. We find the biggest we have a huge bake sale we all wear T-shirts All right, I mean I was wrong. No. What about a You know a chance to tell how it's gonna help. We could set up a open mic, give people the opportunity So they can tell us I don't know about that. Oh I don't know, I than you think. Yeah, we're running This could work. We can do a silent Yeah, I mean if we're we might as well Are you sure you I don't think Hey. When's the last time Easily the most Obsession manifested but Well I guess it's To say we're never 'Cause I been And yeah, it's oh But there's love We already know that There's love And I don't wanna No without love Oh yes. Yes! This is so good. - Let's go, c'mon. Yeah, come with mommy. This was perfect. Thank you. Yeah, you want more? No, I can't have any more. But I have to go You got it? Mm-hmm. That's bullshit. Are you kidding me? And they're just No, it's just, it's just wrong. Well, we are gonna work it out. And we're gonna find Of course, love you, too. Bye. Didn't sound good. Nope. The inflatable place just No! Yeah, the whole to support that lifestyle. You do have friends. Yeah. Patty, this is Alyssa, Hot Sweet Muffin. So nice to meet you. It's nice meeting you. Is everything okay? Uh, not really, um, some of my friends, just found out their has just been canceled. Oh why? A location thing. Well she can have - Really? - Yes. Oh we have a big house. It's not real big. That's great, How many people can you take? Three, four. Everyone! I love parties! Okay great, we will - All of you. This is huge, I appreciate it. Hey guys, sorry I'm late. All right. Nate, what do you Anybody seen Nate? Where is he? Hi Dave, how are you? Where is he? Where's who? Nate. Nate is no longer Don't tell me you didn't know. He can't be here, all right? How can we help We're not ignoring him with his need to change. Oh for heaven's sake, look, I told you to stop You've already done No. Wait! Wait! Wait! Wait, wait! Come on. You know this is Doesn't have to be. Perfect, thank you. Oh. Hey, I, um, give you a heads So excited to meet her! No. Yes I am. What I mean is she's kinda - Not really... With us. Girl, you look beautiful! You must be Patty. Thank you. This is a gift. Sorry I'm late. That fudge packer at the They're here, come on. Oh come Don't get your vintage What is he doing here? I needed my uppers! Shh! Sorry. Girl. Sorry. Okay guys, remember this was so we have to appreciate Okay. Surprise! You guys! This is too much. This is just right. And I'm Frank, Patty's When I go walking With you downtown You brush up against me Now tell me if that to make the dead part of Ooh. Frank! Frank! Get that feeling I get that feeling And you know what that means When I'm driving and I've always been that you plant it where Frank! Frank. Well I get that feeling, Yeah, you give it to Oh I get that feeling, And you know what that means No, no, no, no, no, no. Take me to church You are sleeping But I know you know, girl A man's got his needs So I get that feeling, Oh, I get that feeling, Oh, I get that feeling And you know what it means I lose control I done lost control Done lost control I done lost control Chloe? Your town It's Friday night at my church. Really? I thought that was People might not like you shoving the gay Seriously, the The only agenda I have Those kids who get in the name of religion They don't even know They're labeled an outsider, I like to imagine if we chose to love He did these himself? He and his ex Oh, well they'd look I thought you left. Oh, I was going invited me to stay for dinner. Isn't Yeah, very nice. Could I borrow you - Excuse me. What are you doing? I've seen the way - you look at her. It's not a good time, okay? It's complicated. Samantha? Don't say her name, please. Ooh. She's a lesbian! Look at how having a lesbian for dinner! Or does she swing both ways? Isn't that what you young So, Aunt Patty, Frank He keeps me young. You two ever hook up? Oh, no. We do have sex though. This was a great idea. Dave never told me you Dave. I don't talk about He talks in his sleep, though. You should hear him Patty. Uh-mm. Okay, we won't talk about Sam. Oh, how long have you Um, we've known each No, I meant you and Saman... Mm. This broccoli is so good. No, I've never met Sam. Just know what little Oh, I thought by the that you had known h... Broccoli. No, never net him. I don't, I don't think, I don't think that's how you... Got it. You okay? They were such a sweet couple. And then that tramp right out of his chest Genius. What'd I do? No, the silk flowers, Oh yeah, something real ones make it worse. I love that woman. You're lucky to have her. So lucky. Good night, Alyssa! Dave hasn't had this much Who's Samantha? My ex-wife. Say that again? Samantha is my ex-wife. And by wife you mean for your male partner? You lying bastard. Wait, wait, hold on, hold on! I said she was a man because, I've never talked about And I didn't think I've lived as a straight I didn't. That shit happens why wouldn't we believe you? I don't know, I'm an idiot. My therapist says I by giving people That's good advice. Shut up. I will not, let you get me this mad. I'm sorry. Yes, you are. I am a phony posing Person Mr. Hopper? Oh, yeah? Sorry, Taylor, Do not be fooled. Those who sin sexually, take part in adultery, those or men who have sexual those who steal, are lie about others, will not inherit God's kingdom. I am a phony posing Person You know, absolutely, you will be the very Of course. All right, have a Have a seat, Dave, I'm done. You're done for the day or? Forever, I'm done. This is because of Nate? Why does this mean Because, Gordon, Nate matters. Things we do matter. The things that we Think about this, Dave. - I have. Where you gonna work? Where are you gonna go? To your girlfriend Your crazy Aunt Patty? We have to stand because nobody else will. Love speaks the truth. That's the only He's not broken! Dave, have you thought about who your new friends really are? The scriptures are They're right there next to the idolaters and This is who you're Support? You want to talk to Okay. How was I supported when the after Samantha left, huh? When I heard whispers and who boycotted my practice I allowed my own That's not okay. So let's talk about The cheats, the When I look at Erika, I don't see the people to do with that list. I see, I see a love I never saw here. So you can keep your Dave. It actually sounds really nice, this place you've found. I'm sure it feels good. And I'm sure you think it's But it's not real, Dave and I can't ignore the truth. There's no love without it. Good evening. Thank you for I would like to introduce Thank you again for For those of you My name is Alyssa Cane. My brother was Ryan Cane. You all know the story. We are here tonight to so that such hate would never be a part of this town again. So we are launching at the Wabash property A shelter for Lesbian, and Transgender teens could go when they have no We understand this is a and you might have and we're here to answer them. As well as ask for because we can not Thank you. With that, the Hi, I'm Nate. I've been to a place like without that place, I It saved my life. Thank you. I'm not really good with That's okay. I don't get the whole But, that doesn't mean These kids, they don't because of something I'm in your corner Yes. Thank you. I'm here as a woman the way it should be. You all seem nice, but I wish it was but I can't change I know you'll But I don't hate you. I love you. I just can't stand by and let you ruin the Oh for the love of God. Mrs. Waters, thank you and even though tonight about marriage equality, I want to personally that it's destroying the Oh, no she didn't. I've been learning in and this is certainly a It's a perversion, an that leads to destruction. My Bible is very clear when it says we need to separate Look, I'm sorry, ma'am. But it's the truth. Your brother was an abomination. It's the truth. 1 Corinthians 6:9, 10. It's in the Bible. That, that's enough. That's enough! That's not love. That's not God. Mr. Hopper? What are you doing? You know this kid? Yeah, he's my professor He taught me that. You, you taught me that. Everything I just I don't understand. Have you been playing both I'm gonna get a I'm just saying you guys All I'm saying is maybe we should be a about who we let in. Preacher, you need I will, Richard, I will. How are you not angry? Calm down. I'm not gonna calm... If you tell me to calm down. You son of a bitch! Are you even gay? Oh my god. I knew it, I knew it. What about the car wash? That was you! And he blamed him. - Come on. Piece of shit. You see. I told you guys. I don't know what to say. You'd better You know Mulberry had a same-sex homecoming I was raised in Mulberry. A gay kid growing up in the That was not easy. I had my share of but I was one of the lucky ones. My parents always accepted me. And it made things better. Oh things are much better now. We got over Stonewall. We got over the AIDS crisis and the lies they told about us. We can even marry now, I thought I would never But I have been living One where, well, and getting over their fear and But tonight, Tonight pulled up emotions Words that killed me as a kid. Words that will kill And I'm tired of I'm gonna speak up And thank you, David, I believe that the who we disagree with the most is our true test of our faith. So, I won't hold I will. Absolutely. You can Me too, really. Get a life. Please. Call from You sure he ain't gay? Call from Hot. Hello? Frank. Okay. I'm coming. I never thought you I don't care about that thing. I care about what it says. I'm not sure I follow. People like you Care about the answers. You spend your whole life down to every last syllable. You obsess with it, but you miss what it's about. There's a lot in here but I do know what it's about. Mystery is God's way of Sounds like a Maybe you've done How much do you know? Enough. Why didn't you stop me? That's not my job. You're a grown-ass man. My job was to love you. And give you a place to stay when you had no place to stay, when nobody wanted you. I really messed up. Really hurt some people. Well, go make it right. I don't even Come here. There's this thing the Jews do. I'm not Jewish. But They don't start their day They start at and reflect upon their day. At the end of the day, I've asked myself who did I love today? You say you don't Start with love. Who did you love today, Dave? Have you seen Read 'em to me. I need to hear your Thank you for showing Hot Sweet Muffin got Frank. Thank you for listening Patty, you made me You were the first person You made it okay You're pretty popular, Patty. Patty? I think the first time we met Patty. And if you were like me, the first time you well you didn't know exactly If there's one thing it was what living and loving without labels And that reminds me that's sometimes referred if I speak in the tongues but do not have love, I'm a Oh yeah, I've been embracing The place goes to We'll all be there. You guys don't have a prayer. Yeah, it's kind of Why are you here, Nate? I was kind of hoping that Sorry to disappoint. I need to tell you a story. Before I came out to my mom, I had it all I rehearsed different if she'd hit me or hug me. I mean I really didn't she was always supportive but my friends said that with her own kid, you know. One day I just, I went I told her I was gay. So she kicked you out? She hugged me. Told me that she loved me. We both cried. That's my favorite So what happened? She got this job in Orlando and things started So she started going to this to work on her issues, But she changed. Seemed distant. Questioning if I was Started to sound a lot One day, she came home. I need you to watch this. Honey, come Nate, honey, before I say anything else. I love you. Yeah, yeah, I know. - I since you been a little boy. Yeah, so you that it's not a choice. It is a choice. No, it's not a choice. In that You could either get I can't support your lifestyle. Mom, it's not a... It's who I am. My baby I don't know From No, you You weren't like You loved me. I still love you. No, no, that's not what... Get back What is wrong with you? Stop! There's something There's You're a disgrace. I'm not a disgrace. I can't that my son is a disgrace. Nate. It's not true. I came here to tell You're not a disgrace. I forgive you. You're not a disgrace. We're here for the auction. You're early. We wanted to be early. Fill one of these out. - Okay. Thank you. This is the gay, That the Lord has made, Goodness gracious Oh, I heard it Yeah, girl. Been living most our lives Aha. You're so gay, you probably You're so gay You probably think Don't you, don't you Yeah, that's what How can I help you? Hi, I'm here for the auction. You're early. Mm-hmm. Fill one of these out. Thank you. Um, thank you. Auction starts at three. Thank you. I don't And who Gordon Woodman, the Dean You're the son-of-a-bitch Send that kid to From what I hear, Mr. Hopper You're so gay You probably think Don't you, don't you 725 Wabash. Can I say something? But that's not how it works. Sorry. That's not how this works. Okay, so we're what we came here for today, and we've all been through but I know we're I love you all. Well, I'm inspired. Let's just start the We'll start the - $10,000, do I hear 10,000? 10,000, Here. 15,000, do I hear 20, 20,000? $18,427. $18,427, $50 thousand. 52,000. 52,000, going once. $60,000! 62,000. - 62,000, going once. $100 thousand. $100 $100 thousand, going twice. Hold on! What's he doing? I don't know. Excuse me. Okay. Ah. All right, can you? Okay, thank you. All right, I know to hear anything but just give me one moment. Please. All right. I know that I have caused each and every one of you And I am deeply, deeply sorry. I've always measured my success based on having all the answers. And that arrogance has Today, the only thing I know is that I don't about anything, life, love, struggle. I saw all of you as broken. You were never broken. I was. I believe we were at sold. Oh, uh, 200,000. $200 thousand. You can't be serious. You can't even pay Call it a David, don't do this. The bid is at $200 thousand. $200 $400 thousand. $400 thousand. $400 thousand, going once. $400 thousand, going twice. $400 thousand, sold. Hey, Alyssa. Hey, could I have a ride? That was really nice but we're not okay. Yeah, I know. But Patty left you something. It's at her house. Get in. Come on, it's inside. One more thing. You gotta put this on. This is getting weird. It's not weird. Almost there. Okay. Okay. Stay right here. Okay. You can I don't know. I'm Just take it off. Okay. Frank. She wanted to give me Frank. The Ryan Home? Yeah. The Ryan Home? Ryan's dream, here. Now. Is this real? Patty she said fill it with love, you're the most The Ryan Home. Hell yes. It's perfect. I won't disappoint her. I promise. Hey look what I made for my favorite people Hand-crafted. All natural, chocolate The most important part about being a 60 minute man is step three, the rubbing. A lot of guys don't so let me show you what I mean. Oh happy gay, oh happy gay Oh happy gay, oh happy gay The LGBT, oh happy gay I said the LGBT Charley? I'm Alyssa, come in. Glad you made it. Let me show you around. Dave, this is Charley. Charley, I'm glad you're here. Nice to meet you. Welcome home. Hey Jesus can It's been awhile I was wonderin' do You see I've loved Tried to be the greatest son Now I'm wonderin' could 'Cause I know that I tried so hard and And I just wanna be I know that I I tried so hard and And I just wanna be I just wanna be loved For who I am Hey Jesus can I just want to love I was wonderin' since Do you want me To know what it's like In the most intimate way 'Cause I know that I tried so hard, And I just wanna be I know that I I tried so hard, And I just wanna be I just wanna be loved For who I am Hey Jesus can I just wanna love I was wonderin' could Subtitles by explosiveskull