August 8, 1973, 8:24 a.m., Houston, Texas. An emergency telephone She hears what sounds like a young man say, "Y'all Not long after, cops arrive at 2020 Lamar a well-respected man known for once being the Vice What police don't know is that this man lying the most depraved and prolific serial killers a real-life boogeyman whose crimes That young man who made the call and did indeed Henley, a poor kid who'd spent much of his youth had a wretched existence, but he never knew dark affectionately called the "Candy Man." killed Corll because of what had been something he'd played a big part in himself. That Corll's lair. Henley showed police what Corll had piece of plywood which victims were held to by Corll's abominable and well-stocked "torture kit". described in lurid detail what Corll would do were eventually slaughtered on the board. The cops them there had been dozens of victims tortured and would make him the worst serial killer ever. gotten started. the absolute horrors that happened at Dean Corll was a kid with health problems but he found his footing as a teenager when second husband making candies. He just loved watching those colorful, sugary balls His mother later spread her wings when she opened She made Dean, then just in his early what was just called "The Heights" was a rundown Kids ran around in the streets causing trouble, In short, it wasn't far from being a slum. hang out at the candy company. It was a bit of with just a little bit of happiness. Every his hands filled with broken candies that the waiting kids who stood there grinning with of kindness, by the kids and their parents. Psychologically, Dean Corll had issues. He'd friends. It didn't make matters easier for him something he kept hidden due to It wasn't until he was drafted into the US Army in It was during this short stint in the army that Still, when he returned to the candy People around him remarked how he flirted with animated he became when young guys would turn day. They followed him around as hence he got another nickname, "The Pied Piper." of the Pied Piper which has a much darker version, him. He was going to do the unspeakable, That's because the Heights neighborhood people called "white trash", and this was in a because it was so violent. If you wanted to make let's just say that another petty didn't exactly mean a lot to the police. well that cops took little notice when a kid known missing. These kinds of kids were to be Corll's At first, he just hung out with them. He installed play. He was surrounded by these young street complain when they drank booze or smoked weed. He was always well-dressed, well-spoken, and even wealthy, and plenty of cash in your pocket This is what a mother of one of the "He was crazy about children. He'd let them walk a man that had nothing on his mind but success." bad. According to serial killer author Peter that was when Corll went out in search neighborhood had grown up taking sweets from So, when Corll drove around in his car or "Get in, I have booze and weed", people did just Young folks were handed all the booze and drugs Except someone would always pass out. on the torture board with Corll standing next to We'd be demonetized if we described what and to be honest, it's just too sick to have read the Marquis de Sade. That's where the After he'd had his fun, which could take days, he under boat storage that he was paying rent Other times he'd torture his victims in the van no one could hear the screams of his victims. did have steel hooks attached to the inside. company, so they may not have thought twice getting in the van. But many of the victims Elmer Wayne Henley, along with They told other guys in the street that free In a statement to police, Henley later said but he said he did not stay around for the the kid and then gag him. When the victim was At first, Henley said he wasn't sure if the knew because he sometimes helped to bury saying one time he saw Henley take part in one on the torture board. What's even worse, some Henley said that he thought he was trapped and He told investigators that he tried to join the "I couldn't go anyway. If I wasn't around, brothers, who he always liked a little too much." in which he asked Brooks and Henley for new boys You'd think someone would have said something, or it was clear he only hung out with teen boys and is the power of money and a nice suit. Who could say anything bad about Candy Man? story. She was an attractive teenager who was He was not into crime or drinking like and then one day, he just went missing. but he never turned up. Then one day her cool her that Frank had been murdered by the mafia. like all those other boys whose faces were now Williams and Henley became friends, often smoking tough lives they lived. One thing they didn't One day they were out on their bicycles when the street, a white van pulled up alongside whom Williams had heard of, but she didn't have In a cordial tone, Corll said put your bikes They did just that, with Williams wondering But in the end, Corll actually did do home safely. He had no interest in girls. 7. In the evening that day, Williams had She was so scared she had to bolt the door Her neighbor, Henley, turned up to help. who Williams had never met. Williams told them she had to get away from the house or else so Henley told her that he knew of a place where Things were about to get very, very weird, When they got to Corll's house things weren't other two kids couldn't hear, Corll shouted at that girl." What he meant was he had $200 the unassuming Kerley. How could Corll do Henley told him about the violent father, after some weed and put it down on the table in front with a tin of solvent and three rags and said it The next thing Henley knew he was waking from a behind him. The other two were tied up and gagged. but Henley knew exactly how things were going He saw himself losing his manhood on the the world breathed obscenities into his ear. again shouted, "You ruined everything!" The other thinking this was some kind of outrageous prank. he would have the boy, but for ruining things nodded his head and Corll removed the cuffs. The Williams and Kerley only started to understand all of his clothes. He proceeded to walk At that moment, William's gag came she whispered to Henley, "Is this for real?" when he said in a deadly serious Henley shouted over to Corll just as he was "Hey Dean, why don't you let me take the Corll just carried on. leaped to the side and picked up the gun. He Corll, thinking Henley was his ever-obedient shoot. You won't do it." With six bullets in him, Corll tried to move stark naked body slumped against a wall. come here right now! I just killed a man!" told them the truth, showing them the torture had been killed he would have gotten $200. Miranda rights, to which he shouted back about it! I have to get it off my chest!" the marks of the days of the obscene torture they least another victim, too. Even though movies and at the time, this body count made him the worst US unheard of, which is strange when you consider less demented and less prolific killers. not for killing Corll, but for everything were the "most extreme example of man's Henley might get out in 2025 and if he does, he'll Kerley and Williams naturally never got over throughout his life and was an alcoholic for Williams was equally traumatized, but she didn't after that incident she wasn't sure how she felt towards perhaps the most horrific death possible, In 2005, she turned up to the prison where and understand just how bad he was. He told he'd almost shot her instead of Corll, He would no doubt have also got $200 for doing it. out of the prison gates and told herself