Are you tired of quick fixes and short you are and how fast you're going if you want to make a lasting impact but you the change we seek to make and what are we're on the right path? Trying to figure and strategy, it could leave you feeling without the results you desire and you future, it's uncertain that you can you can't manage it. Today we're giving the world's greatest speakers and talk. It's really almost a master class, doing the right things for the right confident and calm enough to embrace the systemic shifts that you're seeking to Welcome back quick brains. I am your host thrilled to have with us a true visionary the iconic Seth Godin. Seth is the author really has revolutionized the way that I thinks about work. And we're going to be Strategy. And it promises to be another anyone looking to make a lasting impact in highly recommend all our quick readers get into this approach to strategic thinking ways, act bolder and really prioritize the show Seth. Boom. Thank you Jim. It's good math in my head 100 million plus downloads changed and the way you've changed them. It means a lot. You know, one of the over the years. I have a photo of us back guy. Yeah, it's it's it's a real everybody's tuning in for this brainy and your approach. You know, people often use interchangeably. I would love to know your each and then we could go into into your Mexico City thing because there's a lesson lots of people use in almost no one really hustle. It does involve systems strategy and games. And the way you can tell if choosing good waves. That you can't fight the challenges that we have when people you're teaching is it doesn't matter how you're going in the wrong direction. And to see what is already there to see where is flowing in a direction that you want to But the world we live in indoctrinated us fit in because it doesn't want us to person that's listening to you is willing the place where they're doing the work. help people do is to see that strategy is then the tactics and the tools that folks So we have as part of strategy, we have gains and then is that how your approach traditional business or life strategies. strategic plan, but Roger Martin has go together because a plan is executable. strategy looks at the future. It's can dance with it, but you can't manage time cannot be seen, but it can always be will I do today so that six months from will make now to get to be of service to work, but it's always going to be better want it to do. You're one of my favorite example of where whether it's systems or successful outcome. Sure. Well, I give you years ago and then we can move forward in completely the telegraph business, had a instead of doing that, they decided to happened, right? They didn't understand Moshe in the 1920s invented a much better Paris, which was the epicenter of bike racers they wanted nothing to do with him. the guy to ride this recumbent bicycle and petal in an hour. He broke it by a lot. time saw what had happened and realized stood for. So they got together with the bikes from bike races. And this has kept has affected the life and health of people not a bike racer, you want to look like shifted because Charles didn't understand launched it with would alter what would way up to the future, I was in Yahoo as VP buy Google for $10 million. Wow. And they be in charge of how everyone experiences to other sites. That's what Google does. see the power of networks. They didn't with limited resources. But it's not just individuals, families, the way our strategic decisions before we put in the examples because we touched on time and strategy. I think we have a lot of listen to our show. And they're often met to prioritize marketing problems. How to zoom in on what's important. And why tackling marketing situations or means a lot of things. I wrote the book. it means. Marketing doesn't mean hype or hype and hustle and spam and promo. So if mail, chimp emails, you could probably The question is, should you even be them to? What is the change you seek to marketing problem actually have a strategy marketing problem have as their slogan, they hope to be like everyone else, right? is you didn't show up and say, I'm a Robbins. If Tony Robbins's books are sold you did. You said, I am the only one. I am looking for is what I do. It's not what back to the Mexico example. So I think talk in Mexico City twice. So let's audiences that don't speak English because translation. It was a little headphones language. Plus, if you say something sort seconds. It's like a feedback loop. Okay. ,500 people, simultaneous translation. could imagine. And I'm up there and I'm third row, there's a woman on her cell rare, but she wasn't listening. She was presentation and I decided I was going to all my attention, everything I had right said to myself, maybe it was only three said, what am I doing? There are 2,900 who doesn't want to. Why am I depriving change this person? Where is my empathy? want me? And that shift, that marketing here you are with one of the most popular 99% of the people on the planet have never That's fine. Ignore them. It's not for have a problem, I say, well, who's your to get it to everyone. It's important. No, someone. So let's spend an hour thinking trying to write better emails. Fair. Now, thinking about how do I map out a new to identify and maybe leverage existing give them any advantages at all? Or where system? The most famous system is the is a planet or not, but the rest of the because they want to. They do it because Gravity runs the solar system. So what is If you're a high school student in a complex is driven by some very expensive, for you, but there is a system here, the changing your life. You can not like it. And if you want to get into a famous system against itself to benefit you. But were wrong all along. We're going to redo system for Fortune 500 companies that want is a system called the military industrial to the Pentagon, you have to rhyme with before you. So seeing the systems that are we're not going to copy everyone. We're going to get there by using the system to When we came up with quick brain back in Tim Ferris, they have long form. And they to do short form quick, right, in 20 challenges cognitively. And you may have want to democratize that so people could team is their big fans of your blog. And, blog consistently for a very long time. notes, Jim Quick.com post us notes. Some book that small actions can lead to, to talking about mindset, is there a mental for someone who feels a little stuck, they're just ideating. But they're, they great question. So I'll start with this And it just feels backwards, but it's before you adopt a regiment of swimming, pounds and going for a walk every day. going to take you five or 10 minutes a invest years of your life for surgery. first. Let's build a different kind of change. Let's figure out what's the to create the conditions for the system to let's figure out how to raise as much hustles we can to fix this thing in three discipline to do this is tiny compared to Mexico City in 2013. But it's an emotional be confident and calm enough to embrace systemic shifts that you're seeking to it besides taking those small steps is we with their people's long term vision you talk about gravity towards short term opinion train their minds to think more especially in a world with shiny objects for immediate satisfaction, you know, they hack. Thank you for bringing it up. Okay. proxies before a false proxy is something How many tick tock views you got yesterday interviewing for a job looks like you or proxy. How fast a programmer can type in are easy things to measure and not our mental dashboard, is it coming from the Salesforce, what are you doing that's at least the first year, maybe more they a little bit of revenue, if they've been you the people in that team would have making from ads. If you have no money, this proxy and now you can focus on a that would be useful. And so the biggest came around, I realized I was in early following. But if I was going to do that, else because my time doesn't scale, right. haven't read one in eight years because not going to read the one stars and no one their one star reviews. So by not looking false proxy because the one star review, wasn't for the reader. Oh, okay, got it. you. As long as it's for someone, it was pushing false proxies in front of us trying to get us, you know, the New York then the thing they're listening is not obvious that that was going to happen. But we've established that if the New York at it. We can insulate ourselves from change we seek to make and what are the the right path. A lot of our listeners, this week, I'll be a YPO and Arcane Jill, our listeners are entrepreneurs or the come up in conversation is how they deal And I'm wondering how does your new book that are adaptable, maybe even resilient tired and frustrated of struggling with mental retention and clarity? I have a free three part memory power video to effortlessly recall crucial remembering what you read, giving a speech transforming you into an exceptional powerful ingredients to supercharge your changing opportunity. Simply click the power. Yeah, how do we deal with thing that there's uncertainty on a daily wasn't, you'd be a coal miner. You know says all of her students are now using AI would say to those students, I just What company is going to pay you money to you. That what we're looking for are looking for are opportunities to face we do for a living. And so I'm not going the uncertainty go away. What we might be resilience so that when you're wrong you know, nobody wants to play poker where the That's not poker. The idea is you have decisions. So do other people. You might you're clear about the change you want to mental barriers like let's say fear or these play in preventing our listeners to have good strategies, you know, is it overcome that fear or self-doubt? I have person. But I'm not sure I struggle with acceptance. And a bunch of years ago I wrote, some and some people finish. Both of them get who drop out don't know where to put the do with it. So you don't go to a coach and getting tired? You go to a coach and say, tired, I can keep going. And so I say no to things because I say to myself, want to deal with. But when I want to do in advance for the fear and the self-doubt just going to experience it. And one of travel, right? You must get speaking basis every day. I would imagine. And so terms of getting on a plane? Well, it was home for dinner most nights to feed a thousand speeches in 30 years. I was in couple of things happen. I got sick with organized the Carbon Almanac, which is a other volunteers about climate. And the say, you know, me not getting on an world. But if I can model for conference without flying people from in thousand people from getting on a plane. plane for work and I'm not going to start been very expensive in the short run. But We want a mission, a practice, a way to do airplanes. I don't want that job. This is And I don't know if that would qualify how can our listeners cultivate? Because I They have this lack of confidence. So what maybe even cultivate that confidence to their nervous system is wired for safety survival. Yeah. How was the first talk you Exactly. They call them toddlers for a you rarely see a healthy kid grow up to be drinking a lot. So what happened? Well, not, I'm certainly not proposing to people I'm not proposing to people that they probably have one blog post in you. And if name, please do. And then tomorrow you have a one-minute talking you or a 30 a little better tomorrow. And so big the step wise method to get from here to Because that's the only way you're going Man and the Scarecrow, that's fantastic. that frightening as long as you treat it you're not. Very few people are watching started this conversation, we had our inspired by the focus was on values. And values is really important in making helping people kind of, you know, where outside noise or internal noise? How would values in terms of what they treasure, you and help them get through these difficult a fan of slogans, not carefully crafted let themselves off the hook. But simple that you're willing to say out loud. But doing it for the money. They could me. They could include, nobody better see embarrassed by it. You need to be able to your strategy, about your plan. That when ripping folks off with debit cards or betting they have incrementally backed said, yeah, I'm going to vote the next two selling them worthless coins. But if not willing to talk about your strategy. about the work we seek to do and why we we had right before this, they had three love to ask you really quick and I know these. The first one was, how can someone longer effective? I would say the best get hard to keep most people from doing should get easier after that. When they dispatch or whatever the newspaper was in harder and harder to make a newspaper probably be building something other than dip 100 years ago. And now all of a going to do instead? When you hear people a middle-level author. And now AI is That's a signal that maybe you should find from the team and they're really excited our podcast. Was something of the effect that can effectively address big problems? solution. 25% of climate changes caused by need and includes the respiration and giving up meat three days a week would be happens if you organize six other parents school? That's a small step forward. If in the whole place, doesn't fall apart. too. And maybe once you figured out how to people in four other high schools to do. so that is the kind of approach I'm steps where you organize other people, of like that slogan where you think question from the team was something to these unseen systems that is impacting really long time before Isaac Newton is something you can't explain. Why do those years of medical school? I'm not get the idea. What are the things that if Now let's feel why they're there. Who Where is the status quo paying off the Because if no one is maintaining the makes sense. Seth, I could talk to you for appreciate your time, your talent. People scenes. You embody the work that you you is that alignment. Who did you write potentially read it? Love this question. I going on. One, they want to make a change it's not happening as well or as soon as everybody who's listening. Here we discuss influencing systems and strategy and why quick fixes. Seth, I want to thank you for impact. They're truly game-changing. Where with you, maybe your blog? I built a there you'll find excerpts and some videos Are you on any social media? Just my blog maybe Facebook, but you will not find me so many reasons. Everyone who's listening, approach to strategy, remember that your up your copy of this strategy to dive forget to check out Seth's daily blog, insights. And Seth, thank you so much for you so much. Keep making a ruckus, Jim. applying these ideas and your work and us on social media. You can find me at at always, you can find more ways to fuel YouTube. We can join 1.7 million version of this episode. You'll definitely especially from this conversation. So make leave a comment under the episode to let Braincoach, JimQuick. Until next time, be for watching.