First off, we're just going to do some. 10,000ft view of what an LLC is. Then we're going to be talking about that were going to be talking So let's just kind of jump in So what is an LLC? That's what it stands for. It's not a limited liability corporation You hear lawyers talk about LLCs You hear the accountant is that they do not exist for the IRS. In other words, I wish I had a nickel How is it taxed as an LLC, right? No, you tell the IRS and it depends on or whether you have multiple owners. As to what the default is going to be. If you have one owner, then generally unless you want it to be treated that has multiple owners, then generally a partnership. or you It is a creature of state law. So LLC are not something that you set up or anything like that. You're setting up an LLC with a state, depending on where you want to be like. So if you're if you're big into privacy you might be looking at Nevada If you are just trying to protect going to be an LLC in the state Right? I am going to go over a little bit that may come into play, but for the most part, setting this puppy up in the state There's two classifications of people And the classification is this the people and the managers and the managers. Generally speaking, entities or individuals Sometimes you'll hear somebody say, which means the members I tend not to like that unless there's I tend to like manager manager, generally speaking, acting as the manager, especially for tax purposes, depending on, But let's just say There's members and there's managers. And you could be both like, I could be myself, There's nothing wrong with that Or if we want to hide ownership of the Or if I don't want people to see in the public record, I may want to have a manager managed, in that particular situation. And now and if you're somebody who says, well, I'll tell you how you could have You could always set up an LLC where there you don't have So there's your names, nowhere and be the member manager of your Boom. Now I'm just disclosing the Wyoming entity in your name and the reason that we do because you have a bunch of LLC So we're not going to dive into that The benefits. Let's go over the LLC. And this is really I'm just going to kind of break them down, give you a little bit of example But there's inside protection inside liability protection. What does that mean. It means that if I have a rental property and somebody slips then they don't sue me individually So I'm just going to there's four of them, There we go. So we're not too confusing. is the inside liability. It isolates the risk of owning Same thing. It burns down, and somebody, you know, They're limited to that particular asset. Right? That insurance, always carry an umbrella, so that you're not trying to leave anybody But what you don't want is a liability. Occurrence happens on one property You don't want it on one property, and they garnish you In fact, a lot of times we ask, Let's say you're a doctor and you decide you're going to invest Like let's say it's, Indiana. You're going to go to Indianapolis Winston, Salem, Shelby, flow properties Nice little cash flow or they allege mold or fill in the blank. Right. There's a liability occurrence. What you don't want or your income from your other jobs, on your house, do anything like that, so the way you protect yourself So that LLC isolates the liability. Let's say Put each one in an LLC right now if, if if you're 0 to 10 properties, I'm It depends on your scenario. If you have more, then we're If I have 50 properties, I may group them into groups But when you're just getting started out, you're going to probably be because if you lost one of those And then somebody might say, well, What does it matter? They can take that equity. No, they can follow that cash flow around. Like if you're buying cash the last thing you want is someone and take those rents for years and years You don't want to give that. So we want to isolate properties So if I have three properties They don't take the other two. So I have three properties slip and fall on property one. And it's bad. What I don't want is to lose property So the LLC protects you, creates great inside liability Number two it also has hybrid tax treatment. And what does that mean. And see if I can actually spell. It means that I can treat that LLC I could treat it as a partnership. I could treat it as a corporation. I get to choose So depending on my scenario, But I have an LLC no matter what. So let's say I'm doing multifamily I know that that LLC by itself In fact, I can even have my ownership to protect myself or to protect it from But at the end of the day, Let's say that it's just me and my wife, and I don't want the complexity I could just file it as from a federal tax standpoint. It just shows up on my personal return Let's say it's myself and a spouse. It depends on your state or whether you're treated if you're community property but it allows you to do that. So you could be, you could treat it very differently. Let's say that So we're talking about rental properties But let's just say you're doing You're flipping properties or whatnot. I could still set up an LLC and if I need to, I could have it So here's the rule of thumb. If you have an active business that you're trading your time then it's going to be, generally speaking, It could be an LLC taxed as a corporation, or a corporation in general. But since we're talking about LLCs, if it's passive, if I have another type of investment, then I'm generally speaking going to be either what makes sense from a tax standpoint So it becomes a big one. So you have active business corporation, disregarded our partnership. That's how it's going Outside. Liability protection. Just in the future. What does that mean. It means if somebody comes after me I could set it up with an LLC The most common example is like, I like to So let's say I have a bunch of properties. Let's just say I'll use an example. Let's just say I have four pieces of real estate each in an LLC. I may have all of those held by a single Wyoming LLC. And you say, why would you do that? Well, number one, I could consolidate everything onto one I could be using class, treatment set of books for each, for each of the rental properties, but also let's say that I'm out here So maybe I'll use the example of like, causes a car accident and it exceeds Maybe it's devastating accident, millions of dollars of liability. What you don't want them to be able to do your properties. You want to be able to negotiate and then walk away with something. Don't want to lose everything. and especially if you're dealing you want to be able to make sure But we can protect ourselves And the way you do where they have charging order protections a creditor of a member from foreclosing A lot of states have protections. The best states, in my experience, As far as having sole And for single member LLC is even you But those that works like a charm. But that is a huge benefit And then benefit number four is they are perpetual. They do not die, which means from an estate planning because I can have like Something happens to me and I pass away. This continues on. It doesn't dissolve, it doesn't go away. I could literally have my estate We like to use living trust, everybody to watch the videos But those living trusts will prevent you from going to probate and prevent it You could actually keep and then you're It's just they step into your shoes so your kids may step in your shoes Or maybe it's organizations, Whatever the case, it does not die It doesn't have an expiration date. So they end up being very, very effective And then even more importantly, this is in Washington, this one's in Indiana, And you own those in your individual name. Your estate would need to be probated, one of those jurisdictions. wow. That would be horrible, right? We want to make sure And when you use LLC, Probate needs to. They're considered personal property. So you don't have to probate in each state If you don't do that, it's to have to probate in that in your Now we use the bonus entity which is a type of trust. We'll talk about holding title with those as well. But I'll save that for later. I wanted to let you know. All right. So now let's talk And we're just going to do this And I want to just make it So you know each one whether you have And I would encourage you to actually have You're going to see why here in a minute. Because there's there's a lot of choices that goes along with it. You want to treat it with respect. I used to work for a judge you the amount of respect And so in business settings, you showed your business. If you didn't respect your business, Right. So would Bill gates Right. Most reasonable business I'm going to let somebody I do, I use doctors for doctoring, dentists Right. I want to make sure that I have but I also want to be at a point to them it's them. I don't want to be responsible. Right. I'm paying almost like insurance for that. You want to make sure that you're using somebody who knows how to do this, All right? Number one, Remember, you can set these things up in any state. They're creatures of state law. I get to choose where I'm going to do it. And I'm going to file this with So I'm just going to call it And I'm going to set it up and file it So if you, if you need to, and see what type of document It might be articles of formation, Categories for LLC, as you'll see. I'll say here's the formation documents. And you would complete that. That is with the state. Now we also have the feds right. So we're And we do that through the IRS. And it's called a form s s for. So if you're good I mean you could always But you're going to see in a second where A lot of people use a service for this, little online things That's the problem, is that We're going to say five steps. But these are the first two And there's certain names and things are certain buzzwords. You just have to check Better yet, use a professional here's the word you stay away from, or can't you know where it's going So you're going to pick a name, you're You're going to file it with the state. Then you're going to and usually you're manager managed whether depending on the type of state, listed, those types of things are going Then you go in to the IRS and saying, from a tax standpoint, you're either going to be disregarded For the most part, if you have multiple owners, or it could be a corporation, preferably or someone that knows to actually be treated So you can choose Number three, this is a big one. You want to have. You want to have a body. You want to have an operating agreement. I just did a video on 5 or 9 things that Go watch that refresh. Take a look at all the different types But you want to have a written Otherwise you default which invites go into court all the time. Like if it doesn't cover things, So we want to have an operating agreement from the standpoint of the members and their liabilities of the members, when they can transfer to documents, what they're allowed to do, Who manages this thing? How many people need to vote on things? If there's more than one person? What percentage is Does it have to be unanimous? All those things are held So you can determine But you want to make sure Don't use a generic, please don't use it generic online because we don't know It may have been drafted for a bunch of investors, and that are just going to pierce you. This is actually happened. There's there's multiple cases had they not put specific provisions that were afforded under state law and they just use somebody else's Make sure that you have somebody Put together your operating agreement. Number four, and this is recent. If we have something Now with FinCEN, we're having to file report. And you're having to do it fairly soon you're You're going to want to make sure It might be 30 days now, So, it just came out in 2024. So depending on where we're sitting, floating around out there. Do you want to check with somebody who Because if you don't do it, the penalty is So that can just be a You got to make sure that you're doing beneficial ownership report with FinCEN. A lot of people say this. first No, it doesn't, It's no different than tax filings, right? Where they And, you know, there was one case where they grabbed Elon and some rich guys and that that They're not allowed These things are protected. So the Corporate Transparency Act, It is not a public database. It does not ruin your anonymity, As of right now, but just for a very specific small We'll see what happens there. But yes, you have to do that So that's step number four. It's even open bank. Or brokerage. Sorry for my handwriting. You're going to open up some sort My personal preference you're probably If you're going to have assets in there, you're going to start then you're going or if you're trying to protect safe And again, You're probably just doing a bank account. there are people that say It is a factor but it's not Like, it doesn't ruin you if you didn't have a bank account, so long as you have a management entity and you have someplace to take you'll be fine. But we want to have, some sort of account and then making sure the numbers, So even if you have an LLC like this, we're going to keep books You may be able to do it under one set of books So if I have a rental holding LLC and I have four properties, So I only have one set of QuickBooks. Some of you accountants out Some of you bookkeepers understand it, and some of you folks that don't know what I'm saying, because you don't have to have a separate You could do them all under one keeping track of your income and expenses for each property separately. And that's where that goes under here. Well, and open up a separate account. Make sure that if you are somebody that's in real estate Number one, you should reach out to us. We'll do a free strategy session. All you have to do where you can sign up You could write strategy down below, If you put strategy in the comments, where you can schedule a free consultation which is nowadays with interest rates, when they're up high, people are generally trying to exercise a higher interest rates But there's always the issue of if I transfer a property into an LLC, We found over 25 years use a land trust The reason that banks don't call notes do is because under the Garden Saint You cannot call a note due that's being put into a trust, Usually it's your primary. It's a personal residence. It's four units or less. But what happens is the banks are used to Even with LLCs, in 25 years with tens of thousands we've never seen due on sales Right. They know it's still you that you're If you close in an LLC, it's even easier. So if you're doing commercial property or you do an apartment complex, things they don't even want you to close They want to close So number one, and it will look like this. You may have a land trust here and then we assign the beneficial interest same as having it in the LLC. But now we have it in different names. And you might be saying, Well, number one two on sale number two is some states If I put it in an LLC, I'm going to owe, sometimes thousands of dollars What it's based on, on the mortgage. I avoid that with the land trust. Sometimes there's different types I'm here in in Clark County, Nevada. Where in Las Vegas, If I take it out, there's a tax. If I use a land trust, no tax, period. The other reason I'm using that land trust per property, Let's say that I was doing this and I was putting these four No, not separating them out. And I said, hey, I, you know, I'm going to put them in an LLC. I got four of them. I don't want to have four properties You will get who see four properties, an LLC, and you We don't want that. We don't want to generate a lawsuit so we'll put them each in their own They're not land trust don't There's no upkeep on them. There's no tax return It's literally just a hold title. And the beneficial interest is held So we use that vehicle very effectively to isolate the name on that. So they don't see four properties in the same name, because the same way Hey, I got ten properties in my name. That Toby guy looks like he's wealthy. If one of those tenants hey, I think there might be mold, they're What a great guy to shake down, he has something to lose. And if you don't think that like you, Toby. You're crazy. How many homeless people get sued? Oh, yeah. It's because there's nothing to collect, You do not want to invite the suit Like I remember Mike. Mark Cuban once said, worst part about getting rich People try to take it away. It's easy to make it. It's hard So another quote from many folks, right. It's like once you start generating, Then they start showing up, And unfortunately, in landlords and in real estate investment, If somebody thinks you have that they're going to target and we've heard it, we've seen it, we've Actually, They ended up losing at trial. The actual quote was the client in a really nice neighborhood, You live in this neighborhood. We're like, you got to be kidding me. That's that's your justification. On the flip side, because we're very good in fact, how to make your personal assets So another one of the videos on here, we're very, very good at making it. So your name's not on a public record. We've had clients released out of lawsuits there was nothing to get out of them. They don't want empty pockets They want deep pockets. And if you can make it to That's what those land trusts will do. So anonymity, keeping the LLC name off a title now, and avoiding like doc stamp fees, transfer taxes Each property These are easy for us to create. and unlike an LLC where we have to pay a filing fee there's no filing fee to be paid It absolutely works. Great. So that's it. Five steps to opening up an LLC Hopefully you learned a lot. hopefully you've have some action So if you're a real estate investor, you know, hey, there's a bunch of benefits Thanks. Now, I know, but what are my next steps? Your next steps are to follow those five steps or to give us a ring so you could see what are the benefits And one of the last things I will say that there's some tax benefits I'll let that be a surprise so that they're going through. And one of our consultants is going you might be surprised that it puts money like and subscribe and share this Thanks, guys.