I'm done being sweaty at 10,000 VR. Let's go with back to 9000. Oh the Badwagon looks so nice! I've me explain why [laughs] uh Lemmy, explain why this how do we even know if a combo is good. Well there one is mini turbo and number two is speed. But them as one big stat. And uh that means we always at some of the best combos in the game, like Yoshi They have very different speed and moving turbos, the same and this is the maximum number you can stat total, and there are several combos with that had the lowest mini turbo out of all of important than the speed stat and yeah the fastest Badwagon. I would take that over this combo any video [laughs] ready? I think that since I can't into the middle of the pack, very often and that hit by everything. So my prediction, is I'm gonna Wow! I had a golden at the end and I never get last place! Mushroom Gorge this is Um can I do this properly this time let's and then like that! Oh that was Out of the way, that green shell is scary! I still have an item, but they're invincible. okay so we're gonna hopefully pass people oh okay of course and we're going backwards we're [Music intensifies] what?! What hit me?! [Music] what? Waluigi St- oh! I've never lost on Oh no! What am I gonna do? Okay, I'm just what the heck? I no I didn't want this, this Okay okay, try to make this work All right, so I'm not in a bad place right now, get up to the front let's see if this works. Oh and then I just got messed up by a banana. Okay anything I'm in the vortex. Uh are you serious? all right, can't get the mini turbo there that's do this section all right. Come on come on, yes! Okay I almost hit the fire so we're still gonna up to that section. I'm still in second place I need to do better a lot better than this that was much better. Snipe? Nooo okay at kidding me are you kidding me? No no way! I need to I need to focus in here [Music] coin [Music] all right nice nice nice! I'm in I missed the last boost [Music] oh that bomb come on come on! Blue shell... oh my God [breathing heavily] oh oh I can't This is a brutal track to get there's some tech especially on mirror mode, so I'm just gonna is just hope everyone else messes up [gasps] what? That didn't hit me! Oh now I have protection I'll try to save this mushroom for uh the all right there we go, there we go! I'm running this with Lemmy. What do you have? A red shell everyone to hit each other but not me. [gasps] I did not see that banana. Let's go around here. Oh geez, this is chaos! I'm Nice nice and cracked the red shell too. Please Okay okay, I'm not really doing much wrong right I am in ninth place. It's just so sad using this mean a few things, but not since the last time I We need to hope for a double item box right here. It's just completely stopped making sense, nothing losing and losing and losing, so here's what we're the game and absolutely destroy these fools! Hey one of the best combos? You're not gonna feel so gonna take this shortcut, get into first and no one of the best combos in the game. Oh wow! it's like night and day it feels like Uh I think I messed this up oh okay I was supposed first, I still have the big lead. And that's the combo. You cannot mess up when you're using You know what? You can't even play perfectly with by a green shell. I've done absolutely nothing pass me in first with a bullet. They don't have yeah that was so easy! That was so easy. Take combo the whole time. All right I realized what is you know why? Because it's a short track. And I have no stats to back me up at least I can rely So I'm gonna need to get coins, I'm not make mistakes, grab some coins right here? Yes! So the reason you want to and you lose less speed, you lose a lot of speed It's very risky though, it's extremely easy All right and can you hit those fish? I don't emphasis on little because I'm playing like Okay that sucks, I lost some great items. And So uh I'm just gonna hold this. It's nice to hold box so that's fine because I have a coin so There's a blue shell! I'm just gonna try and Ugh that was rough. The universe didn't shortest tracks and we still had a blue Are you kidding me? I already got bumped you know what? We're we're going maybe snipe the Mario [laughs] these coins are All right the Mario still past me somehow. So Gonna try not to stay directly in front or it right here yeah okay I'm just gonna hold the Mario. Okay that was really bad gonna speed even happened? Something someone bumped me right Okay, I mean that's kind of the story of the day I don't feel like I'm doing a lot wrong I I had to get away from that red shell and I'm Couldn't get a mini turbo unfortunately- I'm mini turbo than I should have [Music] Slow Oh we're in first? Yo we're Of course, of course! You know this vehicle has a Probably the worst at about this I don't know of any other Oh that bomb is so scary. They're gonna place it on the bridge, what happened to them? Could Yes! Hit that banana, yes yes! This has actually Cheese Land, I could bag on this which would then it could drive for me and I won't have I would just run this normally and see if I get Like at any moment, I have a choice to just start because the problem with this is I don't trust Can I get a coin at least, nope! Right whatever, are gonna help a lot. I'm not necessarily gonna to recover from sticky situations. All right so And this is a big shortcut here, maybe I all right this is going pretty well Oh bullet extension! Good thing it didn't hit me. Nice nice! Great place to get shocked I'm gonna that was the longest time I've spent on the also that's kind of an early shot, so now to completely destroy me on lap three. there's no point dropping all the way to gonna take this shortcut and pass me right First time in history, no one's Okay okay, I have a tiny tiny lead. It's nothing land and someone probably is gonna pass I had some hope, but wow I actually front this is gonna be so bad but let it be known that Waluigi Stadium. I am not afraid to go on that best chance of winning. I don't care about funny that I have a winning streak on Waluigi Literally never lost on that track One of these days is gonna happen though, So yeah I'm not afraid of it ending. Oh no! And that streak, is that I get so scared of losing the honestly worse like that is just just a terrible track, I'm not gonna not pick my favorite track lost on it. Alright, blue shell I'm in first, All right can I make it here thank you ribbon that's really good for me. And let's go oh no I threw that by accident! I meant to just one or two seconds after you grab your item, when the L button you actually get your item a little it was too late and I just tossed the bomb for you have a mushroom. Oh I hit them after they Blue shell [laughs] the blue Wow! Oh oh let's go third place that is so good this track, I don't need too good of a mini turbo That entire section- hey great no one's coming I have a chance right here and I'm gonna save this right after the glider, but that's a small brain here and so I want to save this mushroom, Okay great that didn't come for me mini turbo stat! I was almost scared that I got an orange right there, it's a weird way for a super bounce which is why I didn't just All right I'm going left again to try and dodge on the right so that was a good decision. because it's the best spot for it and Oh this is bad! I'm on such a bad cycle right now. But I can potentially get into first if they have another defense item. All right and there's just gonna have to say that- oh there's a what?! The first place just okay I had to use both of those, I don't know if just came I don't feel like another blue shell probabilities actually work that way. I just know so I'm very scared, I never win with this vehicle, confidence in myself right now, but I'm gonna Oh oh I'm not taking the shortcut No! Yes! Yes! I was scared for Lemmy's entire hardest challenge so far, like waiting 15 seconds, which had like no handling, those were all so I gain a lead people, just pass me. And when how bad the luck stat is on this vehicle I oh brake drift! Okay [Music] and let's go while swerving. Come on I couldn't hit- I only right next to me [Music] please go the other way No that's so dumb! All right uh playing this from hit. I think this is what it is, because people what items are near me. Because if I'm going at someone has some items near me, I can trust that same person near me with the same items. But, if new people all the time and they just keep We're gonna go right here for the item and that. Because my hitbox is just gigantic, That was worth it, it was still worth it .all Let's just try not to get hit by Maybe even even get some coins? Can I- not get red shell in that entire pack and it came gonna shortcut and try to get to the front. I Actually so dumb sometimes, A shortcut here take this at a better line perfect Oh that Yoshi has a horn, that's really scary. Yeah, nothing I can do about that! Of course okay okay, snipe! Where did everyone has been so mean to me, honestly they are asking for this. there we go. It wasn't that easy, it's just so Oh, scary. Let's see if I can block that quick actually messed up they're probably gonna hit Yep! I deserved that, a hundred percent [Music] that. Snipe! [evil laugh] I feel so much this is so fun! Mario Kart is such a thank goodness I got in first before Train... this is really bad. [laughs] no way! I got blue shelled, I hit the train room was better than me, and all I had