(crowds cheering) - [Commentator] Down the back straight. (announcer muttering indistinctly) - [Narrator] It's September, 2017, and members of the are gathered to pick the city that will host the 2024 Olympic Games, the biggest decision this group makes. They've put representatives from the two competing cities on stage for their announcement. - With the anonymous decision we took. - [Narrator] But everyone who's - [Announcer] Please raise your hand. - [Narrator] Every four years, more than 5 million people and over 3 billion watch it on TV. It's a once-in-a-generation opportunity for one city to show up, and the competition has 12 cities applied to host the 2004 games before the IOC picked Athens, Greece. 10 applied for 2008, But since then, interest has been waning. Nine cities applied for and for 2024, only two were left when it was time for a vote, so the IOC did something - Paris, '24, Los Angeles, '28. (audience applauding and cheering) - [Andrew] IOC was so to host the games in 2028, that it simultaneously awarded and 2028 to Los Angeles. There used to be a strong demand - [Narrator] The Olympics sports event in the world. Why doesn't anyone wanna host it anymore? (upbeat electronic music) (crowds cheering) (upbeat soundtrack music) So the Olympics have actually They originally came up with around in different cities back - We didn't have international jet travel and we didn't have international - [Narrator] Andrew Zimbalist wrote a book about the economics of like the Olympics. - So it was necessary in order to spread the and get the whole world to - [Narrator] As the games grew, eventually developing a competition where cities would submit bids and it would vote on a winner. But when it opened bidding not a single city wanted to host, because the last few Local political protests during the 1968 games in Mexico City, and terrorists killed 11 Israeli athletes at the '72 Munich Games. - [Reporter] Invade the Olympic Village, taking nine Israeli athletes hostage and killing two others in their room. - [Narrator] Both incidents showed cities that hosting could be When construction problems to spend more than 13 times their budget, they began to view it as So in the late '70s, the IOC was barreling towards disaster until one city offered to save them. (upbeat soundtrack music) Under one condition, Los a lot of money. To do that, it offered to instead of build new ones. The LA Coliseum, where the the Forum where the Lakers played, UCLA's gymnasium and tennis center, and the athletes could just Since the IOC didn't have and was soon glad it did. (upbeat electronic music) (crowds cheering) (gun banging) (gun banging) (crowds cheering) The '84 LA games were a but especially financially. It only cost around 1 and LA even made a profit. This should have become the model for future Olympic host cities, but instead, it sparked the problem that is plaguing the Olympics today. It's interesting how many of these sports and politics stories really If you recall, the Premier about a warped economic system. The NFL is so successful because it created a new economic If you haven't seen those If you haven't subscribed to Search Party, now's your chance. We publish every two weeks this summer, so I've been working I've been writing scripts on trains, I've been animating on airplanes. I'm headed out this afternoon on a really exciting reporting trip, but I'm gonna be in a That's why I'm really excited Surfshark's a VPN that's on all those public WiFis. Surfshark is an app and browser that encrypts my activity online while blocking ads and malware. Surfshark also allows me to virtually place myself in order to unblock content that I couldn't access otherwise. That means Surfshark let's in almost any country on earth. So here's the deal, use the at surfshark.deals/searchparty, There's also no risk, they have a 30 day money back guarantee. Again, Surfshark is how I it's the best way for you to do the same. It's also the best way So thanks again to Surfshark and I'll take you back to the episode. (upbeat electronic music) LA did such a good job that it reinspired cities For the 1992 games, six then six again for '96, eight for 2000, then a whopping 11 for 2004. As more cities competed, the IOC regained leverage over them again. But instead of sticking to the LA model, it began demanding more. Between 1992 and 2020, the IOC added dozens of This required more venues and which host cities were primarily As the competition intensified, cities felt increasing pressure to make their bids more attractive, the most effective way to do Sydney built 15 new venues plus Athens built 22 new venues, All of this construction really, really expensive. This chart shows how the cost of the games skyrocketed over the last 30 years, reaching between 10 and $25 I wanna add one big caveat it only includes sports-related It doesn't include things or development projects that most all these cities If we include some of those costs, these bars are actually way higher. So for example, some estimate that Beijing spend more like 45 billion for their 2008 Summer Games. Russia spent more like 51 in 2014, and Tokyo's bill is more like 35 billion. No matter what number you use though, all of these cities went way which the bidding to keep artificially low. - What they have to do is about the intentions and the Once the politicians say, &quot;Yeah, okay, we'll go along with this,&quot; then they start adding and those can be very, very substantial. - [Narrator] The revenue cities TV contracts, and sponsorships only cover a fraction of these costs, meaning these governments, are on the hook for the rest. - So it doesn't look like - [Narrator] But host cities that they'll likely lose Instead, many have been told that hosting the Olympics is an investment that will pay off in the future. (bright ambient music) Okay, so this is the IOC's webpage where they list the benefits and they use this word legacy a lot. And by legacy, they mean to benefit your city long Take sports facilities. Beijing justified spending on this new 90,000 seat stadium by planning for a local pro soccer team to use it after the Olympics. London did the same when At first, seems like a good idea, other legacy projects are meant Russia spent 8.7 billion on a new rail and highway link into Sochi for its Winter Games, (bright ambient music) and Rio de Janeiro spent 4 connecting a beach community The most commonly touted legacy benefit is that hosting Olympics is a great way to kickstart your city's growth. - What historically came with regard to the Olympics was that this was the most wonderful thing that could ever happen to a city. It puts your city on the world map, so it will increase tourism, it will increase foreign investment, and that story turns out not to be true. - [Narrator] Let's start with tourism. A 2004 study found that after leading up to their respective games, Atlanta, Sydney, and Seoul In his book, Andrew cites a 1996 study on three Olympic Winter Games that found that the was between non-existent and very modest, and a 2010 study that found to tourism of hosting an Olympic Games and considerable evidence of damage. In other words, being on TV can backfire. - [Andrew] If the weather or if it's too cold. If there are security incidents, if there are bad stories that some cities are able but other cities are hurting their image. - [Narrator] Many legacy haven't paid off either, Russia's rail project is now And Andrew argues that benefits some residents, was a line serving the But that's not where the Olympics were. - The typical case was They say, &quot;We need these 30 venues. We want you to put them in way so the transportation is facilitated and other conveniences are allowed.&quot; And so what the city would in order to accommodate the IOC. - [Narrator] Empty stadiums of this mismatch. That Beijing stadium had than what the local so it backed out. Now the stadium sits mostly empty costing the city some $10 This is what's called a white elephant, and there are now dozens of These are venues left over and ESPN found that 12 out of had not held an event a year For many residents, white that hosting the games - [Andrew] The idea forever and ever, this is but yet to do this, no, more often than not, - [Narrator] By 2015, city residents were ready to do something about it. The IOC had six cities until protests forced Boston A new mayor in Rome fulfilled a promise to shut down its bid. Then more than 260,000 that led Budapest to drop out as well. It left the IOC with just two bidders, and once again, little leverage. The IOC has since passed reduce the cost of hosting to use existing and temporary venues, like LA did back in 1984, and allowing them to As of now, Paris doesn't look and LA's Organizing Committee can, again, pull off But the question is, if they do, could it spark another bidding war? - [Andrew] I don't know if like we did after to the '84 games. I mean I do think it's possible that there'll be a small turn. It'll appear less undesirable than it has. - [Narrator] The IOC has and instead negotiates It picked Milan and Cortina, for the 2026 Winter Games, and it gave Brisbane, Australia But some are arguing for - I think it's perfectly plausible to think about building with its 35 or 40 venues smaller number for the - [Narrator] Some believe Greece, the historical home of the Olympics, would make a good permanent host. Others have mentioned LA and has done so well in the past. A permanent spot would eliminate save cities from going into debt and reduce the games' but it could also reduce around each new Olympics. - [Andrew] It's not gonna that makes environmental but I do think it makes and put it out there as someplace - Depending on how the it might be the only direction left. All right, thanks everyone so That's also our one year We have over 380,000 subscribers. We've published 15 If you haven't subscribed yet, please do, and I wanna thank my whole team for their really hard work It's been a lot of fun. - Whoa, whoa. (whistles) Here I come. - [Colleague] Oh. - Keep an eye out for We've got a really good pipeline coming. We've got one more Olympic story, and then we're back to geopolitics on a really exciting story that's got a really cool visual hook that I think you guys will like. And then we're doing a story so keep an eye out for those. Again, if you haven't subscribed and I'll see you in a couple weeks. All right, see ya.