Think of nuclear power, and Atomic bombs, reactors melting There's no denying that the history dramatic and disturbing moments But for the most part, nuclear energy mind, generating about 10 percent This represents 29 percent of all percent of the United Nuclear reactors generate energy day and gases. But overall, the growth of other low-carbon sources like By 2050, all 420 nuclear plants We're not on a path to get there. Nuclear power plants are expensive longer than expected, and debates over rage on. What's more, public opposition especially in the U.S. But we're in the midst of a that despite a contentious history, nuclear has energy future as a stable, As we replace coal, we really do spinning reserve. You know, large power blowing or the sun isn't And nuclear is going to be If you just believe in Some experts are working to That means designing safer and more support of philanthropists But government labs, private are also devoting vast resources to what energy: nuclear fusion. Good grief, the energy potential The energy that we need is Nuclear fusion is the same process that star in the universe. And if we can figure out how to be a huge game changer. Nuclear fission was discovered in late researchers. They found out that when the nucleus splits, forming two lighter gets converted into energy. The discovery paved the way for the United States. And after the infamous concerns over nuclear proliferation spiraled stockpile grew during the Cold War Soviet Union. But in 1953, President attempted to shift the focus of generation, and much of the world for civilian use. Private industry quickly jumped on board, and by 1991, the U.S. had twice as many operating nuclear If those all of a sudden went away with fossil fuel, it would be like road. So our 100 nuclear are helping us avoid, and have been for significant amount of As of 2019, about 450 reactors And some countries, such as France, more than half of their But over the decades, a number industry's momentum. In 1979, the leak at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania cleanup. The disaster stoked public Stricter safety standards Reactors became more expensive to Fission is always also quite expensive, and radioactivity in those machines, people So the social acceptance of The nuclear disasters at Chernobyl in led to further scrutiny of the industry, term effects of And then there's the battle over One proposed site, Yucca Mountain in over 30 years. Yucca Mountain is unfit as a repository the impact it would The current state of Countries such as China, India and Russia fairly fast clip. But in the United unprofitable or face closure. Frankly, we're rusty. If you look at countries like China 30 to 1 on new builds. Only one new nuclear reactor has since 1996, as costs and construction spiraled. The typical nuclear plant today billion dollars and generally takes The low cost of solar, wind and nuclear not only comes in at a means that nuclear is not a Next generation fission technologies are much past, and some proponents claim The general public may still need the controversy. The promise that someday, better alternative. Scientists have been researching nuclear since they learned it's In a fusion reaction, extreme hydrogen atoms to fuse In the process, the atoms lose some amounts of energy. The reaction could produce nuclear fission and nearly 4 million or gas. Or another way to think about it same as about fifty five It doesn't contribute The fuel is plentiful and can world. The radioactivity There's no possibility of a runaway system. But after decades of research still have not found a way That's created a not-so-inside joke among energy source of the future Every time physicists think that fusion tricks them. That nature resists taking compressing it to the point where you When I talk to colleagues or like my me and say, &quot;Oh yeah, you guys said from now, and that was 50 years ago. Where are ya?&quot; But some think these progress that's been made. Although we don't have fusion, over the fusion that the prototypes make have increased four, 10,000 times. And this is actually a growth rate a chip. The challenges is, until you get first power plant, everybody thinks Fusion has traditionally been the purview Livermore and Oak Ridge. But more recently, a number of private the ring. This includes General Fusion, reactor to market in the 2030s. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos is And then there's the large multinational south of France called Reactor, or ITER, the project aims to powerful fusion reactor. While all of these players are could actually be a good thing The success of one company or one the pie. It convinces more people out look at fusion as And that attracts more General Fusion, founded in 2002, operates about 20 minutes Unlike most government labs or focused on implementation The company's goal is to build the next decade or two. Jeff Bezos was an early investor and million, with about 90 million coming million from the Canadian government. General Fusion combines two common confinement, which subjects the fusion fuel a brief amount of time, and pressure for a prolonged time. When heated to extreme temperatures, the state of matter similar to gas, that allow it to conduct electricity Our compressor is going to be a big across on the inside. And into that big metal. And that liquid metal, we're going to opens a hole. And into that hole we're hydrogen gas. It's preheated up to And then all around the outside of this driven by compressed gas. So they push on the liquid metal and trapped inside. And that collapse happens fuel up to fusion conditions. The peak of the compression, the fuel That energy goes into So the liquid metal heats up, you take it through a heat exchanger and And then the steam drives a turbine to the grid. And we just keep pulsing Right now, General Fusion's main piston array and fuel Delage wants to integrate them into process he estimates will A space roughly this size would fit a a hundred thousand homes. And when it will bring General Fusion's cost and renewables like wind and solar. At 5 cents per kilowatt Like it is cheaper But it's not cheaper Laberge hopes it will eventually become the U.S. decides to The energy market on the planet And so if we take a sizable chunk of trillion dollars a year. But some companies like General Fusion are timelines. In the past 10 years, there's coming in to say we can achieve I don't believe it. I think they've underestimated and not looked fusion reactor. Nuclear No research group or company has ever breakeven point, at which the energy greater than the energy required to heat This is not really It is basic research. Basic research has value. But to sell this as a technology that next 20 to 30 years is deceptive. We are just not that close. But basic research is the bread Lab. It's been researching fusion since In 2009, the lab opened the National achieving breakeven and ultimately And by ignited we mean It can propagate throughout all the Lawrence Livermore is pursuing That is, confining plasma at extremely amount of time, using high We're standing in what we call our chamber. The target chamber is a big ball very center of that ball, we put a tip of my finger, and we irradiate two of the world's Researchers at the National Ignition Facility access to enormous computing power, simulations that help them understand reach ignition. And so based on our facility of this scale is big enough everything works nearly ideally. But clearly, getting everything to work much harder than it The National Ignition Facility was based ignition. After 10 years of trying, And when they fail, they say, &quot;All we time!&quot; And the critics are saying, here.&quot; So it could very well research-oriented national labs nor are going to solve the fusion puzzle. It might just take The ITER project, originally known Experimental Reactor, originated nearly 35 Superpower Summit. Now China, the Russia and the United States are all be the world's largest tokamak reactor, magnetic confinement fusion. Currently under construction, ITER's tokamak size of the current largest machine and fusion power from 50 I do believe that this is more man on the moon. The literal But Henderson says ITER is poised to the sheer scale of the established technologies. Unlike General Fusion's ambitions, the immediate energy production, though the project does commercialization. We'll start building the is about 20 yards in diameter And that device should be completed targeting to go nuclear So by 2040, which seems a long information that allows the next Henderson hopes that these demos will for industrial scale reactors that And that is literally where It's not in our lifespan, but it great-great-grandkid's type lifespan. It's a grand vision, but even if translate that into a commercially unclear. That's an That'll take another 30 And whether the economics works Henderson says it's impossible to say would cost or if the There is, however, a price And while it's not cheap, it's undertaking of this magnitude. ITER is going to cost It cost roughly about 120 billion in on the moon. So we're And yet what we're offering is limitless energy source. It's stupid we don't do this. Despite the project's obvious potential, intermittent and unreliable, as countries frequently change their contribution levels cycles and energy budgets. Right now we're pretty much governed by cycle. We need to Not everyone thinks fusion is Fusion isn't the only game out there. Fission is like It's like no one wants But that is the only technology that sorts of renewables, that we can Public opinion on nuclear fission remains industry say the It's controversial for those who For those who have studied You look at mortality rates per unit lowest of all. But there is Many proponents of nuclear say to look that happened is being naive about technologies. Microsoft's Bill Gates is He's intent on building safer and reinvigorate the industry. In 2006, he founded TerraPower, a working on building new Most of the operating reactors around about 450, are Generation 2. Generation 3 plants are now being in China, in Russia. Generation 4 plants, they represent but safety and waste reduction. So the reactors that we're working on, pressures, which should be less expensive operate at higher temperatures. When you move to those higher plant efficiency. Levesque also says safe&quot;. That means that during emergencies, stabilize itself without Furthermore, Levesque says the plant produces requires less uranium enrichment, But getting new fission technologies off endeavor, so companies like TerraPower build out their tech and to help such as natural gas. The U.S. government does They did it in the case of hydraulic of wind and solar, and now government to help demonstrate the next well. Levesque estimates that reactor will cost more than a public-private partnership. I can't have my grandchildren, let This is something we've got to do we know we can build. It's a matter whether it'll work. So Fission proponents want to upgrade technologies. Fusion researchers say projects need more investment from both public and nuclear fusion into a reality. And climate change activists say the resources we have now, We need to turn to fission, turn geothermal, turn to hydroelectric. Do whatever we can to get Then, if the research and investment comes to support our I think fusion is I think we will solve this problem. The key is to get it How soon we'll reach this fusion-powered The first demonstration will happen in By 2060 or 2070, the world is Near the turn of the century, or I think if the human race is still back, I would wager that However, these estimated timeframes may government decides to invest I think the question To what extent are our governments investigate these things? At this present rate and at this present happening. If you were to ask me, about fusion?&quot;, I would not say holding degrees Celsius. I actually We don't think 5, 7, A more realistic plan, a portfolio, renewables and work on Where there's a will, there's a way. And through the process of building a building a machine like NIF, as well Fusion, we learn so that we can Yeah, it goes beyond our generation. But sorry, I don't use