On March 9, 1999, U.S. Vice President Al Gore, that, unbeknownst to him, would soon become "I took initiative in creating the internet." comic strips, and "memes" mocking the humor for his candidacy in the 2000 Presidential claim that he created the internet? Well, that he was an integral part of putting forward accessible and as powerful as it was in the naturally they were stripped of their context answer wouldn't be as interesting as telling that he sat down, designed, and built the Gore's lack of forethought with his remarks But what started off as mass media shenanigans If Al Gore can't take credit for creating Internet? Well, that's a ridiculous question. the man who created the World Wide Web in he is the Founding Father of what we recognize There are so many things that we are taught Eli Whitney invented the cotton gin, Ben Franklin the light bulb. But when it comes to a relatively is unclear. Who is our "guy" for the internet? out there who could just as easily take the Deciding who is responsible for the internet on who you ask, the answer will be different the story behind who's responsible is just with so many moving parts that are only visible a lot of US government intervention. If that's that unreasonable? Could he unironically take The reason why a question like this is so is an open-ended technology. It wasn't something and took literal generations to master. The fully understand it ourselves. We often use web" interchangeably, but they are very "internet" is just a bunch of computers Web" is the software we use to understand may seem like some arbitrary distinction to something on the internet," we all know is crucial to understanding the internet and So where did it all begin? Well, you could for when the internet was born: October 4, on television. Okay, THAT wasn't what caused day too: Sputnik was launched into space by satellite. In case it wasn't super obvious kind of really trying to one-up each other superpower. This lead to the Cold War: not you can thank Kennedy for that, but a period basically looked daggers at each other. A and when the Soviets launched Sputnik, the to keep their eyes on the Soviets at all times technology, President Eisenhower created DARPA: For a while, things went just about how they meeting DARPA's objectives got more difficult. of the Soviets and continue making state of to constantly be in contact with one another, good enough. The only way to do that was by back in the 1960s you didn't have these confusing, heavy computers that were the size "mainframes." By allowing the mainframes connected to one another, information could get a lot more work done. This was made possible basically said "hey, what if we took landlines them, it was computers?" Thanks to Licklider bring this idea to life and create the Advanced as "ARPANET." Now the creation of ARPANET If you study a lot of American history, you election is the only election to span over over a month to count all the votes. This the votes were counted in just one day. What that the reason for this is the same reason In 1844, you had the invention of the telegraph, wire, to another device on the other side. receive electrical pulses. Now at face value, but what if you could turn it into a whole represented the letter H, and one long pulse would create this whole system known as Morse the country, people could instantly communicate Instead of having to mail these ballots and they could just be transmitted via wire. What couple of minutes. Mainframes connected to of these electrical pulses being interpreted called a "protocol." Thanks to the complex sending letters, we can also send things like computer what to do. But computer data is the same way we do with something simple like Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon is one the many things I admire about it is the album of a prism. You shine a light on a prism, the other side. Transmitting computer data of something called "modulation." To put consisting of multiple signals, and converts line, which is then demodulated back into are machines that specialize in doing this, a lot of other details there because frankly the reason we can send complex data like that point are just the complexities of the computers, start sending things like photographs, but The very first ARPANET connection occurred of UCLA and Bill Duvall of Stanford University. over to Duvall. The "L" was received and system crashed. After that, Kline tried again L. So you could say, that the very first message ARPANET was actually pretty cool, because their use of these phone lines: packet switching. channel becoming temporarily faulty, so if to go over that faulty channel, it just wouldn't would have no idea you even sent anything does, is it takes that file, cuts it into through many different channels on the network, side. This made sending files over the network if one or two of these channels were down, rather than the whole thing. The recipient to transmit the file again and get those remaining of this in the 1971 version of Willy Wonka transmitting candy bars through television. "Uh, it's WonkaVision" television works you photograph something and then the photograph is split up into millions of tiny pieces and they go whizzing through the air down to your TV set where order." when you speak." The Wonka bar is sent through the air in a on the other side. ARPANET didn't invent of it. It did with mainframe data what Wonka of a polymath. Aside from turning spoiled great contributions to computer science. "We are the music makers, and we are the So yeah, after these groundbreaking achievements, the sending of messages over ARPANET, programmer separated the name of the user and the machine @ symbol, to make it easier to read. He called text messaging, and message threads technically universities, government agencies, laboratories, But ARPANET was far from perfect. While it more of an "intranet," a network that When it connected with England's NPL Network, allows only a specific outside party access. needed to be nipped in the bud. MIT student in the network. The more sophisticated a network that can get pretty funky called "bridge transmitted can essentially get stuck going point a microphone at a speaker; it creates louder until your ears explode? A bridge loop crash an entire network permanently. The only on the network reboot, which is not very practical nothing happened, but in just under a week, which blocked off all these bridge loops, to move through multiple paths on the network. on other networks such as CYCLADES and NPL. start popping up as well. We've already other, but what if we could interconnect networks? Well, thanks to the beauty of undersea phone in 1973. But interconnecting networks wasn't similar configurations. It was basically like spoke different languages. What if we could everything would change forever on January Control and Internet Protocols: TCP/IP. Created did many incredible things, including giving an IP address, being able to detect and automatically (no longer requiring the user to do it manually), was successfully delivered. It also came with a little more loosey goosey. Unlike TCP it was delivered properly, but instead focused the mailman not giving you your package until dropping the package off at your door. You possibly getting lost. I would tell you a it. for the internet and are still very much in day that a bunch of intranets and extranets Now that the internet was more robust and it easier to use. What if instead of typing you could just type in something easy-to-remember, Center, Elizabeth Feinler, was in charge of and essentially created a "phone book" address. At first, these were basically just along, they turned into well...IP addresses, book" was called "hosts.txt" and each have access to it. Feinler suggested that location of the computer: so .com for commercial, so on. So instead of typing a long IP address, and her team had created the Host Naming Registry was that this "phone book" had to updated to the registry, you had to call Feinler's it in for you. As the internet grew and more impractical and this one file would get too Feinler's system and come up with the Domain directory, you now had basically a bunch of called DNS servers, and these would all form would connect to that network, and any changes You could argue that Feinler and Mockapetris is so user friendly today. would form and become part of the internet. slice wasn't growing. It was becoming more would be decommissioned entirely. But the only continued to grow, and as computers got longer limiting it to just researchers and to get even simpler. An employee working for was frustrated at how complicated it was to to walk up to coworkers to see which files idea: what if there was a program where, rather could share information with just the click Lee, and he then turned his NeXT computer the World Wide Web. Featuring new technologies in the form of web pages containing hyperlinks. making information more unified than ever. on the internet through web browsers such Al Gore was amazed at this growing internet and wanted to give it as much of a platform provide internet access to children in public for the internet grew, companies saw a new were popping up left and right: They give line and computer, and boom, you have internet. to use the phone. But since there's a lot long distance for internet usage became less at least you knew where they were located. is being hosted is a lot more difficult. Unexpectedly for going online was scaring away business: landline billing system, and charge users service, at an affordable price. This company ISPs throughout the 90s. Major changes would support for things like images. The name would the gold standard for web browsing, until of Windows 95, free of charge. Netscape would rebranding again into Mozilla Firefox. By Much like those who worked on the ARPANET contributing their own brilliant ideas to Wide Web only got stronger. Eventually people someone came up with the brilliant idea to off the ideas of actress and scientist Hedy all because America got jealous of the Russians. did, and yes, Mr. Gore, that even includes He is arguably the reason you can open your now. The US government took the initiative, by its very definition, is just us, joining new ways to keep that bond stronger and more our own ideas and thoughts to the world, and and still incomplete puzzle. So go ahead and a better place. I'm just kidding, it was all Willy Wonka. [WONKA SCREAMS] A special congratulations to RubberBrick for Brilliant's Computer Science course helped and also with just problem solving in everyday glad you were able to get something so valuable Thank you so much for watching! If you enjoyed notification bell, so that you never miss