Hold. Phil Hellmuth gonna release his hand. Now DJ Alexander with an ace-jack. DJ on a very hot run over the last six months and especially leading up to this final table where he sucked out twice when he was all in at risk. Now with the best hand. Looks like DJ wants to play for more. Choosing a number that's going to be 440,000. He's going to try to push around the Tran Man and it's going to work. Yeah, J.C. A long time, incredibly accomplished professional. Not here to waste time. Doesn't posture. Just gets rid of his hand. DJ's made a 1.7 in poker earnings. A fine player. And now we move on to the next hand. Marvin Rettenmaier, two-time WPT champion. Looks down at an ace-three. He won't play that junk. Art Papazian. A local. Folds his hand quickly. J.C. Tran is going to raise it with a king-ten. Phil Helmuth going out. On to DJ. Gonna release his queen-jack and now Adam Swann from Santa Barbara, California. First time ever on a World Poker Tour event with a jack-nine. And he's gonna make this call. And he flops the best hand with second pair here on ace-jack-seven. I checked. Yeah, Adam's gonna check it and now J.C. Gonna make a continuation bet. It looks like 175. Adam has a pretty straightforward call here with his pair and backdoor draws, but perhaps the moment has got him second-guessing himself. He's asked for more time. Yeah, that's right. He just used one of the time-bang chips. The action clock was ticking away. It's a pretty surreal feeling to be here. I'm pretty excited. If you would have told me I'd make the final table on day one, I'd be... I wouldn't believe it. Phil's at the table, J.C., all these famous guys I've seen on TV. It couldn't be a better experience. Well, he's got his parents, his brother in the audience rooting him on what to do. Second-best pair. Oh, he's gonna release it. Hmm, that's well, that's too bad. So a missed opportunity for Adam there to try and build up his short stack against our chip leader, J.C. Instead, the aggression of J.C. Tran pays off there, and he continues to stack chips. We move on, the local Art Papazian. Quite a player goes out. J.C. gonna take a break, and now the great Phil Helmuth wakes up with a pair of ladies pair of queens, just like that. Phil had queens leading up to this final table in a dramatic hand against Art Papazian and ended up folding them pre-flop. Art showed him a four. Phil showed him the worst side of his temper. This time, Adam wakes up with Ace Jack, and he's on the short stack, so this could be a problem. Wow, he's gonna push it over the top all in. Marvin gets out of the way, and that's an auto call there. Yeah, Phil not folding queens this time. They turn them up. Phil Helmuth out in front with the ladies. I thought you folded that, Phil. Adam references the hand against Art. Adam swan a dog here, Tony. Needs an ace or perhaps a couple of jacks. Five cards to come. Here's the flop. There's a jack on the flop for Adam, so he does improve. Good start, good start. He's got five outs now going to the turn. Needs an ace, a jack, or running straight. Queen would be interesting. I don't care. And it's not going to work out on the turn. Six of diamonds. And no help for Adam going down to the river here. Man, who's an ace? I mean, I don't want to talk about it, but don't do an ace on the river, please. Four hearts on the river. Adam swan out of here. Phil Helmuth, the raw deal, picks up a nice pot and scores the first elimination of this final table. That's right. Adam swan from Santa Barbara for the take on 91,000. Let's go talk to him. I've been watching for my whole life, so it's awesome that I made the final table. Just wish I could have gone a little farther. Snap folded it. Snap fold this in. Here we go. Quick fold by Helmuth. DJ Alexander also going out. And now Marvin Rettmeyer, who's on the short stack, has a queen ten. Marvin's hand forced by his stack size. You're going to go all in on the button. Yeah, he is. No, Art Papazian right behind him in a dominating position with ace ten suited. Call. He'll make this call. And J.C. Tran now going to look down at his hand. He's got a little pair of eights here. Interesting. So will J.C. call or shove over the top and force Art out? Looks like he's just going to call. So it's going to be three ways going to the flop. Mad Marvin, two time WPT champion now with a chance to triple up, but also a major chance to get knocked out of here. Here's the flop. It's an eight, six, three, three of a kind. But J.C. Tran. Marvin close to drawing dead now. Art not much to work with and J.C. not going to get cute and slow play at all. Just going to fire here with top set. Yeah, he's going to bet six fifty to push Art out of the side pot. So they turn up the cards. Rattenmeyer looking bad at this point. Slight chance of sucking out, but he needs runner runner. Marvin taking the scarf off, getting too tight on him. Jack on the turn makes things interesting. Wow. We'll take a snap. So a nine on the river and Marvin will triple up. If not, he will be eliminated in fifth place. Warhouse going to the river. Will he get it? It's good for TV. No, it's the four of hearts and we lose Marvin Rattenmeyer in fifth place. Very talented German, wonderful player. He'll go out in fifth place. He'll take home one hundred and twenty thousand. One of the nicest guys on the tour of Vince. I'm always happy to see Marvin have success. Let's go talk to the scarf. I don't know what happened there. I felt pretty invincible today. So yeah, I'm in shock right now. I wish I could have stayed around for a little bit longer, but oh well. J.C. is really unanimously respected around the poker community. He's been doing this for 20 years and has been successful for all 20 of them. It's very impressive to see that kind of longevity. All right, onto this hand, Arpapazian now with a pair of eights. And you know, he's short stacked at this point. All in. He's going to fire it. He's going to fire it all. Yeah, are under 13 blinds here on the button as a pretty straightforward decision. J.C. Tran, meanwhile, with ace eight offsuit in the small blind actually has a difficult decision. I'm curious to see what he does here. He might gamble with this, try to bust Papazian out of here. Call. And he is going to gamble. He's going to call it. Now, Hellmuth still hasn't looked at his hand. Let's take a peek. He's got a king. Man, I thought I had kings. Oh, no. Scared himself there a little bit. He had king, queen. He's got a mucket. So they turn up the cards. Art, a nice favorite. Got it in good. We got it in good. I feel an ace coming, bro. You feel ace coming? Yeah, I really do. I won't be mad if it comes. And I won't be mad if it comes. Ace is not coming, bro. I feel it coming. He didn't have an ace. You had the king, queen, so. You guys are rooting for an ace. Snowman, one time. Come on, Snowman. Come on, Snowman. Survive the summer. Do the halfway out the door. Let's go to the flop. And it's queen, 10, 5, two hearts. JC does have the ace of hearts. Backdoor flush draw, backdoor straight draw. So he has a backdoor flush draw. Nine of hearts. Go along with his ace high. He could also have a running jack. Jack of hearts is the best one. King for a straight. It's a turned card. It is an eight of hearts, but it is not over yet. Vince, that actually gives JC more outs. JC can hit any heart except the queen of hearts. Don't look. Stand, stand way back there to see if it's red. Last card coming up. It's a deuce of spades. Short stack doubles up again. Play online poker for real cash and prizes at WPT Global. Sign up for free today using bonus code YT23 and get a free entry into a hundred thousand dollar guaranteed tournament. All right, thank you, Lynn. As you see, JC Tran, still our chip leader with 10.5 million. Phil Hellmuth now in second at 5.5. Our preposient at 3.8. And DJ Alexander, your short stack, a little above 2 million. 668,000 up top, including a seat in this season ending tournament of champions. Action with DJ Alexander. He's got six four diamonds. And he's now 40,000. It lies at one 2240. DJ goes out. Art goes out. Wow, I thought my first walk. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, not with this hand. JC with a pair of deuces and he's just going to call. Raise six. Raise. The poker brat himself, Phil Hellmuth with a queen four. He's going to try to push around JC with a raise. Total of 840. JC going nowhere, makes this call. We're building a pot. It's a big one. Deuces play a little awkward out of position but flopping a set can negate that pretty quickly. Awesome flop for JC here, but not much for Phil to work with. Oh, check, check. Nine on the turn. Three hearts on the board now. I can't imagine that JC wants to give Phil another free card. Come on. They just try to give me their money. Got limped in eight million times. I finally raised them and he called with like a king four. They're so bad. God, he'd have all the chips if he could just be patient. He'd have all the chips. Just try to give them to me. I'm going to really be pretty good. I know. I know, JC. I know. You get a line for all of it. Don't worry. All right. My turn again. Are you OK? I almost re-raised it for you. I'm serious. But then I realized you had more chips than I thought. My turn, JC. Hey, I limped. No, you raised every button. I let you get away with all this ****. You know what? And then you **** came after me with your trash burger. Fine. All right. Let's play poker. If you had a million less, I'm putting you all in. Should have gotten away from all these hands. But no, you just let you run us over. And I'm going to start three bet. If you had a million less, I'm putting you all in pre-flop. Just, just, I'm just telling you, it's not the king four. It'll be nice. Let's play poker. If you had a million less. No more talking. No more showing. I'm not showing any more hands. Let's play. All right. Come on, man. It's no fun when you don't want to pop for 16 hands or whatever it's been. It's not for me, Phil. Fold, fold, fold, fold, fold. Yeah, but you tried to steal a few. I'm just waiting for them. I'm just waiting for you guys to make mistakes. That's what I'm doing. We all make mistakes. It's just got to be a win when the opponent couple us. All right. A lot of banter by Hellmuth. J.C. just trying to play his game. But right now, Hellmuth, a jack-deuce. 600. With the button. He's going to try to push this. Makes it 600 to go. DJ from Houston, Texas, tough pro. Been playing professionally for seven years. Going to think this over with the king five of spades. Well, he's going to fold that and let Hellmuth take that pot. Well, if you ever thought that Phil's emotions were just an act you only need him to see him make a four x-rays with jack-two off-suit once following a giant rant. No, that's not true. Oh, boy. What would it be like to be Phil Hellmuth inside that mind? I figured after 30 years in the game you would become very zen about the beats and the swings. But it's almost like the frustration and agitation of poker has just built up in Phil over the years. All in. DJ with a queen four of spades has to shove it all in. DJ under 10 big blinds here. Got one out. Look at JC Tran can't play a suited connector. So DJ will take that pot down. You see a shot of Goct and Tuba a royal flush crew member at the Dr. Pepper bar hanging out. Goct, singer and celebrity in Japan and a lover of poker. Spooky. But now action is on Phil Hellmuth in this particular hand and he looks down at a queen six of diamonds. I call. Just going to call with it. So we're raising Jack Deuce and limping queen six suited. Well, if you're going to limp one of them I guess you'd rather limp the queen six suited. And now DJ with an ace deuce of diamonds. Call. Yeah, he'll make this call. And the local papazian has an ace six of hearts. Art's kind of short here. I think he's going to go for it. Yes, he is. Well, I just love the way that Art has played this final table. He has recognized spots so well for a guy who's not a tournament player. I'm going to pick him off. I guess not yet. I fold. Phil Hellmuth has to run away and back on DJ with his ace deuce of diamonds. And I'm a little surprised that DJ didn't make this move himself. I think that was a minor mistake from him in the small blind. I'm not sure whether Art would have been able to come along if he had done that. It would have been very close. And now the decision back on DJ. DJ is short enough here around 10, 11 blinds that he very well might call this. Action clock ticking down. Extension comes into play. Our action clock ticks away, gives each player 30 seconds on their decision. That's the first one. But each player is allocated some time extension chips. And DJ is going to make this call. So he is all in at risk and behind. Art Papazian. In great position to break his man. Who has who covered? Dan Corb. I think he has me covered. Yeah. Phil, you see that call? Yeah. I thought you were weak too, honestly. I may have called you with ace deuce. That's like bottom. Probably bottom already. You don't like the call? I don't care. Oh, you're okay with that? I'm different. Oh, you're okay with this? I'm different. I don't care. It would have been a good time to limp with my ace jack or ace queen. Good likelihood of a chop here and that's what DJ is hoping for. Here's the first three. Oh, there's a six right on the door. So a likely chop pot is now going to almost certainly being awarded to Art if he can fade the winning diamonds. Really? Not even give him a deuce? A deuce, bro. Give him a deuce. Wow, you're too greedy. He's never been here. Give him an eight. Give him an eight. Give him an eight. He's never been here before. He's got a chop out. Give him an eight. Give him the eight of diamonds. All right, at least he's an eight. All right, that's more fair. That's more fair, yeah. Going to the turn. Big card, Tony. Jack of hearts and that is it. That's it. DJ is going to be eliminated in fourth place. Put on a great showing at this final table and been running really well over the last few months but did not get his first major title here tonight. DJ Alexander, he'll win 161,000. Let's talk to him. Fill up on final table. I'll be back. I'll definitely be back. Here we go. Action on Tran. He's hit a dry spell and now he has picked up the pair of aces just what he needs at most. Yeah, he's only got about 10 blinds left so his decision here is moving all in or making a small raise and trying to do somebody to come over the top. JC opts for the latter option. 700,000 and now Helmuth folds and Art also fold so JC can't get action with that beautiful hand. Wow. That's like an all in to me when you do that. It's not like what I'd do if he was all in. I would just hold. Jesus. I'm not a tournament player but I know these things. Nice. JC Tran has seven brothers and sisters. He's the youngest of eight kids born in Vietnam. Actions on him. He'll throw that eight five away. Now Helmuth, seven four. And he has just called with it. Art with an eight deuce of clubs. No raise. Let's go to the flop. Well this Jack six three two club flop a lot better for Art than Phil but Phil does have a gut shot to the five. 375. And that's enough to lead him to fire out here for 375. Art's certainly not going anywhere. It's really a matter of calling or raising and he will call. Helmuth splash it around leading out. Check. Ten on the turn helps neither player and Phil will check it. Art likes to just check back here. Wow look at this river card gets there. Art Papazian hitting the flush. Helmuth with nothing though. 450. Oh he's going to take a stab at it though. Phil takes a stab and obviously it's not going to work but I like this bet here. He really can't win by checking. You got it. Mr. Straight. His opponent can have some weak high card hands that just want to get to showdown that will fold to a small bet so that's one of those spots where Phil reached the river with just about the worst hand he can possibly have and gave himself a chance to win. He just so happened to run into him. I can't beat eight high. Art Papazian extends the chip lead. Plays a 153 hundred at this point. Action on JC who has a ace and a ten. All in. And he's just going to shove it all in. Again JC with about 10 blinds here has just run out of room. Look at this Helmuth has a solid king queen of hearts. Call. You got to think he's going to call it and he does. Art folds the hand they turn him up. Go behind. Yeah. Well Phil a small underdog here but essentially in a coin flip. There's been a lot of dry flops. It's. JC Tran for decent about the ace 10. He's a little bit out in front over Helmuth. Either way. Pair the board low. Bill. I think it's going to come seven seven deuce. I'm fine with that. And it's King Jack five. Phil makes top pair. He's in great shape to knock out JC Tran. Well you see JC there knows what outs he's looking for. If it has to be an ace ace of hearts give me a few outs. Ace of hearts is fine. Now JC Tran came in as the major chip leader. Two times WPT champion in trouble right now. As we go to the turn. It's a four of hearts. And so now Phil picks up a heart flush draw. That's not fun. Ace of hearts is no longer an out. Very Greenstein. JC with five outs going to the river. Deuce of diamonds. No luck. Phil will eliminate JC in third place. Came into this final table as our chip leader and held it down for a long time. But eventually ran out of steam. Well he didn't make a lot of mistakes. That's for sure. The third place will pick up 217,000. Not to become a three-time WPT champion but always a gentleman. Let's talk to him. A little disappointing. I was in a good position to win. I felt like I made a couple small mistakes that cost me a little bit of chips. Had I won the last hand I would have been right back in it. But you know sometimes it happens. Play online poker for real cash and prizes at WPT Global. Sign up for free today using bonus code YT23 and get a free entry into a $100,000 guaranteed tournament. Action with the raw deal Phil Hellmuth. Yeah and this time he picks up a real hand pair of jacks. Six. And he'll make it 600. Minre's papazia with a queen deuce will make the call. So big opportunity here perhaps for Phil and the flop is a jack seven seven just jacks full for Phil Hellmuth. Three. Or just runs away. If you had a seven the match was over that's for sure. That's it that's the game. Game over. Full house. Full house. Why did I bet that? I mean if you have a seven we're getting it in anyway. Just let me catch up. Yeah what am I doing? Let me catch up. Oh my god I should have just checked that. Maybe you have queen nine off so you didn't hit a queen. I had a queen. Oh. What could have been Phil what could have been. I mean it's unlikely a queen comes but if it does oh baby. Yeah you got a couple bets out of me. Yeah sure. Couple streets. All right we move on. All right now with a little suited connector four or five of clubs. And he will raise that main raise to six hundred thousand. Phil with a pair of fives behind him. Now Phil mentioned that Art's generation plays the small pairs a little different. I can tell you that most of them would just go all in here. Pocket fives under 30 blinds heads up. Phil elects the call. He does he checks before the flop and look at this ace two three. Gives the nuts to papazian at this point. What a flop. Nine fifty. And what just happened Phil check raised here. And I don't know what he's hoping for. Certainly if Art is just bluffing he'll get him to fold something that has six outs. But if he has an ace he's never folding. And as it happens he has a big hand and Phil is bluffing into a spot where he is basically drawing dead. Yeah but Phil doesn't know what to check on the turn. One point two. And oh boy he's going to continue. Oh boy. I can make this guy believe something if you have nothing. But we know better. Huge flop there for papazian flop the straight and now he's reeling his man in. I mean at this stage Phil is hoping his opponent floated the flop with no pair no draw. And now it's just going to fold the turn. I don't really know what this is. Seven on the river and Phil is finally giving up perhaps. He is checking it. Okay disaster averted at least he didn't put more money in. It's true. And Art wants to get a little value and it's two point six. That should end the hand because at this stage it's essentially impossible for Art to be bluffing. I mean what hand could he call a flop check raise and turn bet with that doesn't have anything by the river. Basically hoping for something like six five and you've got two of the fives in your hand so how likely is that? Is Phil really going to considering this? Paying him off after everything. He's not a believer apparently he's going to make this call. Oh no. Oh no Vince I can't watch. Just a complete misstep by Phil Hownuth paying him off. Oh boy. Are you kidding me? I feel like I should unretire from the raw deal for that one. Well Art taking down a big pot put every nickel out of that one. Wow I just knew before the flop you had nothing so I didn't even re-raise you with fives. Wow what a lucky flop for you. That was a lucky flop for sure. Now Phil lost about half his stack in that hand but likely even more of his mental fortitude. And this time he picks up a gigantic ace king. He could use some revenge. Six. Moving it up to six hundred thousand and Art has king queen. Phil is pretty short here I think Art's gonna go for it. King queen's very strong heads up. And he does so and Phil with his trademark double fisted master chips in the middle call. Yeah Hownuth in a nice place here finally out in front nicely with ace king up against king queen for a big double up possibility. Art Papazian the local his first ever WPT main event with an opportunity to win this. One time? All right Art Papazian officially using his one time. I would like to use my one time. Wait wait you just took five four against two fives. I brought you two one time. It wasn't used. All right Phil clearly knows the rules. Okay all right you got your one time fair enough. One time. Big drama. Let's flop. Queen. Queen ten eight but Vince don't get too excited yet. Phil still with the gut shot to the jack. He can catch an ace he can catch running hearts. This is by no means over. Five of hearts makes this very interesting. Any heart any jack any ace and Phil is going to win this pot. But if he doesn't catch it it is over. Papazian one card away from the championship. Are they chanting art or heart? I don't know. Here it is. Three of spades it's over Vince. Art Papazian has done it. Phil Hownuth comes one spot short of his first WPT title and the crowd goes wild. What a dramatic hand. Art Papazian is our champion. Let's go down and talk to him. I mean I'm just I don't I uh I don't have that many seconds in holding tournaments in my life. So I was you know I mean I needed I need I need to start my WPT collection. There's no doubt in my mind I'll have five or ten by the time it's done. And I really wanted to start here and uh you know it's uh unfortunate. Okay I am standing here with our champion Art Papazian. Now Art you're not only taking home the big bucks also the u-blow big bang steel watch which is absolutely beautiful but you're also going to get your name inscribed on the champions cup. How are you feeling? I feel amazing. This is a once in a lifetime opportunity. I couldn't be happier. Well let's hear it one more time for the champion Art Papazian. you