You know, a couple of weeks ago, we Nagel, who is over at Universal. has been voicing more concerns. How do you feel about where we stand So let me let me qualify by saying that market blind. We have opinions about the world. was that you need a big tail hedge and conversation because because the market allows you to have a larger position if positions. But now we have a lot of risks building Whether the first one I think is of year after year taking a larger portion So it's not out of control yet. You know, when you have that, you need But we should grow faster to be able to The second one is the real world. top two 21st century? assets. You know, after the Ukraine war of could do once. to participate in confiscation of assets people, you know, was vague links to the And it may make sense maybe from a that it's not that encourage people to Okay. U.S. but we're seeing more and more in all prices. people want out of that system. a progressive loss of the role of the in, It's interesting, the the dollar fear investors. still reign. people conduct nominally a transaction they don't store it in dollars. You know, it's interesting you mentioned geopolitical risk we're seeing, seen Brent rise above $80. here? big you know, probability, not very high, because so way above 80. than 1973 oil crisis because we have a more interactive systems and 1973. market's pricing in justifiably a small are aware of that possibility, but trust in such a forecast. How much are you willing to be buying it as a kind of answer to your concerns would I would say that I'm more of a you hedged against a eventual market we were the last 20 years. We're very fragile. the big rally was in the S&amp;P 500 over very small number of firms link to a I investment, as these firms. representative of the growth of I when the internet started, everybody use They were one of the pioneers and then Okay. have a huge capitalization, you know, of I and someone else may come in Now, you've navigated some of the most Black Monday, seven and eight. You talked about fragility in the market The market has shrugged off almost What happens is, is like like these this what when you expect in the least, which any protection. And I think we're very similar to the collapses and. People are used to it. precaution in the beginning, but then more rally, and that's when the maximum. this juncture? Is there still animal spirits jumping And what is causing it? seeing in the market today? we are coming out of an environment of people to avoid conservative investments value. the markets just to too late investing And that was, I think, Mark Spitz more and more people and has more the are there. So so nothing has changed, but only is You said to expose the fragility of it. on a lot of hope You say So I don't want to hear stories Is it overheating here or is it cooling You see? classical environment for us to make So which is why I would say that one has Extremely bullish and others were telling the risk Okay, that's Mark's point. less bullish than he was or maybe he's the first shoe to drop. other times in history? are really vulnerable to black swan I thought that was an interesting you, you've been very reticent to call Now we have okay, we have a fragile it's also during COVID between the We have more globalization almost, you So more dependence between economies. that if something collapses, it causes We have more debt particularly debt relative to growth So and what's bad here is that richer, typically but your incentive to grow isn't there So so we are now probably the richest debt. to grow out of this. think that the US is going to be able to has? That's exactly why I'm afraid. administration has done in 2022 when It doesn't encourage people to invest in geopolitical problem and you may be in citizen of countries that are, you know, you know, in the Middle East or in Asia or even in Eastern Europe. you don't want your money taken away You see, once you do it, once you can do you can do twice. harming the United States And I think mentioned that he said we shouldn't be