- What? What the? (screams) What's not to like You can get the exact same Yeah, you heard me right. Now, we've taken a look at a lot of refurbished products over the years, and most of the time they're of okay to not so okay condition, but this is Apple we're talking about directly on apple.com. Surely I'm gonna get some great deals on some very gently used tech, right? Let's take a look at what we've got. You get a refurbished device with genuine Apple thoroughly cleaned and inspected, and then refurbished iOS devices come with a new battery and outer shell. Okay, so that's actually cool. Now, typically, when you get a quality selection, acceptable, whatever. There's none of that. I am gonna assume that all of these are going to be essentially if you get an iOS device give you a new battery and a outer shell, that's way more than anyone is doing in the refurbished space, so that's cool. So we've got a bunch of options. We can go Mac, iPad, Apple TV, HomePod accessories. I mean, they've got A refurbished 24 inch iMac $1,050. Bro, I have seen these things brand new go on sale for less Not always, but that's Oh, this is actually Uh-oh, wait, price low- Oh, I sorted price low to high. The cheapest thing they for almost $900? What happens when we go high to low? Mac Pros. $10,000 Mac Pros! Oh, I don't know why I I don't know why this is the moment where I'm realizing how 'cause now I'm about to spend like, thousands of dollars on Apple If that's not a reason to subscribe and ringaling the dingaling, If this video gets 100,000 We won't hit a hundred thousand, right? That's really high. No one's gonna do that, right? Let's look for a phone. What's the cheapest iPhone I can find? Oh no. What? What the? The cheapest iPhone is $700 for iPhone 13? Okay, my friends, I need and some meditation, some before I pull my credit card out and give Timmy Cook a lot of money to buy these particular items. Wish me luck. Don't forget, a hundred thousand likes and I buy the Mac Pro. I will say the premium Apple because all this stuff which is actually pretty impressive, especially because I think the four or five days or something. Oh wow! We got custom boxes. Take a look on back I mean, this back looks exactly like a regular brand new iPhone. It does show as a midnight - [Ken] Oh, midnight. That's the blue one. - Is it? I thought it was a black one. I heard midnight and thought it was black. Is midnight not black? - Maybe it is black, I don't know. - All right, let's see what we got. Okay, yeah, that's a very Now I'm going into this because Apple make it seem very clear that they are going to make this thing as pristine as possible, and that usually means bad. Okay, so looking at the back here, a little dusty, but that's fine. There's a little bit of like, there's some marks you can see here. Like, beside the camera bump. I'm not sure what that is. You see that? Those little like dots. - [Ken] You can wipe it off? - Oh yeah, you can. You do have the little paper I also, I do kind of believe that this is a new chassis. Looking at like the Lightning port, normally, especially with you see a little bit of like wearing. There's nothing. Like, that looks all completely brand new. So we've got that, got a brand and a new thing of paperwork. I mean, this is essentially I mean, this is exactly like - [Ken] How much did you pay? - Oh Ken, so when we were - [Ken] Why did your voice crack? (laughs) - This is more expensive - [Ken] No. - We paid $699 for this iPhone 13. - [Ken] Wait, 600? - 699, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, go ahead, go ahead. Just do the math, do the math. Right, right. So iPhone 13, right? We're on iPhone 16 now so This is a hundred dollars more This is basically the same - So what's the pitch here? - 512 gigs as opposed to 128. The problem we had when ordering this was that they didn't that was lower capacity. So this was the cheapest iPhone that you could possibly buy - Wow, you need to really - Exactly, who wants the with a ton of storage? They say this has a new So let's actually see So battery health is, yep, 100%. So the fact that Apple are doing pretty much everything right here between a new like sort of build, you've got the new battery, There's nothing to complain which is the danged price. But, and there is a huge but, this is the best case scenario because iOS devices are the only ones that Apple claim are fully refurbished when it comes to the new and everything else like that. Other devices such as, oh I that's refurbished has no such guarantees. So they say that they will upgrade or change parts if necessary. So this was the cheapest So you can see here, again, regular Apple Watch packaging except it says certified refurbished, which is actually a sticker. - [Ken] I'm happy you pulled that band. - That's a nice color. - Oh no, it's not that. I have high expectations for this because I didn't realize - For the Apple Watch SE? - Uh-huh. How much I paid for the SE? - [Alex] You paid $209. - And this is direct from Apple. What'd you see? - The new Starlight Sport - [Austin] Yep, yep. - $200, it's like and $50 - So I can literally get brand new from Best Buy for $10 less than I got it refurbed from Apple. This is gonna be a Let's separate the price for a second because prices come and Let's look at the All right, so this is the watch, and this packaging does feel quite... Oh my god. What the? It's like a watch for ants. Are you serious? This is what the 40 mil looks like? What the? I didn't know they made This is tiny. I've never used an Apple Watch SE before. What am I missing by only Like, I know it's missing- - [Ken] Temperature. - Temp, okay, so it's - [Alex] It doesn't - Oh, that's a big deal. I remember with the older watches before they had fast charging, Okay, so that might be a downside. You know, one thing I do notice is that not only is the screen small, but the bezels are a little bit chunky compared to the more modern watches. But the thing is, all of but that's all on the newer watches, and the newer watches are Like, this is like half the price. I will say just as a if you're interested in Apple Watch, this feels like pretty good for 200 bucks. Whether you get it new, or used, or refurbished in this case, with a slightly larger watch for me just 'cause I think that looks really, really tiny on my wrist. But specifically when it comes to buying it from Apple refurb, it's good as long as someone doesn't have the exact same thing on sale All right, next up we have Again, certified refurbished. So the box is covered in plastic so you can tell this is an older design 'cause they've gotten rid of And you see this is an iPad So this is still the most recent as the recording of this video. This is still like an Again, packaging quite nice. It looks just like an original So peel this off. Ooh, that purple nice. I don't know if I've ever actually seen the purple in person. That's actually, that's kind of nice. Again, quite clean on the back. I'm not seeing any like coming around the edges. Yeah, it's clean, and the screen... Yeah, this is again new I can't tell the difference. All right, so we have set up the iPad. Now, one of the problems besides the very newest ones, is that they don't actually give you the battery percentage in 'cause almost every Phones do, watches do. - What's that? - [Videographer] I could - What's the battery? - [Alex] It's a brand new battery. - On the iPad? - [Alex] All refurbished iPads from Apple get new battery and new outer shell just like the iPhone. - Oh, okay, so when I read So iOS and iPadOS both get That makes more sense Again, impressed. I still kinda think but regardless, whatever. That's impressive. If you are interested in an iPad, I know everyone defaults I really do like the Mini and it comes in this delightful color, and I might be stalling because I'm trying to not tell - Oh, tell me more. How much did you pay? - Okay, so what's a new I mean, it's three years but it's like what, $450? - Retail is $500. Yeah, lot of money for an iPad mini. So retail for $500, you would think that I got a screaming deal Right? - Is are you gonna tell me you didn't? - I didn't, no. It was like $430? - [Alex] 419. - [Austin] 419, 4-1-9. $399. - Yeah, you know like that it is like every bit of the year. - To be fair, the iPad Mini It's normally not on sale price. - So it's gonna be like 350? - Yeah, again, we're in a little bit of an inopportune time before a lot of these things get price cuts. - [Ken] You could from the local one. - Okay, okay. Fair. So I guess this is another case where we could have for $20 less than we got the refurb for, which is a big difference. I'm not gonna argue that. In fact, I'm not gonna argue any of this. - [Ken] For that extra $20, you could have gotten real 420 as well. So this next item, I might if I'm honest with you. These are Apple certified AirPods Pro. Now, most of the time when I do a video and I buy some refurbished AirPods, which I assure you is a very real and popular market out there. People go, what the Why are you putting someone And to that, I say, Alex, So, Apple certified refurbished. Now these are the most recent version. So this is the AirPods Pro 2nd Gen. So this should have USB-C. These are also compatible with the Apple Watch charger, right? For these guys. Yeah. Now I don't think the update is live yet, but these AirPods should also soon have that full like hearing aid support, which I actually do kinda wanna try. Okay, again, packaging like a brand new pair. Open it up. Now, I'm curious about the case because these cases get So again, if someone's used this case, you'll notice it pretty quick. All right, so yeah, case as far as I can tell. Looks totally clean. How about the actual AirPods themselves? I mean, that looks pretty clean to me if I'm honest with you. I don't see anything. Smells clean. Tastes clean. It's clean. Oh no. You don't need to. No, it's totally clean, Ken, don't worry. They're not dirty. - Oh, actually no, they're fine. They're fine. They're fine. What about the case? But what about the case? Oh yeah, look, it's clean. - Wait, can we try something What about my headphones? How do these look? - [Ken] Oh, gross. - [Austin] Oh yeah. It's a little grimy, huh? What about the ear tips? - [Ken] Oh, Austin! Gross! - I would say the noise canceling Like, better than the last time I used AirPods noise canceling. Like, it's legitimately I still don't think but they're pretty solid. Oh, we do the Find My thing too. Here, hide 'em and see if I can find 'em. All right, I'm finding Let's see if... Looking for signal. Okay, it wants me to go this way. That's sending me straight here. - [Ken] I hid it very like you would miss them. - Ah! I found them! This did work. Okay, so look, you know what? AirPods Pro, it's almost who have iPhones use AirPods So how much did I pay, first from Apple refurbished? - You paid $209. I think that's because it's up to 20% off. I don't know that any is more than 20% off of retail. So $40 off, $210. These go on sale for 200 Where can I buy a pair of AirPods Pro with like USB-C and - So this is Uber Eats. - Are you serious that Uber Eats is the best deal on AirPods Pro? Oh my god, $189 from Uber Eats! That's weird, but I guess, yeah. Thankfully though, we have one last item, which I'm sure will knock our socks off, blow us away with sheer So this is a base model MacBook Air. So it is an M2 with eight gigs of RAM and 256 gigs of storage. So let's see what we got. It's got a little like, That's interesting. Okay, so we've got ourselves the MacBook in its midnight glory, which I don't think that's a phrase I will use again. Let's see. Ooh, it's clean. It's clean. It's clean as heck. - It's got a little bit of residue, but I think it's just from like the paper. I mean, that looks pretty spotless. And importantly, if you they get scratched really easy. All that looks really clean. It does have Touch ID, and you've got the notch, which I will say is kinda whatever. It still feels like completely stupid because why does that for a webcam without like But the biggest problem is quite simply just the fact that the M1 MacBook Air is dirt cheap. As of recording this video, Walmart sell the original M1 MacBook. So still Apple silicon, it's all the bits and bobs, right? It has the older design, it's essentially the same How much did I pay for - You paid $849. - That's not terrible. It's not terrible. - Oh, Ken. is $1,100 or a thousand bucks. - But new from doordash.com. - Where are you finding these? - $850. Well, it's DoorDash via - [Austin] $850 from Best Buy. - [Ken] Yes, and this is for these these days. - So it's the exact same thing. To be fair, this is Like honestly, Apple Refurb, I just, I have not found a So like, you can kinda treat I mean, maybe there's an off that has like a scuffed I don't know, but I just Phone, watch, AirPods, It's completely flawless. But not a single one of these was cheaper than buying a new product. This is so different than 'cause almost always, for not refurbishing things correctly, for selling you a grade A item and it's got like all kinda scuffs, like a terrible battery and stuff. Like, this is a different problem. But my recommendation is really simple. Price check everything. If you can buy it new, just buy it new. There's no reason not to. I mean, the Apple but if I can save money and get something that is the exact same, then of course you should just do that. But if you're looking for something on the Apple Refurbished store, you find it at a reasonable price. I feel pretty confident in saying you were getting essentially I think that they need slightly more than brand new though. Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe the channel and ringaling the dingaling button. If you're interested in this kinda stuff, we did do a video talking all about Apple when it comes to this Self Service Repair. It was a really fascinating can upgrade the batteries of the phones you already own, and it is equally as ridiculous when it comes to the way more expensive than just having