So it has come to this. It is finally I reviewed Color Splash when it came out, and that the game was what really launched my career. So has passed that Nintendo has made ANOTHER Paper Things have come full circle, and I So much has changed... I'VE changed... I Makes all the difference in the world Before we get started, a couple things. First, depends on who you are. We'll be showing footage It's more than I would personally want to see single interesting visual element was shown in the I'm sure you'll be fine here. If you're more on story specifics, so if you listen without watching lightly touching on a concept that was only shown a pretty common mechanic so it's a part of the for some viewers? Basically we tried to strike a and ultimately it's up to you to decide if The second thing to mention...I'm going HARD That's not to say it's a purely terrible want to know what Arlo thinks, if it's probably. It's got a tremendous amount of stuff If that's all you wanted to hear, At the very least you'll love the world and the even end up liking the rest as well, plenty MAJOR problems with how this game is designed. very serious problems at Nintendo. Seeing, what Nintendo legacy gem thrown away for no good If you have a tendency to call out reviewers for gonna like this review. I won't blame you for Believe me, I'm going to give this But if you are asking for a review of Paper Mario: Paper Mario: The Origami King. With all that said, * Let's get the most obvious thing out of the is a stunningly beautiful game. And considering this does not come as a surprise. The first three about characters that happened to be flat. Then a paper world, Color Splash perfected the idea, us bigger and more unique areas. Once again, I heard it argued many times that the paper world and the paper thing isn't why we fell in love with true to an extent, and it can get a LITTLE tiring the rest of the game (which we'll talk about me to find fault in it. The execution is just papery; it's about art design, and that's one area details that make it look like actual paper, It's how these areas are constructed. It's the it's how ALIVE the world looks. This is the most country mile, and these wide open areas and there are even some visual elements that are a tremendous amount of care went into how clouds as I could ever hope for. I feel like any other I mean you're playing a game about little grandiose vibe from it because of these details. tremendously by the interconnected world. I seeing as it was the series standard set all the three games to ditch the new world map I wouldn't connected...but it is indeed my job to compare to help inform the purchasing decisions of series good to have a real world again--to feel like series of dozens of smaller places with severe within them. I will say that it does feel a game's major areas are kind of strung together in to make a really big difference narratively. of wide open areas, which is, I feel, the one expands upon what was already good about the do like a BUNCH, with like your WHOLE GAME. Augh, something I like right now.) Seriously though, help to change up the game's pacing. They kind then the desert with its several connected gigantic and has a ton of stuff to find. They as well as a simple satisfaction that comes Mario normally runs pretty slowly, so it's just a And to the skeptics who still insist that Origami two worlds, you are dead wrong. On top of being towns, that NPC's actually LIVE in! Are they standard Mario fare. And the towns aren't massive towns in any other games, so this is something and having towns at all is another thing that game's narrative feel. I mean having Toad it looks great, and I love how the population will of course talk about later). It beats Port * On both topics of presentation and narrative is how cinematic it can be. Because of its more the devs were given much more camera control than utilized wonderfully. Having such a dynamic building tension or excitement. Cutscenes are to believe I'm playing a Paper Mario game. The which look amazing and are integrated almost paper to realistic water, that's a bit odd). gameplay sequences that are just terrific. but this time they're way less frustrating. When to the title screen (which was monumentally silly) to add tension but easy enough that I didn't And visually, they're an absolute treat. Some of of my favorite moments in the entire SERIES. visual elements, too. You've got beauty and you've charm and cleverness we've all come to expect I am positively amazed by all the different all the paper manipulation the game indulges been folded and hidden is a delight. NPCs Every area is packed with an immense amount of amazing! I feel like they must have hired a team make the confetti look this good. The way it's the way it fills in these holes in the world... gosh, it just feels GOOD. Nintendo has always that crazy level of polish that very few companies much present in Origami King. Tossing a bunch never stops feeling awesome. Hitting a Toad a reward in itself. The way your hammer crumples Even the way Mario runs around feels good. animation, but the sound design as well. It's for whatever reason sends pleasurable feedback And the sound design here is simply superb. The and scratchy and papery other times. This helps to music is good too, though I don't think I like it themes in there, but not a lot that really jump It's all fitting. But not very memorable, and it generic rock kinda way. I don't think that style Before we move on from the game's presentation, but sometimes the image can be a smidge or some sort of anti-aliasing would And also, while talking about the world, I Origami King offers a very large number of things Town. Naturally there are loads and loads o' Toads and they even give you Toad Points, which can be The next major collectible is these little character and notable object in the game. They're and look at up close. Then there's a bestiary of you've got achievements to earn, and probably find yourself enjoying the world enough to explore do. You're encouraged to comb every single nook * I already talked about cutscenes and exciting how they tie into the story. I've spent a lot of about the game in interviews, but one thing I can to story. With Sticker Star, Miyamoto asked him, that was a game with basically zero story. But philosophy. The story shouldn't be what is told to It should be the meaningful experiences that advance the plot and provide exposition in bouncing the focus back and forth between that make up the plot. When you describe what to be describing all the fun and exciting and like you're telling a story. While personally, characters and stuff, I can appreciate the purity it feels more in line with the spirit of Mario. (don't you worry), but this is an example of designers to do more with what they have, and make might not be singing the same tune if they hadn't story, as told through its varied sequences and time to miss the more complex plots of yesteryear. effective thanks to the game's cast of characters. stubborn for no good reason. Hey, this is coming life harshly criticizing these games and wishing These characters are terrific. Because the rotating nature of your allies you don't get but the characterization itself is there, in full have real names, nor are they allowed to look but there are multiple Toad characters with are all very fun. They're well-written, they're motivations, they're everything you * And I HATE to admit this. Most often I find myself and the whole cutesy, timid, Isabelle-kinda But darn it...I love Olivia. She's this seeing the world for the first you get to experience the whole game and it's incredibly endearing. Like if this game I'm pretty sure she would get a big following. Just about ALL of the characters are hilarious. Thousand Year Door. Color Splash was also really at times. It was often a little TOO jokey. Lots stuff. It felt like they had to fill every moment But Origami King smooths everything out. It no Twitter users shoved into Toad bodies. The humor more consistent in quality. And you would think the whole "joke every moment" thing, but no! but it all pauses when necessary, and somehow, it's all really really good! They must have had game is written like a good comedy show, where I'm tellin' ya, I lost track of how many times the And yet, despite being a cutesy, funny game we've all been missing from the series as well. not anticipate. And I've got to give it credit for kinda feels forced? A little? I know that's be happy about SOMETHING, Arlo???" I mean I be the exact story they wanted to tell us, but help but feel like maybe they're just throwing sequences I really wanted to invest myself in, and like it didn't quite EARN what it was and despite my nitpickery I'm incredibly happy depth to the series considering the direction * *sigh* Yeah, I guess we've come to it. but it's all downhill from here. And we can't I'm not going to go into the entire thing, I've Kensuke Tanabe has gone on record saying that it comes to the series' characters and appearances of the standard Mushroom Kingdom and they're not allowed to create new races that we've observed for years, Paper Mario has become There is part of me that can kind of see the rather than complex plot, you could argue that way to maintain the purity of the series. It's one of those ideas that probably and honestly, if the first few games never so much about all of this. So I try to look at it And yet, at the end of the day, I can't see these thing. Having some small restrictions makes a creative work. But they took it too far. Even allowed to cross, we could see it. We saw it in we can see that line running through the entirety and scenario writers pushing against that line, it as hard as POSSIBLE to wring every single "Well we're not allowed to create cool creatures... but we can't make up new characters with best personalities to STATIONARY! Because they Do you remember when Nintendo revealed Bobby, him a name? Yeah, guess what? It's not even just like all the other Bob-ombs, and Olivia only Because he's not allowed to have a real name. him unique by taking away his fuse, nothing from loopholes! It's like these restrictions to skirt around them to deliver something they probably knew we wanted. A game should this game feels like it's fighting with itself! a business standpoint, in a world where people as free marketing and even go on to drive future within this game, all on its own, this is awkward. played VIDEO GAMES before, you've probably come and those characters are unique and have names I have played VIDEO GAMES before, and when I play and writers bump their heads against that line a connected world with towns and stuff to make letting your characters be CHARACTERS because that are two very different design philosophies And the thing about that line is that it's moved to the Nth degree, not a shred of originality to terms of what kinds of characters they could work and the game was substantially better for it. and I should be happy about that! The creative Paper Mario, and it makes the game stand so far about it, but it only makes me more frustrated. good range of opinions, and Paper Mario is no that 99% of the fanbase agrees on, it's that Practically EVERYBODY dislikes generic characters is that on a creative level, Sticker Star was King is the best of the three. The vast majority further away that creative line is placed, that is Why do they have to take these baby steps between parts for what they are, but all the while I can't and I have to wonder how amazing the game You're supposed to judge a game based on what Well I can't. It is simply impossible for me to wants more because I've gotten more from not only like, VIDEO GAMES, IN GENERAL. It's a standard have characters! Characters are supposed to be * When I hear "We're not allowed to go past this the game that fun," because that's essentially amounts to. While I play I see these wonder who is making these decisions? Who Some mysterious IP protection team? And if they're that means they're admitting that moving the to admit that moving the line and loosening up even SEE how people enjoy it when the line is clearly see that moving the line is benefiting Honestly, it's exhausting. I try to just enjoy but that's not how brains work most of the time, I'm playing a game in a series that used to and I'm constantly reminded of all the ridiculous and it's exhausting. Sometimes when it feels less like a victory and more like the "You want unique characters? Here's a bob-omb can pretend like it's Bobby or something if you'll And on the subject of limitations, I'm sure not but I feel like the focus on paper actually In the last two games the paper focus was more ENTIRE focus, at the expense of any real, King does have that story. It's exciting, it's And now I'm finding that the paper thing Immersion is big for me. I become the most not grounded in our reality at all beyond some and alive. Origami King's Mushroom Kingdom it's got people living in towns, it's got Mario and Bowser and Peach all share. But it, and of paper. Real, literal paper. And they NEVER let getting torn and soggy. There are holes in the Stationary is the most dangerous thing in the But where did that stationary come from? Who an imagination world or something? A child's actually know why Nintendo leans on paper so hard It's not nearly as enjoyable an element as world filled with characters and story. THAT'S For me, being so grounded in the real world is hard for me to fully connect with the world when keep imagining that there are humans somewhere emotional or epic moments, there's always that "Yeah, but...they're just paper. They're not Pete's sake. This is dumb." I try to get into origami. Like, the bad thing you fight isn't crazy magic powers...but the concept of origami. bad things at you. It is hard for me to care but...it's origami! As an antagonistic force, it's None of it can feel nearly as cool as it's human-produced PAPER. Breaking immersion we know that that immersion breakage is They can only use concepts that specifically DON'T is literally their MANDATE. I'm sorry but I cannot game by creating a world that doesn't work with * I mentioned the idea that it feels like they're sound like I'm overthinking things and looking at you know what, I probably wouldn't have thought of the game too. The badge mechanic was one that and it's been sorely missed ever since. On the mechanic back. You can get "accessories," But...the selection is very minimal, and you from each category. The leftmost category, for and each one you get is simply better than the the best one you've got. Some of these force you another thing, but...none of these are a big deal. a tiny fraction of the idea that doesn't amount guess so. But it does feel like they're willing yet they're only willing to toss it back in as Here's a tiny handful of them." Uh, thanks... "partners." The topic of partners has been one first few games they injected the experiences and brought strategic depth to the combat. I mean they best represent what the original games used And when the marketing material for Origami King talked about making allies, people were ecstatic. of partners to Paper Mario. I was extremely for it, but, if I may indulge... I WAS RIGHT. and each one is only with you during their how maybe this allows for some unique creative enough to help with the story, and they can have It's sort of an interesting narrative idea... But Only one of them grants you an ability to use sure, but from a design standpoint it would be feels so strange! And yeah, they technically standing next to you as you fight (or as material for your game...) but you want to know how ...Yeah. If a turn ends and you haven't defeated do a little attack. It's...moderately happened to get away from you and it's like cool. And that's it. What was even the point of get us to stop complaining about partners? "You see? They follow you around, they stand next to you POSSIBLY want? Don't be entitled!" I mean it's ENOUGH, they're actually legitimately quite UNDERSTAND it? But that's too hard what we want. Every last bit of it. Tanabe said he of the whole situation, a great understanding to so carefully--so METHODICALLY choose back and by how much. These "partners" feel * Alright. We can't put it off any longer. time to talk about the game's combat. I've Just in case you need a little context, here's a way too convoluted. It took way too long to choose very simple battles against easy enemies were a easy, seeing as you could just throw any random would turn out fine. Having all of your attacks it felt wasteful, but then the game threw so many of difficulty balance to be found. And of course, more cards and coins, and running from enemies more efficient way of beating enemies than DISCOURAGED me from engaging with the game's So going into Origami King, "is combat worth the story and the characters and the connected belief, as anyone who watched my videos on the a really really good game in most areas, but it unbearable level for me. It basically ruined something that could make or break the experience, And thus the time has finally come to answer mistakes of its modern predecessors? Is the Well, I wish I could give you a clear cut answer, beginning, Origami King is certainly worth about Color Splash. I say save yourself the Origami King, it isn't ENTIRELY RUINED by I'm even more frustrated with it than I ever was It doesn't destroy the game entirely, but For the sake of simplicity let's talk about the EVERYTHING stems from the ring system. This ring On the surface it seems fairly innocuous at first. But remember, this is a review where I do not hold and I feel that this little ring thing is a of the idea that nothing is more important than It perfectly represents why Paper Mario is A bit too harsh? Well you knew what you were So basically, the whole point of the ring system spaces around to line up your enemies for better and if you line everyone up, you get an attack your targets. Two-by-two groups can be hit with am pleased to report that disposable attacks in Different kinds of jump and hammer attacks are but it's nothing like it was before, and you've break. Boom. That's one problem straight up fixed. to attack and with what move, is the best Paper basic and intuitive, yet offers the potential what's the problem, Arlo? Well, I say POTENTIAL the combat. You also have that ring part that came here? The attacking part? Nah, not important. the ring. And the ring does everything in * The ring by itself is a little fun. Like simply stuff around, and it does feel good to There's a nice little chunk of satisfaction satisfaction is that it has nothing to do with the but at the moment I'm trying to play a Mario game frustrating because it doesn't make any sense at you're taking turns because it's more like a strategic, your attacks represent real attacks of turn-based combat in ANY game. But what does where you go? What is Mario actually doing when will, but I feel these kinds of questions are asking them angrily, something isn't quite right. for a great number of reasons. Like I said, it can is entirely isolated from the rest of the combat. and get an attack bonus so you can lay into them! this system impacts the battle design and overall group of baddies, and if you line them up and use That strategic potential with the weapons? Out the you take them all out. At the absolute worst, you takes two. But it's always one or two, because It's supposed to reward your puzzle solving thus creating a combat system that Okay, so what happens if you don't do the puzzle for a greater challenge? Not really. See, whoever Solving the puzzle rewards the player, so they recognized the puzzles as a barrier to entry then some players would become frustrated and dilemma clue them in that maybe their system was least committal option. Failing the puzzle isn't time. When you mess up, you might have a lot of time that would be too hard, right? So instead, decides how many, so they can keep a handle on the to know how they're going to do it or how many of do, they just kind of awkwardly throw themselves leftover enemy cleanup duty the attacking part is these attacks on individual enemies and the It feels like because of this system where if and if you don't the enemies can't do a lot to the designers have come to ANOTHER wrongest nearly identical. I mean there is very little in sort of little twist, like the boos disappear. supposed to take out all at once, or that attack Their attacks are all so samey, yet the specifics types so quickly that memorizing attack patterns just kind of guess, or keep mashing the button and And again, choosing different weapons doesn't do instead of regular ones. Are they flying? Use a pretty much the extent of the game's strategy attack patterns, you don't need to know how about selecting just the right attack, none of down to "did you do the whole puzzle?" and then out in one hit?" If the answer is yes to both a puzzle. If either of them is no, then it will I'll admit right now, I am pretty darn bad at comes from there. I can handle two moves it can take a mighty effort. I'm not I'm sure there are people out there who are great is going to be a big deal breaker for a lot of and yet I can never recommend it to any parents Also, even when I can solve a puzzle, the only satisfying to solve a puzzle just for the sake of context of battle, the absolute best I can expect Not getting frustrated that I wasted my time. GET IN THE WAY TOO MUCH. Be fun though? Why have fun when you can have something NEW! * There's actually so much more to say about the of conveying it all properly. But I shall try. tricky puzzles when you're just trying to by a number of features. You can spend coins to this takes a loooooot of coins. You can burn of that, you can throw money at the Toads in the AND refill your health, depending on how final semblance of difficulty balance goes give them five hundred coins and they'll solve essentially meaning that for five hundred coins, means winning any battle without much effort. clear boundaries. I like to have separate Nintendo will include easier options that aren't appear in Super Mario 3D World and 3D Land when who need a lot of extra help. It's not a separate experience that it's easy for me to ignore. But the player, it is my goal to figure out the most damage output and resource income. Naturally, this won't end up making any money from the fight, but how easy it makes the game, but then I remember of tedious puzzles, which I DON'T want to do. So a game the way it was intended. Tanabe mentioned were for casual players, but if your "easy together...what does that say about your mechanic? Mario games still require a player to PLAY is based on an "all or nothing" mechanic letting a player not even do the puzzle makes Having these failsafes makes me wonder if YOU even I said this about the fact that you could beat a game that already had combat with I wasn't being forced to engage in a combat but I was also annoyed that the devs would be so skim over an entire facet of the game and there thing here. I'm glad they've given me a way to and yet I'm almost MORE annoyed that they have like by giving us these easier options, they're problems. Don't agree yet? Well let me tell you have given us. When solving a puzzle, at any point And no, the help doesn't come from the tips the game PAUSES. And while it's paused, Buying time? Giving money to Toads? Why do any of Imagine you're playing Breath of the Wild, and moving, and you can kill every monster like this mode just built right into the pause menu. That's "feature" I'm supposed to just ignore, even time? Surely this wasn't a mistake on their part, So then what's the alternative? Were they really a puzzle within a time limit that they had to to get around it? It's like whoever came up with sacrifices to the game's enjoyability along the the ring was NEW, and it was a PUZZLE, and it end...but at the very last second the rational "Wait, hold on, this could actually destroy the like, "Okay, well, maybe we can make it OPTIONAL." nothing feels necessary. So once again we find convoluted than it needs to be, oversimplifies and in the end doesn't feel super necessary. that is perhaps even more frustrating in concept, it was in Color Splash. First off, running from and because there are so many enemies to rush you just to engage. I should be annoyed that I'm not I'm glad that literally avoiding combat entirely Origami King has WAY more scripted battles that baddies will pop up unexpectedly or attack you in to battle them, and yet when they're actually from taking them out. It's easier to engage and simply running isn't an option at all. Then of which is one of those concepts that can make or feel a little better if you know you're going on the side of your house? Sounds like a pretty * The Paper Mario team refuses to bring back and confetti were their attempt to make up for it. It doesn't really matter what it is, as long as order to get more. So do coins and confetti act ......Yyyyyyes and no? it's a straight no. Confetti is all over the in the game there are like a COUPLE places where a precious resource. Filling holes is satisfying progress...but in the end having a confetti They COULD have elected to make confetti a finite thus giving us a satisfying collection system But they didn't. I don't know why they didn't. better ways to handle the confetti system, it to mean very little. Kay. Great. is where they were on to something. You earn COSTS a lot of coins. Accessories don't but it is pretty fun to spend your coins on them. as well, and there will probably be times when and suddenly you want to go out and get yourself chunk of money from a battle...as long as you do a puzzle, or get hit at all. It's another but does help at least somewhat. Later in the from a well-fought (or rather, well PUZZLED) You'll find a lot more money on the overworld And the problem is that if you want coins to feel TRYING too hard to get them. Just like I said, make money and do it a bunch, but if you do that goes down the tubes. After the RoShamBo temples in destroying mini game in Origami King and I was not stuff, then eventually you will indeed reach a feel like they matter much anymore. And at that thing of the past, because you can just buy the absolute best stuff out on the field, but And this sort of summarizes the overall issues To ANYTHING. If something is hard, just spend just take any amount of time to actively pursue any sort of actual challenge, you've got to come limitations for yourself. With all these little making a game for EVERYBODY. But to me it feels too hard for casual players and the rest of combat they just threw everything they could at the wall the players create their own challenge. Forget or economy or anything. That's not the GAME * So far I've just been talking about regular of their own. And honestly, I'm kind of torn on the challenge and strategy I crave. Here the ring it very differently. You have to use these You can collect powerups along the way, and the right actions. Since there's no one correct your individual strategy, Toads can't make any Again, there is something satisfying about getting path and picking up a bunch of stuff and doing have a lot of very fun animations, they're pretty each unique with a lot of personality. Every board and force you to rethink your strategy. into each boss encounter, and I actually came a Unfortunately, these battles still fall into a new ones. Toads might not make moves for you, but want, so I didn't REALLY come close to dying. Also all the time you need planning your strategy, battles is that they're long, convoluted, and The boss battles in Sticker Star and Color Splash system. You couldn't beat a boss unless you Sometimes the answers were very obtuse and to use. If you used the right thing, you would no problem. It was an "all or nothing" system that battling an enemy, and wow, am I starting to see a and I've seen a lot of people celebrate that in spirit. The game is just more subtle about the Makes sense. Some of these weaknesses need to Still makes sense, but it's the execution that's these battles, but it can still take a ton the major attacks against bosses are done using You'll try to use what seems like it might work, like, "No, you can't do that yet, you've got to do thing, and she'll be like, "You can't do that And it's constantly like this. Constantly telling you did this too soon, you used the right hit it with your arms, that just makes things behind I guess, even though the arms they don't for some reason, but NOW hit it with And the whole time the boss is pummeling you, when it's really not at all! It's just that it's perform one proper attack on the thing! And sure, on the board, and they can help sometimes, but or you can't find a path that leads you past one * And here's the thing, I'm all for trial and error games do it. But each of these actions? Each that's entire MINUTES you had to spend staring at you're not into cheating, just to hit a wall and later." Even worse, these necessary magic circles? You've got to hit this "on" button to turn them and when you use a circle they all turn off and the time the button will be hidden in a chest, All those turns to set up the right attacks, all even are, each one with a ring puzzle that can And muddling this whole process up EVEN MORE, at first. You've just got to try and fail some normal circumstances because that's how you learn, when the stakes are this high. Wasting an entire the attack opportunity you've spent multiple you exactly how this whole system works? That's looking at the board and wondering if the arrows going to land on the right spot, or if a certain and you won't know for sure until you just do battles than they do in regular ones, and range you've just got to figure it all out as you go. exhausting boss battles. Some of them are no But then others can inexplicably take AGES to put me into a state of mind that if you ask SIN of game design. Sometimes when one too so much HP left, I reach the "I want to "I don't like this ride anymore, I want to get present frustrating mechanics that make a player disturbing when an otherwise GOOD game does this. happens in the story, I want to explore the but I am absolutely STUCK in this situation, mental energy that I am rapidly running out of But that's what the ring does. It forces you to what you're trying to do. It constantly grinds DESTROYS the pacing, and makes me actively worry Reaching a boss should always be an exciting me with dread. Again, it's not like every single of times where I didn't have to do TOO much trial quickly enough, and the pace went along at a were not worth the rest of the times. I still go around these dumb rings? What is causing that? this have to take so long? Why are you making * And you want to know what makes this Because yeah, this rabbit hole goes deeper. This with a better alternative to it that it simply for whatever reason that's not really explained, "Paper Macho" guys. (Very clever.) They only exist and hit them with your hammer to hurt them. This short and he's a slow runner, so landing hits a blast. It's empowering, it's exciting, it's and it utilizes the incredible tactile FEEL that was pretty cool," but as the game goes Macho enemies, and some of them are like full enemy encounters in the entire game. They're these direct contrast to the slow, sluggish ring combat. Why isn't the whole game like this? Imagine new combat abilities? What if you could use the to fight these giant baddies? That would be so take up such a teeny fraction of the play time? but everyone else does the whole ring thing? FUN? Why don't they take this opportunity to give and that truly anyone can enjoy? They keep trying adventure, so here you go! This is the alternative that we won't bother you about RPG stuff ...No? You just want to do this with They're keepin' the... *sigh* Okay, thanks, odds with each other, I can't stress enough how dichotomy of fun. Every time I'm moving around environmental puzzles, I'm having a great time. time I'm forced to stare at another ring puzzle, can be bad enough when you're already feeling that are misery incarnate. Later in the game would be fun if they didn't force you to answer using RINGS, and put together pictures that have and you only have thirty seconds and you can't buy you've lost and you just want to go home but you to continue, you've got to keep going, you've There's one very important encounter in the game do this real-time, actiony sequence and your blood and it lasts a couple minutes before GUESS WHAT? And you can't buy time, and if you take too long and every few seconds you're interrupted by an exciting moments of the game and that, too, just through a tedious puzzle, thus destroying your and we're going to stick it wherever we can, dog it's completely at odds with everything else And speaking of forced mechanics that are you wondering why I haven't really talked It's because they're nothing mechanics! fill it in with confetti, done. Again, confetti costs you nothing to throw it. It feels good, sort of way. But it doesn't do much. Then the find the grabby spot, and pull it. That's all gives you prompts telling you what to do and which potential this might have had. You don't have to to manipulate puzzles or anything, you just...grab grab and pull. Puzzle solved. Having to beat an excitement goes. At first I was really annoyed janky and awful, but then I realized that you can and button, which upgraded it to "benign." Thanks another paper-related mechanic that acts like it's identity, it's in all the trailers and in all the even make narrative sense. Like there's no good serves some purpose in boss battles, it can be a nothing. It feels like it's something that they * When I decided to give this review the "Overly used one word to sum up the entire Pokemon Sword same thing again here. It was rather serendipitous decision on the title I had a word in mind. As this game's design decisions and the motivations I get from Origami King? It feels like a project ego? Tabata's ego? Miyamoto's? Someone else's is just following orders and doing the best they will admit that this feeling has been colored by but I don't really want to point fingers at it does feel like some sort of ego got in the way this unwillingness to actively pursue what's Literally everyone wants a more creative world? have these arbitrary limitations. Paper mechanics 'em in, it's more important to have paper-themed A battle system that's so convoluted you've got to have to engage with it most of the time if they the only reason it exists. Everyone complained games in a row? Let's do the bare minimum to fix that resembles an XP system though, because that because someone at Nintendo with a great big ego important than it being fun and well designed. say it again about Origami King, it would not take which would dramatically improve the game You could use systems that are already in that permanently increase your max HP. Sometimes but most of the big ones come at arbitrary them all around because they couldn't think of you instantly defeat enemies on the overworld with you're "getting stronger" after each one, which after you beat every major boss your max confetti like in the old games, where when you gain a and base attack and defense stats or something? sort of sense of progression and incentive to like you've already got! Make it so you have to break it down even more! Get rid of everything through battles in at least some way! Even if system, that could still work. The more you fight, bother with smaller enemies, that's a PERFECTLY that it almost feels like the hearts were actually but they had to make sure to give them to you JUST so no one could say this is an RPG. Call me a more of that awkward sidestepping, bending the ANYONE. Battles only give you coins, end of story. People have different opinions, and I really are JUST opinions. But I'm willing to go now is objectively poor game design. If you have RPG-style combat, marrying the two is Bringing back some form of XP--or even something just because "it's the way it used to be," They did it before because it was a because doing it the old way is against the * A lot of people have accused me and of course we're now called, for clinging to the past and it as its own new thing. But that's not true. You THE PEOPLE WHO MAKE PAPER MARIO. I'm all uniquely fun thing, but it's NOT its own thing! it! "The Paper Mario series is different now, then why does it still use the exact same visual an action adventure game, not an RPG." Okay, then to break away so much, then why doesn't it DO stuff like a Zelda game, so why didn't they just to want to leave the old games behind entirely, in terms of world and story? Why do they tease us not quite? And in this weird mix of old and new, and most of the new stuff just gets in the way? to the old games, but it's ABSOLUTELY fair. If Mario its own new thing, I'm not going to either. make a new series. But this is a Paper Mario that were crafted to deliver a consistently alternatives that don't feel very well thought game. It feels like an RPG gone wrong. No, that's part. It's just how video games works! It's how even without the old games to compare it to, I is an absolute mess in terms of design. and the whole time I'm playing I'm coming up I've mentioned multiple. Here's another one. I to much because you just stand on a magic circle the game presents confetti as something you might which is a wasted opportunity. Okay, so how Then if you combine this with my other idea, mostly only found in battles, all at once made confetti feel more valuable, given a more big sometimes, and put a limitation on the ability Four problems fixed in one go. Teeny But identifying and fixing problems was not on the and that idea baffles me to no end. I myself many an hour ironing out mechanics, tweaking them, ideas that I was once in love with because they mesh with the rest of the mechanics. I see this people who are only just starting out on their own their games, because how the player interacts work together is the FOUNDATION of game design. apparently. Those questions that even asking themselves? Well Nintendo, with all its of millions if not HUNDREDS of millions of dollars treasured IP...? Can't be bothered. It's a family who cares? And I find that disturbing. Very, very Mario fan who wants a better game, but also 100% NEVER have the same budget and properties mind-blowing game based on a treasured character * I spent a lot of time praising Origami King, and for it. In ways it even outshines the precious as bad as it used to be, or at least it's a little quit, so I should just be happy that we've finally I'm sorry, I'm not. In fact the closer Paper Mario it is that they're not letting it be the series experience gets to being great, the more painful design decisions. The highs are higher, but that This game honestly had the potential to be one of everything as beloved as the original games. It game that would go on to become a classic and not what Nintendo wanted to do. They wanted to paper. They didn't want to think too because in the end that wasn't as Just to make even more people mad, I once thought about Nintendo. I felt that the level design was only okay, the recycled story was a huge forced me to use a gimmick that ruined what every bit of Nintendo ignorance rolled into one. Nintendo's bad side. Nintendo has got a legion of and they often put out games of extremely find anywhere else in the industry. They know they have a lot of serious issues. Origami often pursue NEWNESS rather than FUN. Its lack sometimes dumb games down in a fumbling attempt limitations represent Nintendo's hesitance to be compromising nostalgia factor. The dichotomy represents how they're so, so great at what they holding them back from making eternal masterpieces the whole experience I could see some very creative limitations and the poorly implemented corporate culture Nintendo has been trapped in for destroy entire projects because of their flights place on a company-wide level, leading to a game heel-digging refusal to listen to what millions concepts that have been almost universally and by extension, sales, represents their tendency The ego is all I can think of. There can't Making money is your number one job. Everyone and when you did it led to the most critical considering attach rates, more people have hungry to have it again, considering modern with people more than ever and potentially you have the experience and the skill necessary you have a whole team at your disposal that is "I am making a product with the goal of people people want doesn't matter." It takes a And because of that ego, whoever it belonged to, I enjoyed the experience most when I just sort hard about anything. Even then, frustration always I can ignore. In the future I'm sure I'm going and think, "Oh man, what an amazing experience! MANY of Nintendo's games that even today and again and again. But then I'll think "Oh yeah...that means I would have and I will probably change my mind. It after this I'll probably just save myself the And that's the best we can get from Nintendo the best we're ALLOWED to have. We have "good it." "Good if you just shut your brain off and not Great. Quite the legacy this company's got. Well there you have it. I know my opinion is not seem to like it just fine, and as always I must But whatever the majority opinion might be, I've got to stay true to myself. This and I have now said all of those If you stuck with me through the whole video I thank you from the bottom of my heart and I At this point I am much too exhausted all I'll say is...have a good one! Love youuuu...