Hi everyone. It's Kunihiro. Thank you for to show you how to make Butano Shogayaki, commonly enjoyed in everyday life here in Alright here are the ingredients for today's people. So here I have 300 grams of a pre-sliced three millimeters. You can find this type of store. This is a little thicker than the ones for you don't have an Asian grocery store near you, loin into three millimeters thick or you can But thinly sliced pork belly and pork shoulder are final product will be way too salty with bacon and pork with onion so I have half an onion. And I half a cabbage. And here is some salt. I'll use is some potato starch. I'm going to use it for for the sauce. So I have 3 tablespoons of soy mirin, 2 teaspoons of sugar, and one big piece of add one and a half tablespoons of it to the sauce. please grate the ginger. Ginger is one of today's amount of it. If you use too little ginger for ginger flavor which would be disappointing. So And once you have finished grating the ginger, take one and a half tablespoons of the Then add 3 tablespoons of soy sauce. It will Then add 3 tablespoons of sake. Sake will give the strong meat smell. Then add 3 tablespoons of gentle sweetness. Also, it will give ingredients more appetizing. Then add 2 teaspoons of sugar. So by combining the sugar and Mirin, you can And please give it a mix until all it's very important to prepare the sauce to the frying pan one by one and take too long, which you want to avoid. So please make Alright, the sauce is done. So please set Next, let's prepare shredded cabbage for a side And remove the core of the cabbage. Then separate the cabbage in half Next, press the outer layer of the cabbage then start cutting thinly. Please make the knuckles so you don't cut yourself. At touching my Knuckles. But I'm making sure if the cross-section gets wider and you can rotate it halfway and continue cutting. Transfer all the cabbage slices to a bowl. [Music] Then cut the inner layer of Just like before, if the cabbage you can always separate the layers and make it After slicing, soak the cabbage in cold you can crisp up the texture of the cabbage. it will start to lose some of the vitamins, Finally, shake off any excess water and plate the shredded cabbage So this open space is where Alright, that's it. The shredded cabbage is done. Next, let's cut the onion. So when slicing doing so, the onion will retain its The thickness of each slice And after slicing, please separate all the layers Alright, the onion is done. Next, let's prepare the pork. small cuts on the sinews, which By making small cuts on the sinews, you can So after cutting the sinews, Please make the same cuts The next thing we do is coat the pork slices with nicely on the cutting board. Then sprinkle a small And spread the potato starch using your hand. By it helps to keep moisture in the meat during even after cooking. It also helps to thicken the pork better. But be careful not to use too much Please turn the pork slices over And once you have finished coating the pork And our pork loin is good to go. Okay, now let's start cooking. Please get the large frying please add a tablespoon of vegetable oil to the And once the frying pan has become hot please add the onion to the pan. Then sprinkle a pinch of salt over them. The salt the flavor of the onion. And we'll saute the Browning the onion slices will The key here is not to touch the onions too So please flip the onions only once a minute. okay They look great. So once the onion slices Please remove them from Then please wipe off the moisture on and add one tablespoon of vegetable oil Spread the oil and make sure the frying pan on the pan without overlapping them. So if you please cook the pork in two batches. Then we'll One minute later, please turn the pork over. And we'll cook the other side of the meat only for the meat at this stage since we'll cook it fully later, please take them out of the pan and set So please put the remaining pork slices in the pan without overlapping and cook them for And one minute later, please flip them over. However, this time, as soon quickly return the cooked onion and the Then quickly give the sauce one final mix and add it to the pan. From this point on, all you have to over ,and coat them with the delicious will gradually thicken and create a glossy and About two minutes later, once the sauce So turn off the heat and arrange the pork in the end put the onion and that's it your delicious Ginger pork is ready It becomes a complete meal with rice and miso soup Alright that's it for today. I hope you enjoyed me a like and leave a comment below. Also, if you follow me on Twitter. Thank so much for watching