- Today we're going to a menu type of food. When it starts getting cold, you want to have comfort food, nice color. There is a certain type of relaxing and soothing way to fall food. What we're going to start is a fish dish. I'm going to do a cod fish dish and after that, we're going to do venison. The first thing that I wanted to do, was starting sauteeing for the cod fish. I'm putting a dash of oil here and maybe a tiny bit of butter. Let's put half a tablespoon of that and we put that to sautee. Sautee for about a minute or so, just to soften the onion a little bit. While this is working, I'm Here you can tell, you have This is lean cod and you can see the skin, can recognize those yellow mark. This is very cold water type of fish and actually one of my favorite. Need a different reason for that, I don't need all of this today. There is a line of bone here, where I'm cutting next I think it's a very You would not want to use Basically, the back filet, the thickest one, is So I'm going to use a piece As I say, it has a great and very mild fish. When people say, Oh I'm start with that type of fish, very mild. This is totally boneless of about that size, four, five ounces. Start cooking them here, add here we are. Starting them sauteeing them first, then I'll change, clean up my board. With this now, we are going to put some... we have tomato, we have we have different type of olive actually, so I'm gonna start with the zucchini and show you how to cut this. We cut that in approximately Those are nice zucchini, firm. You know when you chew the look at the texture of and that will cook relatively fast. I have more than enough here, Now around, with a about half a cup. I'm using a Semillon here, and that type of Semillon wine and will go well with it, With that, after we're going I have two type of olives here, I have those olive which which we can press directly and the pit will come out very You see those are oil-cured olive are very concentrated in I can put them whole this way. Those are kalamata olive. Those, you would want to You can crack them this way and they will break Cut them into small pieces, this way, the way I do it at home when I want to eat a couple of olive. Here we are, easiest way of doing it. Then we cut them into small pieces. That will be for the garnish Actually, I can put that Some tarragon, a beautiful tarragon from the garden here, fresh. We can chop that tarragon coarsely and add it directly to our tomato. This is what will go in This is not quite cooked yet. They will flake beautifully that's one of the advantage of While this is cooking, I and show you what I'm doing here. I'm going to peel a red pepper. I have a good vegetable peeler here, any good vegetable peeler will work. What you want to do is to cut as much of the skin as you can, If in some area like here in the pleat you couldn't get the and remove the skin after. I have enough of a peel. What I am doing actually here, I am doing a relish and of jalapeno pepper also. That relish is going to Here we are, I'll cut that this way it has a nice color. It does make a big difference because it tend to be tougher. People say I don't digest Since it's going to be raw, I think it's a good idea to remove it. Putting a bit of jalapeno pepper, you can put more or less depending I'm gonna use that in a minute. Meanwhile, let me check on the fish. Looks about done to me. Remove it to a plate...yeah, Oh, it still need a little longer. This is a thick filet. Oh, it need longer than that. I have to leave it longer with the rest of the mixture in there. Actually bring the whole thing to a boil and finish the fish this way. We want to add maybe a to finish it just at the end. (pan rattling) Bring it to a boil. I can smell the tarragon What we are going to do is to I will choose one piece, and use that one here that I have on top. This is going to be the first with a piece of tarragon Then with that, I wanted to show you how to make that relish of which I have already the I'll use here peach, and with a vegetable peeler, especially that peach is a bit firm. I don't really need all of it, we'll just cut a piece of it Remember, this is going so you want it a bit spicy, a bit sweet, and that's what we are going to have. We have peach here, you can use tangerine, you can use of course any other I would avoid banana, the banana will tend to break down more. And grapefruit here, and Remember, the red grapefruit have even more vitamin The darker the fruit, the more vitamin A and what I do here with a knife, I'm actually cutting to the core to remove all of this. I could take the segment out of it or actually just cut it with the segment. This is a seedless one, so leaving the membrane in-between. I'm cutting it into little dice here, which will be added to it. Beautiful color, then mint. I will have the coolness of of the jalapeno, that going to go well. This is the type of relish that you can keep for a couple of days. Vinegar I have in it, sugar, I'm putting a dash of and a tiny dash of salt We mix that together and within an hour, As I say, you can keep it in the refrigerator and use it It's going to get softer than it is now but it will be excellent with game. Now I'm gonna put that relish it's better if it marinate, The first thing that I the venison that I have here. Those come now cryovacs, directly we get it either from Scotland, a great deal from New As you can see, that piece It's totally, totally clean of anything. This is the loin and this is the filet. The tenderloin, the loin, I'm going to use this way, approximately four, five ounces, little steak like this and I can use a piece of plastic make it all equal size This is a very, very lean meat as I say, it's very, very low in (mallet striking meat) It is a meat of choice now, except that it's a bit expensive, but you really don't Like I say, four, five ounces for an elegant dinner, (mallet striking meat) Here we are and I can even which at that point would That's it. Small portion is important for that. We want to put a little to cook it, a dash of butter, and what you want to do with this is to seasoning with salt but also with maybe a I have fresh thyme leaves, if you were doing it ahead, to keep it. I'm going to cook it right away, but if I were not going to cook it ahead, I will put some thyme in to oil it, but I would only the salt when because if you put the salt It cure the meat. What does it mean? It drain the meat out of liquid. This is what you do or when you do something like that, you put salt on top of the and the salt draw out the moisture and deprive the bacteria actually of a necessary living condition, (meat sizzling) We want to cook those a couple You don't wanna cook them too much, because you want to I would like those medium-rare, some people may like it very rare and some actually may like With the sauce, while this is cooking, I'm going to get a little bit of shallot, those red onion we call shallot, a classic accompaniment and I will eventually deglaze the pan. Sautee the shallot first with vinegar, acidic agent. Very often in those type of we tend to do a sweet-sour type of sauce, and that we we'll have here with the vinegar and the shallot. To finish the sauce, in we have demi-glace, which which I don't have, often so I create one by putting a some soy sauce, some I could use currant jelly or but the currant jelly is classic. It goes well sweet and sour, the vinegar and the currant jelly. This will be the mixture for my sauce when I finish it later on. In the meantime, I'm going because I think that I could Yes, it's perfectly fine here. Looks good. (oil sizzling) It's going to be ready. This is a very good pot, thick, heavy, it will give me crystallization so I can create a sauce with it. If you have a pan which burn you burn the juice of the meat and you cannot create a With this, we're going which goes well with It's a very simple recipe, quite good. I'm cutting the sweet quarter of an inch to half-inch slice. Whoop, watch your finger here, that's it. I'm going to cook that in a which is just putting I have more than that of course, I want to serve at least to put them flat in a skillet. You put water barely to cover, a tiny bit of oil, and if you want tiny What happen is that it the water evaporate, and with that little bit of butter and oil and it start browning nicely. A dash of salt also I need here. It's an easy way to do, which is what basically I have here. As you can see, it has been reducing. Now there is no more water and let me see the other side. Yes, and I know they are tender. If you don't put any water, Remember the water there It's purely a vehicle if you want, which permits you to cook it. The water eventually evaporate and when you have no more water, you are left with a little bit of the fat, you continue browning it, this is what you want. Let me see my steak, I think Yeah, they are perfect. What I would want to do and by this I mean I put them on the side. We can have even a lid on top of it, create a bit of moisture, and they will continue Now in the bottom part here, cook the shallot and the because the acidic agent... The vinegar reduction like What happen is that to practically nothing, why? Because the reduction itself will get rid of that very astringent, of the vinegar and make it much milder. So you reduce it to what we call a glaze. You bring it to a glaze, that's it, and then I can put the rest of the mixture. (spoon clanging on pot) I wanna bring that to a boil now and you could serve it as such, but the classic way is so I think that I'm going to strain it. I'm going to look, also Let me bring that plate right here and I'm going to serve. This will come to a boil in a minute. Meanwhile, maybe I can start right on my plate here. I love the sweet potato this they are called different way. I am putting four little Then my venison steak, I because of the liquid into the pan that I put here, that the meat has relaxed This one would be the best for me, I'm putting it here, straining I have a beautiful, dark, rich sauce here. This will be served up directly maybe with a little This will be the main course for today. Now moving on to the dessert, which is a relatively very easy dessert. What I'm going to do is a plum like this, those large plum, and I'm going to do a What you try to do is to cut it next to the central pit and removing the other one this way. Slicing this. This is going to be a type of With that, I want a little bit of dark rum and some honey with it. I would do a little to let it marinade or macerate, I have a beautiful mango here, you wanna be sure that it's ripe. Peel it this way. We could arrange it actually in a bowl, doing the whole thing, but directly on the plate by putting little sliver of mango in this way. When you choose your mango, it has to have a nice, rich, golden color. As you can see, you go which is right here, and I in the periphery around my plate. Maybe another piece of mango here again. Yeah, I'm up to the pit In the middle of this I will put my plum. This is really what's going to season the rest of the dessert. This may be a little on top of the mango, all around. I can finish it with an edible flower like fresh oregano or something like this, like this one's a bit too long, and have a nice, cool, refreshing dessert with our venison menu. In our classic fall feast and it's a bit unusual. People are afraid of but it is available now It is expensive. Small portion, it's very good meat, usually very low in the You can get boar, and which is the meat of course, but you can have boar, you can have quail, in many many firms throughout so be a bit adventurous and and try the menu that we did today. We have that cod with the all around, with a little It's nice and spicy, rich, and so forth. Then the venison with the sweet potato, the sweet and sour type of and finally our mango symphony, without forgetting that relish And because it is a we have two wine. We have a Chateau Bouscaut, which is actually a wine a white wine which will and of course with the venison, We have a classic private from Santa Maria Valley, which full and will go absolutely Maybe a little piece of cheese at the end, and of course the dessert. I hope you enjoy the menu Be adventurous, the fall season is coming, do that for your friend and happy cooking.