Easy mornings with frozen stock! Soup jar bento It's been cold for 6 days now, so I want to make a warm soup lunch box.In the morning, I'll prepare a set of ingredients and freeze them so I can easily make them.First , cut the ingredients.Cut the mizuna and komatsuna into lengths of about 3cm. Finely chop the komatsuna and remove the stones from the shimeji mushrooms. Then pound the shiitake mushrooms to remove any dirt and cut them into 5mm-wide pieces or chop them finely. Peel the daikon radish and cut it into 1cm-thick pieces to make it easier to cook. Freeze the radish leaves as well. Let's keep the green peppers cut into small pieces, about 5mm squares.The carrots are 5m long. Cut the ginkgo biloba into about m size and chop the ingredients and combine them as you like depending on what you have at the time.Separate them for the Gomokukin and for the cabbage rolls.Peel off 2 or 3 pieces of cabbage, wash them, and warm them at 600W for about 2 minutes.Pumpkin Cut it into small pieces so that it cooks easily. I also cut up what I didn't have and froze it. I also cut the onions into 5mm wide pieces and chopped the rest. If it's a large onion, make vertical and horizontal cuts as usual, then chop it finely, but if it's medium-sized or smaller, cut it vertically. All you have to do is add it and chop it horizontally . I think it's easier to cut this way without slipping.If you want to cook things quickly, divide them into small portions.I also divided green peppers, radish leaves, mizuna and komatsu into small portions.Once I grated the ginger, I wrapped each portion in parchment paper. Let's put it here too ! Let's make Gomoku Kinchaku.Cut the small fried chicken in half and open it.Cut the mochi into small pieces and put it in.If it's in a soup jar, it'll be warm, so you can put it inside the mochi. It's delicious with rice cakes.The ingredients this time are ground chicken thighs, rice cakes, carrots, shiitake mushrooms, and komatsuna, but you can make it freely with whatever you have in the fridge.Add grated ginger, cooking sake, and salt and mix.Stuff it in small fried rice for a lunch box. I'll stop using the pasta. It will soften as it cooks, so there's no need to remove it. I'll put it in a storage bag and freeze it. The rest will be for dinner. Next, we'll make a daikon umeboshi soup set.Remove the seeds from the umeboshi, pound them, and wrap them in parchment paper.Pork, sesame radish, shiitake mushrooms, mizuna, grated ginger, and umeboshi. Freeze Next is the salmon soy milk miso hotpot set. Sprinkle salt on the salmon and let it sit for about 10 minutes.I think I'll also add some kamaboko.Pour cooking wine over the salmon and wipe it dry.For the soup, remove the bones and cut it into bite-sized pieces.Add the salmon, cabbage , carrots, shimeji mushrooms , mizuna, ginger, and kamaboko. Let 's fry the remaining salmon to make rice balls Next , cut the chicken thighs into small pieces for stew Pumpkin stew For the tomato soup, I cut it into small pieces so that it cooks easily.Add the chicken, onions, shimeji , carrots, pumpkin , and komatsuna and freeze.For the tomato soup, add the green peppers and bacon and freeze.Finally, add the ground cabbage rolls, Mix onions, carrots, bread crumbs, salt and pepper, mayonnaise, and eggs . Warm cabbage in the microwave. I shaved off the core and forgot to mix it with the ground meat, so I put it in the soup for dinner.It's for a lunch box, so I make it small.Place the ground meat on the drained cabbage, fold both ends and wrap it up.The bacon isn't long enough, so make sure to wrap it properly. I couldn't wrap it, but I used pasta to hold it in place.I cut the pasta short and stuck it in the bacon. Pasta is so convenient. Warm cabbage rolls are nice for lunch. If you make this far, it will be easy in the morning.I also added mini-sized Yoshimeji mushrooms and froze them so that they would cook quickly.I froze the remaining meat and used it later to stuff the shiitake mushrooms.I ground the garlic. 1 pack of cut tomatoes , mix with 1 tablespoon of cooking sake.If you flatten it thinly and freeze it, you can use the amount you want whenever you want, which is very convenient.Freeze it.When the salmon is cooked, remove the bones, loosen it, and freeze it in small portions for rice balls. Ice making on this day I froze it in a dish, but it's also convenient to freeze it in a thin, flat layer in a storage bag and loosen it.The leftover ingredients will be used for dinner.Put water, ginger, sake, and mirin in a pot and bring to a boil, then add the remaining vegetables and white stock. Also includes mini cabbage rolls and gomoku pouch. Once cooked, cover and simmer. Add the pumpkin, mizuna, and komatsuna. Sprinkle the remaining pork fillet with rice flour, drizzle a little rice oil, and grill. Check the taste of the soup and add soy sauce, mirin, salt, etc. Adjust with chicken stock etc. The pork is mixed with sake, mirin, Kanta vinegar, sugar and soy sauce.The pumpkin is mixed with mayonnaise and salt and pepper.The mizuna and komatsuna are mixed with ground sesame noodle soup for a quick and easy Japanese-style soup with a hint of ginger. Delicious dinner from here. Now we'll make the morning lunch. Pour hot water into a soup jar and heat it up. On this day, we'll use 300 cc of Gomoku Kinchaku water. 1 tablespoon each of sake and mirin, and 1.5 tablespoons of white dashi stock. Heat 2 teaspoons of sugar and 1 tablespoon of soy sauce , bring to a boil, then add the frozen Gomoku Kinchaku, cover, and simmer over low heat.I didn't have much to do, so I cut up some carrots. [ Music] Frozen salmon. Heat the frozen edamame at 600W for 1 minute , add some seaweed for rice balls, a little salt, add the desired amount of rice, roasted sesame seeds , and your favorite toppings, and you'll have a lot on top ! The hand loosened salmon is definitely delicious, so I think it's about time for this one too ! When you're done, throw away the hot water in the soup jar and fill it up to 1cm below the water stop that's sticking out ! By the time you eat it , the flavor has soaked into the inside and it's delicious. If it goes past the water stop, it will overflow when you open the lid, so don't add too much. The rice cake inside will be very runny. By the way, this is what the contents look like at the 100 yen shop. Onigiri case. When my daughter wakes up at the last minute, I add another one for breakfast.On this day, I made 200cc of salmon with soymilk and miso pot water, 1 teaspoon of grated ginger, 1/2 tablespoon each of sake and mirin, and 1 tablespoon of white dashi stock. Once it's boiled, add all the frozen ingredients except for the water, cover with a lid, and bring to a simmer.Today 's rice balls will be bacon and eggs. Mix the salt and pepper mayonnaise with the eggs little by little and fry the bacon. Add the eggs and fry while stirring. [Music] Yeah, it looks good. Once it's cooked, add the mizuna and 300 cc of soy milk. 1 tablespoon each of ground sesame and miso. Now add your favorite toppings on the rice ball ! Once the miso is soft, dissolve it.This soup jar is 400ml in size.The salmon is very delicious.On this day, I'm going to make cabbage rolls.It's crunchy.Crack the frozen chopped tomatoes with garlic in them and put about 1/3 into the pot. Masu water 200cc Add 1 teaspoon of sugar and 2 teaspoons of consomme, bring to a simmer, then add the frozen cabbage rolls and shimeji mushrooms.Today 's rice balls were grilled crab sticks with mamayo cheese, which were popular with my daughter, lightly loosened, sprinkled with mayonnaise and grated cheese, and lightly grilled. Toast it in the toaster until it becomes coloured. We also added sausages as a special service ! Today's onigiri time. Let the crab sticks cool before putting them on ! My daughter was always looking forward to what toppings would be on today's rice balls.I tasted the cabbage rolls and seasoned them with salt and pepper. In the morning, I just simmer it while it's frozen, so it's very easy.I was very happy with this cabbage roll bento.On this day, I just simmered the daikon plum soup while it was frozen.300cc of water, 1 teaspoon of grated ginger, 1 tablespoon each of sake mirin and white dashi stock, 1 pickled plum. pieces and 1 tablespoon of soy sauce Put it on the fire. Once it's boiling, add all the frozen ingredients except for the mizuna and radish leaves. Put the lid on and let it simmer. Today's rice balls will be made with shiso leaves and crunchy takuan. The crunchy texture of takuan is fun. Nori, Sprinkle with salt, rice, roasted sesame seeds, perilla leaves and takuan ! Once the fire is done, add the mizuna and radish leaves and simmer briefly.The sourness of the plums will whet your appetite.It 's a soup that seems to be good for the body.On a very cold morning. On this day, I will make pumpkin stew.When frying ingredients other than komatsuna in butter, add a little alcohol, cover, and wait 5 minutes over medium heat until the ingredients have loosened. You can also heat it up in the microwave and then stir-fry it. Add 1 teaspoon of soft flour and stir-fry thoroughly, then add 300 cc of milk and 50 cc of water. Add 1 teaspoon of consomme, cover and simmer over low heat. Today's onigiri is made by my daughter. My favorite salted kelp and pickled plums ! Gently squeeze it and it's done. To make the stew, add the komatsuna and season with salt and pepper to taste. It looks like it'll warm you up. The gentle sweetness of the pumpkin is delicious. Finally, take out the tomato soup. This time, I'll leave it as it is at 600W for 1 minute and 30 minutes. Stir-fry in olive oil that has been warmed for a second.I heated it a little in the microwave, so it loosens up quickly and is easy to stir-fry. 1/3 of the chopped tomatoes with garlic. Add 200cc of water and bring to a simmer.At this point, I mixed 1 teaspoon of sake, 1 teaspoon of sugar, and 2 teaspoons of consomme into the soup, but the camera stopped working because it exceeded its capacity, so I couldn't take a picture.Today 's rice balls were made with sausages and corn. Season with browned butter, a little salt and pepper, and some butter. [Music] I'll make onigiri as usual ! Hey! Corn butter rice ball soup, which is loved by both adults and children, is seasoned with salt and pepper.In my case, I add a few drops of soy sauce.Chicken tomato soup is ready.With soup, you can get a lot of vegetables, which is great.Fast Channel Today What's your meal? Videos of Deryoko Kitchen are also being broadcast. Am I coming too? Thank you for watching. see you