Welcome to another Mathologer video today I'd properties of the so-called harmonic series. This in mathematics and has been investigated Of course everybody who knows some calculus of the harmonic series. However most of its many calculus professors don't know. The reason why I'm telling you about the harmonics that were only discovered recently and that I has six chapters each with its own highlights. which of these highlights you like best. you'll automatically enter into a draw for As a bit of a warm-up let's engage in a little of one and two kilos on a simple balance. weigh anything. Remember thought experiment we will things stay balanced? Well obviously not. The So to balance things i have to move But where exactly do i have to put it. Now if you shouldn't have any trouble figuring is one-third from the right. Now here's a nice Put the 2 kilo weight on a little tray like weigh anything. Thought experiment remember. Now Keep moving them apart up to here. Obviously weights is still where it used to be. There right kilo weights are now equally spaced. Can you see and the spacing on the right is one third plus But then the combined center of mass of the three middle that is exactly at the one-third mark from don't you think? And the whole thing generalizes three kilo weight on the right then the balancing put the tray, spread them out, equally spaced, And with a four kilo weight on the right Okay when i teach the harmonic series at uni i versions of which you may encounter in many is supposed to be the edge of a cliff. Now add What we want to do is to rearrange the blocks into What do i mean by this? Well i could simply This will create this much of an overhang. we do better? Yes for example we can push There now the green overhang is larger. Push things over too far and the stack are not connected to each other the toppling can So what's the furthest overhang we can create? you so far. Well so as usual let's look at some you know the drill. Right from last time. Now we push this block to the right? Easy the center and the block will be stable as long as the center the block all the way up to here. Now let's say overhang is half that. So one unit overhang. Okay with two blocks we can definitely also get one in like this. There that obviously works, a two definitely do better because the center of mass of here in the middle. Well because the whole thing And this means that we can slide the whole thing the center of mass of the whole stack is above What's the overhang now? Well the one from to get larger and larger overhangs. So Next find the center of mass of this new of just one and two blocks where everything the center of mass is. However using our warm-up So we can think of our three block The new block highlighted in blue and the old two blocks stack is already part of the picture. in the middle. How far apart are the centers? Well one. Next our two stack weighs twice as much as exactly our warm-up setup. And this means that the is one-third in from the cliff nice. Now push to the right like this and one third. Repeat again there slide in, find yes slide over and at this point the overhang is and we now know exactly how this will continue. the top block is completely beyond the cliff edge. And this is pretty amazing isn't it? A challenge identical brick-like objects like books to build block completely clears the table. Link to a photo Pretty tough challenge. Anyway rinse and repeat And the overhang we can achieve this way with third all the way to one twentieth which is What I've just shown you is a Mathologerization 170 years old. These days the stack over there is This name was coined by the physicist Paul that appeared in the American Journal of the lire in the title was the name of the Italian his paper Johnson actually plays with a stack now a very natural question to ask is how much of supply of blocks. To answer this question we There she is, the lead character in I'll puzzle out the sum together with you in a our original puzzle. To find a maximal overhang sure that 99% of all the people who are familiar that this tower produces the largest possible not even close. Want to see what the optimal Here's the optimal stack which was only The same 20 blocks but reaches out And didn't they always tell you that all While you often encounter beauty not always the case? But of course beauty is in lot of ingenuity to be admired here. For example to weigh down pieces that would otherwise bridging pieces also implies is that you cannot from the ground up. Right, building up to here Now whenever i talk about this someone will ask is the optimal stack if we allow only one brick correct proof that this is true for all possible by David Treeby somebody from Monash, in an That this maximal overhang property is not that there is actually another one block per as our leaning tower of lire. Again hardly anybody the two top blocks. Can you see where I'm going Well simply flip them like this and Cute right? If you're interested in hole I've linked to some nice links So we can arrange for one complete brick to How can you do the same with only three Okay so we would like to know how much of an we have an unlimited supply of blocks. To answer of the harmonic series is. Well let's start positive terms and so obviously these partial sums really only two possibilities. One, these partial then declare to be the sum of the series. Or Which one is it? Obviously many of you will know the first time you see the series. What would Well the terms we're adding get smaller and nothing, so shouldn't the partial sum settle other famous subseries of the harmonic series, Well pretty obvious... so there, infinitely many What about the sum we're interested in. Turns out the harmonic series explodes to proof of this fact goes back almost 700 years Hmm clearly some posture problems due Okay here's this proof animated An absolute gem of a proof what this implies is the leaning tower can make our overhang as large as we Marvelous stuff isn't it? There are real world paradoxes that are based on the For example if you have not heard definitely check out the links in the description beaten track real world harmonic paradox please what have we got so far? One glance balancing, towers, and a 700 year old proof by a Okay so the harmonic series diverges to infinity, As you can see the series really grows very How many terms do you think it takes That number was calculated for the first Wrench jr which was a bit of an achievement you have to add in the order of 10 to the 43 Also how did John Wrench figure out that the first 10 to the 43 terms one at a time is powerful computers would take gazillions of Well maybe there's some kind of magical formula for the answer? Such a formula would also allow much of an overhang a leaning tower of one google Well maybe not that important really are incredibly important. Anyway If you watched the last what comes We start summing again from the beginning but let's see whether we can guess a Okay here comes the dreaded question: can you see it? But there's something striking about all these What do all the numerators have in common and Yeah of course many of you will have spotted and all the denominators are even. Coincidence? you keep getting partial sums that Interesting but so what? Well actually in terms of fractions. Odd over even, even over There's one thing that is special about odd integers ... if you divide an odd number by an even Whereas with the other types of fractions There all those fractions are really integers An odd divided by an even That could be a starting point for a nice Anyway once you notice this odd over even pattern not hard to prove rigorously that in fact all with the exception of the first partial this then also shows that apart from that among the partial sums. That's a pretty Right? So these partial sums creep up slower On the way to infinity they pass every and manage to miss them all by my minuter and something even more remarkable is true. Add up a harmonic series like these ones here. Consecutive that all of these sums combine into odd over The first proof of this fact was published in Joseph Kurschak the very friendly looking guy typical mathematician group photo 100 years ago: have definitely changed. Okay to finish off this you: can you write the numbers 2 and 3 as sum of guess i got a bit sidetracked there. Still i think a nice example of how scientific discovery works. Anyway remember what we set out to find at the for the n's partial sum of the harmonic series. examples to try and spot a pattern that amounts to series but there is another very nice and natural third, one fourth 1/n s. Doesn't this cry out for Well let's plot it. Where are the terms of our one over one is one so there is one. but there's another one hiding here, a one unit One half is here, and as an area here. And so there that's a simple visual area there is another area in this picture that cries But how is that going to help? Well we're Let's focus on a small example. 1 plus 1 to the blue area. Turns out that there is a really curve. Integral baby calculus 101 a lot of you area is exactly equal to the natural logarithm of is approximately equal to that logarithm. In How much of a difference is there between the left of the remaining blue bits sticking out on top Let me show you. See that one times one square and so the sum of the blue bits, the difference matter how humongous the partial sum is. In fact sum immediately implies another proof of the fact Right, since the logarithm explodes to infinity to infinity doesn't have a choice at all in sums an extra one doesn't really matter, for is equal to the natural logarithm of n plus one. very good approximate formula Notice that really all infinitely many blue bits all the blue bits add up to a number less than one or the Euler-Mascheroni constant or simply Euler's Another challenge for you: okay so gamma is less see at a glance that gamma has to be greater than Anyway Euler was the first to investigate decimals. Gamma is one of those mathematical super over the place. Just as a little teaser here is they are e gamma and all the prime Anyway here is a super nice trick let's add partial sums of the harmonic series. Here's what is exactly equal to the pink partial sum one plus a tiny portion of gamma corresponding to the you think about this this is really an amazing huger and huger this formula approximates the exact opposite to what most formulas Just two examples to show you how amazing this So in terms of correct digits the formula right but no decimals. Now here's what you That's already five correct decimals and it Absolutely marvellous isn't it? To finish this set out to answer using our formula. Remember the to add to get a sum exceeding 100? What does our formula suggest this number is? Well and well if you actually evaluate the expression at a number that's just shy of John Wrench's exact is about 0.63. Pretty good. Our gamma is really a that his number is it is based on our formula, our formula to figure out how much of an overhang So how about one google blocks for example. Well and a bit units this thing really grows very In comparison it has been shown that such that by using crazy towers an overhang of c That's exponentially better than logarithmic best crazy tower looks like for large numbers of grows like cube root of n are these parabolic and Uri Zwick around 2009. The example over there 10 units the smallest leaning tower that has and there are still lots of nice open problems to finish this chapter let me at least mention Since you are watching this you're is a mysterious and important connection one plus two plus three and the number minus this wonderful relationship is not an equality. precise sense -1/12 is to the sum of the positive the sum of the reciprocals of the positive on this today. If you'd like to do a bit of and find out why the Ramanujan sum of one plus harmonic series is gamma. Okay what have we got so bizarre maximal overhang towers, a 700 year old sums, magical approximate formula and of course What do you like best so far? Remember Okay final chapter: to finish off let me just tell i only found out about two months ago and that old friend the harmonic series. The harmonic it contains many many many many very important series of the powers of one half there which sums the reciprocals of the squares, the reciprocals other reciprocals of integer powers series Then there is e as the sum of the reciprocals of about these and many other famous subseries Now obviously there are infinitely many sub-series infinitely many numbers and so a natural question What do you think? What's your gut feeling? The sum of infinitely many sub-series of the harmonic Let me quickly show you how you can find a number gamma using a greedy algorithm. Works for a subseries that will sum to gamma choose the Well gamma is 0.57 and so the largest one-half. The next term of our that when added to one-half gives the sum There that sum is just a little bit less than add the largest possible harmonic term that gives generate a subseries containing infinitely and super simple this is an example of a go for the largest possible reciprocal sub-series with finite sums there are also plenty diverge to infinity. For example the sum of Pretty obvious because the series is also just again, multiplied by one half. So the sum of the infinity which is still infinity. What about the the first odd reciprocal one is greater The second odd reciprocal one third is greater And so the sum of the odd reciprocals is of the even reciprocals and so also has to be surprising. Here's something trickier. How Finite or infinite? Well what do you think? Of are pretty sparse with arbitrarily large gaps in Well those of you who watched my video on Euler's may remember that we proved, that the surprising answer is this sum is see how much of an intuition you've developed of sub-series and you try to guess whether Okay that's the full harmonic series over starting with one ninth. That takes Is the leftover series finite or infinite? explode because, well, there are lots of it must explode because it contains all the even For my second mystery series i'm going numbers that contain the digit nine. Okay Right all those have a nine. But of course there digit nine. For example all the guys at the bottom Finite or infinite? Imagine your life depends on four three two one zero. You got it? Well based on you will have gone for infinite. Which is wrong. I first encountered this no 9th sum in the ice ages ago. They actually gave it to us as as Kempner's series named after the mathematician What makes this counter-intuitive results did come with a finiteness proof myself I can't remember how i proved it but i do remember be bothered to actually engage with my proof that I'll do a super nice animated algebra proof end of this video but just real quick one way may be sparse enough to allow for it to converge bit misleading, that in fact the vast majority contain a nine among their digits and therefore Tristan one of the three volunteers who helped suggested a nice visual way to illustrate over there a bit more squarish and color the Let's pretend the upper left square is also then up to that little fudging in the corner us how many of the first 10 times 10 terms of no 9s series. Zooming out the corresponding first 10000 terms of the harmonic series looks the percentage of omitted terms has gone up. times one thousand that's the first one million omitted terms has gone up again, now ten thousand On closer inspection there are actually tiny that mirror the nine times nine subdivision example the little square right there. When you Because of the presence of the white subdivisions completely black and so again the percentage of the subdivisioning continues turning what you And the percentage of white will go to Pretty amazing. Thanks again to Tristan for dramatic thinning out of the harmonic series when contain a digit nine. Makes the convergence of but as i said I'll do an animated algebra proof at known for many many years now. What i stumbled by the mathematician and computer scientist surprising results about the no 9 series and a of the harmonic series that i'd never heard of actually knew the sum of the no 9 series until article was that the sum of the no 9 series is Well although the no 9 series turned into being nobody appears to have given this question did so about 30 years ago. He figured out that 22.92. At that point in time he also figured out twos etc series. Here's a table from his article calculated any reasonable approximations before? series converge at a snail's pace. For example for terms is still less than 22, so not even close approximation of the true value of the sum. unfeasible to simply keep adding up terms until a good idea to get anywhere with approximating managed to calculate similarly good approximations no zeros and no nine series (so a couple of digits (so every term has at most 10 nines), the exactly especially since most of these series converge slowly converging no 9 series. For example the Also pretty amazing in another way when you think is one over one google which of course is a in which every term is exactly 100 zeros ends up starts out with much larger terms. So how are it's not that terribly complicated but won't go into details here. The basic idea in the calculations, the kind of patterns that For the keen among you I've included some Anyway as you can probably tell Robert Baillie's them and i hope I've been able to convey to and old insights into the nature of the harmonic finish with today is a Mathologerized slightly which shows that the son, sum not the son it and afterwards cast your vote for the harmonic most memorable: one glance balancing, leaning that 700 year old proof, no integers among the greedy algorithm, Tristan's fractal, finiteness Cast your vote by leaving a comment within went live for a chance to win one of among those who participated and a random as part of the 2020 Christmas video. Okay now to