You need to destroy the tank in front first, and use one hand to destroy the sight glass of the tank and armored vehicle behind to make them blind. Your machine gun is mounted on the high place on the opposite side. It is a machine gun-like machine gun mounted on the beam on the lower right to form a cross. After the tank in front was destroyed, the fire exhaust artillery squad blocked the tanks and artillery tractors behind. The other personnel worked in groups of three and changed positions so that the enemy could not figure out how many of us there were. Do you understand? We understand and start taking action . Zhang Rencheng, where's your trumpet? Where 's mine? You follow me for a while. After the fight starts, how loud can you play? How loud can you play ? I want to stay as a card guest. You need to understand why I can't come up. Come on, come on. Come on . Come on . Come on. Come on. come on come on, it 's too close. I think if you walk inside, do you see a slope inside? There's a pit below. It's a reverse slope. I think it's safer there. Are you scared? Okay, why am I so scared? I'm just giving you reasonable advice . I'm afraid you don't know much about the abilities of our reconnaissance company. Look at that. That's the hunter's sharpshooter. The ax in Yang's waist. If it flies towards you, you won't even have time to snort . That fishy little mountain god pitcher below can your formation is in my minefield. Without him, you can't get out at all. Also, Liu Heiniu, you sleep with the buffalo. Your small physique will only take three or four of you. You, the squad leader, are sand people. I have never seen sand opponents. I have not taught them. Come on, don't just talk. Show your hands. I'll see the crops spread out in front of you. I don't live in the limelight . I'm the squad leader. I just obey the orders . Don't worry, I won't make my own decisions . When I give the order, don't give me diarrhea. Lisa , yes. It's not that the section chief arranged for you to send me to die. I'm afraid you're overestimating yourself. In the eyes of our section chief, there are only tasks and people who can complete the tasks. If you can't do anything, in his eyes, it's not worth arranging you to die . take your cycle okay, captain, let's just take two rounds. Don't worry, one shot will light up . I 'm so fat and not very powerful. Section chief, is it okay for such a big man to run here? The inside is looking at the thin armor on the sides and rear of the Khajiit. Come on. Haven't you ever talked about military class? I may be a god. If you don't pay attention in class, you will pay for it with your life. You know, bastard, go away and drive. Oh, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, oh , get on the hill , go go, so cunning, can you eat it ? Help the big-time dog bitch, take good cover, do bullet, you two, hurry up, whoever is going down, hurry up, drive faster, drive faster, run, get over here, come on, on, come on, shut her down down, fire and cry, get out of the way , go go go fire fire Zhao Zhizhe and Cui Hao yes get down get down please come on captain captain the enemy has reinforcement no retreat hold your position get up and go okay I'm okay okay check the cannon four dogs down no position put no no pay attention to the fireworks enemies out There, hurry up. The platoon commanders are all ready. Take the cover and run. No, the assault troops haven't left the danger area yet. The section chief hasn't sent the signal yet. Hurry up. Hurry up. Move away. Why haven't you sent the signal yet? If we don't explode, it will be too late. Hurry, take stock of all units. The number of police officers is all there. All the police teams have been withdrawn. When we see the signal, we can check again in time. What's going on with Qibao? Platoon leader, the wire was blown. I'll go down and connect it. Pay attention to safety. It's you. Why hasn't it exploded yet? We 're all here. Go back and attract the enemy's attention . Give Platoon Commander Cao and the others some time. Uh -huh. Uh - huh. Don't fight. Uh -huh. Do n't stop the artillery fire. Commander Abu, commander , hurry up . How about Zhao Gong, policeman? We don't have enough time. We can't even touch the foreigners. I have to send him back quickly for treatment. Is there a stretcher? Are you ready to participate? Are you ready? Come on, why is Li Weijun holding our submachine gun? How do I know what he's talking about? command wired back they say we're in prisoner they said our troops were held back at dark cloud hill and couldn't send a vehicle to pick them up so drop them out at Kushan li and they would take them from there where exactly here also command wants to know when we will arrive at lithink mining area hahaha it works no problem Hey, I'll look for something later. Don't move. I can't shoot. Hey, isn't this Captain Wang of the art team? What's wrong with Captain Wang? What's wrong with Captain Wang? What's wrong with Captain Wang ? Car , car, car, can it still be driven? Can it be driven? Where are you going, master ? The uncle is gone. The enemy of the king 's team has captured the master. Reply to them this all right let's move out. I want to go to the toilet. I will go too. I will go too. I will go too. what do they want they want the PEA no way no way they are all taken prisoner how come there are so many things to solve on the spot we Chinese women can't be so shameless I have dealt with you Chinese when I saw Man Jiu Guo, what shameless captains are you? this south Korean is insulting us we demand privacy miss you have a wonderful accent where did you learn that i used to study at a trade school in Shanghai Shanghai that's a wonderful city i've been there myself for all ii know Korea was also beautiful until your invasion i won't argue with that but i think a highly educated lady like you should side with us but us you mean the parents who asked women to pay in public okay Steph sergeant yes sir have two men escort them to do their business show them respect but if anyone tries to escape shoot them yes sir don't go too far do your thing behind the bushes I told you they were going to attack the corpses and I will report you and I will protect you later, we two can deal with one, okay Hey three cheers ah ah getting big let's head out Where is Wang Dachuan? Where is he? Slow down, slow down, sit here , sit here, Wang Dachuan, Aunt Wang Dachuan, hurry up , the engineering team has been captured by the enemy, don't worry, take your time. Tell me how many enemies you encountered where. I and Longshan Chaotic Monsters Sansan Shaoguo, we went the wrong way and encountered more than 30 enemies. There are American troops and Li American troops. How long did it take you to go in the direction of Xiaosong Mountain to send guards? Send the health room to your security squad. The security squad police asked the inspector to send someone to Dachuan. Dachuan sent the health team. Quick, Dachuan, hold on to those two car soldiers. Slow down. Slow down. Which unit are you from ? Report to the mayor. We are from the transportation team. I am the squad leader Zhang Maotian. We met Captain Wang on the way back from Wuyun Mountain. You two came over at which three-way intersection on the return road. Can you point out to me the exact location where I met Captain Wang? The division commander here, Captain Wang, told us on our way back that he met us after running in the woods for more than an hour. He injured his leg for more than an hour and ran in the woods for more than an hour, up to 7 kilometers at this location . My literary worker is a great disgrace to the kidnapping of Qi Chi. He has to save them even if he sells them. The radio station is calling Liangchen. He is still in that direction. Traffic road. Give me the riddle call Yanshan Yanshan. I am Taihang. I am Taihang. If you hear this, please answer Squad Leader Zhang. There are still a few cars in your car company that were bombed by the Yankees. Only 5 of them are left. Except for us, the others are transporting supplies and ammunition in the rear. Oh, by the way, there is another car that is transporting the wounded. On the way back just now, we ran into it and there was still gas in the car. Is that okay? You and the vehicle that transports the wounded go to the reconnaissance company. How many people can you load? Return to Wuyun Mountain for reinforcements . Chief Liang is Chief Liang . Chief Liang is Chief Liang. Chief of Staff wants to talk to you Mingyu. Mingyu Mingyu. The engineers took all the wounded forward and did not stop. Others stayed behind. The Thunder and Lightning Waha Assault Team was captured by the enemy on Xiaosunan Road in the district. There were more than 30 people in the enemy camp, composed of American troops and leading guards. When you swim back, the commander of the assault team sent two Kacha and the reconnaissance company to be reported by the violent excavator. The guard squad and platoon leader Cao came over and prepared to assemble . We have already gone out to look for you. You are already with your mother. Besides, I, Chen Shimin, are here too . Go with Ah Lian and give it to Yiyin No. 1. It may be useless to deal with the direction of Wuxing Mountain. Let me read it out for you. Before Li Lidong, he was only No. 8 there. Otherwise, you rescued the carpentry team again, so I can start. Otherwise, if I am outspoken about artillery fire and do practical things. You should contact us in a confidential manner as before. If you go, hurry up and have a mission. Minister Cao, take your people and rush back to the division headquarters. On the way, you will meet the reconnaissance company's car. They will send you away. Go back quickly. Li Chenggong couldn't hold on anymore. The others gathered together and the art team was captured by the enemy on the way to Xiaosong Mountain. We have to go over to the rescue now and set off immediately . Let's move forward. Instructor Chen, are everyone here? Let's go. Ah Mac i bet they're rushing to get those chicks back too late it's a big area finding them is like finding a needle and a haystack this is good the more them go easier our job gets all right I see they're going the wrong way Xiao Songshan walked away in that direction and prepared for battle . Section Chief, our troops have time to urgently get off the troops quickly . Section Chief , Reconnaissance Company Commander Meng Zhaoxian, but the reconnaissance platoon came first to report. The second platoon's car returned to the division from the mountain camp. The troops are marching here. Qian Shuming, the instructor of the Eighth Company, has come to report. Everyone is searching along both sides of the road. Keep up, keep up, keep up with the section chief. This handkerchief belongs to him, right? Is it from the engineering team? Could this be where they were captured? Spread out and look around for any clues. I understand . Spread out and look carefully for the section chief's blood. There is also the section chief's bullet. Where did the section chief find the gun under the tree roots over there where the gun was fired? The section chief found the footprints of the US military and the art team on the road over there. Judging from the traces, which direction should they go? They brought the map with the art team. The team will definitely not be able to move fast and will definitely find the nearest US military garrison and drop the people off at Erlidong first. It should be right. It's not the section chief . What are these guys doing here? They only have dozens of people and they are not afraid of being discovered by our troops making dumplings. The U.S. military generally only sets up a team of liaison officers among Li's Puppet Army. It is a mixture of the two armies. This is not the U.S. military's combat style. It must be some kind of special operation. That is to say, when we find the art team, we also find out who this group of people is. Damn, there must be something going on here now. What are you looking at? You and I don't have to go in. We have to finish the mission early and go home for dinner. Qin Luo, come here . Section Chief, can you find the nearest route from here to Erli Cave ? OK . Just give me a map and a compass. I'll give you 2 minutes to find the section chief. You see, from this road to Erlidong, you only need to climb two mountain ridges. From the map, these two mountain ridges should have gentle places . It's not difficult. I roughly calculated that it would save half the time if we took the main road. Now let's set out together . You and Li Wanfu will lead the way. Yes, this road is indeed not difficult to walk. Can we confirm these 10 ways to cross the mountains? It is definitely a straight line into the mountain , but the key is to look at the actual map and see if the mountain is difficult to climb and whether there is a way. If there is no way, is there any feasible way? And also, compared with not climbing the mountain, will it save time and energy ? Let me tell you my experience. Mountains in the north rarely have jungles that you can't get out of. I wouldn't dare to take you over mountains and ridges in our hometown of Sichuan. Okay, just give it a try. The most important basic skill of our scouts is to know the way and use it. But this is the first time I have seen someone as fast as you. It seems that we generally have to learn from you. Without him, we can complete the task by following the map. Comrade, I tell you to learn from your squad leader. You are so capable but humble. No wonder he is the squad leader. There is no need for you to say that we are all deputy squad leaders, we just don't like you. Fortunately, our squad does not have you like this. When we first fought the tank, you took three steps, one fell down, five steps and one concealed. I told you that I was executing the order . I won't argue with you. Anyway , after completing the mission, I will go back to guard the food. Let's keep my peace with you. Forget it. Hold on tight. I can't walk anymore. I can't walk anymore. I'm tired. I'm tired. I can't walk anymore. Hey, hey, what are you doing ? Hey, let go, let him go for me Chinese domuro and then kill him. You all listen to me. If you deliberately delay us again , we will kill him. If it is dangerous, we will not leave. Forget it . If you have the ability, kill us all. You all kill me. I will kill him. Stand up, stand up, and if you don't leave, we will be hacked to death by me . Comrades, I am not afraid of death or fighting. We must fight to the end . If you know whether you can leave or not, I will kill you. He shot and did not move on move on ah ah ah said move on move on get up Company Commander Wang The enemy seems to attach great importance to this observation post and has set up protective fire points. Company Commander Meng, please lead the search along the foot of the mountain and do not let the enemy discover it. Let's see if we can find their phone line nearby. Come on. There are several phone lines here. I've marked them. The squad leader is here to see if there is a signal on this line . Okay, yes, there is a signal. You 're not trying to capture the phone soldier. I picked it up for him. Who asked you to pick it up ? Wait for my order to pick it up again . All the cadres are here. Captain Meng, you lead a squad and set up a security guard 100 meters away from this side. The platoon leader leads all the squads. The personnel walked left and right along the telephone line to select a suitable capture position , preparing to capture their signal soldiers patrolling the line. The other people retreated 100 meters with me. Do you understand? You understand the action. Wait for my signal. This is for reporting to the support section chief . Calling for artillery support in a confidential manner is well practiced. There is a mounted archery section chief in area 12. We are still here. Didn't we retreat 100 meters? The execution of the order is the opponent's full gloves. Li Wanfu, Section Chief Liang, this move is high as long as he is directly on the front line. The enemy will suspect someone of sabotage , so they might send troops here. If they hit the enemy with artillery, they think it's a bomb, right? Platoon leader, don't say anything. One thing is , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ok, you'd better stop eating . Eat until you're full. Why are you grabbing the tongue when you press it to death? Yeah, ah , ah, then I didn't mean it , ah, ah, ah , ah, almost there who the hell in from is kushan there is the road we should get back there in the four dark let's take a break, everyone, sit down and rest, Xiaoliu, are you okay? I'm fine. Don't talk about this. They both refused to answer questions. Liu Wenfu behaves according to the old rules. Are you gonna shoot us oh no come on? You can't treat us like this hey hey. i can't permission my pocket please no don't up yourself please you can do this what about you you want to talk or go with him we have the right to remain silent come on come on so do you want to go with him or answer my question okay okay okay okay okay okay i i'll talk i'll talk the infiltration team earlier they called us they they say they had caught a Chinese group right they were women and they were musical instruments and everyone in the post were talking about this where are those people now they right right right they we receive another call they say they would send a vehicle to to take the prisoners from kushangli and then they would take them to the rear prison camp okay there is also going to be a conference press and they said it would be a pity if they means these captains why did they call you they call me because because the vehicle is supposed to pass behind us behind our center point and they wanted us to keep an eye on it that's it that's about are you telling the truth if you lie to us in other consequences we're not lying there we're telling the truth if you want you can go look at the earth by yourself the vehicle is going to come here in half an hour 30 minutes The section chief asked, &quot; They want to use a car to pick up the cultural team Wanfu from the ancient mountain next to Erli Cave. Please tie the phone cord as it is and take them away. Wait wait what is your you okay man i'm good bro they just shut&quot; the ground hey star stop help us stand at attention get out you get out love you keep moving keep moving guys hurry up don't stop go go go go on don't stop go go go go on do n't move wow saved saved saved it's okay it's okay finally I'm looking forward to you Here we are, finally in. captain the Chinese armies are all over the mountaintop the whole mining area is heavily guarded seems like intelligence estimates correct this is a crucial headquarters probably a command post staff sergeant matt the led zinc mining area is just over the hill major back 2100 sneak in with your men at handy talker radio find a safe and easy to observe position to signal the knot bombers to their targets after the bombing you can take advantage of the chaos to attack the enemy hq and check for bombing damage i' ll leave a rate on the hilltop to cover you out and once you're out the air force will cover bomb the whole mining area again to cover our evacuation captain why not act now my men are highly skilled they can sneak in even in the daytime the enemy bets that we don't do night raids and they like the radar and searchlights for air tans staff sergeant i want two men on watch the rest of you find a safe place take a rest yes sir that Li Puppet Army is too cruel to you guys Are you sure that what Comrade Wenjie said was that the enemy was going to attack our headquarters? We heard clearly that Wenjie sacrificed his life just to send the news out. Comrade Wenjie sacrificed his life. We found blood stains on the handkerchief and hat, but we No body was found. He should still be alive. Report to the students. Inform the division headquarters that the enemy who hijacked the cultural team is going to attack the division headquarters. They will most likely disguise themselves as our army and ask the division headquarters to strengthen the vigilance. Is it you who have us staying ? Is it Captain Meng ? Zhong Ming and others boarded the car with the art team and returned. There are too few people . I'll leave some people for you. You don't have to go back to protect the division headquarters. You two are coming with me. Didn't Zhou Ming say that Passepartout was marching at night before he came to you? Aren't you lost? Can you please leave him to join our operation ? Come on, come together. Come on , don't go back. Stay and listen to Captain Liang's command . Get ready to go now. Shuming, please be safe. Go away . Obey the order . Don't go away. Hit someone . Pure Water spray, boil water, three-engine motor vehicle , go go go , ah, you don't you can let them go, little thief, someone is coming, black whistle, this is my original voice sinking squad sinking squad he's your first squad move move move up wake she bread ok run out how do you go away change position you two leave the others for me go yes businessman businessman businessman hey Xiaoyu go over there and deal with your injury no we are fine Go go and save him first, hurry up, catch up go go go go go go look at me again look at me well take get ah ah medic i need medic ntcm ntcm look at this kempton the enemies far is too heavy we've already suffered a dozen catcheries we can't hold much longer cease fire cease fire commander of the us your resistance is useless stop now or meet you do all of you drop your weapons put your hands in the air and surrender prisoners will be treated with respect tell everyone that you did your duty as sold if we keep fighting now we'll all be slaughtered as your commander i've decided that we're gonna surrender with honor Go over and see where we're looking This can't be wrong Shutian Medicine When Morigen comes, look , there's something going on there. He's still alive. Section Chief, he's going in this direction . Which way are you going to start ? No , you two are leading the way. Yes , hey, stop, stop, stop , don't go, don't go. Are you sure you're going in this direction ? You see, Mr. Ku is wrong. This way is the north, the way back. This way is the south. He made a big circle. I am lost . That is Jiaozhai District. The flashlight is turned off . Everyone is speeding up to lead the way . Lu Uncle , ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, dad, he said, rob you, Feng Yichao , eldest uncle, Feng Yichao, my father, Wulin Potou, is from the Martial Palace . When I bandaged his wound, I found that no major blood vessels were injured. Although his pulse was very weak , it was not terminal. He is awake . Let him rest for a while. Come on, slow down. Comrade He Jie , how do you feel ? Do you feel that the enemy is about to attack ? Don't worry about you, Comrade Wenjie . All the comrades in the Longgong Brigade have been rescued . Don't worry. They are sleeping at the division headquarters. And they also told us the information you heard. Before dark, we have notified the division headquarters via the radio . You drink some water. Section Chief, Section Chief, you see how I can make this stretcher. No problem . Okay. Do you want to drink some more water? Take the time and come over to you. Listen to me. We must hurry up and tell the soldiers to work hard for another day . After the office was repaired, I could sleep peacefully. I heard no report from the mayor. The enemy surrendered and killed 16 enemies in total. 15 people were captured. After interrogation, only the captain of the intelligence team of the Black Panther Division of the Li Puppet Army was missing. We conducted an anti-purpose search nearby, but there was no trace. If we didn't find this person, we should let this kid run away first. We didn't find them in the Black Panther Division. They took the initiative to come to the door. Notify the troops not to relax their vigilance and expand the search scope. Comrade, who are you looking for? Which bed is Comrade Li Chenggong of the Engineer Platoon? He's from the reconnaissance department, reconnaissance department, Liangchen, come with me. He's not in a good condition right now and his injuries are very serious . But he's not willing to cooperate with the treatment. Why does he just say that his injuries can't be cured ? Please persuade him. Li Chenggong is awake. Section Chief, are everyone okay? Don't worry. Section Chief , look at me like this. Tell the doctor, don't save me. What did you say? Our volunteer army will not abandon any of our comrades . You If you are injured, you should take good care of yourself. You must have confidence in yourself and cooperate with the doctor's treatment. But who will not be injured in a war ? If you can lie here and talk to me now, it means that the enemy has not defeated you, and you can't give up on your own. Don't think nonsense. Ah, peace of mind, eternal life. Your family will be waiting for you, and they will be proud of you. That's right. I'll come over to see you when I'm free.