To a certain slightly uninformed expert, this seem an economic impossibility disproven only Faith is a tiny place--a remote, no-stoplight It's got a couple of gas stations and a part store, but what it doesn't have is a single branch of any store, restaurant, except for Dollar General. But that doesn't explain the full extent just the only chain in Faith--it's the arrives at this Dairy Queen in the far larger A 367-person population just isn't typically just not enough money in the area to make Dollar General makes it work. While perhaps an extreme example, there's Mecca, it's not an Interstate oasis, it and US highway, but it's not on the fastest somehow, is sustained by the tiny community This is anomalous in the context of national General--they're consistently persistent Its next nearest location to the north is to the south and west, 540 and 590, respectively. Walmart is also one of the most regular retailers close to these numbers. There's no way to know for sure which are what the minimum population that can support of Google reviews act as an imperfect proxy, least popular location. 6,700 live within a 20-minute driving radius by its positioning at the start of the dead-end Butte. Similarly, Wyoming's least popular Walmart population within the same radius, but once location along Interstate 80. So perhaps the best evidence of the minimum comes from Alaska, where its least popular people live within a 20-minute radius, and through. Walmart revolutionized retail through its communities like Kodiak--its impact decimated has taken that to a new extreme. Where Walmart entrenches itself in the thousands, This revolutionary retail concept starts on Total staff headcount at a given location those, just two or three might work at a given Given typical hourly rates and typical opening as little as $300 to $400 a day staffing their Then there's product offering complexity. A Walmart averages 140,000 unique products--they'll mini cans, 12-count full-size cans, 24-count full-size bottles, 12-count full-size bottles, bottles; and then they'll offer all these and then they'll offer this same spread which is incredibly convenient. They have the exact soda, variant, bottle-size, but the permutations really add up. More individual products require a more complex staffing dedicated to organization which adds Dollar General, meanwhile, keeps it simple. They offer just 10,000 unique products but many product categories they sell, but rather In a way, they're trying to be a mini Walmart, as you're willing to compromise on brand, So whereas Walmart has a pan or toilet paper a toilet paper, or a detergent. Now, Walmart is likely able to purchase Tide low price because it's the largest retailer negotiating power--if it were to stop stocking hit. But correspondingly, given the popularity decided to go to Target to buy the brand instead. Dollar General, meanwhile, has that same enormous size, but crucially, they don't have to Walmart's competitive advantage is that combine the local supermarket, hardware, electronics, Dollar General's competitive advantage is game in town and so they just need to offer the detergent people will get. This bestows enormous negotiating leverage--manufacturers the Dollar General detergent supplier, meaning better deal from P&amp;G on detergent pricing That's what leads to products like this: To balance the retailer's need for a low-cost name-brand image, Procter &amp; Gamble has gone detergent bottle. Now, Walmart actually sells this same product Their 128 fluid ounce size works out to under General's 20 cents per--but Dollar General's strapped. They cater to the class of consumers that that will last for months, but chooses the hand to pay rent before their next payday. So Dollar General actually charges more per come back sooner than Walmart's to buy a whatever else they need, therefore extracting But Dollar General's true strategic linchpin model: its remote locations. The retailer has turned what would be a weakness It starts with cost--rent at this store in store in Sullivan, ME $103,000 a year; and a year. That works out to between $300 and $400 in $400 in daily staffing costs, underpins Dollar a thousand dollars of overhead per day. In general, they just won't set up a location $150,000 or so in annual rent--it just breaks But low rent costs are far from the key that itself enables their remoteness. Take their location in Haven, Kansas. This is a town of 1,170 that simply does not They have a gas station and a liquor store have a grocery store. Dollar General is not a grocery store, but and frozen food, and some sell a limited supply The closest dedicated grocery store is a 10-minute one that could necessarily fulfill all of The closest supermarket is a full 22 minutes in practice, when Dollar General enters a that ten or twenty-two minute trip, people day to day needs, then make less frequent and specialty items. But increasingly this pattern isn't confined to rural America, either. This is Atlanta, Georgia and the surrounding much of the broader Atlanta metro area. This is a map of their most common grocery Kroger, and Walmart. They all do the same thing, they all trend But people live here, too. And they too need food to eat and stores to For anyone, this would make grocery shopping Making things more difficult though, this metro area's least mobile, as these census Food Access Atlas, more than 100 households 1/2 mile from the nearest supermarket. Unsurprisingly, this correlates closely with have a poverty rate of over 20% or a median income for the state or metro area. Put together, Atlanta residents with the least from supermarkets. Now, of course it's not a simple coincidence populations of Atlanta are farthest from supermarkets. These afterall, are areas still grappling and areas that some academics have identified process by which the businesses intentionally that vary from crime rate and purchasing power layout. But regardless of their reasons, supermarkets the Atlanta metro area, creating an urban This is a void that dollar stores have stepped Unlike Atlanta's supermarkets, dollar stores left behind. And they provide an important service; they at a low price point within walking distance This has happened in Atlanta, it's happened and it's happened in a host of other major And in most of these urban cases, dollar stores to be plugged. It's for this reason that after some teenagers in 2017 the community pleaded for it to be It's for this reason that the former New of Dollar Stores as the return of business But plugging a hole is not solving a problem--it's meant to last. That's because the impact of a dollar store of a community, it's outright negative. Most American food deserts aren't so different They have a dollar store. And they have, or until recently, had, at stable foods along with fresh produce and products that are lower-margin for the business, diet. Such stores have been harder and harder to have, against all odds, resisted the massive consolidation--too small to be attractive to some of the country's last independent they serve, barely hanging on as the brutal system push them over the edge. But their perilous economics become all-but-impossible In Haven, Kansas, this store was Foodliner, saw its customer visits drop by nearly half, for good. For any grocery store, it's typical for is opened nearby, as consumers head for canned other shelf staples that are just a bit cheaper This kills the grocery store that counts on pushing them out of business. This in turn, makes it more difficult to buy desert's oasis, and putting people of modest And the impact of dollar stores on communities In early 2019, the Dayton Daily News reported side of town. It'd be taking the place of a now closed store within the 10 mile radius of downtown Like Atlanta, Dayton's dollar stores map areas. Where their density is the highest is where footprint is nearly zero is in the suburban household incomes are higher and grocery stores At the end of 2019, local news reported that in the Dayton area--down from the highwater 2018. Effectively, dollar stores here have become Now in the case of Dayton, it's not that crime rate, but rather, that the design of Principally, these businesses deal in cash--as credit cards--making them ideal for a criminal Beyond cash, overflowing trash outside, cluttered light staffing, and outdated poorly placed attract opportunistic burglary and make it they arrive on scene. In Dayton, the problem got to the point where calls to respond to dollar stores every year. In response, the police began to proactively policies and management practices--from upkeep reduce vulnerability. But the training just didn't take, as employees about their near minimum wage employer that Such high resignation, in both senses of the only exacerbated by the arrival of dollar Along with further drying out food deserts areas with only a few meager jobs. The lean labor model may work for dollar stores' the surrounding community. To keep labor costs low, a dollar store will only be paid around minimum wage. Dollar General, for instance, pays 92% of By themselves, these numbers are bad, but store that it might have replaced. That independent grocer provides around twenty That independent grocer's profits stay circulating are whisked away to far-away investors. With food, crime, and jobs, dollar stores low income communities. Nor are they the answer. They're a creative response to problems those problems. But perhaps the most fool-proof evidence to bad for rural and urban America alike is the back against their advance. In response to the lack of pay and the danger in 2023 protested outside the company's for better working conditions. In 2018, the city of Tulsa passed an ordinance full-service grocery stores. In the move's wake, 75 communities have have enacted limits on dollar store development. Of course, these numbers are minor in comparison now spread across the US, but each case of these communities now marked by the neon signs forgotten about them are a problem, and enough to fight back. Fundamentally, Dollar General and its close path of least resistance. They're outcompeting local businesses, and least resistance leaves a trail of destruction That's because individuals' best interests People prefer having a dollar store and a the process of doing what they prefer in the and create a scenario that is less desirable So that's what government is for--it's that can solve these strange mismatches between The American main street is a fragile environment. It's already taken a beating as big-box that battle was fought from a distance. The one thing Walmart couldn't compete with stores for small towns. Dollar General can, and it is. It's got a simple yet unbeatable business variety and vitality, and litters the American beige boxes. Something I've noticed is that, despite have small little gaps in my day where I end and while that's fine in moderation, I find time" for why I don't do certain things That's why I'm such a big fan of our sponsor, One of the things that I want to do is learn to do without a big block of open time. But Brilliant designs these fantastic, interactive into bite-sized chunks, so you can legitimately basically any schedule. And again, the courses are legitimately well you actually learn stuff since they break principles, then bring them back together I find it so satisfying to learn something I never could've imagined having a grasp science. Basically, if you're the kind of person new things, Brilliant is for you so you should Brilliant has to offer free for a full thirty Plus, the first two hundred to use that link premium subscription.