It's early 1993 and NASA has drawn up plans into low earth orbit. The designers have a large logo for an upcoming Hollywood The surname of the film's top star is to they're having difficulty fitting the You see Last Action Hero was a movie so that was inevitably set to fail. Due to a myriad of its screenplay to an exhaustingly rushed blockbuster was not just one of the biggest flops end of audiences appetite for Schwarzenegger. Slater: Hey you want to be a Unsuccessful at the box office and unpopular a minor following over time. Full of references to such as the need to never reload guns or living in LA -- the film unwittingly ended up But there are moments here, moments that to the self-reflexive postmodern boom that And there's one moment, a moment of where the film intelligently shows it's either so perfectly executed it's genius A movie set within a movie, Last Action directed by John Mctiernan from a screenplay In the film Danny Madigan is a 12 year old boy action movies, particularly the in-universe jack After receiving an enigmatic magical ticket from he is transported from the relative It's from here on we see the fantasy of a young Gags throughout gesture at the glorification of portrayals of the LAPD and parody the on-screen before Hollywood was producing in films firmly such as later 90s productions like Scream, to newer movies like Deadpool, Adaptation Danny: Where're the Schwarzenegger films? back. Danny: No action, this guy's an action Danny: No, it's not possible? Slater: this is his best performance ever. Danny: Narrator: 1993 was the start of a shift PG-13s meant larger audiences and bigger business. were coming to an end. 1991's Terminator 2 seen convince Slater that he's living inside of a best action movies ever made and it neatly budget Hollywood action blockbusters that we were This was a generation that had its roots in movies Death Wish and Shaft which then grew in established a distinct personality no better First Blood, Die Hard, Robocop and Kickboxer. mirror concurrent attitudes in the us with the our heroes tending to exude a more old-fashioned, later approach. But we're now in 1993 and Parodies such as Loaded Weapon One and Hotshots! cliches and The Simpsons have just introduced McBain: Ice to see you. Antogonist: McBain! Narrator: The cardboard prop in the movie store that not just as a great visual joke but also acts as a megaplex action romp. Pop culture, and Hollywood developed a distinct obsession with itself, its features or references its own media as much sets within films to video tapes and television But we'll go down this rabbit hole at a later You see it's not just the T100 here that's having genre as a whole in 1993. As lighthearted as there's another that truly shows us how or at least was in its initial production changes how you see Last Action Hero Benedict: Trust me... If that little turd Daniel Madigan can move parallel worlds, in and out. In, steal whatever If god was a villain, he'd be me... Narrator: Did you see it? Benedict: If that little turd Daniel Madigan can parallel worlds, in and out. In, steal whatever is the moment Hollywood transcends the boundaries of self-awareness, meta narratives and a grand moment we catch a fleeting glimpse of the camera beyond the proscenium, he jumps right off the In movie world LA, Charles Dance's character, the that through acquiring Danny's magical ticket, world. After killing his criminal boss he turns directly. The first time any character in the walls between ourselves and him. Raising And it is here something genius happens. His and cleansed. He can fully see the reality He can now see the camera crew shooting the Looking through the palm trees and sun of Los our aspirations and our desires, our nightmares on the reverse side of the screen. This acts to Slater's technicolor LA. A reminder of the beiges, browns, and greys, and the vivid colour This new insight acquired by Benedict An understanding that entities in his world are where characters are not just mere two-dimensional scene mirrors Neo's awakening from his perceived visually articulated and experienced by the rising use of the internet and the creation of portrayals of simulated realities rode a small an almost mini-genre. Alongside The Matrix, eXistenZe, Open Your Eyes and Dark A trend that was seemingly started half Slater: Well there was nothing to it. Narrator: The crux of the simulacrum theories, is beautifully exemplified in the film has also left Plato's cave and crossed truth in a dizzying Spielberg-esque moment, seeing portraying the shadow Jack Slater on a movie Slater: What is this place? Where am i now? Danny, you got a place i can sit down? Narrator: It's no coincidence that when Danny takes Slater a nod to Slater fully leaving his on-screen full, 3D human being. Danny's mum even mistaking But going back to Benedict and his newfound who are aware of the fact that we're watching curtain intentional? Or just a perfectly and left in the editing stage maybe? To be as it doesn't really shift the fundamental it does allow us to do is for us to understand game than we initially gave it credit for, our and expanded. The goal posts shifted as we are We can now look a lot closer and read this are now off if we watch the film this way, more critical subtext behind the mask of but in order to see the film like this let's In the early 90s Colombia were desperate for a Brothers had scored with the likes of Batman become Colombia's next big event picture. Their almost a decade prior. With dreams of video Columbia picked up a screenplay by young writers which not just parodied established action movie satirical stance with a focus on the mindless shown by an overtly masculine hero. And this was The Simpsons. Colombia liked the script and hired movie screenplays like Lethal Weapon and The Last jumped on board as the film's producer and lead to also work on the script. John McTiernan who had Die Hard and the Hunt For Red October signed on as by Steve Roth, Larry Ferguson and Carrie Fisher. as with such a set of action movie pros working nuanced critique and deeper cultural commentary wildly different from what was originally specked. The foundations of the production were shooting schedule in New York and LA. This was then which gave the team just six weeks and complete almost all post-production The summer of 1993 also saw the release Park which immediately flew to number one at highest grossing movie of all time. Unfortunately Colombia adamant throughout its production despite both Arnie and McTiernan's efforts to and a weak 50 million domestic box office, way sandwiched between Jurassic Park and Sleepless had proved financially disastrous. The upon release it was called &quot;overblown and &quot;that it plays more like a bright idea than Mechanic: &quot;what can i do for you&quot; Benedict: &quot;well...&quot; Narrator: And this is correct there are tons of bright initially scripted by Penn and Leff, they're just A great example would be an early scene in the effect on the story being told, it is totally out serves to bloat the film's 2 hour and ten minute powers in the real world yet Slater doesn't. It's us from truly committing to a prolonged sincere We could easily sit back and pick apart the Like for example; if Slater is the star of watching, and if Catherine Tramwell is the then what film is the T-1000 a star of because that movie already exists as a movie within that meant to be critically probed like this because We should instead experience a piece of to how we process something like say The Simpsons, here. From fine details like the Lethal Weapon Cop: &quot;two days till retirement&quot;. The neon lights and latex in the police station. who can't seem to catch anything, and the fictional LA. Danny: &quot;Look the point is there are the ordinary everyday women, they don't exist! This idolized vision of California is perfectly dark, it's wet and it's visually busy. When we jump over from back into grim reality. Slater is no longer This New York is reminiscent of how the city had Taxi Driver, Midnight Cowboy and Jacob's Ladder. Dnany's world is a far cry from that of Slater's. earlier for the crew in the mirror / plato's cave that not only is something wrong with the city, Danny Madigan is a 12 year old working-class boy where he regularly skips school to frequent an of Times Square run by Nick. Danny is surrounded to the cartoons that he watches. It's and visibly apparent by the cuts on his knuckles, can't even read Hamlet without picturing it You killed my father... ...Big mistake. Narrator: There's a brilliant shot early on in the film end of 42nd Street just off Times Square. As shows that the cinema marquees advertise movies in Times Square, I Want Your Blood, Head Crusher and Times Square here is presented as a broken Downbeat urban squalor and all its occupy Danny's Manhattan, but this New You see by 1993 the first steps towards the undertaken. The Times Square that we know today, and more already well underway. 42nd Street had fallen prestigious theatres by the 1950s and 60s had been The area had become blighted, hostile and the unique blend of people that made up theatre-goers of this era: &quot;Depressives hiding from jobs, sexual obsessives, inner-city people seeking adventurous couples on dates, couples chasers people sleeping, pickpockets, phony drug salesmen, alone in their heroin-cocaine dream world, trade looking for pickups, male prostitutes of all fatistic homo or heterosexual itch to scratch&quot;. drugs and the underworld -- but by 1990 change was cleaning up 42nd Street and this started in 1990 organization created to oversee the renovation Six cinemas were shut down or and more closed by the time shooting Times Square was in the middle of its entirely closed by 1992. The entirety of 42nd and these amazing photos by Brian Camp show the The Empire theatre which is the location of Nick's theaters from that era still standing today. The City transported back, back to a very recent past, So why is Danny's New York so different from There's a theory out there online that predatory pedophile Nick, his only escape from Jack Slater movie. The movie world parts of the I personally don't really buy into this theory, I corny and has some really really bad dialogue. the way of seeing that we had used earlier to help something very dark start to emerge in Danny's what if Danny didn't really get sucked into a Jack Okay so it's just an idea so roll with What if through Danny's over exposure to violence, and his mother and the lack of a father whose dislike of the world and its people The apparent real world that he inhabits isn't was in the early stages of urban regeneration by Also, none of these movie titles actually exist, catalogue of cinema as our own because of his knowledge premiere scene featuring real life movie stars as of our world but is littered with Danny's own of the world has come to manically reflect his they're just Danny's thoughts leaking from a We noted earlier about how nonsensical the break-in all the way to the police report it The tone is way more aggressive than the rest long-term implications on the grander narrative. happened, maybe Danny imagined the whole entire for the revelation that is about to come... The Slater movie world escapade. He was never actually experience. Danny of course doesn't actually see himself He sees himself as just a byproduct of sadistic, internalized violence as a force for good. He in the same manner as Jack Slater does, but up and become the burglar, using violence as the influence of a broken society around him. asked too much from his mother and if the prior theory is to be believed, allowing Danny has grandiose dreams of being this... [Slater] but Burglar: &quot;What is it with you?!&quot; &quot;You got junk! No jewellery, no VCR, a shit tv that'll get me 20 bucks... Go fish amigo&quot;. Narrator: A dream of what he is to become, a On closer analysis of danny's ego and mind, other young male protagonists in similar like Marty Mcfly from the Back To The Future in Fright Night or even Judy and Peter Shepard in as were many young leads in the 90s, were safe, successful, white, affluent, middle mirrors that of John Connor from Terminator Michael Douglas's portrayal of William Foster own mental state is metaphorically reflected Danny's Jack Slater fantasies of guns, explosions delusions and actions played out by older urban or more interestingly like Joaquin Phoenix's crime ridden depressing American cities, Joker's Even the colours of Danny's Both occupy worlds where initially they seem when in actual fact it's wider regular society Both carry strong working-class identities and both lack prominent father figures in their with his idolization of Arnold Schwarzenegger looks to Robert De Niro's charismatic talk show sucked into the screen, being transplanted into the story alongside their respective idols. For a they see themselves as saviors of an imagined is a warning of what inconsequential violence can do to a young mind. At the heart of the movie but a message about an awareness What it's saying, much like The Simpsons, Leff didn't write a screenplay that critiqued they wrote Last Action Hero because they love Be critical of the media you love, it's Danny: &quot;This is a movie set this, is a movie set! Narrator: So this is just an idea, a method of And it shows us the power of entertaining more grounded concepts. It's a form of both offering great ways to keep the stopped rolling. The ending of Last Action Hero Danny eventually helps Slater back into the movie a knowing wink, now aware of the camera crew in Last Action Hero wasn't just a parody of action formula and the behind the scenes politics glorification of violence in cinema at the time I myself remember growing up playing with Aliens, aimed directly at children even though all of or rated 15 and 18 by the BBFC here in the when Blockbuster Video, minidiscs and MC Hammer They say good satire shouldn't just point that it's pointing at otherwise you end up very thing that you're meant to be satiricizing, But Last Action Hero is too charming to fall by the likes of say, Family Guy or the directing the film doesn't really go far enough, like the of commentary and subtext that The Simpsons or Maybe it was just a bit too ahead of its time. reflected and parodied just yet, especially meta-narratives are everywhere and almost all good in regards to its own post-modern existence. of comedic reflexiveness include 22 Jump Street, The Disaster Artist and Spider-Man Into the alongside movies like these with someone like say and Phill Lord and Christopher Miller taking possibly fare a little better with a whole new Danny: &quot;jeez how'd you know there was a guy in there?&quot; In the end the Conestage 1620 rocket never actually left Earth, 1993 release date came and went, much like this A 40-foot inflatable Jack Slater brandishing a shotgun in one hand and a stick considering the film's original script by Penn and Due to the World Trade Center the dynamite was replaced by a police badge but even more mixed signals. The film seemed So next time your laptop or phone runs out confronted by an ominous dark black mirror look a little closer and see if you can observe So this was my first YouTube video in this format, I would be interested in producing more content in A full list of references and citations You can find me on Instagram and Twitter at 11yrz website chrismichael.xyz for more information.