Stop attracting the wrong relationships. This who are in the relationship or even married will is that Satan sometimes distracts us and when Satan comes on the scene, he disarmed Eve by bait and as she doubted God's word, she pretty became defeated, disobedient and then death to question God's word so we don't trust God or defeat our lives and that is through distractions people is by sending them people and they fall and later on defeated and disappointed. So here about to go in the relationship with or maybe hell sent or are the heaven sent. Let's examine it blurs your discernment. Satan is trying to desperate for a relationship, you become impatient take advantage of that to distract you from not God's blessing but Satan's bait. You won't blessing if you lack discernment. Where do we impulsive and desperate. There's nothing wrong nothing wrong with wanting or to be hungry for relationship, a desire for a relationship doesn't for something, be desperate for God. Jesus says, if you're going to be desperate, be desperate the desire become a desperation because once you are impatient, your discernment is blurred and of that. The second thing I want to highlight unhealthy relationships. Not only impatience low self-image is very unhealthy because you tend rush into a relationship until your relationship mirrors. They only magnify what you have. If you relationship to try to medicate the pain. It will it will only make the infection worse. So think of sharks, if you're bleeding, you attract sharks. If predators. People who will take advantage of you, our self-esteem comes from Jesus. It comes from likeness of God and it comes from the fact that we we've been redeemed, made new, we're Spirit and followers of Jesus, we actually we find ourselves not a selfish you know this high we find our identity. We find Jesus's identity with self-esteem, I can testify of that. That low they're both deceived and both are on the a low self-esteem and He doesn't want you to have out of that, you will walk your life. When you you're more likely to spot people and distinguish be drawn into relationships for the sake of that. Because the moment you are healthy, you of a doctor for you who will heal you and make go into a relationship for happiness, for love, healing. You have a Healer. His name is Jesus. you whole. They can't make you whole. Jesus and the weight off a relationship and actually thing I want to highlight is how the enemy takes their life is when they ignore obvious red flags a lot of times what God does is He puts road attention to the red flags early. A big red flag faith or if you're already praying for them to I'm not talking about minor things. I'm talking traumas and abuse that they are giving to you really bad but of course, they keep feeling sorry that change is not happening. So you're ignoring way of destruction and the enemy has already sent this romance as a rehab because you really really Savior syndrome and so you kind of want to save that needs to happen in the community of brothers church, in the rehab center and other treatment relationship or a romantic relationship. Now this those things but you're not married, you don't and bring that person that He has been working on. have peace about. Learn to pay attention to signs because peace is the way God will protect you. not pay attention to your tension, Satan will will actually attract them into your life. The wrong relationships from the devil is when you the sign you're attracting a wrong person and it's up healthy boundaries. Define what you stand for will send you will uphold those values, not break you have to treasure and prioritize is purity interested in does not care about the boundaries break that boundary as soon as possible, shame you you and say that unless you have sex with me, you don't even need to pray about this. That where they came from. Because they're not valuing care about God. Number five, how do you attract if you do not listen to anyone except those who wise counsel because there is safety in that. enough to listen to the wisdom of others God sends of people that deeply genuinely care for you, self-righteous religious person who wants to rule their own self. I'm talking about Godly mature speak into your life. If you go deaf to the voice you can be tricked easily and there is nobody that will get drunk with your own infatuation. You will you see about this person, what you feel about you see about them, once you get to know them, people were telling you that you said, that's all of that is true and even more and you will be Have a humble heart to recognize that feelings need some cool-headed people in our life who spots so that we don't end up making mistakes when they attract wrong relationships is when they themselves in that relationship. Losing yourself relationships. It's true we must deny ourselves to One of the dangerous signs that the enemy has sent that relationship. The other person is supposed are. As Christians, when a man and a woman become being individuals. I have had the front row of their ministry, everything and their whole life They stop everything and only everything is find out later, that not only this never goes what was I thinking? Because real relationship to Adam? I'm going to send you a wife that's that cancels you. He doesn't send you a husband a man and a woman together make a baby. Together We complement each other. So when the relationship that person is pretending to be Jesus but they ourselves. It is the Lord Jesus Christ and the wants to take ourselves and give us Himself. Thus, Him. We don't stop existing. We become the truest So these are the signs that you have a wrong how to stop attracting these wrong relationships. pay attention to the voices in your life that have standards and don't violate those standards red flags early in the relationship. Pay healthy self-image. Lnow who you are in Jesus who doesn't like you. You don't need that to know who you are and never be desperate for being impulsive blurs your discernment Don't let Satan distract you. Let God lead you, you delight yourself in Him. If you are a single I do want to do a little shameless plug, I do &quot;Single Ready to Mingle.&quot; Check it out. I believe youth pastor for 14 years and so there's a lot I went through dating myself, got married and you can learn from my journey and my teachings further in your godliness and sanctification as