Transcriber: Leonardo Silva You can ask anyone you want, and they will tell you that they are sick and tired People of color and members of carrying the burden even when they're being silenced And white allies tired of being told they're doing it wrong or that it isn't even their place This fatigue is impacting all of us. And in fact, I believe we won't succeed I grew up in the middle in the segregated South. As a five-year-old girl, It seemed to be the five-year-old-girl My mother took me to a ballet school, the kind of school that had teachers knowing that you'd never be a ballerina. (Laughter) When we arrived, they said nicely We got back in the car as if we were that was out of orange juice. We said nothing - just drove to the next ballet school. They said, &quot;We don't accept Negroes.&quot; Well, I was confused, and I asked my mother And she said, &quot;Well, they're just not smart enough and they don't know (Applause) Well, I didn't know what that meant. (Laughter) But I was sure it wasn't good, because I could see it She was angry, and it looked like Well, I decided right then and right there (Laughter) You know, I had lots of experiences but as I got older, and not just angry I was angry at people that stood by Like, why didn't the white parents &quot;Uh, that's wrong, (Applause) Or why didn't the white patrons &quot;Hey, that's not right, Well, it didn't take me long to realize that racial injustice that people in the majority When I'd sit in church and hear some homophobic comment I'd say, &quot;I'm sorry, why aren't the heterosexual churchgoers (Audience) Right. (Applause) Or, in a room filled who started degrading as being spoiled, lazy and overconfident, I'd say, &quot;I'm sorry, why isn't someone my age (Audience) Yes. (Applause) I was used to standing up but why wasn't everyone else? My fifth grade teacher, Mrs. McFarlane, taught me that justice Not just anyone will do. She said we need unlikely allies And for those of us we need to be willing to accept the help because, when we don't, I mean, think about and, if he had not talked when she pled with him and to be more favorable to them we might not have gotten Or imagine if heterosexual and gay people under the banner of marriage equality. Or what if President Kennedy just wasn't interested Most of our major movements might have been delayed or even dead if it weren't for the presence When the same people speak up the most we'll ever get over and over again. You know, allies waiting to be called up, but what if unlikely allies Like, what if black and Native American people (Applause) Or what if white people (Cheering) (Applause) Or what if men led the charge (Cheering) (Applause) Or what if heterosexual people (Applause) And what if able-bodied people advocated (Audience) All right! (Applause) You know, we can stand up for issues, even when it seems like the issue And actually, those are the issues And sure, people will have no idea but that's why those of us must be willing to accept the help. You know, we have to fight injustice When white guys stand up to fight for the liberation black and brown people will have And I know that's complicated, and it requires everyone to be all in. One day when I was at kindergarten, our teacher introduced us named Miss Anne. I thought she was the prettiest If I can be honest with you, we'd ever seen a white lady (Laughter) Miss Anne stood in front of us, and she said she was going to start right there at our school, and that she was proud It was unreal. All of a sudden, I didn't think ballet was dumb anymore ... (Laughter) You see, what I know now that the white ballet schools She was incensed by that. So she came to the black neighborhood to start teaching And you know, it took love (Applause) And where there was no justice, We all survived because we stood on the shoulders We all thrived because Miss Anne was an unlikely ally. You know, when you add to situations that you actually inspire others Miss Anne inspired me for situations that weren't about me, but where I saw injustice I hope she inspires you too, because, to win the fight for equity, we will all need to speak up and stand up, and we will all need to do that and even when we feel out of place. Because it is your place, and it is our place. Justice counts on all of us. Thank you. (Applause) (Cheering)