Welcome to Another Boring Topic. Today we will be looking at the origins of project at Microsoft, its struggle just to onto the market, only to face a very uncertain This series will focus solely on mainstream wind up being five to six videos, with this up through the release of Windows 1.01, the Target length for each section is around an all the way up to the development and release interest. I'm not saying I think Windows 8 was the it's just the last release that I feel has A Year of GUI Possibilities 1981 So let's hop back to the computing world At this time the IBM PC had just been released of its many weaknesses and deficiencies, was it would enjoy throughout the 1980s. However, MS-DOS's measly 27 system calls, of multitasking were pain points for not only that were springing up to supply applications MS-DOS did so little that any application of things on its own, such as printing, that Forced to continually reinvent the wheel, as the end users. For their part, the end users struggled to line only interface, with its extremely unintuitive What many felt would be a desirable step forward or GUI for short, something with windows that the user, and had a way to interact with it of text commands. This did not necessarily mean a mouse by the command line was the way to go, it just needed By 1981 Xerox PARC's graphical user interface industry, and was quite mature, having been The Alto however was not a commercial product, for PARC, and while around 500 wound up in or so stayed with Xerox and its subsidiaries. The Alto's influence was significant, as the concepts that the pioneering computer and demonstrated in his 1968 landmark presentation to as The Mother of All Demos. But since the Alto was a purpose built, expensive, hardware, it was not a product designed to However 1981 would be an important year in of two projects designed to bring a graphical computers, no custom hardware needed. Additionally Xerox would finally make a serious And, although the projects had been ongoing Apple Computer was also working on two major a full GUI to a personal computer that was and a software perspective to handle it. There was a lot of buzz around GUIs...but or even if a GUI was anything more than a usability. Apple's first new computer that was being to use a graphical user interface. I'm talking of course about the revolutionary which was still a project very much in flux drama ahead of it to go through. The Lisa project had been started in 1979 through several iterations, including one The famous trip to Xerox PARC which occurred led to a shift in the Lisa's development, debate. The debate ranges from those who say that adding little originality, to others who say usually claimed[b]. But the Lisa would not be released until 1983 until 1984, and neither would find success The Lisa flopped so hard that leftover models operating system and the Macintosh itself, Xerox actually launched the very first personal interface in 1981, called the Xerox Star or System. It was remarkably advanced, boasting a rich ahead of its time. However, as was sadly typical of Xerox's efforts, the Star face planted immediately Its problem was that it was not really envisioned to be more of a turn key system for an entire via fast Ethernet, sharing files, printers, a way very comparable to something like today's While technically a personal computer meant of all of this technology was a painful 75,000 laser printer to share, plus 16,000 dollars This wasn't exactly what the market was obscurity, although its advanced operating the eventual release of Xerox GlobalView[c] to allow software created for the Alto and and OS/2 software. GlobalView initially required a hardware expansion in 1996, was able to run solely under software Ultimately, the Star left very little impact, What the market was looking for was a graphical require expensive custom hardware, worked meaning that it had to coexist with DOS somehow, IBM PCs and by extension the nascent IBM compatible to develop for. Additionally, given the vast amount of original than 640k of memory, a graphical user interface would have a far larger market than one that This was an incredibly difficult problem to companies' attempts to meet these requirements VisiCorp, the publishers of VisiCalc, the computer, which we covered in an episode of In 1981 they started development of a graphical to run on IBM PCs on top of DOS. Visi On came to market two years later in windows, a consistent interface for applications DOS programs, was fully mouse driven, and as cut/copy/paste between each other. Unfortunately Visi On was doomed by a number First of all its system requirements were of RAM and a hard drive. 512k of RAM was a massive amount for a 1983 and rather uncommon. As a matter of fact, IBM didn't even offer anyhow, with the release of the XT. Visi On was also expensive to buy, costing mouse. Furthermore, Visi On was difficult to develop specific applications under Visi On itself. Rather, the programmer was required to use that would run on an expensive workstation transfer the compiled program to an IBM PC This certainly wasn't unheard of in that of that era were, it was actually fairly common workstation computers. However, software developers could always Apple II, TRS-80, C64 etc and just accept development tools in exchange for a drastically With Visi On, you either shelled out for an for it at all. Unsurprisingly, Visi On barely staggered along of 1985 when VisiCorp merged with Paladin Then there was the second graphical user interface called Interface Manager that Microsoft had without much of a real direction, apart from As a side note, there is an interesting photo 14, 1982. The photo is of Bill Gates and Paul Allen just make out the words "Window manager" Interface Manager had somewhat grown out of a VisiCalc competitor called MultiPlan and Each of these programs attempted a sort of or at least descriptive menus by the very In fact, Multi-Tool Word actually used the separately for 195 dollars, although the early Multi-Tool Word was an application, not an implemented windows in it, allowing for up Multi-Tool Word also had a form of WYSIWYG, a mode that tried to display the document with fonts. As it started its slow road to eventually Word was eventually renamed to the much less As mentioned, Bill Gates had initially specified key ones being that Interface Manager needed applications separate from hardware, have to take advantage of than MS-DOS's puny of trying to fake it in text only mode, support appearance[j]. As originally envisioned, Interface Manager rather a graphical shell for DOS that would a consistent interface across applications. As the legendary John Dvorak put it in a 2020 as an OS but a shell program that would have device drivers through a common API. People forget that during the 1970's and a nightmare. Most of them the user had to code themselves. "Interface Manager"...would smooth out Basically Interface Manager would handle communicating freeing application developers from having to write drivers and frequently shipping multiple just so people buying the latest version of for their printer. But again, as initially envisioned, Interface As a top tier programmer himself, Gates knew and more full featured for developers as that and so he wanted Interface Manager to provide Get more applications that people wanted to Manager, making a larger pool of customers to develop for and so on and so on in a virtuous Originally, Interface Manager had been planned alphabetical lists of commands at the bottom was made to move to something close to what use pull down menus and dialog boxes[m]. This may or may not have been directly related was going on with the Lisa and Macintosh projects, given Microsoft's status as a key developer Gates had also been given a personal look the summer of 1981 by Steve Jobs himself, his interest in starting a GUI for IBM computers. However it's also equally possible that Gates' itself or was tapping into his own pool of had hired. Gates had started his "PARC poaching" Simonyi from PARC in 1981 who became enormously was a key asset in the development of Multi-Tool expertise in graphical user interfaces was Gates also eventually tapped another former Manager's development and in 1983 he hired Interface Manager's product manager. Basically Gates had enough PARC people in-house Jobs was given in order to know quite a bit Additionally, Gates had seen to it that Microsoft Xerox Stars, spending around 100,000 dollars My source for this, Hard Drive: Bill Gates Microsoft only bought one Star[o], but a Star near 100k so my suspicion is that Microsoft at around 16k a pop, plus a laser printer Whatever the number purchased, the Stars were Microsoft programmer Bob Wallace said, "The it was there to play with if you wanted to So in addition to having multiple PARC experts study, again meaning that Gates definitely to know pretty much all of the ins and outs 1982 At Comdex in Fall of 1982, VisiCorp gave the Gates' immediately sensed a possible significant He sat through three complete Visi On demonstrations, specifically to see one of them[q]. Worried that Visi On would grab control of the decision to ramp up development on Interface hyping it as being far closer to completion system requirements that it would turn out At a computer conference in January of 1983, was working on a graphical user interface ship before, Visi On. It wasn't until weeks after this announcement even able to run on a PC at all and had mouse Given that Microsoft had been working on it development had so far solely been occurring running an 8088 emulator. 1983 April of 1983 saw the first public demo of mirage that it literally became internally demo[s]. Created by two programmers, Rao Remala and "of a screenful of overlapping windows apparently actually did anything. Remala had cobbled the thing together by borrowing for its Macintosh Chart application[t]." Remala had created the window manager for The whole show was designed to give the illusion release than it actually was...because at to Interface Manager than the demo. But the demo gave the industry the perception too much longer, which was a double edged high. This demo would live on in Microsoft, as it computer makers Microsoft was courting expressed slow 8088 processor handling a full windowing, By this point it was clear that Interface in order to leapfrog the competition, although decision was made, as no resource I consulted Microsoft pushed Interface Manager hard to licensing MS-DOS from Microsoft. Microsoft account managers and sales reps The tactics Microsoft used to try to leverage Manager were extremely...shall we say used The excellent book Gates describes their tactics love Interface Manager. If you like DOS, this is the only 100 percent If you like DOS and BASIC, we'll turn the Manager. Oh and you'll probably need a mouse. We've got that too. It's easy: Sign here." Almost every bullet point feature of Interface Visi On as well. Visi On required a hard drive, whereas Interface floppy drives every IBM compatible came with. Visi On required a lot of RAM, Interface Manager Visi On was expensive, Microsoft would throw a lot of clone MS-DOS deals. According to one source, the biggest licensors a system, or 24 dollars a copy. If a smaller manufacturer committed to a 20,000 copy, which was still a lot cheaper than Visi It was cutthroat marketing at its finest, law, which forbids tying the purchase of one However Microsoft somehow managed to stay saying cloners needed to license Interface got away with it. However all of these manufacturers who were deals for Interface Manager were certainly and were not going to be happy if it wasn't And the chances of Interface Manager being In August of 1983, with the pressure to get up, Gates personally interviewed and poached MacGregor was a good friend of Charles Simonyi, as a good head for the Interface Manager group, Systems Group on MacGregor's first day of MacGregor's formal title was chief technical MacGregor was not impressed with Interface with Bill Gates' understanding of what was "He had no idea of what a windowing system He thought of it as a collection of subroutines windowng stuff, as opposed to a windowing Still, MacGregor had a job to do, and he threw development moving along, although he knew be released the following year as Microsoft McGregor also loftily compared himself to mere mortals[z]. Before Microsoft's GUI could be formally Manager was not deemed suitable. Several other names were considered, among Jeff Raikes, Microsoft's director of applications However the name that won out was a simple user interface, a name suggested by Rowland of corporate communications in early 1983. Hanson was in charge of all advertising, packaging, to do with marketing Microsoft products and have "Microsoft" as part of its official get Microsoft as a brand cemented into people's As Hanson says "It appeared that there were the market. Well, we wanted to have our name basically for windowing based graphical user interfaces. So he gathered his team and they started looking about GUIs that were either on the market a lot of information about them revealed. In Hanson's words, "I told my team to been written about all these other GUIs that all this stuff, and we are going to look for about." So we taped everything to the wall - hundreds to find a very consistent theme between all as 'graphical user interfaces'; they were And I said, "If these are all windowing we have got to be Windows[ab]." Hanson got his way and thus Microsoft Interface This change was made so last minute that there PR materials[ac]. Meanwhile VisiCorp began shipping Visi On announced that it too was working on a graphical In light of Gates' proud announcement at be the first to release a GUI for IBM computers like its GUI would merely be the third entry Desperate to try to get some good publicity, Hotel in New York City, Gates publicly announced early 1984. Gates also predicted that by the end of 1984, be running Windows. Even though Windows was far, far away from longer would see customers flocking to a different As Hard Drive: Bill Gates and the Making of that one way to prevent potential customers was to announce that your company was working It was a tried-and-true IBM gambit that worked set standards; they usually would gladly wait out[ad]." This industry practice was so prevalent that coined by magazine Infoworld. Another Microsoft manager later said "There our competitors were announcing products that A Microsoft press release from the November would not compete with its licensees, saying each OEM is expected to set its own pricing, adding little or no cost to the system. We have no plans [to sell a retail version] Gates also, being privy to the still secret was going to shake up the industry when it its initial target price of under 2000 dollars. The Lisa had caused a major stir when it was expensive asking price of 10,000 dollars, target price of two thousand dollars[ag] could interface into the mainstream of consumer If Gates could give those consumers a GUI machines, the Macintosh could indirectly drive Additionally, announcing Windows in such a would help drive the perception that Microsoft curl of the breaking GUI groundswell, not The Windows announcement was, according to introduction ever witnessed in the industry[ai]" It lasted most of the morning, and featured of Windows through a very detailed demonstration. The real standout wasn't the GUI itself or new, what was surprising was the fact that do all of this on a normal basic IBM PC. However once again the extensive Windows demos and mirrors show. In November of 1983, there existed a grand very basic paint program similar[aj] to MacPaint. There were also a handful of applets, or very a bare bones text editor[ak]. At this point, Windows was more of an elaborate product, and it was also still using the GUI Additionally, at this point Windows was based text, as opposed to the bit mapped graphics like the Lisa[am]. Still, grandiose claims were made, especially entice to flood the market with Windows applications. Product Manager Leo Nikora told the press environment for MS-DOS so that applications that developers would be able to take advantage interface for MS-DOS[an]." The advantage of developers being able to to Visi On's requirement of an expensive Microsoft pulled out all the stops to get was primarily vapor at the moment, hopefully It's important to point out that the Windows blood building between IBM and Microsoft as Microsoft was able to publicly talk up agreements including Windows as an option with their rising stars as Compaq, HP, Texas Instruments, These companies were very aware of the fact in the mainframe market before by abruptly Based on the features, release date, and adoption these clone makers felt that Windows represented of the PC ecosystem. They already had hardware compatibility with taking control of the operating system standard If Windows took off and preempted TopView, hardware and the software standards for PCs, more concerned about IBM's power than they Sure IBM could try to make a new standard, was firmly established. Or at least that seemed to be the thinking, working out some years down the road, as you Unsurprisingly, none of this sat well with from Windows, and shockingly even signed a On. This definitely came as a bit of a shock to to get IBM to start using Windows under similar As a matter of fact, the day after the Windows headquarters in Boca Raton, Florida to pitch This trip ended in complete failure, with graphical interface that they were working This would wind up being the aforementioned operating system that would die on arrival Just a couple weeks after Windows' formal off in Las Vegas. And Windows absolutely everywhere, as Microsoft's front and center of everybody's eyes. Taxis had Windows ad plates, attendees renting keychains to go with their rental, every hotel full of PR material about Windows. Windows was so prevalent everywhere in Las "You couldn't take a leak in Vegas without Pam Edstrom, Microsoft's head of public relations, the door of the VisiCorp suite and hand them According to her, "You could sort of hear[ap]" Given that Visi On would actually be released several years away, I'm fairly certain Visicorp Although the last laugh would actually be several years later, along with Visicorp itself. Practical jokes aside, there wasn't much still mired in deep delays. And thanks to first the announcement, and and the associated expectations, were rapidly It was also sometime in between the Windows showing on November 29th that the decision product, alongside the OEMs who had committed This decision was made due to IBM making it Windows on any IBM machine. Without a retail version, Microsoft would IBM PCs out there, especially the ones in One additional note of interest here is that this point comes courtesy of Dan Bricklin, his camcorder and captured some of the earliest As Windows struggled, the way too optimistic industry began to take off the rose tinted The stress of dealing with journalists and had to be announced also fell quite heavily As previously mentioned, Gates had hired Leo Nikora was a talented programmer, but the marketing role. Nikora had no idea what he was getting himself but rather was an excellent engineer. Nevertheless he would do his very best to to Windows' overall development. In the words of Gates, Nikora was "a soft-spoken, These attributes supremely qualified him for to apologize for Windows[aq]." Nikora also had helped manage the Xerox Star's design, and had 17 years of programming experience. 1984 In February 1984, Microsoft held a conference Attendees were expecting to get the technical applications and preparing computer systems Instead the 300 attendees, each of whom had to hear that Windows had received its first in May 1984. This left a bad taste in people's mouths, when May came and went without Windows, with would now launch towards the end of August In light of the bad PR the delays were causing, press in July and attempted to put a positive with. Shirley was an extremely competent former in 1983 after Microsoft's first president, who had decided Towne hadn't been displaying Shirley took a two fold approach with the primary focus, and thus was guaranteed to had started shipping out development kits the clone manufacturers with the technical run Windows. This second point was designed to give the release, and versions of it were already out to create exciting new Windows applications. This was...not terribly honest as Windows trying to nail down hardware specifications to the wall. The development kits that were shipped out that Windows would change so much over the ran under the development version of it had or at all, under the final release. By this point, fewer and fewer developers at all though so I guess you could say that by the day. Meanwhile behind the scenes, Microsoft was The Windows delays had exposed some serious methodologies as it had taken a year of Windows down had really grasped the enormity of the it was going to be to bring it to market. The original projection for developing Windows across a handful of programmers, whereas by taken the efforts of up 30 of Microsoft's Towards the end of 1983 Microsoft had around the time and energy of almost a third of the In the nascent software industry of the early for a company as comparatively big as Microsoft just how disorganized Microsoft was in its Matters were not helped by the fact that Gates tended to launch new projects that never finished, to another, and frequently would abruptly This had all led to a culture of instability, wasn't going to be the only major Microsoft Additionally, feuds were breaking out between a new version of MS-DOS, and the Interactive development. Since Windows was not originally conceived source puts it "a thin veneer over the operating needed for Windows was supposed to be done release of MS-DOS and then given to the Windows However the Operating Systems Group was falling probably not helped by Windows vacuuming up to have the Windows developers take on some faster. This caused a major issue with the Operating Matters were not helped by the fact that Microsoft's team, which for all of the stress, was viewed to working on boring old DOS. This meant that MacGregor was frequently approached wanting to be moved to the Windows team, generating especially Letwin. All of this squabbling was bad for morale, energy that could have been spent more productively, There were also focus problems caused by Gates' his mind about whether Windows should allow and Macintosh handled things, or force windows Gates did not respect the chain of command, felt like, whether small or large. He refused to allow the development schedule unexpected bug fixing, and field testing, time and move up the release date accordingly. MacGregor would later describe this problem "that when you have large and complicated lot of people, the trivial change takes a You have to factor it through, change the it, make sure the change works with all the There was this very real conflict between the need to have a plan to execute, to actually A manager who eventually left Microsoft described "everything was a crisis[aw]." Gates also eventually decided that since Windows and Nikora should take on the additional burden respective areas of Windows development. This is not exactly considered a best practice wants the proverbial clueless Pointy Haired projects need to be able to focus on, you MacGregor and Nikora were both extremely talented the trenches to crank out code would only There was also a costly development change known as Interface Manager. Although Gates had originally wanted Windows to control anything, after a year of development support typing commands alongside using a used to using MS-DOS's cryptic text based piece of hardware like a mouse. Additionally, mouse only control would make of its machines, or as MacGregor rather dryly to use a mouse while driving a tank[ax]." In the end, the decision to add full command three and six months of development time, to the always overly optimistic schedule. June of 1984 saw a very interesting internal that laid out Microsoft's strategy for Windows, fit into the plan. The memo reads as follows: "Microsoft believes the man-machine interface. We will bet on that belief by focusing new the mouse and graphics: Macintosh and Windows. This also makes sense from a marketing perspective. Our focus will be on the business user, a expense of a mouse and high-resolution screen, easy-to-use software. Microsoft will not invest significant development character-based IBM PC applications. We will finish development and do a few enhancements Over the foreseeable future, our plan is to to port them to Windows. We are taking care in the design of the Windows During August of 1984, as Microsoft struggled Windows would definitely not be launching was carried out. Things were reorganized into two main divisions, Steve Ballmer took over as head of the operating from her position as Apple's marketing director division. Gates' primary focus was now strictly long and determining Microsoft's overall development The hope was that this restructuring would Windows, and put an end to the turf wars. Additionally, and somewhat quietly, this reorganization developers that Microsoft's internal application they were not only privy to inside details to work with Windows, but also received could applications that ran under MS-DOS. Since any major change in an application generally sure that it would still run correctly under have a massive advantage in knowing just what Gates publicly proclaimed that this advantage claiming that there was now a barrier between applications division from receiving insider and place everyone on a level playing field. The industry quickly dubbed this barrier Microsoft's If you believe that it actually existed in property to sell you in Arizona and I can buy a certain New York City Bridge as well. Meanwhile back at Windows, Neil Konzen joined charge of designing the user interface. Konzen had been working on developing Microsoft for the past couple years and had very strong feel. He also felt strongly that Windows should the Macintosh, and also pushed to make Windows' causing a significant amount of reworking in friction building up between him and MacGregor. All of this pushed Windows' development Microsoft was forced to announce that Windows was being pushed back all the way to June Leo Nikora once again had the unenviable task which was getting increasingly critical of blood. Nikora's many years of programming experience and reputable authority on the struggles Windows choice to try to spin things for the press, background. Unfortunately, even Nikora couldn't do much down on Microsoft's head. Still, he valiantly tried to put the best took up too much memory and required too much processors powering the bulk of IBM machines not release it until they reduced its hardware His explanation was not greeted with much roundly deriding Microsoft. Some of the criticism went even further, with failure to deliver Windows was its first strategic Personal Computer stating that Windows was that graphical user interfaces did nothing an opinion that was shared by fellow tech Forbes also piled on, pointing out that VisiCorp was on the verge of complete financial collapse[ba] solution in search of a problem. But Nikora was telling the truth, at the November up as only requiring 192k of RAM, and no hard chosen to undercut Visi On's far higher It had also been claimed that all DOS applications specifically for Windows, which would be the mode and without access to Windows advanced Microsoft said that Windows would basically DOS program launched, then restart itself This was also a marked improvement over Visi difficult things to promise and the massive ever further behind schedule as the team struggled but also get Windows working correctly on Windows development had turned into a brutal overhyped, and overburdened operating system Gates, never much for polite behavior, took any other team at Microsoft, or as Hard Drive escaped the emotional tirades and verbal abuse those working on Windows[bb]." Gates had raised massive expectations with world that Microsoft would deliver an extraordinary stodgy old IBM PCs into the shiny new world going on to just get Windows into basic functionality, enormously draining. MacGregor later said "I don't think Bill such as Windows. All of the projects Bill had ever worked on or two different people. That's a very different kind of project than a year to do. There were 30 some odd people in the Windows for Microsoft was the largest project they'd Additionally, the Windows development death at Microsoft, with programmers no longer trying Microsoft's application developers were preferring to focus on developing Macintosh Somehow the Windows team kept up their overall even though according to the book Barbarians on the project thought of quitting or even But not many actually did. Back then, the attrition rate was very low They believed that the software they were But by this point, they were about the only Microsoft's walls the Macintosh hype was room for Microsoft's oft delayed GUI. Microsoft was still a major, if not the major, given considerable access to the Macintosh resources. The buzz around the Macintosh just kept building, commercial, and Windows was just not generating Or really any excitement at all. Yet the Windows developers grimly kept moving There was a lot riding on Windows and its them vulnerable to market disruption from In a January 1984 article in Fortune magazine, failing: "a lot is riding on Windows. If it fails to become an industry standard, the consumer market by storm. Momentum is an ephemeral quality in any business, software, it can be lost in the blink of an to seize transient opportunities, Microsoft of management depth that will be needed to The pressure was high, the stakes were higher, RAM was probably the biggest technical issue working on a 4.77 mhz 8088 processor was definitely DOS programs were used to having the entirety Once a program, Lotus 1-2-3 for example, was memory and then grab all of it for its own At that point Lotus 1-2-3 was basically in resources down to the hardware level, with What Windows needed to do was figure out a some of the available RAM, but make it think With independent software developers now having continually changing release dates for Windows, some of them personally, taking at least some Nikora who was getting very tired of making over again, each time explaining that Windows In one letter to a software publisher from the most strategic product that Microsoft of choice for the next generation of graphical To achieve this goal, it must have the functionality of graphical applications. This will not be easy; it will be a significant In this letter, Gates also tried a fairly that although the press was being told that Microsoft actually would actually release This falsehood was Gates' way of trying in earlier than than its newest official release But given Microsoft's abysmal track record date so far, the smart money was not exactly deadline any more than it had the last few. Gates himself continued to be the cause of stating "In the past, Gates' strategy and grab a share of the market and fix the With Windows, he inexplicably took just the He couldn't bring himself to turn it loose Nikora himself clearly felt that this was of the reason Windows didn't get out was changing the rules. I was saying 'Look Bill, you've got to it out there. You can always make it better, you can always Bill's feeling was 'No, we've got to head and shoulders above everybody else. It's gotta be the right product[bi].'" The industry was also starting to attack Gates his business judgment and wondering if maybe Gates also kept ordering changes to Windows changes required redoing already functional adding entirely new features. For example, Windows originally had proportional bar got bigger or smaller depending on how Gates required that the scroll bar be redone the Macintosh did. At one point Windows had full drag and drop implement this feature in a way that the Macintosh Of course Gates wasn't happy by this, and The book Barbarians Led By Bill Gates estimates be more mac-like cost 7-8 months of development read is probably a significant understatement. Additionally, even by late 1984 Windows was puts it, "The developers still had not received subsume DOS, be an application that ran on library[bl]." Windows was a project without much of its another wrench into its development...TopView. In brief, Gates was concerned about TopView to add TopView compatibility into Windows, MS-DOS or TopView. Fortunately for Windows, this requirement had already wasted valuable time trying to In 1984 Gates reorganized Microsoft yet again, Steve Balmer, in overall charge of the Windows get Windows done or else. To quote the Digital Antiquarian, "Ballmer at a prodigious pace. The project acquired a reputation inside Microsoft a place where promising careers went to die[bn]." In the end, Windows would burn through four only reluctantly transferring to the Windows Trower actually initially assumed that he Gates wanted an excuse to fire him, saying It was like the death project[bo]." But there was even more bad news on the horizon. 1985 As 1984 gave way to 1985, Microsoft had to marketing Windows. The original reason for getting as many of so that they could sell new PCs with Windows However, no matter how hard they tried, Microsoft on the basic hardware that made up the majority by lower end, 8088 based machines[bp]. Additionally all of the deals struck with was so badly overdue that every company had The original plan was for Windows to be OEM Then it had changed into a hybrid of OEM and Now, reluctantly, Gates decided that Windows boxed retail product. Microsoft would just have to hope that enough pushing the as yet unknown quality of TopView back on board. Meanwhile, the Windows team was convulsing Ballmer's dislike of Nikora had flared into Ballmer was [bq]apparently in Nikora's office matches, pounding his fist on Nikora's table, were "complete jokes". Nikora, an excellent programmer and manager, career and was doing his very best as Windows' quit Microsoft, saying "I was burned out, ready for middle management. They thought they were ready, but they weren't And it wasn't just Nikora who Ballmer was were also fighting. MacGregor took issue with how Ballmer, a non-programmer, by continually ratcheting the pressure higher that should take six weeks in just half the started to get strained as spouses put extraordinarily If you know your computer history you may a non-programmer, ran the Mac team, but Steve although capable of being motivational, was charisma. Hampered by his lack of a technical background, especially the super-stars that refused to Gates' confrontational management style, to back it up. And yet, MacGregor was himself struggling vision for Windows. With his Xerox background, Macgregor wanted Star, which had its origins in the 1973 Alto's This system, for all its many innovations, by the Lisa and Macintosh, both of which had much further than anything PARC had done. One key design aspect that he refused to budge windows that could not overlap each other Macintosh or Lisa windows could. As Neil Konzen's changes began to be implemented, MacGregor's authority had waned. This, coupled with the constant fighting with to MacGregor reaching his limit. By spring of 1985, MacGregor had become so entirely. In his case, Gates himself interceded and was no changing MacGregor's mind. After MacGregor left, Ballmer moved into his Ballmer's formally taking over MacGregor's caused awkwardness immediately with Windows just moved in to his new position right as This put Trower in the weird position of having based on which hat Ballmer was wearing at With Ballmer now running the Windows project[bs], was now evident that Windows would not be Gates called Ballmer into his office one morning stating that Ballmer had better get Windows himself would be out of a job. Ballmer took this challenge in stride, gathered we must ship this product before the snow The final grueling sprint to get Windows out as the youthful Microsoft programmers struggling of Microsoft's walls. Working seven days a week and constantly exhorted own neck, the Windows team threw themselves with a young Microsoft tester by the name an entire month in his office without leaving. Newell worked around the clock and relied exhausted body could no longer work without This went beyond even the standards of the "Madman" Newell from that point on[bu]. I wonder whatever happened to him... Windows programmers also resorted to amping typically using the down time while waiting And by blowing off steam I mean literally and saltpeter was used to make bombs and rockets, bomb sniffing dogs. Nobody was caught, but it was a close call. That didn't stop a young programmer from pressing a cafeteria microwave into service mixture was even more explosive. Probably fortunately, the volatile mixture sending smoke through the building and bringing halt. The pressure was unrelenting, with one programmer trying to get this thing done" and another center of the universe. That was the motivation, that and just trying It was an invigorating feeling to be working And all this pounding by Steve Ballmer, and be there[bw]." Slowly, the disparate pieces of Windows finally But it was a hard slog. The Macintosh and Lisa teams had been affording hardware configuration to target apiece. The Windows team was struggling to get Windows compatibles, with more makes and models entering The struggle was to get all of the hardware to be supported under Windows while also keeping This meant that in addition to writing Windows, video cards, and any number of hardware configurations well as MS-DOS. When the spring Comdex came in May of 1985, But it was feature complete, basically in Edition" to be shown at Microsoft's booth, developers that Microsoft was desperately applications. But Windows was still not ready for retail Finally, at the fall Comdex show six months shown, ready for purchase at last. At this point Windows was launching into a interface with deep skepticism, IBM's TopView the process of being buried as VisiCorp sold the Lisa had already clearly failed, the innovative Macintosh was struggling for traction, and his wounds and planning to start NeXT Computer. Windows, the butt of so many jokes the past a favorable atmosphere. However a very smart and media savvy PR person a clever idea to at least mitigate the jokes to make all the jokes they wanted...with Microsoft And so, as part of the launch of Windows at single technology figure of any distinction figure John Dvorak performing as master of Gates and Ballmer cheerfully accepted a "Golden Alsop, did a comedy routine together replete up by dueting "The Impossible Dream" as out onto the stage in a giant shopping cart, At least there was supposed to be dry ice dry environment of Las Vegas what actually of water was...absolutely nothing[bx]. The evening was a success however, with lots to soften perceptions toward Windows at least PC World wrote that "the future of integration PC Week's Jim Seymore wrote "I am a Windows it almost certainly will become. I think developers who don't build Windows of successful products are crazy. The secret of Windows in its present state They don't have to write screen drivers customers a kind of two-bit concurrency and However, Windows 1 was nowhere near usable It was great that Microsoft had finally gotten very much in flux and seeking an identity. And it was dog slow on most systems, or in who had been working on it for the past several As Hard Drive puts it, "The program was the personal computers then in use. The machines lacked the memory and speed to had to offer. In addition, because of all the delays at available to run under Windows[ca]." Sure, Windows could technically run on an at least 256k of RAM installed. However just because you could in theory do or enjoyable experience. For the end user on a typical PC towards the was about as much fun to use as those marginally foisted on quite a few people. Windows 1 did have a lot of technical advancements multitasking and virtual memory, and even barrier...sort of. This last feature was done by basically treating a hard drive was handled. When applications were opened beyond the 640k let's say 1 Mb, Windows would swap data back was, loaded into the base 640k. This was not necessarily a smooth process, bring the computer to a standstill, or as alternately loads one application and then Windows 1 was technically an MS-DOS program, alongside the available RAM left over from These programs had their own file format for ran under Windows though, if a normal MS-DOS the program and then basically stop running, quit. It is fair to ask if Windows 1 was actually end for MS-DOS. I tend to think of it as an operating system well as its own drivers that Windows applications However, since Windows required MS-DOS to to have relied on MS-DOS to handle file operations...you a graphical user interface but less than an Remember that all of the bundled deals with to put together...had fallen through by this Windows 1 would be solely sold as a retail Microsoft priced in at an incredibly low 99 create some consumer demand that would spur but unfortunately it was an effort doomed So few people bought it that essentially no had no incentive to create programs for it. And since the vast majority of MS-DOS programs keep making MS-DOS programs anyhow, secure it, it would almost certainly run just fine A similar compatibility issue would eventually so Microsoft did eventually get to be on the for the OS/2 video. One other thing of interest is the fact that Microsoft and Apple signed a critical, and prove to be Apple's greatest misstep of In exchange for Microsoft's promise to keep two programs that were desperately needed of available software, Microsoft gained the interface technology developed by Apple for Part of the agreement put it pretty bluntly, and in consideration of the license grant visual displays in [Excel, Windows, Word, visual displays generated by Apple's Lisa This agreement was signed by Bill Gates and And it would have massive repercussions for the road when they faced each other in court attention. And that wasn't the only significant agreement prior to Windows launch, in August 1985, Microsoft to start collaboratively working to develop This might seem a bit of a surprising development the relationship, but with the failure of job of replacing MS-DOS all by itself. On Gates' part, the struggle to get Windows agreement with a cloner to package Windows future as a retail product...well Gates wasn't Maybe it would be better to work with Big The ramifications of the JDA and OS/2 would as there seemed to be no point in continuing and Microsoft were working together on OS/2. Windows had made it to its first release, And that wraps up Part 1 of the Rise of Windows, I am also working on a video that will bring that video to hopefully land sometime in the If you enjoyed this video and want to see button and consider subscribing. And as always, thanks for watching.