This recipe I'm going to give you now is an really humble ingredients. So first of all get of like warmish. And we're going to put that into dried yeast. Give it a nice little mix up with a in there or a little honey you can do that as if you leave it for a couple of minutes you'll carbon dioxide okay, and that carbon dioxide will And listen if you haven't got yeast please don't So we've got 1 kilo of strong flour that we're that kilo holding just a little bit bit back and using a fork at the moment cuz it keeps your hands you definitely don't want bland bread. So keep then you can use your hands. Now look, whether do. So you can see it's getting sticky, so if you dust your hands down, move it around, and we can move it, knead it, there's no real right or of people are really scared of making bread and Give it a little dusting with my hand, and we want the dough to be elastic. So there's no right or wrong way to knead just stretch it, and you can move it around like that, what if you've got kids it's a fun thing to do, can do the shapes the sizes. In a tin, on a tray, do you flavour it, do you take leftovers and put focaccia, calzone like there's so many different it's quite nice to do this. Something that sound like I'm being a little bit romantic but times of change it's like clawing back some of kneading it. Actually I can already feel the yeast had a good knead, I'll give it a little dusting underneath it like this. Little bit of flour on to create a little ball and then my friends size like that, it's going to be amazing. Let me and we'll cover it with like a damp cloth and in and have a little look... Same quantity, same comparison. So what we want to do is now knock it that and you'll see it just like boof, collapse. flavour. So more flavour more texture. I'll let do to this once you've knocked it back you know little short knead just for a second. You can So we'll knock that out, now this kilo batch I quite like you know using the dough in different of rustic loaf okay. So I'll just slice this look at the bubbles! It smells amazing already. So So I'll get a regular tray, give it a little dust. So as you knock that air out if you wanted to you could make it into a nice round loaf or you like, I quite personally like making it into a tap like that and just stretch it. Now we're going an hour and that will double in size, right? So least twice as big, at least. And just put it in that. I quite like doing it rustic like that cuz really really rustic. So that I'm going to leave we can do some very exciting things, just move use a rolling pin just to roll this out to about to make is a twister bread so this is a rolled up means it has a crunchy outside and a really spongy layers, and that makes it really fun for adults or could take flavours that you just love also you jam, it could be you know honey and raisins, it or then you could go to things like you know of cheese and tomatoes, you can use up anything out to the size of like a tea towel and then you could be the red one. So get your pesto on there out look at the colour! So you can really flavour like depending on what you've got. Got some olives normally use but I've got some lovely cheddar, like that and these will melt beautifully. the moment when you can't necessarily get exactly you know keep cooking and carry on, and we can then just fold over the dough like that and then this is what makes it delicious. So you get the on the inside - so in half, then in half, then in pan like this, have a look at the inside guys come So in we go. And what's nice is even the little other. Okay so we're done, so let this prove until and then I'll bang them both in the oven and hallelujah. Okay so the room smells absolutely doubled in size then whacked them in the oven and here goes... This is our lovely rustic loaf, of course you can use that for so many things you know but leftovers, croutons, you can do bread. Let's just slip it out, slide it, look at what we've created is something a bit different a bit of that right? But then if you look in here just kind of like cooks into each other but then it. Delicious. I'm going to give you a foolproof recipe if you love a bagel then this is for you. So strong flour and then we will make a well in the to go in with 450 mils of tepid water that means add the yeast. Now when you buy yeast it's often so 7 grams of our dried yeast goes into the tepid The heat and the water will wake the yeast up then using a nice light golden sugar there. That will but also a gentle very subtle sweetness. Then so that goes in. Mix that up first and then the inside and it will go to like a porridge-like see at this stage it's getting elastic, can you it together you can bring more and more flour touch of your hand just move it around. 10 minutes. So we'll keep it moving just bringing and once it's come together you can be a bit down and pull it apart and roll it back up, pick at it you know we've got a really nice smooth sort of little therapeutic knead-up. Of and let that do all the hard work, but somehow it a lovely dough. Kiss a little bowl with a tiny dough in here. Look how lovely and soft and shiny a half in a bowl rubbed with oil. Get yourself water on it. Just ring out your tea towel which just lay that over the top like that. So lots of we've created so an hour and a half it will double So an hour and a half later we have a look at that. When we turn it out it is just so it smells amazing. So we want to knock back so we just knock that out and then we can start to so divide this roughly or as best as you three. Try and get it about right. So look we've double-handing them you know, just to look pro. sticking outrageously. Each dough we're now going a little bit of pressure on the dough and I I push the palm down until you get traction, to push your fingers up and take the pressure and once you do a few you'll just kind of lovely. Pressure down... pressure off... lovely there. Over here by the way this is kind of the bagels, boiling water. That's the first part of you that kind of chewier spongier texture that's one ingredient that goes in here that is I particularly used in baking to give lift and noodles or in this case the bagel it kind of gives change the pH of the dough on the outside so bake it. Now we're going to get thumbing, now get one's thumb and then put it in the flower, and then you can just stretch the dough and do a nice little circle and there's your potential it kind of does tend to shrink back again so and then we can poach it right? So we'll lay therapeutic. Get the kids involved, get on your own. So there you go a beautiful array of I will season it with a little salt actually, that hole a little bit as you lay it in like minute on each side and then we're going to get plumping up really nicely. Once you've done your 2 them. So let me show you what we're going to the edge, right in the middle. Then we'll take top. Poppy seeds on the other. With the lovely have quite robust outer shells. I personally think just crush those sunflower seeds and on the and I think they eat better. So in the ovens these 200 degrees Celsius, and I'm going to cook is a fan oven so it should be pretty even and only question you have to ask yourself Delicious. So here they are, they absolutely you can see it's going to be really crisp I'm just going to get a serrated knife and knife. So look let's get some butter on there. smoked salmon, beautiful salt beef, there's try. Oh. It's still got the chew but it's so so what are you waiting for, if you want to have a is the recipe for you it's really good fun to Enjoy. Right we're going to make a it's not supposed to be the best artisan pizza in start it and cook it in under 10 minutes so let's are flicking me. And this could be a nightmare my my third daughter. And this is Buddy, my fourth Sorry I forgot. First up we're going to have doing it. Try not to have an argument. apparently that's not very fashion forward. It it's all relative. Then we put half a mug a tablespoon of oil Petal. So whazz it up. 30 clean the bowl that's good. Not too much flour. want it to be sort of stretchy and elastic like this into two. What I want them to do is roll non-stick large pan okay, it's cold. So put that Every now and then you can make a big batch of it means you're getting lots of the good stuff just drop this into the pan. We're going to put I'm just going to back-spoon that. Buds what You like mozzarella. I want some salami. Okay now overload it. You want some parmesan? Uh and I want I want this. It's quite nice letting the parmesan that mate? This I don't know what it's called. Oh making me... I want it everywhere. Okay well and you say you want it everywhere. Basil, Amazing flavour, really really nice, and that'll minutes, done. Petal this is a slightly thicker little finger marks in here they're going to trap sauce. Dad I need a toilet. Oh god, okay. That boy anywhere there's not a place... if I introduce he'd just take a slash anywhere, anywhere. Dude... that is basically, that is my life to. And also y'know etiquette I'm leaving that in for all the are all going yeah I've got one of those Anyway so um... Buddy's will now come out, it's crispy skinned, straight onto the board. And then love balsamic. You can put some fresh basil over are going to take this apart, but when you got them stuff that they want. And of course pizza is flour to whole grain flour you're getting closer tomato sauce you're getting towards a healthy a really lovely thing. Who wants some pizza? into it. You didn't made it. Okay you made it. one than mine. So this is the point guys where have fun, lots of love, bye. Should we do that?