The layout of how a network communicates with the most common topology is the star topology. to a central wiring point such as a hub or through this central point before continuing of this topology, is that if one computer the other computers would not be affected connection. However a disadvantage of the switch fails, then all the computers on that is called a single point of failure, if this This is called the bus topology. Now this not used today that much. This is the kind and network devices are connected to a single coaxial cable. The computers connect to this which are also known as T-connectors. One it is fairly cheap and easy to implement, is that it requires that the cable be terminated this setup to remain operational, there must ends that attach to the computers. If a computer are loose or missing, then the cable would is known as signal reflection, if this happens And this is called the ring topology. A ring where each computer is connected to each other every computer on this ring has exactly two data packet is sent around the ring until of topology is rarely used today. The advantage install and easy to troubleshoot. However of these computers goes down or if there was flow would be disrupted. And this is called the mesh topology. In a is connected to every other computer on the it handles failure very well. In this illustration each computer which makes a total of 12 connections of cabling and network cards that have to so they are rarely used all local area networks networks like the internet, in fact the internet advantage of a mesh topology is that it creates more connections fail, the computers would as you can see in the illustration. Topologies can also be combined with other as hybrid topologies. Hybrid apologies can lot of businesses use some form of a hybrid common forms of hybrid topologies are the In a star bus network, two or more star topologies And in a star ring network, two or more star ring network. Now a point to point topology is 2 hosts that a single cable. These hosts could be computers, So a point to point topology is the simplest A client server topology is where clients server to access resources rather than connecting use this type of topology because instead computer, which is a lot more work, the administrator then all the clients can access the resources resources on just one machine is a lot less It makes the administration a lot simpler. Point-to-multipoint topology is a network outdoor networks. So what you would have is would be other wireless locations around it Now these other locations will not directly all only communicate to the central location. clients. And the central location is commonly A peer-to-peer topology is where all the clients on the network to share their resources with share their printer, another computer can so on. So there is no centralized server that to each other. And peer-to-peer topologies find them in homes and small businesses. This is the RJ-11 connector, and RJ stands connector used mainly to connect telephone is used to connect computers to local area RJ-11 locks itself and to place by a single it's a little bit smaller. Now the RJ-45 is by far the most common network to connect computers to local area networks. place by a single locking tab, and it also The RJ-48C looks very similar to the RJ-45. RJ-48C is used with shielded twisted pair used with T1 lines and it's also wired differently A UTP coupler is used for connecting UTP cables is typically used when running a longer cable the cable into the coupler and then add another successfully extended your UTP cable. The BNC connector is a common type of RF connector for Bayonet Neill Concelman, and it is used as well as audio. A BNC coupler is used to connect together to them. This particular coupler is a BNC If you wanted to join two fiber optic connectors, are used to a couple or join two of the same have to be the same. These are not to be confused are for joining two different connectors together so on. So here we have an example of a fiber Now this connector is called the F-type. Now on coaxial cables. These are primarily used The F-type hand tightens by an attached nut. This is a USB connector. The USB is very common make wireless network cards that plug into types, type A and type B. This is the IEEE 1394 connector, and this by its D shape. This type of connection is and is commonly associated with attaching and printers rather than being used as network types of video and multimedia devices. Now we're getting into fiber optic connectors. stands for mechanical transfer registered that uses a latched push-pull connection, packed density. The next fiber optic connector is called the bayonet type of lock, and is commonly used And our next connector is called the LC or optic connector. It uses a jack similar to used between floors in a building. And our last fiber optic connector is called a push-pull connector similar to audio and is also commonly used between floors in a The term serial refers to sending data one carry serial data transmission. And the most standard, which uses the common D connectors Now we're going to talk about the difference example we're going to use a group of ST fiber When fiber optic connectors make a connection is made is not perfect because of the small is at the point where the connectors join, the other connector. But at the point where will reflect back in the opposite direction there is signal loss. This is what happens back. So as technology progressed, a new connector and this is called the APC connector The difference the tip where the connection is made. With light source, but with the APC, with its angled towards the light source, it reflects back as a result, this greatly reduces the signal The term plenum refers to a space in a building this is usually between the drop ceiling and have plenum spaces, have air ducts encapsulating have plenum spaces where there is adequate buildings that don't have plenum spaces. And spaces must meet certain requirements. First, they must not produce any toxic fumes if they The IEEE 1901 - 2013 standard is called ethernet another channel to an HDMI cable for data So the connected devices that use this feature data at 100 Mbits per second ethernet. So cable, the HDMI cable will have another ability Sometimes there might be cases in your home in a certain part of the building, to be able And for whatever reason, network cabling or the building. Maybe because of difficulties or whatever. So another 1901 standard gave electrical system of the building. Ethernet networking over power. So for example let's able to access the internet. But for some any Wi-Fi signal to reach that computer. So power. So we're going to need a couple of adapters plug directly into a power outlet an RJ-45 connector. So one of them plugs into here, and then you would connect an ethernet and the other end into the powerline adapter's into the power outlet next to the modem or cable from the modem or router to the powerline building's electrical wiring to deliver networking the other computer can access the internet. Today there are many different cable standards categorized and named according to their speed, cable called 10 BASE-T. 10 stands for the of this cable is 10 Mbits per second. BASE for twisted pair cable. 10 BASE-2 which is of ethernet that uses coaxial cable as opposed a maximum speed of 10 Mbits per second. And cable standards include 100 BASE-T. And this, per second, which is 10 times faster than or higher and it also has a maximum length fast ethernet. 100 BASE-FX, just like 100 but the difference is that FX uses fiber-optic It has a maximum length of 400 meters in half mode. And moving on to the gigabit standards, of 1,000 Mbits per second. It uses category length of 100 meters. 1000 BASE-TX is similar was supposed to be an easier set up because for communication, whereas 1000 BASE-T uses never caught on and is known as a failure Moving on to the 10 gigabit standard, there Mbits per second or 10 gigabits per second. shielded and unshielded twisted pair cabling. using category 6A cabling. Or if it s using Next is 10G BASE-SR, where the SR stands for fiber optic specification and has a maximum 10G BASE-ER or extended reach. And this has mode fiber optics. 10G BASE-SW has the same specification as to operate over SONET which is synchronous Now a firewall can be either software or hardware. unauthorized access from entering a private comes in from the internet. It blocks unwanted it filters the incoming network data packets allowed to enter the network. In today s high-tech to keep their networks safe. And one way that into and out of a network is through its access of rules on what can access the network. It an example, here we have a very simplified been allowed or denied on this firewall. So network, the firewall will deny it because these other IP addresses are granted access Most firewalls come up with a default rule means is that the firewall will only allow specifically says that it will allow. So as an example, if your ACL only has one port number 80, which is web pages, then that pages on your network, but nothing else. You POP or IMAP email because the firewall has way to access those services, is you have access in the ACL. So for example, we ll go those ports access to the network. And now are able to go through the firewall. But everything Firewalls come in different types. And one this is a software firewall, this is the kind and it protects that computer only and nothing operating systems come pre-packaged with a You can turn the firewall on or off if you the firewall based on the application name always purchase a third party firewall and Another type of firewall is called a network-based here. A network-based firewall is a combination the network layer. It is placed between a a host-based firewall, where it only protects protects an entire network and it does this to the entire network, so that any harmful the computers. Firewalls also inspect traffic in a couple A stateful firewall monitors all the connections and keeps a record of it. It uses the connection and previous sessions, and factors that in It does a thorough job of protecting a network hand does not do a thorough job as a stateful access control list to allow or deny traffic. it only looks into the header portion of the of previous data packets. Content filtering is a technology that is it filters data based on their content and commonly used to filter email spam. And another type of filter is called signature viruses that have a well-known behavior pattern. behavior, and firewalls that use signature behavior and once it s spotted, it takes action Intrusion detection or prevention system is the internet and the firewall. And its job attacks. These attacks include viruses, malware, internal network. It monitors traffic flowing patterns, and if it finds any, it alerts the The terms 568A and 568B, refer to a set of is also known as the Telecommunications Industry on how twisted pair cables should be wired follow a certain order so that the network wired in this order: White/green, then green, and brown. And the 568B standard is wired orange, white/green, blue, white/blue, green, in the functionality as to which standard Whether you choose to use the A or B wiring using the same standard, then this is known is wired on both ends using the 568A standard. through from end to end, and this is the most computers to hubs, switches, or modems. Another cable is created when both ends of the cable For example one end is wired using the A standard, Crossover cables are used to connect two similar a crossover cable to connect two computers or switch. Crossover cables are also used A rollover cable is created when both ends These are used to connect a computer or a loopback table is for testing purposes. It to a network. And to make a loop-back cable, 6. Today there are five different categories need to know for the exam. The difference handle without having any crosstalk. The numbers of the twists that are applied to the wires. per second. And this is an old category that Category 5 has a maximum speed of 100 Mbits &amp; TX ethernet networks. Category 5e is an speeds of over 1,000 Mbits per second, and And category 6 also has a maximum speed of 1000 BASE-T ethernet networks, but it's more 5e. And it's also used on 10G BASE- T networks, second but only for cable lengths of less 6A, or augmented, and this has a maximum speed 10G BASE-T networks. And unlike category 6, Unshielded twisted pair is by far the most consists of 4 pairs of unshielded wires twisted prevent electromagnetic interference or crosstalk. area networks. Now shielded twisted pair is very similar has a foil shield that covers the wires. This electromagnetic interference leaking into This is a coaxial cable. This is used today computer with broadband internet connection. such as a bus network. Now there are two common types of coaxial made for long distances and is commonly used And the second type is RG-59, and this is for high definition and high quality video. Now we're getting into fiber optic cables, cable and a light source. Fiber optic cable a result it is very fast and it can span for modes in fiber optics: single- mode fiber a fiber optic cable that allows light to enter So when this type of transmission of light distances. Now this is multimode fiber. The is that in multimode, light travels in multiple And unlike single-mode fiber, multimode fiber Sometimes you may need to convert different running different types of media, such as well then you can convert and connect all Media converters allow you to convert to different and multimode fiber to ethernet, fiber to fiber and so on. Another standard is called DOCSIS, which stands And those of you who have broadband cable this is your typical DOCSIS cable modem. The data signals, including internet, video, and speeds of 10 gigabit downstream and 1 gigabit A hub is a device that has multiple ports devices. A hub is considered not to be intelligent any intelligence as to where data is supposed one of the ports, it is copied to all other that data packet. There are also two different is a passive hub does not require power, but Now a switch is very similar to a hub. It's accepts ethernet connections from network A switch can actually learn the physical addresses it stores these addresses in a table. So when only to the intended destination port. That's So as a result, switches are far more preferred traffic on the network. Regular switches operate at layer 2 of the in a later lesson, but there are other types of the OSI model. And one of these is called operate at layer 2 and layer 3 of the OSI similar to a router. And another type of switch is called a content layers 4 through 7 of the OSI model. This and advanced filtering and these switches Networking devices need electrical power to electrical port for a power plug. But some port. It s not that they don't need electrical and data from the same cable, which is through known as POE, which stands for power over Some networks are designed to be more fault switches are installed in case a switch does can bypass a failed switch and use the others problem can happen with this setup, and that loops can happen when there are multiple active happens, it can slow down the network because the spanning tree protocol was created. The and prevents unnecessary traffic loops in the switches to talk to each other to find Bridges are used to divide a network into we have a network and this network is segmented all the broadcast traffic from two segments And this causes unnecessary traffic. So that a bridge to this network, it will reduce any by filtering the data based on their MAC address. it meets the required MAC address of the destination. MAC addresses of the NICs that are connected crossing over if it fails to meet this requirement. Now a router does exactly what its name implies. data from one network to another based on from the router, the router inspects the packet its own network or if it's meant for another data packet is meant for its own network, its own network, it sends it off to another for a network. Now let's go ahead and demonstrate this. Here And we ll refer to this one as the red network, computers. And over here you're going to have various colors, and they are going to be entering The router is only going to accept the red that are intended for this network. So all greens, etc., will be rejected by his router Now this is a very simplified illustration get the idea. Now here is an expanded view of routers over by their different colors, and each network send data. Notice that when a computer wants network, the data packet never leaves their happen because the router knows what belongs other hand, when a computer wants to send the router allows it. For example, notice yellow, blue, and green data packets pass The yellow packet goes to the yellow network, on. And the same goes for all the other networks. A gateway can be defined as a device that networks with different or incompatible communication the data, it only changes the format of the is showing how a gateway is transforming a The circular pattern can represent one network, into a wave pattern, which represents a different Now this is a CSU/DSU. Now this is a device is it converts data from a local area network because the data formats between a LAN and A network interface card or NIC, is used to a circuit board with a network adapter that is to convert incoming serial data into parallel it. A NIC provides a constant dedicated connection identifier, called a MAC address. A transceiver is a device that has both a The term applies to wireless communication It's basically a term used for any device the data to another location. A wireless access point is basically a wireless to a wired network and relays data between for communication purposes. In this illustration a network so that the wireless laptop can A dial-up modem is a device that allows a lines. The data coming in from the telephone is all digital. So when the analog data comes is to convert it into a digital form so the what a modem does, it converts analog data most modems today is 56 kbps. The IEEE is an international organization to electricity. And they are responsible for 802 project. And one of these standards is technology is becoming more and more popular. There are the A, B, G, N, and AC standards. and release year for each one. Starting with which came out in 1999. And the latest standard in 2014. Infrared is a technology that was developed Association. The term infrared actually means data is transmitted in rays of light, rather now utilize this technology to transmit and drawbacks of infrared, is that it requires in between the two infrared devices, the communication work in direct sunlight. If this happens the will be blocked. Bluetooth is a short-range radio that provides between devices such as laptops, cell phones, and is capable of transmitting both voice has a transfer speed of 24 Mbits per second meters. Here is how you get the MAC address of a Windows address is an identifier that every network a network. So no two devices anywhere in the up of a 6 byte hexadecimal number that is The MAC address can contain any number and F. The MAC address is broken up into two parts. the manufacturer of the NIC, for example Linksys, a unique number from the manufacturer that In order for network communication to take and that's why the OSI model was developed. software in one computer, moves through a and it does this by breaking down this huge layers, giving control of the data being sent are numbered from 1 to 7, starting from the link, network, transport, session, presentation, This illustration shows how data flows through communicate, the data flows down the OSI model media, such as the internet, it flows back The top layer of the OSI model is the application deals with applications. The purpose of this applications. It supports application protocols data still resembles something that you can The presentation layer is where data is first a network. Data is compressed or decompressed, sometimes referred to as the translation layer. The session layer controls the dialogue during terminates the connections between local and as a traffic cop, because it directs network The transport layer provides the transfer for resending any packets that do not receive that the data packets were received by the the packets are received. The network layer is responsible for routing It fragments and reassembles the packets and destination. The data link layer is responsible for sending encoded and decoded into bits. It handles it's also divided into two sublayers: the link control layer. The bottom of the OSI model is the physical standards and physical characteristics of cables, voltages, etc. This layer defines An IP address is a numeric address. It's an Every device has to have an IP address for of two parts, the first part is the network There are also two types of IP addresses. called IP version 4. And the second type is IP version 4 is the current version of IP as four numbers separated by periods. Each is called an octet. The number range in each produce over 4 billion unique addresses. IPv4 is made up of 4 sets of 8 binary bits. in each octet are represented by a number. a value of 128, then 64, then 32, and so on, can be either a 1 or a 0. If the number is If the number is a 0, then the number that the 1s and the 0s in the octet, you can come So for example the first octet in this IP out of 66? First you look at the octet chart, would add up to the total of 66. So you would have 64, so we need 2 more. So let s put a the numbers that we have 1s underneath them, bits would be 0s because we don't need to So this number here is the binary bit version So let's do the next number which is 94. So if we were to add all the numbers that we of 94. And since we don't want to count any the rest. So the next number is 29. So let s put a 1 the numbers up, you get 29. And our last number is 13. So let's select 13. When the internet was first developed, programmers thought that IPv4, which produced over four were wrong, IPv6 is the next generation of IPv4 and IPv6 is the length of the address. whereas IPv6 is a 128 bit hexadecimal address. in the address. So with this type of address, IP addresses. That's the number 340 with 36 IPv6 is more than enough for the foreseeable So as stated before, IPv6 is a 128 bit hexadecimal with the 8 sets separated by colons, as you converted an IPv4 address to a binary number, a hexadecimal address. In an IPv6 IP address, So we have to convert 4 bits at a time to So starting from the beginning, we convert against our 4 bit chart which includes an that we have ones underneath them, you'll character in this IPv6 address. So let's do the next 4 bits and put those the numbers that we have ones underneath them, we get 6. in this IP address. So let's do our next set of 4 bits, and if them, we get a total of 13. But the problem cannot use a double digit number to represent format, double digit numbers have to be represented F. So in this case we have to use another higher. So in this chart up here, if the sum if the sum was 11, then we would use a B. the third character in our binary number, So in our last example, let's do the fourth 11. So we have a double-digit character again, a single character alphabet. So if we look So the first 16 bits of this binary IPv6 address, As stated previously, an IP address has two and the remaining is designated for the host. either the network or the host, is where the that resembles an IP address. It reveals how network by masking the network portion of first two octets are 255. So if we were to first two octets would be all 1s, because it will equal 255. Now let's go ahead and the way to tell which portion of this IP address mask binary digit is 1, it will indicate the network. So we'll cross out all the digits in the subnet mask, and when you do this it the network portion, and the remaining is Here is a chart of the default subnet masks the change of the locations of the network memorize these default subnet mask classes. IP addresses are assigned to different organizations five classes. But for the exam you only need B, and class C, and you can tell by the number belongs to. So a Class A IP range is from on 126 networks. This class is mainly given amount of IP addresses it can give out. And a Class B IP range is from 128 - 191, networks. This class is given to medium-sized And a Class C IP range is from 192 - 223. networks. And this class is given to small memorize the default subnet masks for each Now if you noticed we skipped over the 127 be used for a network, because the number functions. Public IP addresses are publicly registered if you have a public IP address, you have are different. A private IP is not publicly the internet with a private IP. So for example need 10 public IP addresses so your employees your ISP and ask them for these additional and unnecessary. So that's where private IP you can create these ten private IP addresses from your ISP. These ten private IPs would so your employees can have access to the internet. prevent having a shortage of public IP addresses. addressing to prevent a shortage of public Private IP addresses are typically used on businesses. And these private IP ranges have 3 classes. with the number 172. And class C starts with The word subnet is short for subnetwork. Which Subnetting is basically breaking down a large It's mainly done to make your network more have a company with 3,000 employees and your with a default subnet mask. So as you know will allow you approximately 65,000 IPs for of your employees in one large network, and be fine. But if you had a fairly large business, could be a problem because of traffic issues word to occur, it'll be very hard to pinpoint what if your business was scattered into three would also be a problem. So a better way would ones or subnets. Subnetting is basically done by changing the bits that were designated for hosts and using B subnet mask is 255.255.0.0. The first two are designated for hosts. So let's say we smaller ones. The formula we would use is of bits we need to borrow from the host portion subnet mask that is equal to at least 3 subnets So if we put 2 in the place of n, then 2 times to work because we need at least 3 subnets. So 2 times 2 times 2 equals 8 and 8 -2 would 6 subnets. Which will be fine because we need So our new custom subnet mask is 255.255.224.0 And now our network is broken down into 3 Every computer on a network has to have an there are two ways that a computer can be by using a dynamic IP, or a static IP. A dynamic automatically from a DHCP server. DHCP stands DHCP server automatically assigns a computer IP address, it can also assign a subnet mask, Here we have the TCP/IP properties window machine. And as you can see this computer So when you choose this option and press OK, IP address. Then the DHCP server will assign to the computer. Dynamic IP addressing is a network a lot easier. You can also assign a computer with an IP IP. A static IP is where a user manually assigns no need for a DHCP server. And this kind of because unlike dynamic addressing, where the IP only changes if a user decides to. When a computer is set to automatically obtain a DHCP server. But what happens if this computer happens if a DHCP server goes down or if the happens then the computers that are running itself will assign its own IP address. This And this type of self-assigned addressing private IP address assignment. Computers running can still be able to communicate with other self-assigned IP addresses. If a DHCP server its IP address to one that's obtained from A DHCP server from its scope. A scope is a group and a consecutive gets their IP address from a DHCP server. addresses from a DHCP service that's built this IP address and ends with this IP address. or decreasing the range. If you wanted a computer on your network to can create a reservation on the DHCP server. or device, identified by its MAC address, that computer accesses the DHCP server. So reservation from my computer, the DHCP service and will always give me this specific IP address. computers. They are typically given to special and servers that require using the same IP When computers obtain an IP address from a address as a lease. So the computer doesn't a lease, and a lease is the amount of time lease duration could be a day or more depending for example if I do an ipconfig /all in a that the DHCP service on my router has assigned 1 day. Typically a DHCP server will automatically have to do anything or even notice that the continue on like normal and go about your As stated previously, when a computer needs to a DHCP server. And if a DHCP server is words if they are using the same IP address the request and assign the computer an IP server are not on the same subnet, in other settings, then the DHCP server will not receive their own subnet. So that's where a DHCP relay comes in. A DHCP on a router that will relay a DHCP broadcast will broadcast a request for an IP address the broadcast, it will forward the broadcast will send the IP address back to the computer. Transmission control protocol is one of the this is a connection oriented protocol, which a session between two computers that are communicating. The first step is that a computer will send computer will send back an acknowledgement the message. And finally the sender computer to the receiver. And once this has taken place, to remember about TCP, is that it guarantees goes astray and doesn't arrive, then TCP will Now UDP is very similar to TCP. UDP is also difference is that your UDP is connectionless. and does not guarantee data delivery. So when care if the data is received at the other and forget protocol, because it sends data it, as this demonstration will show. Another point to remember, is that because guaranteeing data delivery, UDP is faster FTP stands for file transfer protocol, and by web users to upload and download files if a user wanted to make their files available have to do is simply upload their files to them. Now there are a few ways to transfer files browser or you can use special FTP software. connection oriented protocol that uses TCP TFTP stands for the trivial file transfer protocol. It is not used to transfer files used for transferring files within the same during the transfer. And unlike FTP that uses a connectionless protocol that uses UDP as Now Secure FTP is just like FTP, except that secure FTP is actually encrypted using secure data like passwords are sent in clear text. SMTP stands for simple mail transfer protocol. protocol that is used to send email. A good acronym SMTP, and translating that to sending and as you know by now, it is connection oriented. destination, you'll get that familiar mail you that the email you sent failed. Where SMTP is used for sending email, POP3 email. Whenever an email arrives at your mail protocol and download it to your computer. all it does is grab the email from the mail It does not sync any email or folders from does, which we ll talk about next, it strictly email application using POP3 retrieves the from the mail server, unless you specify in mail server. POP3 is commonly used with email IMAP4 is another protocol that is used for because they are both used for retrieving features. With IMAP4 you can access and manage So if you want to read your email and keep you to do just that. And unlike POP3, IMAP4 the mail server with your computer. And IMAP4 HTTP stands for hypertext transfer protocol. protocol in the world today. HTTP is the protocol internet. So when you type in a web address, HTTP is added at the beginning of the URL, HTTP to retrieve this web page. In standard HTTP, all information is sent okay if you were just browsing regular web you had to enter sensitive data, such as passwords be a problem as far as security. HTTPS stands this is HTTP with a security feature. HTTPS by HTTP. So for example, if you wanted to go to your would notice that an S will be added to the you are now using HTTPS and have entered a to be passed, and that data needs to be protected. be email servers or e-commerce websites. Telnet is a terminal emulation program that tool that runs on your computer and it will it only sends commands and not graphics, it's secure. All commands are sent in clear text. devices within a local network and not on Now SSH or secure shell is a better alternative from being attacked or stolen as it's being if you were sending something sensitive, like be listening and steal the data. And that acts like a secure tunnel that forms around threats. ARP stands for address resolution protocol, IP addresses to MAC addresses. Whenever a computer on the network, it needs the MAC let's say a computer wants to communicate its internal list called an ARP cache to see has a matching MAC address in its table. Now message out on the network asking which computer has the matching IP address will respond back for. Then the original computer will ask for it the communication it will take place between of this. Now this is called RARP, which stands for you might have guessed this is just the opposite to IP addresses. NTP stands for network time protocol, and to synchronize the clocks of computers with protocol runs on each computer and it sends sure the time is in sync. SCP stands for secure copy protocol and this data as it's being transferred over a network. And this is called simple network management network management. It's basically used for such as routers, printers, and servers. When data is sent over the internet to your and your computer accepts this data using 2 protocols, TCP and UDP. Now a port is a logical connection that is And these ports have a unique number that to 65535, but for the exam you only need to the ports that you need to know for the exam. used every single day, such as port 80, which Another one is port 443, which is used for a login and password, and another common one from an email application such as Microsoft DNS stands for domain name system. Now this the world of networking, computers don't go So if you type in a web address in your web number, because all computers know are numbers. in your web browser, the DNS server will search address for that domain name, and when it to the IP address of a yahoo web server. so you want to find a phone number, you don't name first, then it will give you the number. Now WINS stands for windows internet name This service is similar to DNS, and as you but WINS resolves netbios names or computer communicate with another computer on the same name and then the WINS server would resolve This is called Network Address Translation used in routers, and this is used to translate addresses. So for example, here we have a IP addresses internally. Over here we have this router is running the NAT service. If over the internet, it needs to translate its IP address. And this goes both ways. If a with a computer on this private network, then to the private IP address for that computer. Another version of network address translation translation. Now this translates IP addresses private network is issued not only a unique port number. This is done so that external computer on the private network it wants to this network wanted to communicate with a along with its port number would be translated SNAT stands for a static network address translation. NAT translates a private network s IP addresses here, these private IP addresses will be translated versa. So what SNAT does is that it can link permanently. And this is useful when a computer the network. For example if one of these devices Now a proxy service is similar to your web your web browser will store that web page to look at that web page again, your browser have to download the contents of that web in your computer. And a proxy server does uses a proxy server, whenever a user wants retrieve the web page from the internet on that web page into a centralized cached database. goes to a web page that has been stored in not have to go out on the internet to retrieve its database and send it to the user. So a since web page retrieval is much faster. Another a proxy server reduces the need to go out because it reports what web pages are retrieved Remote desktop protocol is a technology from RDP is based on Microsoft terminal services, the user can simply type in an IP address, the user can have the remote computer s desktop When you have a lot of computers on a network for collisions is present, and when you have that's why they developed a protocol called access collision detection. And this is the this method works by each computer first sensing its data, therefore avoiding any collisions. data at the same time, a collision will happen, wait a random amount of time and retries to CSMA/CA stands for carrier sense multiple is the access method used for carrier transmission to the CSMA/CD, except that when a computer a small data packet to make sure that the data. If the packet is successfully transmitted, main data. The term broadcast refers to when there was is being received by multiple receivers. For wireless signal and be picked up by multiple The difference between unicast and multicast, sent to a single destination. And with multicast, at the same time. For the Network+ exam there are a few routing need to know, and one of them is called a a fake or virtual interface that is created it's virtual, and this virtual interface is the purpose of a loopback interface is for an example, let's assign an IP address to in a terminal window, and by the way you don't you just need to know that for the exam that So back to our terminal and while we are in then loopback0, then an IP address of our done. A routing table is a file that contains a path a data packet takes to its destination. So as a data packet arrives at the router, out where to forward the data packet along So a basic routing table contains a network final destination. A subnet mask, which determines network portion. A gateway, which tells the be forwarded to. The interface which is the the data. Next hop, which is the IP address a metric, and this determines the best route If you were traveling to a certain destination most likely you will need directions or a of networking, it works the same way. In order its destination, it needs a map to determine this is by using routing protocols. Routing network status and map out the best path for Now there are three different types of routing state, and hybrid. Distance vector protocols factor in distance And a hop refers to how many routers a data So for example, for data to travel between three hops. One, two, and three. And one of the distance vector protocols is protocol. RIP is the oldest routing protocol. information to other routers every 30 seconds changed or not. So as a result of this, as unnecessary traffic on a network. So the developers of excessive broadcast traffic that RIP version And another distance vector routing protocol protocol. And this is the standard routing directions that are based on paths and policies. In addition to distance vector protocols, routing protocol that is used by routers to the best path on a network. Two examples of OSPF stands for open shortest path first, to determine the correct route for data packets information from other routers using IP, and And another link state protocol is called to intermediate system. And in this system that the routers are organized into groups. is within these domains. And unlike OSPF, CLNS instead, which is a connectionless network And another type of routing protocol is called EIGRP, which stands for enhanced interior of distance vector and link state protocols, it has less overhead, and it can support many SIP stands for session initiation protocol. communication sessions over the Internet. that is used for voice communications over such as instant messaging and conferencing. in the OSI model. RTP stands for real-time transport protocol, for transporting real-time data such as streaming so it doesn't guarantee data delivery. RTP transport control protocol, and this enables delivered. And lastly RTP can be used to send When data is sent across a network, it is divided into smaller pieces or data packets, data packets are sent using two different In packet switching, the data packets take once all the data packets their destination, This method of communication is also known packet switching technology. Now circuit switching also sends data packets which sends data on different routes, circuit all the data is sent along the same dedicated would be telephone lines. ISDN stands for integrated services digital for digital transmission over ordinary telephone install ISDN modems. This was a significant because a standard modem sends data at a maximum Kbps. But ISDN never really caught on, because T1 lines are probably the most commonly used a dedicated connection that supports data consists of 24 individual channels that each can carry data or voice traffic. A T3 line is a high-speed internet connection It consists of 672 individual channels, and lines are mainly used by internet service of the internet. An E1 line is similar to is used in Europe for digital transmission. of 32 channels that carry 64 Kbps of data. And an E3 line is the European equivalent second, and has fewer channels than a T3 line. OCx stands for optical carrier. These are that can be carried on SONET, which stands technology that delivers voice, data, and by multiples of 51.84 Mbits per second. These levels are shown on the following table, the level X 51.84. DSL stands for digital subscriber line. And by homes and businesses to access broadband is that they can carry both voice and data uses common telephone lines to carry its data. faster than your regular dial-up modems. There are a few different forms of DSL, and digital subscriber line, and this is called faster than the upload speed. This type of cheapest form of DSL. SDSL stands for symmetric digital subscriber and upload speeds are the same. This type And VDSL stands for very high bit DSL, and speeds of over 50 Mbits per second over a it's only made for short distances. For long Another popular technology that is used to is by far becoming the technology of choice a cable modem with an attached coaxial cable, provider. Like DSL, cable is very fast, with provided by the same provider that provides POTS/PSTN stands for plain old telephone service these are just your plain old telephone lines. people who use the internet because of their internet such as broadband, you will never which is the speed of a standard dial-up modem. and that is that they are basically everywhere Satellite communication is pretty expensive are provided, like phones, cable, or DSL. of these other options, satellite is rarely throughout the years, with speeds maxing out of that in upload speeds. Another method of connecting to the internet are portable devices that use cellular networks So if there are wireless devices within 30 it and then they will have access to the internet. either be a free-standing device like you into a smartphone. And mobile hotspots are as Verizon, AT&amp;T, T-Mobile, and Sprint. Another broadband internet technology is called where it covers your home, WiMAX covers much network that can cover entire cities or countries. in different geographical locations, and these provider typically with a T3 line. Each Tower tower does. And to pick up the transmission home or computer to receive the signal, and internet. WiMAX does have the potential of can provide internet access to places where Metro ethernet is simply a metropolitan area standards. And it s basically used to connect network, such as the internet, using ethernet. to use because it doesn't require any specialized technologies require. It only uses equipment by far the most common internet technology what technology their internet service provider is that on both ends, it's using ethernet The word PAN stands for personal area network. on a personal level. It's a small network like mobile phones, PDAs, and laptops to each used for transferring small files, such as so on. Now a LAN stands for local area network. And such as computers, servers, and printers that In other words, in close proximity to each LAN where two or more computers are connected A MAN stands for metropolitan area network. s a network that spans over several buildings using a high speed connection such as fiber And finally there s the wide area network It s a network that spans over a large geographical the entire globe. A good example of a wide Stands for supervisory control and data acquisition. and monitoring equipment that is used in industrial plants, or refineries. SCADA communicates are out in these industrial facilities and to PLCs or programmable logic controllers sends it to the SCADA computers to be analyzed. how to reduce waste, or how to improve efficiency, often referred to as ICS which stands for term that encompasses SCADA systems. Cell phones also access the internet and make a GSM and CDMA. GSM stands for global system that is being used around the world, including it's widely used in Europe. GSM works by changing is assigned a time slot. Then as the data time slot of data puts the call back together. access is another radio technology that is that is used by major carriers such as Verizon with a unique key. 4G LTE which stands for 4th generation long by the 3rd generation partnership project. speed available with speeds of over 100 Mbits the speed of 3G or 3rd generation. 3G technology Mbits per second. And prior to 3G was Edge GSM evolution. Edge is a painfully slow technology a regular dial-up modem with speeds starting Remote access service is a technology that a remote location, for example from your home would be available on a remote network to was originally developed by Microsoft and software and it works with major network protocols SLIP stands for serial line internet protocol. two computers using a serial connection such used anymore because it's not a secure protocol. including sensitive data like passwords in is a major issue in today's world. SLIP also limited to using only the TCP/IP protocol. these issues and that protocol was PPP. PPP stands for point-to-point protocol. And that is used today. It was developed to replace and protocol support. And like SLIP, this between two computers using a serial connection this is a secure protocol. Most internet service who want to access the internet using a dial-up Point-to-point protocol over ethernet is exactly PPP over ethernet. It works by encapsulating use this protocol have a DSL, broadband, or also used for connecting multiple users on a common device. This is called point-to-point tunneling protocol. private networks or VPNs. In fact this is This ensures that the transfer of data between a secure tunnel between the two points. GRE or generic route encapsulation is a protocol protocol in creation of a VPN network. GRE It is used to encapsulate the data in a secure A VPN is a virtual private network. It's a such as the internet, to establish a remote sent and decrypted when received. It provides internet. Now the way a VPN is created and managed is is a device that creates the VPN connections the VPN computers and devices. It also authenticates assigns tunnel IP addresses to users. However manage and create VPNs. They are mainly used of VPN connections and they need a device If an organization is only going to use a can just use the VPN software that is built a VPN concentrator. Now there are 3 different types of VPN connections. is when an organization has two offices in want those offices to be networked and share So they would just need to set up a site-to-site data as it goes through the internet and then private network. Creating a site-to-site VPN line at a much cheaper cost. Another type of VPN connection is called host with your computer and you need to connect you can access files, then you would need generally this type of connection doesn't at home to establish this type of connection. operating system to connect to your office made then you can access your office s network hardware would be on the office or the site And lastly there is the host to host VPN connection. a VPN connection between two computers over any additional VPN hardware at either end. to create a simple host-to-host VPN connection. Authentication is confirming something that is the process of verifying the identity of the world of networking there are several So the first protocol we're going to discuss Now this is a very simple authentication protocol. with just about everything. But the downside data like usernames and passwords are sent Challenge handshake authentication protocol it encrypts usernames and passwords. This or challenging the client to validate Itself connection has been made, the server sends responds by using a one-way hash function response against its own calculation, and is passed. Now MS-CHAP is Microsoft's version of CHAP. MS-CHAP and MS-CHAP 2. MS-CHAP is basically But MS-CHAP 2 offers mutual authentication. So it's more secure. Now radius is a protocol that enables a single all authentication. It allows a company to Users log into the radius server and that authenticating. Kerberos is an authentication protocol that by using tickets. In order for a client to itself with the Kerberos server. Then after which then gives the client access to the And EAP stands for extensible authentication It s a general protocol that supports many one that is associated with is smart cards. If you re already a network administrator, used is the wire crimper. And this tool is It crimps adapters such as the RJ-45 to twisted RJ-45 the crimper, give it a squeeze, and the cable A punch down tool is a tool that resembles connect or punch wires to a punch-down block. Another network tool is a media tester. So wire to make sure it's wired correctly. So you connect both ends of the cable into the tester, you. The plastic shielding around a network cable And this is done by using a cable stripper. then the outer plastic shielding is removed. A time-domain reflector is a piece of electronic twisted pair and coaxial cable. This test cable and then the signal is reflected back signal and from there is able to pinpoint include conductors, loose connectors, shorts, An optical time-domain reflector or OTDR does fiber optic cable. Instead of transmitting to detect problems. A multimeter is a device that is used to test is used for many different trades. It can continuity, just to name a versions. A lot of telephone technicians carry a piece set is a device that resembles a telephone lines. The technician will hook up the device, to hear a conversation to determine if there simple like just detecting if there is a dial A voltage event recorder is a device that of electrical power. The tool is inserted sags, swells, and variations in frequency. a computer. And the data about the power quality And this tool is called a tone generator. Now this tool is used for locating cables if you suspect that you have a bad cable that that group was stretched over a long distance, end of the cable from the other. So you just connect the tool at one end, and cable, where the other part of the tool would A protocol analyzer is also known as a packet tool, and this is used to troubleshoot and data packets, broadcasts, and so on. It can and monitor networking issues, so a technician protocol analyzer is called Wireshark, and A virus is a harmful program that is written of the time users do not know that they have are transferred from the internet such as If a computer virus is not detected and removed computers and servers in a network. So that's antivirus software. Antivirus software is It s a software program that scans for viruses and destroys them before any damage can be always keep your antivirus software updated. over the internet. In order to maintain optimum your computers on your network on a regular When working on a computer it's important that could be caused by ESD which stands for two objects of the opposite charge such as with each other. And when this happens a sudden objects. And this sudden charge of electricity this from happening it's important to wear strap it can stop the buildup of static electricity end of the ESD strap fits around your wrist end can be either attached to the ground pin case of the computer. Another thing you can do to protect against typically placed on a desk where assembly charge from the components that are placed ESD mat is also connected to a ground. When dealing with our environment it's important certain pieces of equipment so that it doesn't And computer-related equipment is no exception. chemicals such as mercury that is harmful must be disposed of in a proper way. And if a datasheet you can find called the MSDS which this will tell you the proper way to dispose would typically be offered by the manufacturer EPA. As a computer technician it's always important kind of repair work. And if you put certain a lot of time, money, and potential physical off the power and unplug the power cable before be your first step before doing anything. prevent damage to the computer. Another precaution that you might be wearing such as rings, bracelets, conduct electricity. Another tip is to always and how to use it properly in case a fire C fire extinguisher is what you need because uses a dry chemical powder to extinguish the Another safety tip is cable management. Maintaining any job and tripping hazards is a vital part walkways, you could be in a high risk for fix this is to simply relocate any cables else. Or if by some reason this can't be done, manager cover which neatly organizes the cables and high traffic walking areas. And another tip is proper lifting. So if you that you lift the object properly to avoid a heavy object. You always use your legs. apart, squat down, maintain good posture by slowly lift by straightening out your legs The traditional way a business operates is run different services according to what the use a server to run their database, another another server would be used to run their also could be running different operating could be running Solaris, and the other one running a server environment like this can for the server hardware, but you have to pay maintenance of the equipment. But there is a new trend that is happening And virtualization is basically consolidating different operating systems and applications, in a virtual environment. So now this one like databases, web services, and email, all only the applications but also run the different interact with a virtual server would interact physical servers. They won't be able to tell saves money. Not only does it save money on and management. In addition to virtual servers there are other And a virtual switch is not a physical switch in a virtual environment. So for example, to be able to network and communicate to your switch to do that. And once the switch is communicate with each other. And there is also a virtual router. And a router. It can route data packets between to what the business needs are. And lastly there is a virtual firewall which network traffic and monitor that traffic for firewall does. Now the term cloud computing refers to data servers rather than being on your local computer. these remote servers are accessed and run on your local computer, it's on the cloud. and as an example, we ll use email. So at email, you would have your own physical email operating system, and email software like to use email. But the problem is that if anything software problem or if the operating system for fixing the problem. Not to mention any running. But now you have the option of eliminating server and have a company host all your email for example, Hotmail and Gmail. But email are also other services such as productivity Now there are three different types of cloud or IAAS, platform-as-a-service or PAAS, and vary in control and flexibility. So it's up needs. So the first one is infrastructure-as-a-service. to let the third party vendor manage a portion hardware portion. The third party vendor will and the networking portion. You on the other portion, such as the applications, data, operating of IAAS would be a web service company like The next one is called platform-as-a-service. to manage a portion of your business but the third party vendor not only manages the hardware but they also manage the operating system, for the applications and the data. And a good which is a cloud computing platform from Microsoft. And lastly there's software-as-a-service or cloud service so far. All the applications internet. There is no software to install just simply access and run the application cloud service via the internet. So the third networking, operating system, and storage. If you want to store data in a centralized of your other devices on your network, you device. A network attached storage device for storing data. And it doesn't do anything will have multiple hard drives in a RAID configuration that directly attaches to a switch or router And then once it's on the network it can be laptops, and tablets, through a shared folder. Now a SAN or a storage area network is a special access to large amounts of data. And this servers that access this data as if it was systems recognize a SAN. It s recognized as shared drive like on a NAS. SANs are independent by a single server. In fact, multiple servers available to all the servers simultaneously. SANs are also easily expandable and they are among several disk arrays. So if a disk array data will be stored in multiple areas. And network and that's because in a SAN all the which is a standard for SAN that has network And as an alternative to using fiber channel small computer system interface which is a requests over standard TCP/IP. A 66 block is a punch down block where wires a punch down tool and then they are punched outdated and they are not used much anymore. A modern day punch down block is called a it can support higher frequencies and use is needed for category 5e UTP cable. A patch panel is a panel that has multiple outgoing patch cables in a local area network. of arranging or rearranging circuits if necessary. has several UTP patch cables attached. The demarc or demarcation is the point where the service provider s network equipment. for their equipment ends and where the customer's And if the demarc needs to be extended further is known as a demarc extension. A smart jack is also known as a network interface demarcation point and its job is to terminate s building. In addition, smart jacks are used issues. They also have LEDs that indicate The term cross-connect refers to points in together. So a vertical cross-connect is the between floors. And a horizontal cross-connect cable closets to wall outlets. 25 pair is a cable that has 25 pairs of smaller identify the individual conductors. Each pair 25 different 2- color combinations. And 100 pair has 100 pairs of wires inside. compared to 25 pair. Each pair of wires are 2-color combinations. MDF stands for main distribution frame. And as a distributing point for all the wiring a building connect to the MDF and from there the circuit. There is also the intermediate distribution frames that are located in various locations to distribute wires to the main distribution VLAN stands for virtual LAN. A VLAN is a logical regardless of the physicalities of their location. office building and you have different departments suppose you wanted to separate the network from each other. So that the accounting department doesn't see any traffic from accounting, and physically move the computers to their proper a router. But there is an easier way to accomplish By installing a VLAN switch you can logically network broadcast traffic. So now the three by the other departments, they only see their can be created. They can be created by ports using the MAC addresses of the computers. An intranet is a private network that belongs website that only the employees of that organization about the company, for example company sales, also behind a firewall, so no one outside Now an extranet is similar to an intranet an organization. But an extranet is different from outside the organization on a restricted company B contains a private network that Now suppose company A is a business partner information. So what happens is that company to effectively do business. A bandwidth shaper is used to control network download limits on less important data such important data like business needs and make limits. And the term traffic shaping is similar applications and guarantees bandwidth for A load balancer is a piece of hardware or data activity across a network so that no with the workload. For example, here we have more network activity than the other server. so that both servers are sharing the network Qos stands for quality of service. And in used to provide a guarantee of data delivery Port blocking is one of the ways to provide on the firewall, and as a network administrator or closed, depending upon the application. 21, HTTP uses port 80, and incoming email if these services are to function. But what ports? For example, port 80 and port 110. would not be able to receive any web pages 21 open, then FTP functions normally. So port safe. But it can also cause problems if you And high availability is a term that is used operation. In order to keep a network in constant has power. But unfortunately in our world can happen for several reasons such as storms in network operation from a loss of power power supply. It s a battery backup that supplies were to happen. So as an example, if we were the computer will remain on because it's connected power from the UPS. In addition to supplying and spikes. Link redundancy is having the ability to have the event of a failure. So for example, if can have an ISDN line as a backup if the broadband secondary network card by having one as a the primary card were to fail, the secondary still have a continuous connection. There's also backup services. And this could your network in constant operation. For example, server with the exact configuration as the being used, but its data is constantly being were to happen to the primary server, the And another type of backup service would be when a company has a group of servers used this setup the servers would share the workload of setup works best if the servers were in kind of natural disaster were to happen at servers. Fault tolerance can be defined as the prevention But in the event that fault tolerance fails, Disaster recovery is the process of rebuilding happened, such as data loss. So even if we need to back up our data. There are three different types of data backups. In a full backup all the data is simply copied have guessed, this is the simplest form of if you ever need to restore the data, then But let s say that your organization has a backup daily would not be efficient, because that it takes the longest to perform. Which Now in an incremental backup, the only data changed since the last full or incremental a company that does a full backup on the weekend, Friday. The only data that is copied to tape, last incremental backup. Which is each weekday. will only copy Tuesday s data, and Wednesday So as you can see on this illustration, each changed for that weekday. data has been changed is by what's called have been changed since the last full backup is done. When you have to restore an incremental backup with the incremental backups and you have as you back them up. So for example, here of incremental backups. We'll go ahead and we'll restore the incrementals from Monday we have a full restore of our data for that In a differential backup the data that is since the last full backup. So going back on the weekend and does differential backups database each weekday the differential backup since the last weekend full backup. So Monday Mondays and Tuesday's data, Wednesday will and so on. So as you can see on this illustration their own day but also from the previous days done on the weekend. The differential backup also uses the archive differential backup is done it does not clear backup if you ever needed to restore the data the last full backup and the last differential Offsite storage is where you can backup your location for safety purposes. So for example, you chose to have an offsite storage database were to happen in Miami, let s say for example you would still have a copy of all your data Now a hot spare is defined as equipment that off the power. So for example, if you had drives and if a hard drive were to fail, you would just simply remove the hard drive and is still on. Now a cold spare is similar to a hot spare. power first in order to replace that piece IPsec is a set of protocols for security at the data when communication is happening between both sender and receiver must share a public data that is being communicated as it travels I cannot be red or tampered with. In addition to make sure the data is received exactly modes: transport and tunnel. In transport packet is encrypted. But in tunnel mode the Layer 2 tunneling protocol is a combination tunneling protocol. And this protocol authenticates authenticates both the computer and the user not tampered with during the authentication attack. SSL or secure socket layer is the protocol SSL uses public-key encryption to secure data for example, if you were to go to an e-commerce added to http which indicates that you are provides protection in three ways: it authenticates data. Transport layer security is the latest industry to SSL and it's based on the same specifications. client, and encrypts the data. And TLS is the TLS record protocol which provides connection private and reliable. And the second layer server and client to authenticate each other cryptographic keys before data is sent out. and more secure. And our last security protocol is 802.1x. wireless networks. And it controls network the port is opened, and if the authentication Next we're going to talk about SOHO routers router. And these are your common inexpensive These are fairly easy to set up but if you not have access to the network. need to go into the router s built-in configuration browser and in the address field you would our router has an IP address of 192.168.2.1. on your keyboard and now you're in. So here's an example of the configuration where you would set up the router with custom network. So for example, like most SOHO routers And as you recall, a DHCP server automatically your network because all computers need an default the DHCP server is enabled. But if by pressing this button here and then just Also in a router's web page there are the the wireless settings for your network. For for service set identifier which is basically is shared among all wireless devices in your can call it whatever you want and as you can as an example, when a wireless laptop scans of this router, the laptop will see the router it has the proper credentials it can join Also in here you can set the channel for your avoid interference with other wireless networks issues to your wireless router, there might network that's operating on the same channel to a different channel and see if it solves And if you click on the wireless security your wireless network. So here you can choose wide open or you can choose to secure your And as you can see this router supports the and WPA2. Wired equivalent privacy is one of the security and as its name implies, it's meant to supply it did for wired networks. But this turned found out that the 40 bit encryption key the hackable. So a better security protocol was WPA is another wireless security protocol of WEP. WPA is far better than WEP in two method using TKIP which stands for temporal changes keys as it's being used. This ensures which verifies authorized network users. Building on the security of WPA, WPA2 was than WPA. And it does this by requiring the While WPA uses temporal key integrity protocol limitations, WPA2 uses CCMP for encryption. enhanced data cryptographic encapsulation on all certified Wi-Fi hardware. And our last wireless security protocol is and this security protocol was designed for to make it as easy as possible for them to So here's an example of a WPS configuration are three different WPS methods that you can could use method 1 if your client has a Wi-Fi that button then within 2 minutes you would you can just press the physical WPS button You can also use method 2 if your client has number in here and press register. Or you router's pin number and you would just enter be connected. So as stated before WPS is the a lot of manufacturers are building their as possible for their customers to join their Another wireless security is the MAC filter. A MAC address is a hexadecimal number that And with a MAC filter you can either prevent address. So in this example, once we enable prevent devices that are listed below from these devices listed here are now blocked we can choose the permit option and this will to the network. There is also what's called the DMZ. And DMZ allows a designated computer on your network does this by the router forwarding all ports So while these computers here on our internal DMZ computer is outside the firewall and is testing purposes. So if you just set up a the internet and if you're having a problem so that it can be accessed from the internet, and put the computer in the DMZ temporarily can pinpoint a problem you're having, such to note that the DMZ computer must be assigned from a DHCP server. Another option on a configuration page is customize port services for certain applications. to your network from the internet, the router computer. So for example, let's say a friend in your home network using RDP or remote desktop lesson that RDP services uses port 3389. So their RDP service on their computer, they and once that request hits your router, your network to forward that request to so your that's where port forwarding comes in. Here you have to forward the RDP port to the correct which is 3389 and then you have to point it want your friend to access which is 192.168.2.3. to forward that request and the connection A feature that's built into most wireless network is a separate wireless network that's can join so they can have access to the internet. it's typically the same name as your main guest suffix added to the SSID. The ping command is the most widely used of used to test issues such as network connectivity ahead and ping a host IP address. So at a then the IP address and then press enter. to the destination IP address we chose. Then back to us as a reply and these replies are will inform you about what's happening with if we received a reply then that means that us and the destination. But if we did not no reply from the host and it could mean that But if we ping the host and we got a message mean that the host is down or that it's blocking we got a message that says destination host a router and it means that a route to the The ping command can also be used to test we use the ping command with an IP address. For example, we could type ping, space, then the domain name and if we got the same successful would indicate that the name resolution by that the domain name ping failed. Then the So if by typing the IP address, and if the know that we are having a problem with DNS. The ping command can also be combined with are used to alter the parameters of the ping switches by typing ping, space, forward slash, And pathping is another Windows network utility tracert. So at a command prompt just type domain name and then press enter. And the a data packet takes between two devices. And device that the data packet takes on its way So for example, if we try to ping a destination tracert utility to find out where the data go ahead and traceroute this IP again, and So let's type in tracert then the IP address. tell us at which area the problem lies. And utility has isolated that the problem is somewhere If you want to check a device using the regular because the firewall on the device has blocked command instead. The ARP ping command uses And since it uses ARP packets, a firewall is never blocked or should be never blocked be used on the internet. The data is not routable. Our next utility is called tracert which stands the exact path the data packet is taking on let's go ahead and trace the route from our prompt we would type tracert, space, and then packet will find its way to the destination it will report back information about that it took between each hop. So the tracert utility where a problem lies on a network if a data the destination. And this is the Nbtstat utility. And this So at a command prompt just type in nbtstat is probably the least common utility that And our next utility is called ARP. And as is used to resolve IP addresses to MAC addresses. another computer it needs to know the MAC the computer does is check its ARP cache to for that computer. In fact we can check this ARP utility by typing ARP with a minus A switch. So now it will ask the computer with the corresponding And once it has the MAC address it will store do the same command as before and now you address have been added to the ARP cache. check which IP address is associated with Our next utility is called netstat. Now this current network connections to your computer. that our computer is currently communicating And we can verify this by using the netstat and in this case we're going to use a minus display we can see the two HTTP servers and sure what connections your computer currently out. And in addition to connections it also for a connection. The ipconfig utility is very common. This network configuration for our computer. And So for example, if we open up a command prompt slash ALL switch, then this will display the such as our computer name, MAC address, IP DNS servers and so on. And by using this information problems. For example, if we had a problem that DHCP is enabled which means that this server. And it also tells us the IP address IP address for the DNS server. So if we're with domain names then there might be a problem Using the ipconfig utility by itself displays But using this utility when combined with slightly. So for example, when we use ipconfig just used in our previous slide, it displays When we use ipconfig/renew this releases and the DHCP server. And ipconfig/release releases To see a complete list of all the switches utility, just type in the name of the utility, mark and that'll show you all the switches And similar to the ipconfig utility that's utility. And the ifconfig utility is a command And it displays configuration information IP address, subnet mask, how many packets so on. And like ipconfig it can also be combined And our last utility is called nslookup. This this utility is used to look up DNS information. type in nslookup along with a domain name the DNS information for the Yahoo domain. And the dig command is a Unix version of nslookup, As far as the way a network is designed, there don't have to use one or the other solely you have a wireless network, at some point today use a combination of wired and wireless as a network administrator how to diagnose And one of those problems is the media. And and overtime cables can be worn out or damaged It s also important to remember to use the of network you're using. For example, if you recognize the environment around the cable as fans, fluorescent lights, or air conditioners, altering or reducing the strength of the signal And another factor is the length of the cable. length then this could also cause a problem. this can also affect your network. For example, should be using a straight cable. Antennas are another factor that affects a operate using radio waves the antenna is a speed of a signal. One type of antenna is to be the most common type as well. This type So every wireless device in all directions in range. And another type of antenna is the the signal in one direction and that direction They're also problems that can arise in a interference. Microwave ovens can cause interference with a wireless signal such as cell phones and mouse. The waves that are produced by network. And a cordless phone is another device that that's because a lot of cordless phones operate do which is at 2.4 gigahertz. In fact I had was complaining that every time her phone her laptop and this is because her cordless same wireless channel. So to quickly resolve page and changed the channel on her wireless And also the structure of a building is another Depending upon the structure of the building studs, can all affect wireless signals. So you are placing your wireless router to avoid So you may have to test out certain areas your devices can use your wireless network. And using the wrong type of encryption could your network. For example, if you're using WPA2 on your wireless router, but if you're or WPA, well then that laptop wouldn't be you're using a later encryption method that Similar issues can happen in fiber optic networks Other factors include using the wrong type mismatches, dirty connectors, connector mismatches, the cable length limitations. Problems can also happen in DHCP. For example, If this were to happen, then certain computers be able to renew their IP lease because there computers won't be able to access the network. are added. They will not be able to access to remember that this is only the case if IP address automatically. So this would have IP. So in another scenario, if another DHCP server to remember that if you're going to add another configured properly. For example, you're going do not give out the same IP address to a computer if the second DHCP server assigns an IP address will happen. So to avoid this you must configure Problems can also happen in DNS also. And names to IP addresses. The main impact that was not working properly is basically accessing yahoo.com will be resolved to the IP address server was not present you would not be able name yahoo.com. You would only be able to address instead. Link LEDs are very simple indicators that a network device. For example, on a network cable you wouldn't notice that the green LED light and this indicates that there is a successful not light up after a cable is plugged in then or something simple such as maybe the computer the other hand indicates that there is network is medium or slow this indicates normal operation. Another thing you're probably the most obvious computer connected to the network? If it is, on? Or is the cable that you were using good? know that the cable is good then you might turned on? Are there any LEDs on the switch? cable is loose on either the NIC or the switch And then there are certain procedures for of the steps to do that. So the first step causes. This step is where you gather information the problem? When did the problem occur? Were it happen all the time or intermittently? in the beginning it'll greatly enhance that problem a lot faster. And the next step is to identify the affected problem isolated at one particular location So for example, the network. So one of the first places to that all computers connect to this single properly it would affect everyone. Or what computer. Then in this case we would not check we would check the cable and connection for is done correctly it will dramatically cut lot of time. So after you identify the area the next step don't occur at random, they happen for a reason. change just prior to the problem happening? there any software installed or uninstalled? And the next step is to select the most probable look for the simple and the obvious solutions the computer or device is even turned on. Check the simple LEDs. And you'll be amazed problems. And the next step is to implement an action Now this step is the cautious phase. So before must know what effect this will have on the a device offline, how will this affect the distract everyone else or be isolated at one And the next step is to test the result. Now to solve the problem. This is where you would problem or not. And after you test a result the next step the solution. Has your plan of action solved did it have on everyone else? Do the results And the last step is to document the solution one. Now that the problem is solved it's very solution so that if it ever happens again to solve the problem as fast as possible but problem will never happen again. So the things itself, what actually caused the problem, these steps carefully you can be assured to a (CompTIA Certified) NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR