Indie game &quot;Cult of The Lamb&quot; was born out with dungeon-crawling gameplay. Despite having that core idea in mind from indie developer Massive Monster landed on In fact, over 60% of the work they did, ended Early concepts included a Girl Scouts idea, care of a tribe on top of a flying whale, However, the team ultimately decided on the Before we delve deeper into Cult of The Lamb's take a closer look at Australian- and UK-based In the early 2000s, Jay Armstrong, Julian in the gaming industry by creating Flash games and Armor Games. At that time, there was a kind of bubble in few months, or even weeks, and receive sponsorship websites. In exchange, these sites would incorporate it across thousands of other websites. Certain games would often amass millions or Flash websites. According to James, it was a great way to it allowed developers to rapidly iterate games However, the abundance of free and readily spans were short. Consequently, games needed to be accessible Fortunately, if a game failed, developers again. James created art for a bunch of Flash games Jay had previously collaborated with Julian The trio instantly hit it off and decided They developed a few more games together, make a substantial profit from Flash games and iPad. As more people shifted to playing games on and the inability to use the Flash player In response to the changing market, the three 2014. They decided to create a reimagining of 'Super was released in 2018. Simultaneously, they developed a second game Flash game, 'Give Up'. Unfortunately, it was released the following to struggle financially. The team later realized their mistake in investing as they now only had enough resources left They decided it was best to move away from chose to concentrate all their efforts on After releasing 'Never Give Up', they identified for their next game. "Our previous game was a linear platformer, It's at least 10-12 hours, but every character You'd only meet once each level, and if there What's even worse is that with live streaming they'd just watch someone else play, and so ever buying it or playing it yourself." Additionally, the lighthearted tone and visuals as a kid's game, which further narrowed Therefore, the three developers decided that experience and that it needed a considerably At that time, the team was obsessed with playing management game 'RimWorld', and roguelikes James loves the sense of progression you get with all the NPC characters in 'Stardew Valley'. Furthermore, venturing into the mines, battling deeper you go into the mines, felt highly RimWorld on the other hand excels at creating replayability. Enter The gungeon and Isaac provide engaging more. Unsurprisingly, it didn't take long for and mash it with Enter the Gungeon. But instead of guns, let's use swords.&quot; Afterwards, the studio began brainstorming to be the greatest challenge during development. One of those early concepts called 'Sword a group of girl scouts who planted seeds to The studio even made a pitch video to attract take off. Following this, the developers started gravitating characters while out exploring the world and Players could then have fun interactions with One version of this featured a tribe living The player acted as the tribe's last God, below to find new followers. However, the problem with this concept was enough. The next one they tried was a sort of 'build of the gameplay involved being forced to torture People quickly understood the general premise followers looked so cute that playtesters So they had to come up with something else. Julian was always drawn to the idea of rituals Therefore, once they came up with the concept falling into place. The game became less about punishment and want to be. This concept was also much easier to explain the player's personal fantasy. Before we move on, I'd like to talk about Milanote is a free online tool for organizing It's perfect to plan and carry out your What I love about Milanote is how easy and images, sketches, videos, PDFs, Word files Thanks to over 100 built-in templates, even creating a structured yet detailed project As you can see here, I used the 'Game Flow the player can do in my game. If something is missing from the templates you need onto your project or copy and edit You can work on your projects solo or you important feedback and collaborate with them Aside from using Milanote on your browser, projects on the go. Milanote is available for free with no time Sign up by visiting milanote.com/thatguyglen your next creative project today. Milanote, get organized, stay creative. Now back to the video. At the start of development, the cult members However, as the importance of the cultists they required more distinct silhouettes. Otherwise, it would be difficult for players the screen. This led the developers to start incorporating features. At that point, they asked themselves, &quot;Well, Soon enough, they veered towards transforming As evident, the developers had to drag themselves away tons of work before they settled on the worshippers'. Creating a game where the player leads a cult ability to perform ritualistic sacrifices, The studio was well aware that they had to face all the challenges that would bring. They began by compiling a list of 'what is could be translated into gameplay mechanics. It was an exciting but difficult challenge mechanics in other games before. The game's theme draws on the truth that power journey to reflect this. This meant the developers needed to establish players over to the dark side. That said, it was crucial to allow players be, and therefore, provide nicer alternatives--even a monster the player had become if they went Moreover, it was also important not to force make them aware of the darker gameplay elements. This is why the ritual sacrifice mechanic unlocked as a choice like the other rituals. This way, people are always confronted with Once made aware, it's up to the player whether fight pit, which forces two followers to battle like the wedding ritual, which allows the Do you want the ability to inspire cult members harder? It's these kinds of decisions the developers the player becomes. During playtests, the team discovered that followers, so they experimented with the types go down the dark side. At the same time, Massive Monster was struggling They tried many different things, such as runs, but this muddied the action too much. To try and kill two birds with one stone, more sinister game mechanics. For instance, the sacrifice ritual originally it was tied to player upgrades instead, far The team also increased the value of highly for players to sacrifice their favorite followers While finding the right concept was the biggest and colony simulator gameplay work together Traditionally in roguelikes, it's all about runs and when you die, you lose everything. The team wanted to add more long term progression with new resources after each run which can In addition, they also sought to include features for cult members, whose unique needs would The colony simulation aspect was initially Each follower had individual hunger and faith daily to understand their needs. However, as the number of cult members expanded, leading to one overall faith and hunger meter. The team also had a lot of trouble figuring systems of the game. They grappled with the question of how to while also engaging the player in dungeon Eventually, they came up with the idea to The developers looked at them as if they were Even though actual farming exists in the game, investing time in followers. As mentioned earlier, players who invest enough loyal followers. These rewards can then be used to upgrade abilities, which are essential for surviving If players want to expand their base and gain resources and rescuing potential followers The two sides of the game were now really a more addictive gameplay loop, which also Furthermore, the devs made it so that the so if you're waiting for a building to be and it'll likely be finished by the time All of this was achieved with the Unity engine. Players would naturally spend a lot of time wanted to make that experience as enjoyable They put in a lot of time and effort to make It needed to feel like a fully fledged colony Therefore, each follower has their own personality Some will help you, some will hurt you and The team added a lot of emergent stories that to make sure things stay interesting after For years, the team struggled with finding side of the game was overly complicated. When they experimented with enhancing the from the cult-building aspect, and vice versa. That said, the studio aimed to give players if they wanted to. That's why there's ways to acquire resources and why players can continuously embark on James admits that players ultimately need but there's at least some flexibility in For the cult management part of the game, Included, Frostpunk, Stardew Valley, Don't When it comes to the roguelike side, they Enter the Gungeon, Dead Cells and Hades. Fun fact: a lot of the bright, flowery aesthetic, assets, are inspired by horror films Midsommar Partly due to the studio's partnership with to attract new talent and significantly expand The studio now comprises over a dozen developers. The cute artstyle might seem a bit jarring the game, but it's a style that comes naturally Whatever they draw comes out looking cartoonish The team decided early on to embrace the cuteness to make the dungeon runs feel scary and dangerous. Rendering the cult aspects in a cute and colorful things into the game without them ever feeling "You can do some truly dark things which, style, would have felt unpalatable. We really wanted to let players go down a they were becoming until it was too late! Having that sort of juxtaposition between both sides of the game and what we want you Another reason the studio embraced the game's connection between the player and the followers. You hopefully start to care for them, perhaps things to them. When a favorite follower eventually dies of This is also why you can customize and name - all in an effort to enhance that emotional While the charming aesthetic of the cult management they encountered significant difficulties The team aimed for the monsters and enemy gruesome, and they wanted these characters rather than coming across as overly supernatural However, enemies often ended up looking too For instance, the bishops were originally character, and looked more funny than intimidating. To find the right tone, they explored a lot using sharper shapes and silhouettes, a technique vibe they were striving for. One of those scarier looking characters is Originally, he was an unimportant NPC that Despite his minor role, the developers were to give him a more important role. They increased his size, put him in chains At that point, it made sense for him to give a sinister deal. Later, once more gameplay elements were established, name this devilish character and what his the player's journey. According to Jay, it was a very organic, art-driven The lamb, the player character, also went Initially, it resembled more of a demon, then before finally morphing into a lamb. At this stage in development, the working it quickly changed to "Sacrificial Lamb" The original concept involved starting the This was integrated into the onboarding process as a normal lamb. Eventually, you would gain control of the transformation into the humanoid lamb character The team understood the importance of designing in fan art so it was always in the back of quite simple. This resulted in a simplified color palette a crown, a tunic, a bell, and of course, the Initially, the crown was simply a way for character is a leader among followers. However, they further developed it into a it into the overall branding. That's why each Bishop received their own The studio even considered being able to collect scrapped. To make the crown more central to the gameplay, powers and to shapeshift into various weapons. Originally, the entire game had a more stylized, James stated that it didn't look bad, but look and feel as it allowed for greater variety Nonetheless, the monochromatic palette of the game's branding and user interface, to the main character. To give the game more of a cinematic and atmospheric and a lighting system on top of all the flat It really helped to bring everything together The soundtrack was created by Narayana Johnson, unique electronic beats and production to The developers wanted the outside world to and the time spent at your cult feel more Needless to say, the music needed to emphasize Other than that, Narayana had full creative "Finding the best person and letting them one of the biggest parts of developing a game. He just went to town and knocked it out of I don't think we gave him any feedback on I think he just said, &quot;This is it,&quot; and we The final stretch of development proved to The shift from full production, a stage where click together, to the completion stage was In an interview with GameGrin, James mentioned there were countless tasks to complete and However, the overwhelmingly positive reaction motivator. Seeing people create fan art even before the make the best game possible and pull out all After about three years of hard work and experimentation, of the game. According to Jay, approximately 60% of the it was all worth it in the end. Cult of The Lamb was released on August 11th, Its art style, dark humor, and addictive gameplay The game did suffer from bugs and performance but many of these have been addressed since As a result, one million copies were sold Later that year, Cult of The Lamb won several Joysticks Awards and Game of the Year at the Massive Monster is far from finished with In April 2023, they released a significant Old Faith,&quot; which added a new post-game storyline improvements to the game's combat and cult A second free content update, also planned on enhancing the cult management mechanics After that, who knows what's in store for However, one thing is certain: the team is publisher Devolver Digital and the widespread "Working with Devolver Digital has been our game in front of so many people, and the people. It's been very humbling! I'm still very shocked about how well it's the plushies. We love it, we feel very grateful."