Not so fast! These riddles may look easy enough at first glance, Can you be really attentive and think outside of the box? Let's find out. Riddle number one: The Secret Password. Matt wants to get into a private club, but the entry requires a password that he doesn't know. So, he steps off to the side and eavesdrops on entering club members giving the password When one club member walks up to the door, the bouncer says &quot;twelve&quot;, she replies &quot;six&quot; and is let in. Then, another member comes to the door. This time when the bouncer says &quot;six&quot;, the man replies &quot;three&quot; and gets in. Matt's sure that he sees the pattern, and walks up to the door. The bouncer says &quot;ten&quot; and Matt replies &quot;five&quot;. To Matt's surprise, the bouncer doesn't let him in. Can you figure out what Matt should have said to get in? You have 10 seconds to think about it. Do you have your answer ready? Let's see if it's the right one. Matt was actually supposed to say how many letters there are in the number that the bouncer says. The word 12 has six letters, and the word six has three. Ten has three letters, so the password should have been three. Isn't that easy? Riddle number two: A Mugging? A man walked into a police station claiming he had just been mugged. The police officer asked him to describe exactly what happened, so the man explained. &quot;I was on my way to the bank, and I had $100,000 in my briefcase.&quot; Suddenly, a man wearing black clothes, a black mask, and black gloves jumped me, grabbed my briefcase, and ran away.&quot; The police officer noted a fresh cut on the man's face, and asked if it were from the attack. The man replied Yeah. The mugger was wearing a silver ring on his left hand, and it cut me when he punched me.&quot; The police officer immediately knew that the man was lying. How did he figure it out? Huh, times ticking! This one's pretty easy if you paid close attention to the man's story. You probably remember that the so-called &quot;victim&quot; said that the attacker was wearing black gloves, right? So even if the ring had cut his face through the glove, how could the man know whether the muggers ring was made out of gold or silver or any other material? Liar, liar, pants on fire! Riddle number three: Jack's Dilemma. Jack has a lion, a lamb, and a bale of hay. He wants to cross a river, but there's only one boat, and it can't hold the weight of more than two items at a time. Jack also has to make sure that the lion doesn't eat the lamb, and that the lamb doesn't eat the hay, how can poor Jack get to the other side of the river with all three objects safe and sound? You have ten seconds to find a solution. The plan isn't all that difficult. Jack should first take the lamb across. Then, he can take the bale of hay across and bring the lamb back. After that, he should take the line across, but leave the lamb. Finally, he needs to go back for the lonesome lamb and take it across. There, all three get to the other side of the river unharmed. Let's just hope that the lion won't eat him, ooh! Riddled number four: A Life-or-Death Decision. Tom was walking in the woods, when he suddenly came upon a big house. The house look abandoned, so Tom, in &quot;true scary movie form&quot;, decided to check it out. But as soon as he walked in, you know what happened, the door behind him slammed shut! Tom found a note saying the door behind him is locked, but there are four unlocked doors that he can use to get out. The problem is, what's behind those doors? If Tom opens the first door, he'll immediately fall into a tank full of hungry sharks. The room behind the second door is filled with lethal gas. Behind the third door awaits an un-escapable well full of water and if Tom chooses the fourth door, he'll face a chainsaw wielding serial killer, who murdered 100 people in 1918 alone. Dang, psycho! So which door should Tom choose to survive? You're 10 seconds starts now. What a choice to make, huh? Looks like death is behind each one. Well death is waiting behind each door, except for the last one. Although the killer's sound like the last thing you'd want to choose, he was slaying people a century ago, so Tom will probably just be met by a dusty old skeleton covered in cobwebs. Harmless, well unless you don't like dust, or spiders! Riddle number five: Card Trick. Atom is given a deck of 52 cards. He knows that there are 13 cards facing up, while the rest are facing down in a random order. He needs to create two piles with the same number of cards facing up. Oh, and Adam is blindfolded, and can't see a thing. So, how can he do it? Easy! Adam just needs to take the first 13 cards from the top, and simply flip them over. Done. If you don't believe it, let's break it down together. Imagine you took the first 13 cards from the top Let's say there are nine cards in that group that are facing up. That means the remaining pile would only have four cards facing up since we know from the beginning that 13 of the 52 cards were facing up. So, if you flip the first pile over, four cards will be facing up, and nine will be facing down. Four and four, there you go! Riddle number six: The Odd One. Look carefully at these five figures. The question is simple. Which one of these objects does not belong in the group? A good old odd one out riddle. Here are your ten seconds. Did you figure it out? Get it, figure? Anyway if you choose the first figure, congratulations! You're absolutely right and why is that? Because it's the only object that doesn't have an individual trait. The second one is round which is different from any other shape, the third object doesn't have an outline around it. The fourth one is a different color from the rest, and the fifth shape is much smaller than the others, so we're simply left with the first figure. Which is the only one that's not odd in any way? Ha, tricked ya. Riddle number seven: The Ticket Clerk. A deaf and mute man came up to the ticket counter at a subway station. The tickets cost $0.50 each. The man handed over a dollar, and the ticket clerk gave him two tickets without even checking. How did the ticket seller know that the man needed two tickets? Try to crack this mystery in ten seconds. Ready or not, here's the answer! The deaf and mute man gave four quarters, so the ticket clerk could be certain that he wanted two tickets. Otherwise, he would have given only two of his quarters. It's as simple as that! All right, how many of these riddles did you get right? Tell us in the comments below. And don't forget to share your video with your friends and family, to find out whether they'll be able to crack them, too! Stay on the 'BRIGHT SIDE' of life, and we'll see you soon!