- [Mark] You've probably (phone ringing) That sound something like this. - [Phone] This is Amazon.com You have been charged Three hundred and seventy nine dollars- - [Mark] Now behind this is a 20 billion dollar scam industry, and today we're gonna roll over that log and see what crawls out. Because for the past five months, with the help of my trusty glitter bomb, which I typically just I've worked my way up every rung of the slimy chain of command involved in this scam. This journey is going to and through five states. It involves homeland security, stakeouts with PIs, and of course glitter trying to hopelessly rid before getting arrested. I'm gonna show you exactly how they make so much money off these calls. So buckle up, cause it gets wild. Now all this started for me when I was working on glitter and I kept getting those annoying calls. So I thought maybe to return the favor, I could send them my harmless and fart spray when you remove the lid. Now my buddy Jim Browning where he's able to reverse the connection to the scammer's computer and then thwart them in real time as they try and scam someone else. My idea was to have a legitimate victim agree to send the money, but then we'd work with them to actually send a glitter bomb instead. So Jim checked all the scammer computers he was currently monitoring, and it just so happened was being scammed for So he immediately tried and eventually got through. (phone ringing) - Hello? - [Jim] Hello Tracy, this I'm calling you, hopefully - Here's what happened. - Now listen carefully to what Tracy's about to say here and hold your judgment about how could anyone ever until I explain how the because I hate to give these guys credit, but it's pretty clever. - They were supposed to and when I put it in the computer, I mistyped it as $13,000. So I had to send money and that's where I am. - [Jim] Right. I'm hoping - I have sent it. - [Jim] Oh no. All right. I hate to break this to you, - What do I do now? - [Mark] I'll tell you what to do, Tracy. You leave this to me and Jim, the first thing we did they told her to ship the money to. And given there were six cameras outside, this clearly was some kind of We then had Tracy call but just in case, we hired two PIs to be on the scene that And we knew we shouldn't do because they'd probably be watching. But since we weren't sure which direction the FedEx truck would come from, we overnight shipped a package that explained they were randomly selected to win one of these super And if you wanted to buy one to help support making I'm certainly not gonna stop you. This would allow us to somewhere up the street to get And the plan worked flawlessly. Because despite Tracy's her package was in fact out - [PI] Tracy something? Don't deliver this one please. - Okay. - This is the fraudulent one. If that one's gone, that's - [Mark] But in a wild twist, going to the same location, Her name was Phyllis and we contained even more cash than Tracy's. - [PI] Okay, so that - Right, definitely. - And FedEx was cool enough to eventually return the packages, So both Tracy and Phyllis And when the scammers asking why the package didn't arrive, she explained she accidentally selected two day shipping instead of next day air. So they would get the package tomorrow. And that story switched from defense to a very light offense. And so the next day we deliver the package in an official looking vest. - [PI] Have a good holiday. - Alright, you too. - Thank you. - [Mark] And waited for (box opening noise) - [Machine] Hello! (machine blasting sound) Are you gonna give up? Or (machine spray noise) - What the (squeaky toy sound effect) (television ambience) - [Mark] But for the of glitter bombing criminals (machine spray noise) Someone didn't immediately and he just sat there leaving the box untouched. And then as we waited, wondering what his game plan was gonna be, suddenly a bunch of NYPD and it didn't take them - It's a glitter bomb. It There's a camera built into this. - [Mark] We had a phone number on the box and they called us up and I and I'll just say there for each other's work. - [Officer] Are there cameras Cause this is a hell of a 3D printed little thing you got here. (laughs) - I mean there might be And as it happens, the reason on himself is cause he isn't a scammer. This is Gary and it turns But Gary runs an Airbnb and there are two rooms upstairs So this wasn't a safe house at all. These scammers would use Airbnb they would only use once. But if that's true, must have been there yesterday. So Gary showed us his security in an orange jacket who appeared with the FedEx driver up the street. She also looks directly at it's probably cold enough all the way up. Once the FedEx truck passes, and she realizes he skipped by her, she hurries over to talk to him. And when he told her he had she walks right back to her car, never stepping foot inside the Airbnb. The PI's got all the license and it turns out her name is Crystal. You should remember that name for later. So then Gary showed us It was this guy from Utah and zero reviews. In fact, when the reservation was booked, he sent this message in which happens to be just So I did some more after the scammer in India they would use a money mule and have the victim send the cash there. So Crystal in this case was the mule, but instead of sending the package to the Money Mule's house, Then the Mule gives the who deposits the cash and wire back to the scammer. And they must have got spooked the next day, which meant we caught poor Gary in the crossfire, but he wanted them caught So we compensated him handsomely just for being cool about everything. So we'll call that round a tie. We stopped the scammers containing $30,000, but they But before I show you exactly in our favor, let me explain exactly how this scam works so well at tricking so many people. There's an email that that basically says the which is Amazon just charged you $200, but if you don't recognize this charge, please call right away So when you call, they say I'd be happy to walk you on your computer. So just type this here and then I'll be able And most victims don't really comprehend they've just installed a remote the scammers full access Now they're ready for the scam. They tell her that some accounts their refunds automatically processed. So she needs to check her the $200 refund isn't already there. And when Bessie here asks if he explains in technical terms- - [Scammer] It's a 3D page, - [Bessie] Oh. Oh, okay. - [Mark] And so sure enough, so he needs just about his billing department But first, he makes a - [Scammer] I'm signing in front of your own eyes. - [Mark] And this is true, at which point he triggers so she can't see anything that he's doing. And then he immediately logs pre-stored username and password. He's gonna do a simple to temporarily make this Lowe's purchase look like a refund for $20,000, and you'll see why in a minute. And as he's editing away, he chats her up to try and build trust. - [Scammer] You are like do you know this? - [Bessie] Yes! - [Scammer] She was like - [Bessie] Ohhh - [Scammer] I used to share - [Mark] You mean like And you might be wondering why himself money while he to her account? But the problem there and it would likely get flagged by the bank's fraud But if you can get an old it's so untraceable the to try and track it down. Now that he's finished, and he informs her that couldn't process the refund, so they have one last option to try. - [Scammer] This is the Chase - [Mark] It's actually just a text window that does absolutely - [Scammer] It is an irreversible form. Whatever you're typing it over there, put it in a correct manner, nothing would be changed over here. - [Mark] Basically makes a that she's the one that has and anything that gets typed Maybe you can see where this is headed. So her name, last four and finally refund amount. - [Scammer] Please enter (keyboard typing) - [Mark] If you go back, you the two extra zeros on his - [Scammer] Check - [Bessie] Oh no, this is a mistake! Oh, I screwed up. - [Scammer] Oh, Jesus! - I'm, it was supposed Oh God almighty. I'm exhausted, I can't do this! My mind is absolutely fried. - [Scammer] Ma'am please Please check your account. Did you really receive Oh my God. Plus twenty thousand! - [Bessie] Yeah... - [Scammer] Please save my job, ma'am. If I'm not earn for my family, my family will die due to Please ma'am. - [Bessie] Yes, of course! - [Scammer] Please don't cry - [Bessie] I mean, what should I do? - [Scammer] I also feel bad for you, you are also like my grandmother. - [Bessie] You know I'm - [Scammer] You are making me cry now, you are making me cry now. You're... I'm getting attached to you. - [Bessie] Now how do I fix this? - [Mark] He tells her that unfortunately mailing a check or wiring So he needs to think for a minute, and then he comes back with this. - [Scammer] Hello Miss Bessie? - [Bessie] Yes? - [Scammer] I got an option. - And you can see now how where she's totally willing and to lie to the folks or even her family who In her mind, she messed up, and because she's a she'll go through great for someone she doesn't And on top of weaponizing their empathy, maintaining pressure on They keep them on the even as they drive to the - [Scammer] Go to the UPS! - [Mark] Or call this many times in a row. And if you've ever seen this clip- - Name a woman. - Name a woman? - Yes! - Umm... - [Mark] You already know when it's an actual biological that does critical - Why is this so hard? - Name a woman! - [Mark] Once they're back they coach them through packing it. In Tracy's case, they in the pages of a book so it couldn't be detected in the mail. In other cases, they have in saran wrap so the dogs can't sniff it, and then foil so it can't be x-rayed. And unfortunately, there's a that are just too trusting And sadly, it's nearly always older folks. So for the scammers, it's to find them. According to data Jim has gathered from the scammer's own computers, In one shift, a call center like this with about 25 employees will send out a half a million robocalls; they'll get about 500 calls back and land maybe five to ten victims like Bessie or Tracy or Phyllis. And speaking of Phyllis, after we got FedEx to I was able to get in touch with her son and I found out her husband the very week she was being The scammers knew she But once you're scammed, your phone number's really valuable because it means you're an easy mark. So they sold her info to other scammers and she was scammed twice more the same week her husband died. And as hard as it was for like that, it just made me to seek some glitter bomb retribution for all the Phyllises out there, and perhaps in the process some good information that we could pass on to the authorities. So now we needed another scammer But we decided when Jim it's better for him just to stop it cold and not stress out the victim any more then they already are. So we reached out to our friend Pierogi from the YouTube channel Scammer Payback because whenever Pierogi gets a scam call to his actual phone, he makes his voice sound like an - [Scammer] If they will like why you are withdrawing what you gonna tell them? - [Pierogi] Um, I'm from Microsoft. - [Scammer] No, no ma'am! No! You need to tell them that for your personal reason, - [Mark] And it didn't old woman Pierogi to get us - [Pierogi] This where I'm sending it to? - [Scammer] Right. Grab box, - [Pierogi] Yeah, I've already got a box. I already got a box, it's big enough. - [Mark] This one was actually but as soon as we pulled up, once again a money mule was - Y'all have a package for Jaquelin? - [PI] For Jaquelin? I You two have a good day. - [Mark] So they took the for a couple of hours and when it was clear they we made the call just to get the box back before the batteries died, and then maybe the box audio piece together more info on the scam. - [PI] You guys picked up part of a scam? - I didn't have no scam going on today. - [PI] Oh really? - No. - [PI] Let's see the box. - I just was told- - [PI] I understand. - By somebody to pick this up for them. - [PI] I understand. - Yeah, I don't know what's going on. I'm being honestly and truthfully and I don't want no trouble. - And when I first heard that, I was like, Oh, well now I feel bad. Sometimes these mules don't even realize they're participating in scams and they might even be victims themselves. Then I was like, look, not but maybe just in case, we just have a little peek at the audio. - [Mule] How have we (laughs) I don't even know which - [Mark] Then she got on the - [Mule] Yeah, I know, I I took the picture and sent it to you. I'm gonna bring it to you. That's what I'm saying, you said that I was done for the day. Where I gotta be at tomorrow? You said that we was working I don't know! Wherever they give me an address at. They don't even have the Airbnb addresses or nothing for tomorrow. This the first time they up like this in in New Jersey! - That's right. Crystal. Apparently they're a team, which means Jaquelin the other day in New York. - And the other time she's She don't do (squeaky toy sound effect). - By the way, Crystal, hate to say it, but Jacqueline was talking In fact, I'd watch your back. Cause her cousin in the car that day might be gunning for your job. - [Woman] I wanna be a driver. How much you get for that one parcel? - [Jacqueline] Bout a hundred dollars. Everybody's getting paid the same. So we get seven parcel and or a hundred dollars for each parcel. Everybody's getting seven hundred dollars. You're gonna be back and forth. You're gonna be either in Florida, Delaware, Maryland, you gonna be here, there, there, there, there. You're gonna be looking having the time of your life. Yeah, I don't know what's going on. I'm being honestly and truthfully and- - We learned two key things here. The first is that a supervisor will have multiple mules reporting to them, who apparently get flown and just one mule could receive as many as seven packages in a day. And the second is that totally different call center in India. So that same supervisor can work with multiple unrelated scammers as well. And so in the spirit of avenging Phyllis, if we were gonna glitter anyone here in the States, we really wanted it to be a supervisor. And thanks to Pierogi, not long after, we would get another chance. - [Scammer] Uh, get the 50,000 dollars in cash with you, get in your car. Once you're in your car, let me know. Make sure you don't involve - [Pierogi] So I don't - [Scammer] Your husband, - [Mark] This one would be in Illinois. And the delivery address It was interesting to see different package drop off methods. And right away we heard some good news. - [PI] Meet me at the gas station then. - [Man] Okay. - [PI] Yeah, I see you. I see you. Come park in front of me. - [Man] Which car are you in? - [PI] In the black one. - [Mark] The Walgreens was here at this gas station. (shuffling noises) And with that, we had our supervisor. (video game power-up noise) We tailed the supervisor for a few minutes and got a good look at his And then 20 minutes later he stopped here at a seemingly random - [Machine] Hello! (machine shooting noise) - [Mark] And even though the cameras got a perfect (camera shutter) And the PIs assessed the to approach him right after he opened it, but then he took off, and they let him go, And we just used the to once again locate it in the ditch snow. And right after that, from this scammer in India, The supervisor and scammer are in close contact with each other, and neither one likes glitter. And that seemed like the end of the story until we ran the plates was tied to a business really close to where he opened the box. So we went back a week to show just how close. Here's where he opened it. You could see that dumpster and house for reference, And then you pan over, his name is tied to. And wait a second, that's And wait another second, That's the same guy opening the glitter bomb. So this was a nice little package of intel we were able to hand because the supervisor is sort of the hub and a direct connection in the states and a bunch Pierogi came through with and this one was back to the MO of being delivered to an Airbnb. And like all the others, the mules right there waiting for us, and then she took it inside to open it. - [Machine] Hello! (machine shooting noise) You guys give up? Or are (machine spraying noise) - [Mark] Notice how she films Apparently this is pretty common because I suppose there's and the scammers will demand the video to confirm she hasn't taken As we learned before, the money mules make a like a hundred bucks. But I ended up reading gets a 10% cut and sends the This lady later admitted she herself was exchanging the cash for Bitcoin to send back to the scammers, which meant she was actually a supervisor. And for the sake of Phyllis, that was a lovely surprise. - It seems the package - [Mark] She took off and but the police were alerted and were on her tail pretty quickly. - Ma'am, do you have your ID on you? - Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I cannot park here? - [Mark] I love that with the parking warning. So she gets outta the car and I have to applaud the effort here. But as every parent knows, the only way she's getting from her pants and car is by burning them both to the ground. - What do you got all that - Yeah, so I just- I don't know. My uh, lawyer cause I'm in uh, probation, tell my probation officer, I Okay, so I want to contact - [Mark] And so after she the police returned to the The dude on the left there is had her under investigation So now they're bringing and the actual glitter bomb and footage is being held as evidence in the case. We did one more in Illinois But I've decided against showing those because those scammers are being monitored as part of ongoing investigations. In fact, over the past four months, Jim, Pierogi, and I have investigators from the respective the Department of Justice, And we've turned over to them every last bit of evidence So hopefully, like me, you now have a better understanding of how these scam calls operate, and here's why that matters. The authorities are cracking both here in the States and in India. But it's sort of a game of whack-a-mole and another one will just pop up because the financial The only way to truly defeat thereby making it ineffective. So if you have someone that means a lot to you, please educate them or even I put some resources in if you've been exposed to fraud, it's much better to not be reactive here, but proactive by spreading awareness and understanding what this looks like. And speaking of being proactive, I will close with some good news, which is that thanks to Jim in a video he just We have the identifying information of the folks over in India And by the way, everyone in And so over the next year, of course, working with we'll be executing a multi-phase as always, relatively harmless. I don't wanna give too much away, but we already have some in some of these call centers, And the first phase might and actual poop from Phyllis's actual dog. So make sure you're subscribed, cause it's gonna be a banger. (crashing sound) You could set your plant on this box and it has some electronics inside to measure the soil moisture level, and then talk to you when you walk by - [Machine] Hi, I need a That's delicious. Thank you. - [Mark] And this machine measures how long it's been since you've stood up and employs the kids sitting behind you on a long flight method to This is a game to motivate and this is a secret safe for your most valuable possessions. And finally, this is a g-dang Are you kidding me? (toaster dings) And what do all of those have in common? They were created by people creative engineering course. I just launched this a few months ago, and it to see what everybody learned (horror sound effect) ...For the most part. And because we got so much on the course, we're doing it again. You could sign up for it now. This class covers my full all the way from how I come up to finalizing the build I show you everything that I'm thinking, everything that I'm doing, Over the course of a month, design and create three and I'm gonna guide you through finishing three creative builds of your own. And this is an online class, so you can take it from anywhere and work it around your schedule, but it's fully immersive and intensive. So whether you're a working professional or you're taking the class as a family, whether you're a complete beginner or an experienced engineer, this class has been designed and then level up your skills. So go to Monthly.com/MarkRober or use the link in the video description to see what other people had and then enroll, and