Are you ready to setup remarketing, but don't on how to setup remarketing in Google Ads and Remarketing can boost conversions. This is because and are already aware of your offer will see remarketing can be used with your search, display, going to show you how to create audience lists let's head to Google Ads. You can create audience Google Ads account or by importing an audience Google Analytics, this is the easiest way to start also provides additional flexibility in how you list. We're going to look at both options, and we begin, we need to make sure Google Analytics to flag that we're looking at the new version of 'Tools', 'Billing', and 'Admin' on the left, then and I will show you how to check things in your Google Analytics is linked in the new version, You can then see if Google Analytics is linked. linked to Google Ads. Now let's take a look at how if we're not using the new version of Google In this version of Google Ads, you can check that Settings'. And then 'Linked Accounts'. We can If Google Analytics isn't linked to your Google tutorial in the description below this video. Otherwise, you won't see your audience lists are you using? The new version or the previous do you like it or do you prefer the previous Since the accounts are linked, we can now demo property. And to create an audience list to And then select 'Audience' in the property column. create new ones. Google Analytics automatically tracking transactions, you will also see a list lists are automatically created for us by default. created previously for users who found the website Now let's create a new list. Let's select 'New from scratch or use one of the suggestions. and suggestions for audiences. Plus, you can also These are based on Google's AI, or machine to do on your website. We can see these for my demo property because I don't have We will build our audience from scratch, so let's Let's create an audience list that includes but didn't purchase. This will let us target viewed a product in Google Ads. You can actions you've tracked into Google Analytics. Now let's add a condition. And let's select the 'Page Path and Screen product pages on our website. The 'Page Path and the domain name on our website but doesn't include Now let's select 'Add Filter'. Let's change And now, let's enter 'forward slash', click 'Apply'. This will mean that anybody starts with 'forward slash', 'product', 'forward Feel free to adjust the page path or even the any of the available dimensions and metrics a common mistake to avoid. Don't make your includes a handful of people, you're ads might on the time it takes to create and manage the By default, this will temporarily exclude if someone makes a purchase, they won't see any the website and don't make a purchase, then they So for my example, I'm going to select this. This means someone will be removed from Now I'm going to add a condition. Now let's add a parameter. Let's search for the condition of 'greater than'. and 'zero'. that user will be removed from our audience list. The nice thing about audience lists in GA4 return to your website. This means that meets the criteria to be excluded, they will now that we've created our audience, This list will automatically become available the list populates in Google Ads. This can take We're looking at the new version of Google for the previous version in a moment. To see our Then 'Shared Library'. And 'Audience Manager'. will include lists that have been automatically and any other lists that have been created you can find your audience lists if you're not Let's select 'Tools and Settings'. This is where you can find your audience Okay, not let's head back to the new version. account, I want to show you how you can Ads remarketing tag, also called the Google Tag if you're not using Google Analytics, you prefer data to Google Ads using the Google Tag. We need this option. Since we're still looking at the And select 'Website Visitors'. For this for people who view content on our website's For 'Segment Members', let's ensure For 'Actions', we can see we will be including 30 days, so let's leave this. And click 'Refine is selected. Along with 'Contains'. And let's This means anybody who views a page on our 'blog', 'forward slash' will be included in click 'Create Segment'. We can see For people to be included in this list, we must If you're using Google Tag Manager, you can easily using Google Tag Manager, you will need to add the tag, we select the 'Your Data Sources' tab. Look Scroll to the bottom. Select 'Tag Setup'. If you 'Install The Tag Yourself'. Or if you are using Tag Manager'. Let's copy the 'Conversion If you're just starting with Google watch my dedicated tutorial. I've included We're looking at the Google Tag Manager demo site. So let's select 'Add A New Tag'. Now let's select 'Tag Configuration'. And Since this is the first Google Ads tag I've added alert telling us that the 'Conversion Linker' of Google Ads tracking by creating a first-party this message, the tag has already been created. creat it. So let's click 'Create'. Let's name Now we're looking at our remarketing tag again. from Google Ads. Let's leave the rest of the Let's select the 'Initialization All Ads remarketing tag to all of the pages And let's click 'Submit' to publish Our remarketing tag has now We've now covered two ways you can create Google Analytics that was imported into Google You only need to use one of these options, option that works for you. Which option are lists from Google Analytics or create them Once you've created your audience list, they you can target with your ads. Depending on the list sizes you will need to meet before your ads you will need a thousand people on your list. people on your list. Okay, now let's create a And then 'Campaign'. And Let's select the option to create a campaign campaign, but you can use your audience I'm going to leave all the goals for this selected here match the objectives you've set Let's name the campaign. And click 'Continue'. I'm setting this campaign up as a draft campaign, quickly. If you'd like to learn more about the my dedicated Google Ads tutorial or checking geographic targeting. And click 'Next'. We enter Then we click 'Next'. Now we're on the 'Targeting' 'Audience Segments'. You can now search for the Or we can click 'Browse'. Then 'How they have Visitors'. We can now select the audience list, By default, Google Ads can automatically show If you would like to disable this option, 'Use Optimized Targeting'. Now let's click 'Next'. the ads in your campaign, ensure they connect also a good idea to tailor the offer. For example, haven't converted. Not adjusting ads and offers in Since I'm creating a draft campaign, I'm going And click 'Next'. We can see some warnings And click 'Publish Campaign'. We've now created the draft for our remarketing been applied, check that the campaign is selected and Content'. Then 'Audiences'. We can see that Once our list has met Google's requirements our ads will begin to show. And apart from using them for reporting. This lets you see performance do this, we will add our audience list as an and it means you'll be missing out on additional Then make sure 'Audiences' is selected. Now let's choose 'Campaign'. And we can This means we will be using our audience campaign performance for people included in the We've now applied our audience list Apart from creating remarketing campaigns, lists. You can use them to optimize Performance Analytics. So please take a moment to subscribe do with Google Ads and Google Analytics. You'll to take your business to the next level. Thanks