[bright music] - Welcome to the &quot;Huberman Lab Podcast,&quot; where we discuss science for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a Professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today I have the pleasure of as our guest on the Dr. Fridman is a researcher in machine learning, artificial intelligence and I must say that the conversation with Lex was without question, one of the most fascinating conversations that I've ever had, not just in my career, but in my lifetime. I knew that Lex worked on these topics. And I think many of you are and his interest in these topics from his incredible podcast, If you're not already please subscribe to it. It is absolutely fantastic. But in holding this conversation with Lex, I realized something far more important. He revealed to us a bit of his dream. His dream about humans and robots, about humans and machines, and about how those interactions can change the way that and that we interact with the world. We discuss relationships of all kinds, relationships with animals, relationships with friends, relationships with family And we discuss relationships Machines that move and and machines that come that we could never and how those machines can Before this conversation, I had no concept of the ways in which machines could inform me or anyone about themselves. By the end, I was absolutely taken with the idea, and I'm still taken with the idea that interactions with machines have a very particular kind, a kind that Lex understands and can not only transform the self, but may very well transform humanity. So whether or not you're familiar with Dr. Lex Fridman or not, I'm certain you're going to learn a tremendous amount from him during the course of our discussion, and that it will transform the way that you think about Before we begin, I want to mention that this podcast is separate from my teaching It is however part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer and science-related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is ROKA. ROKA makes sunglasses and eyeglasses that are of absolutely phenomenal quality. The company was founded by two All-American and everything about the sunglasses and eyeglasses they've designed I've spent a career working And one of the fundamental issues that your visual system has to deal with is how to adjust what you see when it gets darker or With ROKA Sunglasses and Eyeglasses, whether or not it's dim or not there's cloud cover, or whether or not you walk into a shadow, you can always see the And that just tells me the way that the visual system works. Processes like habituation All these things that work have been built into these glasses. In addition, the glasses You don't even notice really And the quality of the lenses is terrific. Now, the glasses were also designed so that you could use them, not just while working but while exercising. They don't fall off your if you're sweating. And as I mentioned, they're extremely lightweight. So you can use them while running, you can use them while Also the aesthetic of Unlike a lot of performance which frankly make these glasses look great. You can wear them out to dinner, you can wear them for If you'd like to try ROKA glasses, you can go to roka.com. That's R-O-K-A .com and to save 20% off your first order. That's ROKA, R-O-K-A .com and enter the Today's episode is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I'm a big believer in getting for the simple reason that impact our immediate can only be assessed from And now with the advent we can also get insight into some of our genetic underpinnings of our current and long-term health. The problem with a lot of blood and DNA tests out there, however, is you get the data back and with those data. You see that certain things are high or certain things are low, but you really don't know what to do with all that information. With InsideTracker, they make it very easy to on the information that you get back from those blood and DNA tests. And that's through the use They have a really easy to use dashboard that tells you what sorts of for your metabolic factors, into the ranges that you want and need for immediate and long-term health. In fact, I know one individual that was feeling good, but decided to go with and discovered that they had high levels of what's called C-reactive protein. They would have never C-reactive protein is associated with a number of deleterious some heart issues, eye issues, et cetera. And so they were able to try and resolve those CRP levels. And so with InsideTracker, you get that sort of insight. And as I mentioned before, without a blood or DNA test, there's no way you're going until symptoms start to show up. If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can go to insidetracker.com/huberman to get 25% off any of You just use the code That's insidetracker.com/huberman to get 25% off any of Today's podcast is brought Athletic Greens is an all-in-one vitamin mineral probiotic drink. I started taking Athletic And so I'm delighted that The reason I started and the reason I still is that it covers all of my In fact, when people ask I always suggest that the is Athletic Greens, for the simple reason, is that the things that for metabolic health, endocrine health, and all sorts of other And the inclusion of probiotics are essential for a There are now tons of data showing that we have neurons in our gut, and keeping those neurons healthy requires that they are exposed to what are called the correct microbiota, little microorganisms that live in our gut and keep us healthy. And those neurons in turn They influence things like and many, many other With Athletic Greens, it's terrific, because it also tastes really good. I drink it once or twice a day. I mix mine with water and or sometimes a little bit of lime juice. If you want to try athletic greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman. And if you do that, you can They're giving away little packs that make it while you're on the road. And they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D3 and K2. Again, go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim that special offer. And now, my conversation - We meet again. - We meet again. Thanks so much for sitting down with me. I have a question that I think or ought to be on a lot of people's minds, because we hear these but I think most people, including most scientists and including me don't know really what is and how is it different from things like machine So, if you would be so what is artificial intelligence, and what is machine learning? - Well, I think that and as fascinating as the So, I think of artificial intelligence, first, as a big philosophical thing. Pamela McCormick said to forge the gods, or was born as an ancient So I think at the big philosophical level, it's our longing to create Perhaps systems more powerful than us. At the more narrow level, I think it's also set of tools that are computational mathematical tools to automate different tasks. And then also it's our attempt So, build systems that exhibit in order to understand in our own selves. So all of those things are true. Of course, what AI really as a set of researchers and engineers, it's a set of tools, a set of computational techniques that allow you to solve various problems. There's a long history from different perspectives. What's always been throughout one of the communities goes under the flag of machine learning, which is emphasizing in the AI space, the task of learning. How do you make a machine that knows very little in the beginning, follow some kind of process and learns to become better and What's been most very effective is a set of techniques of deep learning that When your networks are these by the structure of the human brain, very loosely, but they have a, it's a network of these little called neurons, artificial neurons. And they have, these architectures have They know nothing in the beginning, and their task with learning What that's something interesting is, usually involves a particular task. There's a lot of ways to talk about this and break this down. Like one of them is how is required to teach this thing. So supervised learning is broad category, is the neural network knows and then it's given a bunch that will be examples of cats, and then you're given the image and you're given the ground And when you get a large where you know the truth, the neural network is that's called supervised learning. There's a lot of fascinating which is, how do you provide the truth? When you given an image of a cat, how do you provide to the computer that this image contains a cat? Do you just say the entire Do you do what's very commonly been done, which is a bounding box, you have a very crude box this is a cat? Do you do semantic segmentation? Mind you, this is a 2D image of a cat. So it's not, the computer knows nothing about our three-dimensional world, is just looking at a set of pixels. So, semantic segmentation very crisp outline around the That's really difficult And one of the fundamental open questions in computer vision is, is that even a good Now, there's another that our attention they're overlapping is, well, it's used to be called What's commonly now called Which is trying to get less and less and less human supervision into the task. So self-supervised learning is more, it's been very successful in natural English processing, and now more and more as being successful in computer vision task. And the idea there is, let the machine without just look at pictures on the internet, or look at texts on the internet and try to learn something generalizable about the ideas that are or at the core of vision. And based on that, we humans at its best like So with this, we have this giant base of knowledge on top of which we build We have this kind of And so the idea with is to build this what are the fundamental visual ideas that make up a cat and a dog and all those kinds of things without ever having human supervision? The dream there is the, you just let an AI system run around the internet for awhile, watch YouTube videos for and without any supervision be primed and ready to actually learn once the human is able to show up. We think of children in this way, human children, is your parents only to teach a concept. The dream with self-supervised learning is that will be the same with machines. That they would watch millions and then come to a human when the human shows them, this is a cat. Like, remember this' a cat. They will understand that a cat is not just the thing with pointy ears, or a cat is a thing that's they'll see something more fundamental that we humans might not actually be able to introspect and understand. Like, if I asked you, what makes a cat versus a dog, you wouldn't probably not but if I showed you, brought you'll be able to tell the difference. What are the ideas that your brain uses to make that difference? That's the whole dream with is it would be able to That set of commonsense knowledge, that's able to tell the difference. And then there's like a of self-supervised learning, very weirdly called self-play mechanism. That's the mechanism behind the reinforcement learning successes of the systems that won at Go, at, AlphaZero that won a chess. - Oh, I see. That play games? - [Lex] That play games. - Got it. - So the idea of self-play is probably, applies to other domains than just games. Is a system that just And this is fascinating but it knows nothing in the beginning. And the whole idea is it creates a bunch of mutations of itself and plays against those And the fascinating thing is that are a little bit better than you, you start to get better yourself. Like learning, that's how learning happens. That's true for martial arts. It's true in a lot of cases. Where you want to be that are just a little better than you. And then through this process just a little better than you, you start following this process where everybody starts getting and better until you are better than the world champion And it's fascinating because One of the most terrifying that David Silver, the creator one of the leaders of the team said, to me is a, they haven't found the Meaning it could just Now, in the realm of chess, that doesn't matter to us. That it's like, it just ran away with the game of chess. Like it's like just so But the question is what, if you can create that in the deeper effect on human that can be a terrifying process. To me, it's an exciting process if you supervise it correctly, if you inject, if what's you make sure that the goals is aligned with human There's a lot of fascinating within the specifics of neural networks and all the problems that But I would say the really big, exciting one is self-supervised learning. We're trying to get less less and less human And also just a comment and I'll shut up. - No, please keep going. I'm learning. I have questions, but I'm learning. So please keep going. - So, to me what's it's always the application. One of the most exciting applications of artificial intelligence, specifically neural networks is Tesla Autopilot. So these are systems that are This isn't an academic exercise. This is human lives at stake. This is safety-critical. - These are automated vehicles. Autonomous vehicles. We want to be. - Okay. - We've gone through wars on these topics, - Semi-autonomous vehicles. - Semi-autonomous. So, even though it's called it is currently not fully autonomous, meaning human supervision is required. So, human is tasked with In fact, liability-wise, the This is a human factor which is fascinating. I'm fascinated by the whole space, which is a whole 'nother space when AI systems and humans work together to accomplish tasks. That dance to me is one of but I think it will be one of the most important open problems is how the humans and To me, semi-autonomous driving So for Elon, for example, he sees semi-autonomous towards fully autonomous driving. Like, humans and robots Like, humans and humans dance Like, we need to, this is an engineering problem, we need to design a perfect To me forever, maybe this is not the case with driving, but the world is going with always humans and because I think robots just like humans are going And that's what makes life beautiful, that they're flawed. That's where learning happens at the edge of your capabilities. So you always have to figure out, how can flawed robots and such that they, like the sum as opposed to focusing on just - Mm-hmm. - So that's one of the I would say of artificial is autonomous driving, the And that's a really good because those systems And there's a process there the, Andrej Karpathy who's calls it the data engine. And this process applies for which is you build a at doing stuff, you send it out into the real world, it starts doing the stuff and then it runs into what like failure cases, where it screws up. We do this as kids. That you have- - You do this as adults. - We do this as adults. Exactly. But we learn really quickly. But the whole point, and this is the fascinating is you realize there's There's just like weird situations And so the data engine process is you collect those edge cases, and then you go back to the drawing board and learn from them. And so you have to where all these cars, hundreds of thousands of and something weird happens. And so whenever this weird detector fires, it's another important concept, that piece of data goes for the training, for the retraining of the system. And through this data engine process, it keeps improving and and better and better. So basically you send out a pretty clever AI and let it find the edge cases, let it screw up just enough to figure out where the edge cases are, and then go back and learn from them, and then send out that new version and keep updating that version. - Is the updating done by humans? - The annotation is done by humans. The, so you have to, the weird examples come back, the edge cases, and you have to label what There's also some mechanisms but mostly, I think you always have to to understand what's And then there's a lot of debate. And this, the other thing, what is artificial intelligence? Which is a bunch of smart people having very different opinions So AI is basically a community of people who don't agree on anything. - And it seems to be the case. First of all, this is a beautiful description of terms that I've heard many times at meetings in the outside world. And there are so many fascinating things. I have so many questions, but I do want to ask one because it does seem to be a community where at least as an outsider, where it seems like there's about what the terms and the operational definitions even mean. And there seems to be a lot of not just supervised but these sort of intermediate conditions where machines are autonomous, but then go back for more instruction like kids go home from and get a little, moms still feeds them then eventually they leave Is there something in or about people in this that you think lends - Yeah, I think, so, first of all, the the less disagreement there is. So there's lot of disagreement about what is artificial intelligence, but there's less disagreement and even less when you or machine teaching or And then when you get into like NLP language when you get into specific there's less and less about those terms. So you might be hearing the disagreement from the high-level terms, and that has to do with especially when you're talking is a little bit of an art and a science. So the art part is the thing because then you start about how easy or difficult For example, a lot of people disagree with Elon how difficult the problem And so, but nobody knows. So there's a lot of disagreement about, what are the limits of these techniques? And through that, the terminology also contains But overall, I think it's also a young science that also has to do with that. So like it's not just engineering, it's that artificial intelligence truly is a large-scale discipline, where it's thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands huge amounts of money being So we're trying to figure out those terms. And, of course, there's egos and personalities Like the term deep learning, for example, neural networks have been around for many, many decades since the '60s, you can argue since the '40s. So there was a rebranding into the word, deep learning, term, deep learning, that was part of the but it's really the same exact thing. - I didn't know that. I mean, I grew up in when neural networks were discussed, computational neuroscience they had their own journals. It wasn't actually by experimentalists until a few years ago. I would say about five to seven years ago. Excellent theoretical and other colleagues, certainly at Stanford as well that people started paying attention to computational methods. But these terms, neural networks, computational methods, I actually didn't know in deep learning where kind of synonymous. - No, they're always the same thing. - Interesting. It was, so. - I'm a neuroscientist - So, well, because neural networks probably means something else and neural science not something else, but a little different flavor And that's fascinating too, because neuroscience and AI people have started working together in the recent, I would say probably decade. - Oh, machines are going into the brain. I have a couple of questions, but one thing that I'm sort of fixated on that I find incredibly interesting is this example you gave of playing a game with a mutated version of - Yeah. - I find that incredibly interesting as a kind of a parallel or a mirror for what happens when we which is we generate repetitions of whatever it is we're trying to learn, and we make errors. Occasionally we succeed. In a simple example, for instance, of trying to throw bulls - Yeah. - I'm going to have I'll probably miss the dartboard. And maybe occasionally, hit a bullseye. And I don't know exactly But then let's say I was playing darts against a version of myself where I was wearing a visual prism, like my visual, I had a visual defect, you learn certain things You're saying that a machine does the mutation always that it needs to overcome? Because of mutations in biology sometimes give us super powers, right? Occasionally, you'll get somebody who has better than 2020 vision, and they can see better than So, when you talk about against a mutated version of itself, is the mutation always say what or an adaptive or a maladaptive mutation? - No, you don't know until you get, so, you mutate first and then figure out and they - So, you're evolving, the machine gets to evolve - Yeah. And I think of it, which would be exciting if you could actually do with humans. It's not just. So, usually you freeze So, really you take on Andrew of yesterday and you make 10 clones of them. And then maybe you mutate, maybe not. And then you do a bunch of competitions of the Andrew of today, and who wins last. So, I love that idea of like creating a bunch from like from each of and just seeing who's going to be better at like podcasting or science, or picking up chicks at or competing in Jujitsu. That's the one way to do it, I mean, a lot of Lexes would but that's essentially what happens, is in reinforcement learning through the self-play mechanisms, it's a graveyard of systems And the surviving, the good ones survive. - Do you think that, I mean, might have worked in but at the population level. I mean, you get a bunch of birds and some birds have the shaped beak that allows them to get the seeds. I mean, is a trivially simple example of Darwinian in evolution, but I think it's correct even Is what you're referring to? You essentially that normally this is done between members of a different species, lots of different members of and some get selected for, but you could actually create with different traits. - So, with, I should but perhaps it's implied with reinforcement learning One of the big requirements, is to have an objective a utility function, those are all different is there's a like any equation and then you're trying to So, there's a clear - Because it's a game, like - But for anything. Anything you want machine there needs to be an objective function. In machine learning, it's that you're optimizing. The interesting thing about evolution, it's complicated of course, but the goal also seems to be evolving. Like it's a, I guess, is the goal, but it's unclear that you It's like survival of the fittest. It's unclear what the fittest is. In machine learning, the starting point, and this is like what is that fitness function of which it lets you know which So, you need to have a equation like that. One of the fascinating is we figure out objective Like it's the meaning of life, like why the hell are we here? And a machine currently has to have a hard-coded - It has to have a meaning of- - Yeah. - Artificial intelligence-based life. - Right. It can't. So, like there's a lot of about that function being about learning new things but it's still hard coded. If you want a machine to be it has to be given very clear statements of what good at stuff means. That's one of the challenges is you have to formalize the, in order to solve a problem, and you have to provide both like the full sensory information, you have to be very clear that's being collected, and you have to also be clear What is the goal that And that's a very difficult thing for artificial intelligence. - I love that you mentioned curiosity, I am sure this definition but I define curiosity as a strong interest in knowing something, but without an attachment to the outcome. It's sort of a, it could but there's not really it's really just a desire to discover and unveil what's there without hoping it's a you're just looking under rocks. Is that more or less how the, within machine learning, it sounds like there are elements of reward prediction and rewards. The machine has to know when So, can you make machines or are the sorts of machines curious by design? - Yeah, curiosity is a kind So, what happens, is one of the big trade-offs is this exploration versus exploitation. So, when you know very little, even suboptimal, like even trajectories that seem like they're not that's called exploration. The smarter and smarter the more emphasis you put on exploitation, meaning you take the best Now, through that process, the exploration can look but it's really just trying to the thing it's already discovered. From an AI perspective, it's always looking to optimize it derives, and we can but in terms of the tools it derives no pleasure of like, I don't know, discovery. - So, there's no dopamine for machine learning. - There's no reward, system chemical, or I guess electronic-reward system. - That said, if you look at and reinforcement learning literature, that will use, like deep mind, we use we're constantly trying to inspire totally new So, they'll think like, how does dopamine function and how can it lead to to discover optimal solutions? But ultimately currently, there has to be a formal Now, you could argue the humans also has a set we try and optimize, we're just - Yeah, we don't actually and seeking and doing. - Well, like Lisa Feldman Barrett who we spoken with at least - I met her through you, yeah. - Yeah, I hope you actually - Yes, she's terrific. - So, she has a very, it has to do with homeostasis like that. Basically, there's a very that the brain is trying to optimize, like to keep like body Like there's a very dom kind of optimization function happening. And then what we humans do and cognitive abilities, is so we can have nice podcasts, but really it's the brain just like healthy state, I guess. That's fascinating. I also see the human brain, and I hope artificial as not just systems that solve but are also storytellers. I think there's a power We tell stories to each other, Like when you're alone, that's that's when it makes sense to But when you're a community, the capability to share ideas in such a way over a long period of time, that's like, that's being And I think both humans Arguably, I would argue is we're great storytellers. And then AI I hope will also become that. So, it's not just about with a clear objective function, it's afterwards, be able like make up a way better story or why you failed. - So, you think that robots or, are going to start telling human stories? - Well, definitely. So, the technical field for Explainable Artificial Intelligence, is trying to figure out to explain to us humans or why it succeeded, or there's a lot of different or to visualize how it That's a really difficult problem, especially with neural networks that are famously opaque, that we don't understand in many cases, why a particular neural network and to try to figure out that requires the AI to explain itself. There's a huge amount of money, like there's a huge especially from government Because if you want to deploy we humans at least, want why the hell did you do that? Like in a dark way, why did you just kill that person, right? Like if a car ran over a person, we want to understand why that happened. And now again, we're sometimes because we humans can often But that's the field of Explainable AI that people are very interested in because the more and more like the Twitter recommender system, that AI algorithm that's, I perhaps starting wars, or that algorithm, we want first of all, do you know Do you understand the society-level And can you explain the Like we would have that kind we want to be able to do that with an AI. And in my own personal level, I think it would be nice for stupid stuff, like - Why'd you fall down the stairs? - Yeah. But not an engineering question, but almost like an endearing question, like I'm looking for, if I fell and you and I were hanging out, I don't think you need an explanation exactly what were the dynamics, like what was the under Like what was the texture of the floor? Or so on. Or like, what was the- - No, I want to know what you're thinking. - That, or you might joke about like, you're drunk again, go home, or something, like there could be humor in Like storytelling, isn't just it's something that makes people laugh, it makes people fall in and understand things in a way that poetry makes as opposed to a rigorous log of where every sensor was, - I mean, I find this incredible because one of the hallmarks of severe autism spectrum disorders is, a report of experience that is very much a It's like, how do you feel today? And they'll say, well, and then I did this, and I did this. And it's not at all the way that a person who doesn't have autism And the way you describe these machines has so much humanism, or so much of a human but I realized that we were I want to make sure that I understand if there's a distinction a machine with artificial Like at what point does So, if I have a ballpoint pen, I'm assuming I wouldn't call that a robot, but if my ballpoint pen can come to me when I moved to the if it moves by whatever mechanism, at that point, does it become a robot? - Okay, there's 1 million It's a fascinating one. So, first of all, there's Like how do you know something And it's to the question maybe a cold computational or already loading these robot and machine, So, one, I think movement is important, but that's a kind of a boring idea that a robot is just a machine that's able to act in the world. So, one artificial intelligence could be both just the thinking thing, which I think is what machine learning is, and also the acting thing, which is what we usually So, robots are the things that's able to take in the world however you define the world, is able to think and learn and do whatever the hell it does inside, and then act on the world. So, that's the difference between maybe an AI system it's something that's able, a robot is something that's and act in the world. - So, it could be through or it could be through movement or both. - Yeah. And I think it could also as long as there's a aspect of entity that's inside the machine and a world that's outside the machine. And there's a sense in which the machine is sensing that world and acting in it. - So, we could, for instance, there could according to the definition where the robot, where and this robot goes and that it thinks I want to in the morning. There was no movement of that machine, there was no language, but it essentially, has - Yeah, there's a distinction in that there's an element whether it's in the digital So, when you have something most of the speech recognition, is constantly being sent When Alexa is there on its when it's there When it's simply a finger then the Alexa is not a robot, then it's just an interaction device, then may be the main Amazon Alexa AI, big, big system is the robot. So, that's important because to us humans, I think, where whether in the digital that's where ideas of and all those kinds of things that we project our understanding of what it means to be a being. And so, to take that further, when does a machine become a robot, I think there's a special moment. There's a special moment and in a robot's life I think surprise is a where you know how the thing that's a magical moment for us humans. So, whether it's a chess-playing program that does something that that makes people smile like, huh, those moments happen with in chess playing, where grand masters were They didn't understand the move and then they studied and studied and then they understood it. But that moment of surprise, that's for grandmasters in chess. I find that moment of really magical in just everyday life. - Because it supersedes the - So, it's not supersedes, but surprises you in a positive sense. Like I didn't think he could do that, I didn't think that you had that in you. And I think that moment is from a moment of being a servant that accomplishes a particular task with some level of accuracy, to an entity, a being that's struggling just like you are in this world. And that's a really important moment that I think you're not in the AI community that I'm not speaking like some I'm speaking from purely I think it's really important and explore that as a as opposed to everybody treats robots in the robotics community, they don't even call them or he or she, they don't give them, try they've really want to see They see it as a servant that's To me, and don't think I'm I think it's a being, it's a but in the long arc of history, humans are pretty dumb beings too, so- - I would agree with that statement. [Andrew laughing] - So, I tend to really want to really as entities, yeah. So, like anthropomorphization, which is the sort of the act of looking at a inanimate object and projecting onto it life-like features, I think robotics generally I see it as a superpower. Like that, we need to use that. - Well, I'm struck by how that really grabs between human and machine, So, I guess the simple question is, and I think you've already but does interacting In other words, do we develop - Yeah, I definitely think so. I think the moment you as more than just servants but entities, they begin to change you, in just like relationships I think for that, you have to have certain Like the robot's ability to say no, to have its own sense of identity, to have its own set of goals, that's not constantly serving you, but instead, trying to and do that dance of understanding through communication with you. So, I definitely think there's a, I mean, I have a lot of thoughts and that's at the core of of what I want to do, which is I believe that most people have a notion of loneliness in them that we haven't discovered, that we haven't explored, I should say. And I see AI systems as so that we can become better humans, better people towards each other. So, I think that connection between human and AI, human and robot, is not only possible, but will in ways that are like deeper than we ever could have imagined. I tend to believe that [sighing] well, I have very wild levels of belief in terms of how impactful - So, when I think about I don't always break but we could explore a and see how they map to One is just time, right? If you spend zero time in cyberspace or on you essentially have no If you spend a lot of time, this is obvious. But I guess one variable would be time, how much time you spend robot or human. The other would be wins and successes. You enjoy successes together. I'll give a absolutely trivial but the other would be failures. When you struggle with somebody, whether or not you struggle you disagree, like I was really struck by the fact that you said that robot saying no, I've never thought about but there it is. - I look forward to you I send this robots to. - So do I. So, there's struggle. When you struggle with Sometimes the struggles are imposed between those two people, so called trauma bonding, they call it in the whole and pop psychology literature. But in any case, I can imagine. So, time successes and then just peaceful time, hanging out at home, watching movies, waking up near one another, here, we're breaking down the elements of relationships of any kind. So, do you think that these elements apply to robot-human relationships? And if so, then I could see how, if the robot has its own entity and has some autonomy in it's not just there just to serve you, it's not just a servant, it actually has opinions, and can tell you when maybe or your actions are flawed. - It can also leave. - It could also leave. So, I've never conceptualized robot-human interactions this way. So, tell me more about Are we thinking about a I know you and I have both had we have separate dogs obviously, but to animals, it sounds a lot like So, what is the ideal - So, there's a lot to be said here, but you actually pinpointed one which is this idea of time. And it's a huge limitation in machine-learning community currently. Now we're back to like the actual details. Life-long learning is a problem space that focuses on how AI systems can learn over a long period of time. What's currently most are not able to do, is to all of the things the successes, the failures, or just chilling together watching movies, AI systems are not able to do that, which is all the that I believe are the days filled with, they're not able to keep track - 'Cause they can't move - No, no, like literally we to do the learning, the actual learning of Current machine-learning systems are really focused on in the following way, it's more like the perception system, like looking around, understand That there's a bunch that there is cameras and microphones, that there's a table, understand that. But the fact that we shared and still remember that for like next time you're doing something, remember that this moment happened. We don't know how to This is what I'm hoping to innovate on as I think it's a very, of what it means to create that sharing of moments together. - Could you post a photo like selfie with robot and the robot sees that image and recognizes that was time spent, there were smiles, or there were tears- - Yeah. - And create some sort of in the relationship and - So. - Could it... It texts you in the middle why haven't you texted me back? - Well, yes, all of those But I think that time element, just sharing moments together, I believe that changes everything. Now, there's specific things that are more in terms of It's more technical and 'cause I have kind of wild ideas how that can revolutionize social networks and operating systems. But the point is that element alone, forget all the other like emotions, saying no, all that, just remembering sharing moments together would change everything. We don't currently have systems Like even just you and your fridge, just all those times, and ate thing you shouldn't have eaten, that was a secret moment you You shared that moment, that darkness or that beautiful moment where you were just like you're eating that ice cream or whatever, that's a special moment. And that refrigerator was there for you, and the fact that it to remember that is tragic. And once it does remember that, I think you're going to be very You're going to go through some Most of us have, like have weird relationships with food, right? So, you can go through some deep moments of trauma and triumph with food, and at the core of that, So, a smart refrigerator, I Not just the refrigerator, but these ideas in the So, I just want to comment on how powerful that idea of time is. And then there's a bunch of elements of actual interaction of to feel like you're being heard. Truly heard, truly understood, that we human, like deep but there's still an there's still an element of not really being able to And a lot of the times when you're going through trauma together, through difficult times you actually starting to get that inkling of but I think that could be done more Like if you think of a great therapist, I think I've never actually but I'm a believer I used to - Do Russians go to therapists? - No, they don't. They don't. And if they do, the therapist I do believe in talk therapy, which friendship is to or like you don't even necessarily it's like just connecting and the space of experiences. And I think there's a lot of ideas of how to make AI systems to be able to ask the right questions and truly hear another human. This is what we try to do I think there's ways to do that with AI. But above all else, just remembering the collection of moments that make up the day, I think you maybe have Some of my closest friends still are the friends from high school. That's time, we've been and that like we're very different people. But just the fact that and we remember those moments, and those moments somehow like nothing else, like - I love that because my graduate advisor, she unfortunately, she passed away, but when she passed away, somebody said at her at her memorial all these amazing things And then her kids got up there, and she had young children and that I knew as when she was pregnant with them. And so, it was really, you're even now I can feel thinking about this, they're going to grow And it was really amazing, very strong young girls, And what they said was incredible, they said what they about their mother, who is all the unstructured - Mm-hmm. - So, it wasn't the trips to the zoo, it wasn't she woke up and drove us to school. She did all those things too. She had two hour commute it was incredible, ran a lab, et cetera, but it was the unstructured time. So, on the passing of their mother, that's what they remembered and what bonded them to her, was all the time where And the way you describe the is so, I want to say human-like, but I'm almost reluctant to say that. Because what I'm realizing is that what we think of as human-like might actually be the There may be relationships than the sorts of relationships that we can conceive based on what these machine could teach us. Do I have that right? - Yeah, I think so. I think there's no reason to see machines as somehow incapable of that's deeply human. I don't think humans I think we understand and we need to have the kind And definitely part of that, is just remembering the moments. I think the unstructured time together, I wonder if it's quite so unstructured. That's like calling this - Maybe what they meant, there was no specific goal, but a goal was created Like we would just hang out and then you start playing, thumb war, and you end up playing So, it's the structure emerges - No, but the thing is the moments, there's something about those times that creates special moments, and I think those could be optimized for. I think we think of like a big outing as, I don't know, going to or some big, the Grand Canyon, or go into some, I don't know, we don't quite yet understand, as humans, what creates magical moments. I think it's possible to And perhaps like podcasting is like maybe the thing isn't necessarily like some maybe what we want, is - Depth. - Depth. So, we were trying to figure that out, certainly from a deep connection between humans and humans and NAS systems, I think long conversations, or over a series of moments like my new, perhaps, seemingly the big successes, the big failures, those are all just and talking throughout. I think that's the formula for a really, really deep connection. That from like a very specific is I think a fascinating open problem that has been really worked on very much. And for me, from a, if I have the guts and, I mean there's a but one of it is guts, is I'll - So, let's talk about this startup and let's talk about the dream. You mentioned this dream before in our previous conversations, always as little hints Just for anyone listening, there's never been an offline I'm not privy to anything, And I realized that there's no way to capture the full essence of a dream in any kind of verbal statement in a way that captures all of it. But what is this dream that you've referred to now several times when we've sat down together Maybe it's this company, If you feel comfortable, it'd be great if you about what that is. So, the way people I've noticed is quite different. Like Elon is an example of somebody who can very crisply say Also has to do with the fact have nothing to do with humans. So, my long-term vision is a little bit more I've noticed, as I've tried, it could be my brain's failure, but there's a way to sneak up to it. So, let me just say a few things. Early on in life and I've interacted with a few robots where I understood there's magic there. And that magic could be shared by millions if it's brought to light. When I first met Spot I realized there's magic there - Is the dog. - The dog, sorry. The Spot is the four-legged Some people might have seen And sometimes in life, you just notice something And I believe that this is something that this magic is something that could be in every single device in the world. The way that I think maybe Steve Jobs thought about the personal computer, laws didn't think about the but Steve did. Which is like, he thought should be as thin as a sheet of paper and everybody should have one, and this idea, I think it is heartbreaking the world is being filled up with machines that are soulless. And I think every one of them One of the things that also inspired me in terms of a startup, is that magic can engineered That's my intuition with everything I've So, the dream is to in every single computing So, the way that Windows was the primary operating system they built apps on top of it. I think this is something it's almost as an operating system in every device that humans Now, what that actually looks like, the actual dream when it didn't have this it had more of a dream of by interacting with machines, robots. This deep connection was always a dream. And so, for me, I'd love to see a world where and not a robot that washes or I don't know, think of any kind of but more like a companion. - A family member. - A family member, the way a dog is. - Mm-hmm. - But a dog that's able to So, not just connect the way and looking away and almost like smiling with but also to actually like, why are you so Like understand the details, And that, I just think [sighing] that has always filled me with artificial intelligence, More recently, I've been to see the kind of division, derision, even hate that's boiling through social networks. And I thought this kind of in the context of social networks as well. So, it's an operating system on the internet. One of the biggest problems with YouTube and social is they're optimizing for engagement. I think if you create AI systems that know each individual person, you're able to optimize for a long-term happiness. - Of the individual, or- - Of the individual, of the individual. And there's a lot of other things to say, which is in order for AI systems to learn everything about you, they need to collect, they need to just like you we're collecting data about each others the same way AI has to do that. And that allows you to, and that requires you to rethink I think each individual and very easily be able to leave just like AI systems can leave, humans can disappear and delete all of their Which is actually better is once we load the data I think it's very important to be both, give people complete in order to establish trust And the second part of Whenever the data is used to make it very clear And not clear in a lawyerly legal sense, but clear in a way that people really understand what it's used for. I believe when people have the ability to delete all their data and walk away and know how the data is being - The possibility of a clean breakup, is actually what will - Yeah, I think so. I think, exactly. I think a happy marriage acquires the ability to divorce easily without the divorce industrial Things currently going on and then there's so much money to be made from lawyers and divorce. But yeah, the ability to leave is what enables love, I think. - It's interesting. I've heard the phrase from that marriage is the but now we've heard that divorce, or the possibility of divorce could be the leading cause of marriage. - Of a happy marriage. - Good point. - Of a happy marriage. So, yeah. So, there's a lot of details there, but the big dream is that connection between And I haven't. There's so much fear about artificial intelligence that I haven't quite found the right words to express that vision because the vision I have, it's not like some of like technology is it's I really do just have a positive view of ways AI systems can help - I love that positivity and I agree that the stance everything is doomed is equally bad to say that everything's there has to be a dedicated effort. And clearly, you're thinking about what that dedicated You mentioned two aspects to and I want to make sure that I understand where or if they are independent streams. One was this hypothetical or some other form of robot that would allow people to that you experienced many times, and that you would like the and it's such a beautiful And the other is social media or social network platforms and their best selves and their Is there crossover between those, or are these two parallel dreams? - It's 100% of the same thing. It's difficult to kind of explain without going through details, but maybe one easy way to explain the way I think about social networks, is to create an AI system that's yours. It's not like Amazon you own the data, it's like your little friend that becomes your that helps you find things that will also challenge your but not get to that, not let you get lost in the that gets you to be angry, or most just get you to And so, that little representative is optimizing your long-term health. And I believe that that is not it's also good for business. I think longterm, you by challenging this idea that is maximizing engagement. And one of the things that is they think Twitter's Like maximizing engagement I don't think so. I think people have woken up like they don't always feel good, the ones who are on Twitter a lot, that they don't always feel - I would love feedback from whatever this creature, whatever, I don't know what to call it, as to maybe at the end of the week, it would automatically unfollow some of the people that I follow because it realized through about how I was feeling or something that, I don't know, that just wasn't good for me. But it might also put things that I ought to see, is that kind of a sliver - The whole point, because because of sharing the moments you're now able to led you to become a better Like the person you This isn't, if you're into flat earth and that you believe that earth is flat, like the idea that you should If it makes you feel good and you becoming the I think you should be getting as much flat earth as possible. Now, it's also good to but not because the but because you tell to the system that you like challenging your And then, which actually once you go down the that's all you're going to see. It's nice to get some really to argue against flat earth. And it's nice to see that for you, and potentially, at least maybe the earth is not flat. But if you continue to thinking the earth is flat, I think, and you're being a and like you're being the and you're happy with yourself, So, like I think this kind of idea, and I'm just using that kind because I don't like the controlling what you can and can't see, but I also don't like this idea of like not censoring anything. Because that's always the is this there's a central decider, I think you yourself can decide and it's good to have a that you felt last time you did this, or you felt good last time you did this. - Man, I feel like in every good story, there's a guide or a or forges a little bit further, and brings back information that helps us, or at least tries to steer - So, yeah, that's and what I've been working on. I should mention as a you see me up and down So, there's technically Just like with a lot of technologies, and the reason I'm talking about it on a podcast comfortably as is it's really hard and And that's something you have in terms of like like I've also mentioned I really don't care about money, I don't care about business success, all those kinds of things. So, it's a difficult decision to make, how much of your time do and give everything to this? It's a big roll the dice. Because I've also realized that's working on some of these problems, both with the robotics in terms of the machine-learning it's lonely, it's really lonely. Because both on a personal So, on the technical level, I'm surrounded by people which I think all And they doubt you in the following sense, they know how difficult it is. Like the people that they know how difficult they also know how difficult it is to build a system like this, to build the competitive social network. And in general, there's a kind of a loneliness to just working on something on your own for long periods of time. And you start to doubt whether, given that you don't have like that's a big one. But when you look in the mirror, especially when you're young, but I still have that, I'm most things, you look in the mirror, it's like, and you have these big dreams, how do you know you're actually as smart Like how do you know you're going to be able You have this ambition. - You sort of don't, but you're kind of pulling on a string hoping that there's a bigger ball of yarn. - Yeah. [Andrew laughing] But you have this kind of intuition. I think I pride myself in because the reason I have that intuition, is 'cause I think I'm very good at knowing all the things I suck at, which is basically everything. So, like whenever I notice like, wait a minute, I'm kind of good at this, which is very rare for me. I think like that, that might be a ball of And the thing with in terms that are able to interact with humans, I think I'm very good at that. And because we talk about I don't know if I'm very good at podcasts. - You're very good at podcasting, right? - But I certainly don't, I think maybe it is compelling for people to watch a kindhearted idiot maybe that's what's compelling. But in terms of like actual of human-robot interaction But it's hard to know until you do it, and then the world keeps and it's full of doll, it's really hard. And I've been struggling it's kind of a fascinating struggle. But then that's where the is like, aside from the like whenever you're struggling, that's a good sign that if you keep going, that you're going to be - Well, in your case, however, I agree. And actually David had a post recently that I thought was among was one of the more brilliant about how he talked about this myth of the light at the end of the tunnel. And instead, what he was a concept that eventually, That the tunnel, it's not that it's really about adapting It's very Goggins- - I love him so much. - Yeah. You got share a lot in common share a lot in common. But in this loneliness and it seems to me, it has a certain component to which is that the loneliness itself could serve as a driver to build the companion for the journey. - Well, I'm very deeply aware of that. So, like some people can make, 'cause I talk about love a lot, I really love everything in this world, but I also love humans, like even the cheesy stuff, just- - You like romantic movies? - Yeah, not those, not necessarily. So, well, I got so much was it the Tango scene but I find like there's nothing better than a woman in a red - You should move to Argentina my friend. My father's Argentine, when I went on your He said, he dresses well. Because in Argentina, the men go to a wedding in the U.S., by halfway through the night, 10 minutes in the night, - Yeah. - It looks like everyone's they just got dressed up for. And he said, you know, I And then when I started, And then when I started why don't you wear a real [laughing] - I remember that. - No, you can't. But let's talk about this because I think what you're talking about, is building a, not just a but you've alluded to an important thing. And I think you're right. I think within people, there is like caverns of faults and shame, but also just the desire to be seen and heard. And I don't even know that it's seen and heard through language. But these reservoirs of loneliness, I think, well, they're interesting, maybe you could comment Because just as often I haven't quantified it, but it seems that you talk and maybe you just if you're willing, you'll share a little bit more about that, and what that feels like now in the pursuit of building And you've been, let me be direct, you've been spending a lot of time on building a robot-human - Oh, in terms of business, - No, I'm talking about a specific robot. - Oh [laughing] so, okay, I should mention a few things. So, one, is there's a startup with an idea where I hope millions of people can use. And then there's my own personal like almost like Frankenstein explorations with particular robots. So, I'm very fascinated with private sounds like dark, but like in of one experiments to see if I can recreate the magic. And that's been, I have a lot of really good and control systems that are in a dog-like fashion. So, I'm in a really good place there. The stumbling blocks, which also have been part is that I also have to work that I gave so much of my heart, soul and love and appreciation but Boston Dynamics has also, as a company, it has and they have marketing teams. And they're like looking in a suit and tie, it's like, what's he trying to do with all this love and robot interaction and dancing and so on? So, there was a, I it's like, when you break up right now, we decided to part They're huge supporters of but on this particular thing, Boston Dynamics is not focusing on, or interested in human-robot interaction. In fact, their whole business currently, is keep the robot as far because it's an in the industrial setting where it's doing monitoring It's almost like a remote security camera, essentially is its application. To me, I thought it's still, even in those applications, for the robot to be able to and to be able to, in a big map, localize where those humans For example, like this, I did this a lot of work with pedestrians, for a robot to be able to anticipate what the how the human is The humans are not ballistics object, just because you're walking it doesn't mean you'll keep you have to infer a lot of signals, especially with the head And so, I thought that's but they didn't feel that. So, I'll be working with a that are much more open and they're super And hopefully, Boston like getting back with an But so, the algorithmically, The rest, is actually getting to work with. And then there's, for people who'd worked with robots know that one thing is to and the other is to have a real And it breaks down all that are fascinating. And so, there's a big challenge there. But that's almost, it may sound a little bit confusing in the context of our previous discussion because the previous discussion was more about the big dream, how I hoped to have millions of people enjoy this moment of magic. This current discussion about a robot, is something I personally really enjoy, just brings me happiness, I really try to do now everything I maximize that 'cause robots are awesome. But two, given my like I want to use the opportunity Like robots are cool. And if I think they're cool, I hope be able to communicate So, this little robot experiment is a little bit of research project too, there's a couple of publications But the other is just and explain to people And as opposed to people they could still be like see the dark side, the magic of what it means to bring, for a machine to become a robot. I want to inspire people with that. But that's less, it's interesting because in terms of the dream does not So, it does not need to have a body. I think the refrigerator's enough, that for an AI system just to that's enough for loneliness. The embodiment is just- - By embodiment, you mean - Physical instantiation of intelligence. So, it's a legged robot, I have a few other of humanoid robot, a little humanoid robot maybe is like walks around, or even just like a mobile platform they can just like, turn it's like we mentioned with the pen. Something that moves and can look at you, it's like that Butter Robot That is really, it's almost like art. There's something about a that's able to look at that makes you wonder It like challenges you to think, if that thing looks like what the hell am I? And I like that feeling, I think that's really useful for us, it's humbling for us humans. But that's less about research, it certainly less about business and more about exploring our own selves, and challenging others to think like, to think about what makes them human. - I love this desire to share the delight of an And as you describe it, I actually find myself because we all have those or from adulthood, where we want other people to feel that. And I think that you're right, I think a lot of people are scared of AI, I think a lot of people My only experience, and is my Roomba Vacuum, where it goes about, actually, it was pretty good when he was shed and But then when I was on and it would get caught I would find myself getting in that moment, I'm And obviously it's just But that's a kind of mostly positive, but slightly negative interaction. But what you're describing, it has so much more richness that I can only imagine what - Well, there's a few, So, I've had, they're currently in Boston and I have a bunch of Roombas from iRobot. And I did this experiment- - Wait, how many Roombas? [Lex laughing] It sounds like a fleet of Roombas. - Yeah. So, it's probably seven or eight, yeah. - Well, it's a lot of Roombas. This place is very clean. - Well, so, this, I'm kind of waiting, this is the place we're is way larger than I need. But I basically got it to make - So, you have these seven or so Roombas, you deploy all seven at once? - Oh, no, I do different different experiments with them. So, one of the things I want I think there was a YouTube video that inspired me to try this, is I got them to scream whenever they were kicked or contacted. And I did that experiment I meant to do like a YouTube video on it, but then it just seemed very cruel. - Did any Roomba rights - Like I think if I released that video, I think it's going to make me look insane, which I know people - Now, you have to release the video. [Lex laughing] - Sure. Well, I think maybe if I contextualize it by showing other robots like to show why this is fascinating, because ultimately, I felt like there were And that display of - Giving them a voice. - Giving them a voice, especially a voice of dislike, of pain. - I have to connect you he studied speech and and we're life-long friends. He studied speech and language, but he describes some visceral vocalizations, cries, other sounds as well, as such powerful rudders for the other, for the emotions of other people. And so, I find it fascinating, I can't wait to see this video. So, is the video available online? - No, I haven't recorded it, I just hit a bunch of Roombas that are able to scream in [Andrew laughing] So, like people already- - Next podcast episode with Lex, maybe we'll have that one, who knows? - So, the thing is like people, I've noticed because I and it's really who I am, I think they want to, to a lot of people, seems like there's there in there somewhere. And I thought if I release and they're like, yep, yep, - What about like shouts you could do that too, right? - Well, I don't know how to, to me, delight is quiet, right? - You're a Russian. Americans are much louder than Russians. - Yeah. - Yeah. But like I don't, unless I don't know how you would have sexual - Well, I wasn't necessarily - Trust me, I tried. I'm just kidding, that's a joke, internet. Okay [giggles] but I was fascinated in the psychology of how little it took. 'Cause you mentioned you had a negative - Well, I'd find that mostly, - Yeah. - It just served me, it And then when it would do I would get upset with it. So, that's not a good relationship, and I would get upset and and I just like you're in the corner. - Yeah. - But there's a way to as almost cute. You're almost connecting And I think that's artificial - [Andrew] It's interesting. - I think flaws should - So, along the lines of this, the different sorts of relationships that one could have with robots, and the fear, but also some that one could have, there's so much dimensionality, But power dynamics in because the obvious ones, the unsophisticated view of this, is one, there's a master But there's also manipulation, there's benevolent manipulation, children do this with Puppies turn their head and look cute and maybe give out a little noise, kids coup and parents always because they love the parent, but in many ways, studies show that those coups are ways to extract the sorts of from the parent that they want. The child doesn't know it's doing this, it's completely subconscious, but it's benevolent manipulation. So, there's one version of fear of robots that I hear a lot about that I think most people can relate to where the robots take over and they become the masters But there could be another version that in certain communities that I'm certainly not a part of, but they call topping from the bottom, where the robot is into doing things, but you are under the belief but actually they're in charge. And so, I think that's one that if we could explore you could imagine it although it could lead to bad things. The reason I want to explore this, is I think people always like the robots take over and and they're out having fun What sorts of manipulation can a robot potentially - Yeah. Just so, there's a lot of between humans, right? Just like you said. [Lex sighing] To me [sighing] especially topping from the bottom, is that the term? - I think someone from [Lex laughing] It wasn't Lex. - I think. So, first of all, there's and power dynamics in relationships, and power dynamics on the street, and in the work environment, I think power dynamics can especially romantic relationships and fulfilling and exciting So, I don't think in and the same goes with robots. I really love the idea that a robot will be at top or a bottom in terms of like power dynamics. And I think everybody And the manipulation is but a dance of like pulling and all those kinds of things. In terms of control, I think we're very, very, that are able to lock us up. To lock us up in, like to have so much control that we basically cannot live our lives in the way that we want. I think there's a, in terms there's much more dangers that have to do with and all those kinds of things. So, the power dynamics as between nations and war and But in terms of personal relationships, I think power dynamics Now, there's of course, going to be all those kinds of discussions about consent and rights and - Well, here, we're talking about, I always say in any if we need to define a really the context, it always should be context-appropriate, species-appropriate, but now we're talking about And so, I guess that- - No, I actually was trying which is I do believe that robots will have And I think in order for us to have deep, meaningful we would have to consider that deserve respect. And that's a really interesting concept that I think people are a little bit more, but it's very difficult how entities that are other than human. I mean, the same as with can have rights on a level as humans. - Well, yeah. We can't and nor should we do we have a USDA, we have that deal with animal care and for farming and ranching and all that. So, when you first said it, there'll be a bill of robotic rights, but it absolutely makes sense in the context of everything up until now. If you're willing, I'd because you've mentioned a robot dog, you had a biological dog. Yeah. I had a Newfoundland named - In Russia or in the U.S.? - In the United States. And he was about, he's over - That's a big dog. - People know Newfoundland. So, he's this black dog and just a kind soul. I think perhaps that's but he thought he was a small dog. So, he moved like that, and- - Was he your dog? - Yeah, yeah. - So, you had him since - Since the very, very beginning, And one of the things, I we mentioned like the Roombas, he had kind-hearted dumbness about him that was just overwhelming, it's part of the reason I named him Homer, because it's after Homer Simpson, in case people are wondering [Andrew laughing] And so, there's a. Yeah, exactly. There's a clumsiness that immediately led to a And one of the, I mean, he was always, he was always there for that's a powerful thing about a dog that he was there through through all the tough and all those kinds of things. And I remember, I mean, that was a really I still miss him to this day. - How long ago did he die? - Maybe 15 years ago. So, it's been awhile. But it was the first time I've really experienced So, what happened, is he got a cancer. And so, he was dying slowly. And then there's a certain point Now, there's a lot of that I struggle with. Maybe he suffered much that's something I But I remember when I had and the nurses couldn't carry him, right? So, you're talking about a 200 pound dog and I was really into And I remember they tried to figure out all these kinds of ways to. So, in order to put them to sleep, they had to take them into a room. And so, I had to carry him everywhere. And here's this dying friend first of all, that was somebody that heavy when And, yeah. So, I remember it was the first time seeing a friend laying there and seeing life drain from his body. And that realization that was made so real, that here is friend that was the day before, and now he's gone. And that was, I don't know, that spoke to the fact that he could be deeply Also spoke to the fact that that led to that deep friendship but it also spoke to the fact So, I know you've lost Costello recently. - Yeah. - And you can- I'm definitely fighting back the tears. I thank you for sharing that. That I guess we're about to both cry over, I don't want to say dogs [laughing] that it was bound to happen just given when this is happening. Yeah, it's- - How long did you know that - We'll, let's see, a year about six months into the pandemic, he started getting his behavior change and And then I put him on testosterone which helped a lot of things. It certainly didn't cure everything, but it helped a lot of things, he was dealing with and then it just became to the point where two, three weeks ago, he had a closet full of medication. I mean, this dog was, It's amazing to me when I I still haven't cleaned up 'cause I can't quite bring - Do you think he was suffering? - Well, so, what happened, it was really just about He was going up the And he was a big guy, he wasn't 200 pounds, but he's a bulldog, he was And then I noticed that he wasn't carrying a foot in the back like it was injured, it He never liked me to touch that thing was just flopping there. And then the vet found and I was told that the next one would go. Did he suffer? Sure, hope not, but something - Yeah. I know you and I spend and tell you about like the eyes and what they convey and what they mean about internal states and for sake of robots and - You think something about - I think he was real, here, I am anthropomorphizing, I think he was realizing that which was to walk and [Lex laughing] This dog. - The fundamental. it was amazing. I've wondered where he put it, he was like a reservoir of I think, oh, that's Eddie, he'd put like one drop on And then we get to the 50 and he just have, leave a puddle. And here I am talking He was losing that ability he was falling down And I do think he started to realize. And the passage was easy and peaceful, but I'll say this, I'm I mean, I wake up every I don't even make the conscious decision to allow my self to cry, I wake up crying. And I'm unfortunately able thanks to the great support of my friends and you and my family, - You miss him? - Yeah, I miss him. And I feel like, Homer, Costello, the relationship to one's - So, that part of you is gone? - That's the hard thing. What I think is different, is that I made the mistake, I think. Moreover, I hope it was a good decision, but sometimes I think I made the mistake of I brought Costello a through the podcast or posting about him, I anthropomorphized about him in public. Let's be honest, I have no or his relationship to me. And I'm just exploring all 'cause he was my first dog, but I raised him since he was seven weeks. - Yeah, you got hold it together, I noticed the episode you mentioned Costello. Like you brought them back to life for me for that brief moment. - Yeah. But he's gone. - That's the, he's going to be gone - Well, this is what I'm struggling with. I think that maybe you're Like, have you done this before? [Andrew laughing] This is the challenge. Is that actually part of me. I know how to take care - Yeah. - Not perfectly, but pretty well. And I have good support. I do worry a little bit and how people will feel. I'm concerned about their internalization. So that's something - And you have to watch you struggle, which is fascinating. - Right. And I've mostly been but what would make me happiest is if people would internalize some of Costello's best traits. And his best traits were I mean, he was a, 22-inch-neck bulldog, the whole thing. He was just born that way. What was so beautiful has never what he rolled forward. It was just how sweet and kind he was. And so if people can take that, then there's a win in there someplace, so. - I think there's some ways in which she should probably You should, I mean, it's such a, one of the things I loved is that he brought so much joy to you. We mentioned the robots. - Mm-hmm. - Right? I think that's such a powerful thing to bring that joy into, like, allowing yourself to bring that joy to others, That's really powerful. And I mean, not to, this is like the Russian thing, is [chuckles] it touched me that I keep thinking about or like an old man was criticizing Louis for whining about breaking and he was saying like the most they made a song that's catchy now that's now making me but like, is the loss. The loss really also is making you realize how much that person, that dog meant to you. And like allowing and not run away from that And in some ways that's also sweet, just like the love was because you know that through your friend. So I, and like continue to bring that joy. I think it would be I hope to do the same or whatever else is the And maybe, do you think about - Yeah, in time. You're hitting on all I want that to, we're thinking about ways to in a way that's real, not just creating some little Costello much like David but Goggins also has You're going to Goggins and there's an adjective. Like that's extreme. Like it, I think that for me, Costello He was a being, he was his own being, he was a noun, a verb and an adjective. So, and he had this amazing super power that I wish I could get, which is this ability to get everyone else to do things for you [Lex laughing] The Costello effect, as I call it. - So is an idea I hope he lives on. - Yes. Thank you for that. This actually has been which actually brings me to a question, we're friends, we're colleagues working on a project together and in the world, that's somewhat similar. - Just two dogs. - Just two dogs basically. But let's talk about friendship, because I think that I that there are elements of the scientific pursuit. There are elements of many Music, Math always seem to me like they're like the loneliest people. Who knows if that's true or not. Also people work in teams. And sometimes people are surrounded by people interacting with But for me, and I think as well for you, friendship is an incredibly strong force in making one feel like or worth reaching for, maybe even making us So, when you were growing up, you grew up in Russia until what age? - 13. - Okay. And then you moved - To Chicago. - [Andrew] Chicago. - And then Philadelphia, and San Francisco and Boston and so on. But really to Chicago, that's - Do you have siblings? - Older brother. - But most people don't know that. [Lex laughing] - Yeah, he is a very different person. But somebody I definitely look up to. So he's a wild man. He's extrovert, he was into, I mean, so he's also scientists, a bio engineer, but he's, when we were growing up, he was the person who did, drank and did every drug. And, but also as the life of the party. And I just thought he was the, when your older brother, five years older, he was the coolest person So for that, he definitely had a big influence. But I think for me in terms I had one really close friend. And then when I came here but I'm very, I believe, I don't know if I believe, but I draw a lot of strength with other people, and just the small number of people. Just a really small number of people. That's when I moved to this country, I was really surprised how, like, there were these large groups of But the depth of connection from my sort of perspective. Now, I moved to the suburb It's more like a middle class, So it's like people that cared more about material possessions So that added to the thing. But I drove more meaning was from friendship. Early on I had a best friend. His name was, his name is Yura. I don't know how to say it in English. - How do you say in Russian? - Yura. What's his last name? Do you remember if was... [Lex chuckles] - Mikolov. Yura Mikolov. So we just spent all our time together. There's also a group of friends. Like, I dunno, it's like eight guys. In Russia growing up, it's like parents didn't care if you're coming back at certain hour. So we'll spent all day, all usually called football, and just talking about life even at that young age. I think people in Russia and Soviet Union grew up much quicker. [Lex chuckles] I think the education system is world-class in the United really creating really At least they used to be, but I think that they aspire to that. But the education system for like, for younger kids in the Like they did not treat us as kids. The level of literature, - When you were a small child? - Yeah. - Amazing. Amazing. - And like the level of mathematics, and you're made to feel like shit if you're not good at mathematics. Like we, I think in this country, there's more like, especially young kids 'cause they're so cute. Like they're being babied. We only start to really Like, so if you want to be then you get to be pushed. But we were pushed at a young age. Everybody was pushed. And that brought out the best in people. I think it really forced like discover themselves but also discover what they're what they're not. - Is this true for boys and girls? Were they pushed equally there? - Yeah. They were pushed. Yeah, they were pushed There was a, obviously there was more, not obviously, but at least from my memories, more of a, what's the right way to put it? But there was like gender roles, but not in a negative connotation. It was the red dress kind of connotation, which is like, there's a, like guys like lifting heavy things and girls like creating beautiful art, and, like there's- - A more traditional view of gender, more 1950, '60s. - But we didn't think in terms in terms of like roles or something like that or not, it was more about what people care about. Like girls cared about this set of things, and guys cared about the set of things. I think mathematics and engineering was something that guys at least my perception of that time. And then girls cared about beauty. So like guys want to create machines, girls want to create beautiful stuff. [Lex laughing] And now, of course, that I don't take that forward in some kind of philosophy of life, but it's just the way I grew But all, everyone worked hard. The value of hard work was And through that, I think it's a little bit of hardship. Of course also economically especially with the collapse There's poverty everywhere. You didn't notice it as much, but there was a, because there's not much there was a huge value Just meeting with neighbors, everybody knew each other. We lived in an apartment than you have in the Everybody knew each other. You would get together, drink vodka, smoke cigarettes, and play guitar and sing - What's with the sad I mean, Russians do I express - Yeah, they do. - Certainly you do. But what do you think that's about? Is it 'cause it's cold there? But it's called other places too, right? - I think, let's just, first of all the Soviet Union, the echoes of World War II and millions of people that, civilians that were slaughtered, and also starvation is there, right? So like the echoes of that, of the ideas, the Like that's a grandparents, that's parents, that's all there. So that contributes to it, that life can be absurdly At any moment everything can change. So that's in there. Then I think there's an empowering aspect to finding beauty in suffering that then everything It's like, if you just why you meditate on death? Is like, if you just think and find beauty in that, then everything else is beautiful too. And so you write songs And that's somehow helps you There's a hopelessness like, inflation, all those kinds of things and never delivered. And so like, there's a, if you don't sing songs about sad things, you're going to become - Mm-hmm. Interesting. - So they don't want Now, a lot of people did, one of the, but that is the battle against cynicism. One of the things that is a kind of cynicism about, like, if I told you the about dreaming about robots, it's very common for people of saying, no, that's Like, who else do you know that did that? Or you want to start a podcast? Like who else? Like nobody's making money on podcasts. Like, why do you want to start a podcast? That kind of mindset I which is why I would say is still not very good. Which to be a business, like, to be an entrepreneur and you have to have others around you, like friends and support But if you don't give in to cynicism and appreciate the beauty the absurd unfairness of life, then I think it just makes you It's like a, it's a prerequisite for gratitude. And so, yeah, I think that instilled in me ability to appreciate everything, just like everything. Everything's amazing. And then also there is a culture of like romanticizing everything. Like, it's almost like were very like soap opera, like is very like over the top dramatic. And I think that it was not only do I appreciate but I get like emotional about it. In a sense, like, I get like a visceral feeling And the same with friends or Like, there's a deep, like emotional connection that's like way too dramatic too. Like, I guess relative to But I derive so much deep, like dramatic joy from And I think I would attributed that to the upbringing in Russia. But the thing that sticks And have now since then had in the United States, he lives in Chicago. His name is Matt. And slowly here and there accumulating really fascinating people, but I'm very selective with that. Funny enough, the few times, it's not few it's a lot of times now interacting with Joe Rogan [chuckles] it's sounds surreal to say, but there was a kindred spirit there. Like I've connected with him. And there's been people like that also in the grappling sports I've actually struggled, which is why I'm so is I've struggled to - They can be a little - [Lex] Yeah. - Even the biologist. I mean, one thing that I, well, I'm so struck by the you're an engineer, AI, science technology, and that all sounds like hardware, right? But what you're describing is this deep emotional and it's really wonderful. I actually think it's one of scientists and otherwise and your podcast is because In the Hermann Hesse's book, I don't know if you, &quot;Narcissus It's about these elements and the emotional mind and And if people haven't and you embody the full picture. And I think that's so much - I've read every Hermann - As usual [chuckles] as usual I've done about No, it's true. You mentioned Joe, who is a phenomenal human being, not just for his amazing accomplishments, but for how he shows up I think I heard him say the he said, there is no public And he's like, this is me. He said that it was beautiful. He said, I'm like the fish And there is no onstage offstage version. And you're absolutely right. And I. - Fish. [Lex laughing] - So, but, well, you guys, I have a question actually about- - But that's a really good point about public and private life. He was a huge, if I could just comment real quick. Like that, he was a, I've been a fan of Joe for a long time, but he's been an inspiration to not have any difference I actually had a conversation and he said that you like exciting life if you're the same person And I think I understand that idea, but I don't agree with it. I think that's really to be the same person with very few exceptions. Now that said, I don't have So like, I feel like it can be open I don't have anything I'm ashamed of. There's some things that like the screaming Roombas, but I'm not ashamed of them. I just have to present But there's a freedom to being as in public. And that Joe made me realize And also to be kind to others. It sounds kind of absurd, but I really always enjoyed Like just being kind towards others. But I always felt like the Like, there's so much negativity like just around people. If you actually just they, from like, complaining this could be just like the big cities that I've visited. But there's a general negativity, and positivity is kind of suppressed. You're not, one, you're not seen as very intelligent, and two, there's a kind of, you're seen as like a And so I always felt And what Joe made me realize, one, I could be fully just the same person private and public, and two, I can embrace being kind, in just, in the way that I like, in the way I know how to do. And sort of for me on like, whenever I say stuff, that means saying stuff simply almost to the point of cliche. And like, I have the even if I'm being mocked. [Lex laughing] You know what I mean? Like, just it's okay. If everything's going to be okay. Okay, some people will think you're dumb. They're probably right. The point is, like, just enjoy being yourself. And that Joe, more than because he's so successful at Be kind and be the same - I love it. And I love the idea that authenticity doesn't have to be oversharing, right? That it doesn't mean you reveal It's a way of being true - Right. There's never a feeling when that you're hiding or you're being dishonest So, yeah, that's truly liberating. It allows you to think, it allows you to like think freely, to speak freely, to just to be freely. That said, it's not like there's not to be the best version of yourself. So, I'm very careful with So, the whole point, it's not so simple to express the spirit that's inside you with words. I mean, some people are I struggle. Like oftentimes when I say something and I hear myself say it, it sounds really dumb and So that's the responsibility you have. It's not just like being the same person publicly and privately means you can just say whatever the hell. It means there's still to express who you truly are. And that's hard. [Lex chuckles] - It hard. And I think that, we have this pressure, all people, when I say and maybe robots too, feel this pressure to be in that one moment in that one form. And it is beautiful when can capture some essence or something in a song or in but perhaps it's also possible all the things how you show up. For instance, one of the to want to get to know you as and eventually we became friends, was the level of respect that you brought to your podcast listeners by wearing a suit. - Yeah. I was raised thinking that if overdressed by American, you're overdressed for a podcast, but it's genuine. You're not doing it for any reason, except I have to assume, that it was because you have you respect them enough to It's for you also, but it's for them. - Yeah. - And I think between that and your commitment to your friendship, just the way that you talk and the way you hold I think at least as a and as your friend, what I find, is that in aggregate, you're communicating who you are, it doesn't have to be And I think that we're sort of obsessed by like the one Einstein quote, or the one line of poetry or something, but I think you so embody the it's about how you live your life and how you show up as and said and done. - Yeah, that that's, and so, the aggregate is and Jordan Peterson talks about this because he's under attack way more than you and I will ever be, but- - Right now? - For now, right? This is very true for now. That the people who this is one of the problems with Twitter, is they don't consider the aggregate, they take a single statements. And so, one of the defense mechanisms, like again why Joe has is that when you in a lot of people will know that. And so, that makes you much more immune to the attacks of people that bring out an individual statement that might be a misstatement of some kind, or doesn't express who you are. And so, that, I like that And the power of the podcast, is you have hundreds of hours out there, and being yourself and people And once they do, and you post pictures of screaming Roombas as you kick them, they will understand By the way, as a side comment, I don't know if I want to release this because it's not just the Roombas- - You have a whole dungeon of robots. - Okay. So, this is a problem, the Boston Dynamics came But, let me work this out like and maybe because we'll post So, there's legged robots, I'm trying to create a very but like they're also incredible because you can throw them and they'll land fine. And this beautiful. - That's amazing. I've seen the Instagram videos of like cats jumping off of and then walking away. But no one should throw their cat out of a window of a building. - Well, this is the all certainly kicking the robots, its really fascinating how But like just seeing myself do it and also seeing others do it, and I don't know what to do with that. 'Cause it's such a- [Lex laughing] - See. But you don't, 'cause you are- What's interesting? - Yeah. - Before today's conversation, and I'm thinking about robots, Not to satisfy you or to satisfy anything, except that if they have to their being, then I - I don't think we'd be able to kick it, you might be able to kick the first time, but not the second, this is One of the cool things, is one of the robots I'm working with, you can pick it up by and you can throw it in any kind of way and it'll land correctly. So, it's really- - I had a friend who had a cat like that. [Lex laughing] - Oh man, we look forward - Oh no, I'm not but he had this cat, and the cat, he would from across the room, and then or somehow that was the I think no one should but this cat seemed to - But a robot is a robot, and it's fascinating to me how So, it's unfortunate, but I don't think I Like I struggle with that. So, for me to be able I have to almost get like into the state that I imagine like doctors get into when they're doing surgery, like I have to do what which is like start - Dissociate. - Like dissociate. So, it was just fascinating that I have to do that in I just want to take that - No, I think it's an important thing. I mean, I'm not shy about I've worked on experimental animals, and that's been a very challenging aspect of being a biologist. Mostly mice, but in the past no longer, thank goodness 'cause I larger animals as well. And now I work on humans, which I can give consent, verbal consent. So, I think that it's extremely important to have an understanding and where one's own It's not just an important question, it might be the most important question before any work can progress. - So, you asked me about friendship. I know you have a lot of what do you think is the - Well, for me personally, just because of my life and I should say, I do have some female friends they're completely platonic relationships, but it's been mostly male - It has been all male - Interesting. - It's been an absolute lifeline. They are my family, I have a biological family and I have great respect and love for them and an appreciation for them, but it's provided me the, I won't even say confidence because there's always an or any risk worth taking. It's given me the sense that and try certain things to take And I don't consider myself a particularly competitive person, but I would sooner die than disappoint, or let down one of my friends. I can think of nothing worse actually, than disappointing one of my friends, everything else is secondary to me. - What disappointment? - Disappoint, meaning not, I mean, certainly I strive for the friendship, and That can mean making sometimes it's about, I'm terrible with punctuality And so, I just get lost in but it's striving to, to listen to, to enjoy good times and to make time. It kind of goes back to this to make sure that I spend time and to get time in person and check in. And I think there's so many ways in which friendship is vital to me, it's it's actually to me, - Yeah. Well, there's a, I am surprised like with how we don't actually in terms of time, but every time we see each other, it's immediately right So, I struggled that how much for the friendship to be deeply meaningful because they're always there with me even if we don't talk often. So, there's a kind of loyalty. I think maybe it's a different style, but I think to me, friendship is being there Like I'm much more reliable than in like- - You're pretty reliable anyway. - No, but if you're like a or like, I don't know, like yeah, I'll congratulate but like that's not, and I'll be there, but that's not as important when like nobody else when shit hits the fan, where the world turns their back on you, all those kinds of things, that, to me, that's where - Well, I know that to be true about you and that's a felt thing Let me ask one more thing because I'm not a practitioner Jujitsu, I know you are, Joe is, but years ago, I read a which is Sam Sheridan's he talks about all these And maybe it was in the book, but he said that fighting, or being in physical battle with somebody, Jujitsu boxing or some other form of direct physical contact creates this bond unlike any other. Because he said it's you're sharing bodily fluids with somebody that you barely know. - Yeah. - And I chuckled about it and it kind of tongue in cheek. But at the same time, I think this is a fundamental way in which members of a species bond is through physical contact. And certainly, there are other forms, there's cuddling, and and there's in their sexual intercourse, and there's all sorts of things. - What's cuddling? I haven't heard of it. - I heard this recently, but there's a term, they've turned the noun cupcaking it turns out, I Cupcaking is when you I didn't know about this. You heard it here first, although I heard it Cupcaking is actually a- - Cuddling is everything, it's not just like, is it in bed, or is it in the coach? Like what's cuddling? I do look up what cuddling is- - We need to look at this up and we need to define the variables. I think it definitely has to do with physical contact, I'm told, but in terms of battle, a competition, and the Sheridan quote, I'm just curious. So, do you get close, or for instance, you rolled Jujitsu with, or even though you don't know was he right about this? - Yeah, I mean on many levels. He also has the book, what? &quot;A Fighter's Mind.&quot; - Yeah, that was the third one. He's actually an excellent writer. What's interesting about him, I don't know him, but I did he went to Harvard, he was he claims all he did was I don't know if his art was any good. And I think his father And then when he got out he took off around the world learning all the forms of martial arts, and was early to the kind of mixed martial arts and things. Great book. Yeah, yeah. - It's amazing. I don't actually remember and I remember thinking that of what makes fighting like the art, like what makes it compelling. I would say that there's so many ways that Jujitsu grappling, wrestling, is like one of the most I don't know if I would describe in terms of bodily liquids - I think he was more or less joking. - I think there's a few So, one, because you're So, the honesty of stepping on the mat and often all of us have ego thinking we're better than we And then the honesty of being submitted, or being worse than you thought you are and just sitting with that knowledge, that kind of honesty, we don't get to experience We can continue living somewhat of an illusion of 'cause people are not going the mat speaks only the truth, And that vulnerability is the same as like the though it's the loss of a you now have to deal And when you're sitting and there's these other people that are also sitting you get to really connect like, fuck, like I'm not as special and life is like not, life is and we're just sitting some of us can put words So, I think that definitely, is a thing that at least the intimacy. The other thing is the human contact. There's something about, like during COVID, very few people hugged and I always felt good when they did. Like we were all tested, and especially now we're vaccinated, but there's still people, this is true of San Francisco's, they want to keep, not only six feet away, but stay at home and never touch you. That loss of basic humanity is the opposite of what I feel in Jujitsu, where it was like that I don't give a shit about whatever rules we're where you have to keep a distance and all that kind of stuff. Just the hug, like the intimacy of a hug, and you're like just and also there is some through just trying to I don't exactly understand why violence is the such but it is. - Well, in the hypothalamus, the neurons that control sexual behavior, but also non-sexual contact, are not just nearby the neurons that control aggression and fighting, they are salt and pepper It's a very interesting, and it almost sounds kind of risky and controversial and stuff, I'm not anthropomorphizing but in the brain, those you can't separate them And here, the way you describe it, is the same as a real thing. - I do want to make an Again, these are the things that could be taken out of context, but one of the amazing is both guys and girls train it. And I was surprised. So, like I'm a big fan at the gym kind of thing. It reveals the beauty of the female form. But the thing is, like girls are dressed in Jujitsu often. And I found myself not at all, thinking like that at all - Well, the context is very non-sexual. - But I was surprised to learn that. When I first started to Jujitsu, I thought, wouldn't that be kind of weird to train with the opposites - So, boys and girls, men and women, they roll Jujitsu together? - Completely. - And the only times girls kind I mean, there's two contexts, of course, there's always going So, everyone knows who and the other is there's a size disparity. So, girls will often a little bit closer weight-wise, But no, that's one of the things that are empowering to women, that's what they fall in love with when they started doing Jujitsu, is first of all, they gain an awareness and which is great. And then second, they get to [chuckles] especially later on, like these bros that come in who are all shredded and like muscular, and they get to technique to and that's a powerful feeling. - You've seen women force or even choke them up. - Well, I was deadlifting like a four, oh boy, I think it's 495. So, I was really into power-lifting when I started at Jujitsu, and I remember being submitted by, I thought I walked in if not the greatest fighter And so, as a white belt, And then you realize that as long as you're not that you're having, I remember being submitted many times by like 130, 120-pound girls at our Balance Studios in Philadelphia, that a lot of incredible And that's really humbling too that technique can overpower And that's the other thing, there is something about Like there, it just feels, it feels like we were born to do this. Like that- - We have circuits in our brain that are dedicated to There's no question. - And that's what it felt like, it wasn't that I'm learning a new skill. It was like, somehow I am a remembering echoes of something I've learned in the past. - Well, it's like hitting puberty. A child before puberty has no concept of boys and girls having this attraction, regardless of whether to boys or girl, doesn't matter. At some point, most people, not all, but certainly, but most suddenly people appear differently, and certain people take on a for the very first time. - Yeah. - And so it's like, it's revealing a circuitry in the brain. It's not like they learn that it's innate. And I think it, when I hear the way you describe Jujitsu and enrolling Jujitsu, it reminds me a little bit, Joe was telling me recently about the first time he went hunting and he felt like it revealed a circuit that was in him all along, but he hadn't experienced before. - Yeah. That's definitely there. And of course, there's One of the interesting is it's one of the really that you can do late into your adult life, like into your 50, 60, 70s, 80s. When I came up, there's a few people in And as long as you're smart, as long as you practice techniques and pick your partners correctly, you can do that kind of art. That's late into life. And so you're getting exercise. There's not many activities I find that are amenable to that. So, because it's such a thinking game, the Jujitsu in particular is an art or technique pays off a lot. So you can still maintain, first of all, remain injury and also through good be active with people that And so that was, to me, that and running are the two activities you can kind of do late in life. Because to me a healthy life has exercises as the piece of the puzzle. - No, absolutely. And I'm glad that we're because I know that there's for you, you've talked before about the crossover between the physical and the Are you still running at for ridiculously long? - Yeah, so, definitely. I've been running late People tell, the area we're in now, people say it's a dangerous area, which I find laughable coming No, I run late at night. There's something. - If you see a guy running in a suit and tie, it's probably. [Lex laughing] - Well, yeah. I mean, I do think about that 'cause I get recognized I worry that, but not really, that I get recognized late at night. But there is something about the night that brings out those deep and self-reflection, that really enjoy. But recently I started So I'm going to be competing or hoping to be compete - In Jujitsu? - In Jujitsu, yeah. To get back to competition. And so that requires getting I've been getting, running as part of my daily routine. - Got it. - [Lex] Yeah. - Well, I always know I can reach you regardless of time zone in wherever that happens. - Well, part of that has and being a programmer. Those two things just don't work well in terms of a steady sleep schedule. - It's not bankers hours kind of work. Nine to five. I want to, you mentioned single. I want to ask you a little bit about the other form of relationship, which is romantic love. So, your parents are still married? - Still married, still happily married. - That's impressive. - [Lex] Yeah. - A rare thing nowadays. - [Lex] Yeah. - So you grew up with that example? - Yeah. I guess that's a powerful thing, right? If there's an example - Yeah. I didn't have that in my own family, but when I see it, it's inspiring and it's beautiful. The fact that they have that, and that was the norm for you, I think is really wonderful. - Well, it was a, in the case of my parents 'cause there's obviously tension. Like, there'll be times where they fought and all those kinds of things. They obviously get frustrated but they find mechanisms how to communicate that to each other, like to make fun of like to tease, to get some and then ultimately to reunite and find their joyful moments and be that the energy. I think it's clear 'cause I got together in like very, very young. I think you grow together as people. - Yeah. You're still in the critical [laughing] - And also, I mean, it's just like divorce was so frowned upon that you stick it out. And I think a lot of couples the Soviet Union, that's probably applies You stick it out and you put in the work, you learn how to put in the work. And once you do, you start to get to some of those rewarding aspects of being, like through time has sharing That's definitely something but maybe that's where I have. So I have a similar kind of longing to have a lifelong partner, like to have that kind of view, where same with friendship, lifelong friendship is That there is something with that time of sharing all that time together. Like till death do us Not by force, not because of the religion said it or the government said it but because you want to. - Do you want children? - Definitely, yeah. Definitely want children. It's- - How many Roombas do you have? - Oh, I thought- - You should, no, no- - Human children? - No, human to human children. - 'Cause I already have the children. - Exactly. What I was saying, you probably need to at as you do Roombas. Big family, small family. - So. - In your mind's eyes, they're a bunch of - So I'll tell you, like realistically, I can explain exactly my thinking, and this is similar to if I'm like purely logical right now, my answer would be I don't want kids. Because I just don't have enough time. I have so much going on. But when I'm using the for the robots is I know my life will be Like I know I would love being a father. And so the question of how many, that's on the other side of that hill. It could be some ridiculous number. So I just know that- - I have a feeling and I could be, I don't have a crystal I see an upwards of, certainly three or more - So much of that has to do with the partner you're with too. So like that, that's especially in this society of 'Cause I'm deeply empathetic. I want to see, like to me, what I look for in your relationship is for me to be really excited about the passions of another person, like whatever they're into, it doesn't have to be a career success. Any kind of success, just to be excited for them, and for them to be excited for me. And like share in that and build and build. But there was also what kind of shit do you And I think family is a - It certainly is. I mean, I think that I I think best, which is that you first have, he's in a very successful relationship and has a family. And he said, you first have to define the role and then you have to cast the [Lex laughing] - Well, yeah, there's but there's also an aspect to from this side of it to define the role. I think there's part of that you have to take. And I see having kids that way. You just have to go with As long as there's love there, like what the hell is life for even? So I've, there's so many incredibly that I've gotten to And the presence of kids for the most part has only been something something they gave them meaning, something that made them the like made them more productive, not less, which is fascinating to me. - It is fascinating. I mean, you can imagine if the way that you felt about Homer, the way that I feel is at all a glimpse of what - Exactly. The downside, the thing I worry more about I've seen, the kids are almost universally a source of increased productivity Like, yeah, they're a pain in the ass. Yeah, is complicated. Yeah, so and so forth, people But then when you actually look past that little shallow layer of The source of pain for a lot of people is if when the relationship doesn't work. And so I'm very kind of dating is very difficult, and I'm a complicated person. And so it's been very difficult to find the right kind of person. But that statement doesn't even make sense because I'm not on dating You're like the first It's like you and Michael So, like, I don't think What is it? An element of the female So, I think you have to What is it? Daniel Johnston says, but only if you're looking. So there's some element and putting yourself out there in kind of different situations. And I don't know how to do that when you're behind a - Well, you're a builder and you find solutions, and I'm confident the - I think you're implying that I'm going to build the - Well, and maybe we shouldn't the notion of friendship and community, and if we go back to this maybe you'll meet this or maybe you'll or something of that sort. - So, one of the things, I dunno if you feel the same way, I definitely one of those and that's it. - Yeah, I can't say I'm like that. With Costello it was instantaneous. - Yeah. - It really was. I mean, I know it's not romantic love, but it was instantaneous. No, I, but that's me. And I think that if you know, you know, because that's a good - It's, I'm very careful with that, because you don't want to fall So I try to be very kind of careful with, I've noticed this because like this mug, everything I fall in love So, like, you have to be really careful because a girl comes up to you and says she loves DUSTY HUSKY, that doesn't necessarily - Yes. And I like the way you said that out loud so that you heard it, you doesn't mean you need - [Lex] Exactly. - [Andrew] Right. - But I mean, but people are amazing, and people are beautiful and that's, so I'm fully embraced that, but also you have to be And at the same time, like I mentioned to you offline, I don't, there's something about me that appreciates swinging for like doing serial - Like you're a one guy, - [Lex] Yeah. - And you said that. - And it's tricky because you want to be careful Especially now there's a growing platform that have a ridiculous of a certain kind. But I'm looking for deep connection, and I'm looking by sending home alone, and every once in a while - Perfect solution. - Perfect solution. - Is going to workout great. - It's well, it's part of, that constitutes machine - Yeah, of sorts. - I do, you mentioned what has now and expansive public I mean, the number of people out, first time I saw your podcast, I noticed the suit, I was like, he respects his but I also thought this is amazing. People are showing up for and technology information and other sorts of discussions. Now, I do want to talk for So my two questions about the podcast are, when you started it, did you have a plan? And regardless of what that answer is, do you know where you're taking it, or would you like to leave us? I do believe in an element But what about the podcast? Do you enjoy the podcast? I mean, your audience really enjoys the podcast. It's incredible. - So I love talking to people, and there's something about microphones that really bring out the best in people. Like you don't get a If you and I were just hanging out, we would have a very in the amount of focus we We would be having fun and doing other things. There'll be a lot of distraction. There would be some phone use But here we're 100% focused on each other and focus on the idea. And like sometimes playing with ideas that we both don't know the answer to, like a question we don't We're both like fumbling with it, trying to figure out, trying to get some insights at something we haven't and together arriving at that. I think that's magical. I don't know why we need but we somehow do. - It feels like doing science. - It feels like doing That's exactly it. And I'm really glad you said that because I don't actually often say this, but that's exactly what I felt like. I wanted to talk to friends to do real science together. That's how I felt about it. Like to really talk through problems that are actually interesting, as opposed to like incremental work that we're currently working for for a particular conference. So really asking questions like, what are we doing? Like, where's this headed to? Like, what are the big, is this really going to help us solve, in the case of AI, solve intelligence? Like, is this even There's a certain sense, which is why I initially called Is like most of us are not working on artificial intelligence. You're working on some and a set of techniques, at the time it's machine learning to solve this particular problem. This is not going to take us to a system that is anywhere close of the human mind. Like the kind of stuff in terms of memory, in terms of cognition, in terms of reasoning, common sense reasoning. This doesn't seem to take us there. So the initial impulse was, can I talk to these folks do science together through conversation? And I also thought that I didn't think there was with world-class minds that I got to meet. And not the ones with the book, or like this was just the thing. Oftentimes you go on this but there's a lot of minds - And the books constrain when you're talking about - But there's, I've noticed that, with people that haven't written we get to talk about ideas in a new way. We both haven't actually, when we raise a question, we don't know the answer to it And we try to arrive there. Like, I dunno, I remember asking questions in deep learning of, why do neural networks That question is often loosely asked, but like when you have microphones and you have to think through it, and you have 30 minutes to an hour to think through it together, I think that's really powerful. So that was the one goal. The other one is, again, don't usually talk about this, but there's some sense in which I wanted to have dangerous conversations. Part of the reasons I is like, I want it to be fearless. The reason I don't usually talk about it is because I feel like I'm So it looks like it doesn't But I wanted to have really that I uniquely would be able to do. Not completely uniquely, but like, I'm a huge fan of Joe Rogan, and I had to ask myself, what conversations can I For me, I know I bring this up, but for me that person I thought about at the time was Putin. Like that's why I bring him up. He's just like with Costello, he's not just a person. He's also an idea to me Just to have those And the reason I'm uniquely qualified as both the Russian, but also there's the judo there's a lot of elements that he hasn't had before. And there's a few other people that I kept in mind, like Don Knuth, is a computer scientist from Stanford that I thought is one of the And nobody really talked to him, like really talked to him. He did a few lectures, which people love, but really just have a There's a few people like that. One of them passed away, John Conway, that I never got, we agreed to talk, but There's a few people like that, that I thought like it's such a crime to not hear those folks. And I have the unique ability to know how to purchase and plug it into a and then publish it, which Like that's not easy in People knowing how to - No. They can build Faraday cages, and two-photon microscopes all sorts of things, but the idea that you could take ideas and export them into a that people would benefit from seems like a cosmic achievement to them. - I don't know if it's fear or just a basically they haven't tried it, so they haven't learned the skill level. - But I think they're not trained. I mean, we could riff on this for awhile, but I think that, but it's important. And maybe we should, which is that it's, they're not trained to do it. They're trained to think in specific games and specific hypotheses, and many of them don't care to, right? They became scientists because and so why would they - Well, they also don't the value in it. We're all together learning, you and I are learning the value of this. I think you're probably having an exceptionally successful that you started just recently. - Thanks to your encouragement. - Well, but there's a you're definitely an inspiration to me in how you did the podcast in the level of excellence you reach. But I think you've discovered that that's also an That podcast. And I think a lot of scientists have not yet discovered that. That this is a, if they apply same kind of rigor as they do to academic publication or to even conference presentations, and they do that rigor whatever that is, that could be a five-minute podcast, a two-hour podcasts, it could be conversational, or it can be more like lecture like, if they apply that effort, you have the potential to reach over time, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of people. And that's really, really powerful. But yeah, for me giving a especially for me personally, so maybe you can speak to but I thought computer scientists were especially bad at this. So there's brilliant computer scientists that I thought it would be explore their thinking. And so that I took that almost as an, on as an effort. And at the same time I or people that connect So the wrestling. Wrestling, music, football, both American football and soccer. I have a few particular people that I'm really interested in. Buvaisar Saitiev. The Saitiev brothers, just to talk to them, 'cause. - Oh, 'cause you can, you guys can communicate- - In Russian and in wrestling, right? As wrestlers and as Russians. And so that little, it's like an opportunity to explore a mind that I'm able to bring to the world. And also it, I feel like it makes me a better person, just that being that vulnerable and exploring ideas together. I don't know, like good conversation. I don't know how often you have really good but like podcasts are like that. And it's deeply moving. - It's the best. And what you brought through. I mean, when I saw you Nobel Prize winning physicist, and these other folks that, it's not just 'cause he has a Nobel, it's what comes out of And what you were able to was so much better, light years beyond what he I don't want to even 'cause it's really about conversation. Light years beyond what anyone else had been able to engage with him was such a beacon of what's possible. And I know that, I think that's what people are drawn to. And there's a certain intimacy, that certainly to people, and they know each other, that there's more of that, but there's an intimacy in those kinds of private conversations that are made public. And. - Well, that's the, with you, you're probably starting is like, part of it, because you're authentic and you're putting yourself people are almost not just consuming the words you're saying, they also enjoy watching you, Andrew, struggle with these ideas or try to communicate these ideas. They like the flaws, they like a human being. - Oh, good, that flaws. - Well, that's good 'cause - But they like the self-critical aspects, like where you're very careful, where you're very I mean, in that same way, it's interesting I think for people to watch me talk to Penrose, not just because Penrose but here's this like silly Like they know this kid. There's a human connection Same, I think with Putin, right? Like it's not just as a it's also, here's this kid struggling to talk with one of the most powerful, some will argue dangerous They love that. The authenticity that led up to that. And in return, I get to connect, everybody I run to in the street and all those kinds of things, there's a depth of connection there, almost within like a minute or - Yeah, there's an intimacy that you've formed with with them. - Yeah, we've been on this And yeah, I have the before I ever met him, right? Like I was, because I was a fan of there's something, there's a kind of friendship to say in podcasting and - Yeah. Maybe it fills in a little bit of that or solves a little bit of that loneliness that you've been talking about earlier. - Until the robots are here. [laughing] - I have just a couple more questions, but one of them is on behalf I'm not going to ask you but I just want to know, does it have a name? And you don't have to tell us the name, but just, does it have a name? Yes or no? - Well, there's a name he and then there's a private name in the privacy of his own No. [Lex laughing] I'm not that insane. No, his name is Hedgy. He's a hedgehog. I don't like stuffed animals. But his story is one of minimalism. So I gave away everything I own, now three times in my life. By everything I mean almost everything, kept jeans and shirt and a laptop. And recently it's also been guitar, things like that. But he survived because he was always in, at least in the first two and he just got lucky. And so I just liked the And I first saw him in the, the reason I got a stuffed animal, I don't have other stuffed animals, is it was in a thrift store, in this like giant pile of stuffed animals and he jumped out at me, because unlike all the rest of them, he has this intense mean look about him. That he's just, he's upset at life, at the cruelty of life. And it's just, especially in the contrast they have this dumb smile on their face. If you look at most stuffed animals, they have this dumb look on their face. They're just happy. Is like &quot;Pleasantville.&quot; - It's what we say in neuroscience, they have a smooth cortex, not many form. - Exactly. And this, like Hedgy like saw through all of it. He was like Dustyesky's I mean, there's a sense that he saw the darkness of So like, and there's also a famous Russian cartoon, &quot;Hedgehog in the Fog&quot; that I grew up with, I connected with. [Lex laughing] People who know of that cartoon, you could see it on YouTube, it's. - &quot;Hedgehog in the Fog.&quot; - Yeah. [Lex laughing] It's just, as you would expect, especially from like It's a hedgehog, like sad, walking through the fog, exploring like loneliness and sadness. It's like, but it's beautiful. It's like a piece of art, people should, even if you don't speak Russian, you'll see, you'll understand. - Oh, the moment you said so it's in Russian? But of course it's in- - It's in Russian, but it's more, it's very little speaking in it. It's almost a, there's an interesting exploration of how you make sense of the world when you see it only So he's trying to understand the world. - We have Mickey Mouse, we have Bugs Bunny. We have all these crazy animals, and you have the &quot;Hedgehog in the Fog.&quot; - So there's a certain period, and this is again, I don't know what it's attributed to, but it was really powerful, which there's a period in Soviet history, I think probably '70s and '80s where like, especially kids were Like they were treated with the weightiness of life. And that was reflected in the cartoons. And there was, it was allowed to have like not like dumb cartoons that are trying to get you but like create art. Like stuff that, you know how like short cartoons or short films can win Oscars, like that's what they're swinging for. - So what strikes me how we were talking it's almost like they - Yeah. - Like that they have an intelligence and they honor that intelligence. - Yeah, they're really Like you want to protect them from the true cruelty of the world. - Sure. - But in terms of their or like philosophical capacity, they are right there with you. And so that the cartoons reflected that, the art that they consumed, education reflected that. So he represents that. I mean, there's a sense of, because it's survived so long and because I don't like stuffed animals, that it's like we've been and it's the same, sharing the moments And there's a sense in which, if all the world turns at least we got each other. And he doesn't die, because he's an inanimate object, so. - Until you animate him. - Until you animate him. And then I probably would want to know what he was thinking He's probably really into Taylor Swift or something like that. And it's like that I wouldn't - Well, I now feel a connection to Hedgy, the hedgehog that I And I think that encapsulates the kind of possibility of connection that is possible between and through robotics certainly. There's a saying that I heard that's just been ringing in my mind throughout this conversation in such a, I think appropriate way, which is that, Lex, you are in a minority of one, you are truly extraordinary so many aspects of science, engineering, public communication, martial arts and the emotional And just the purposefulness, and I think if it's not clear to people, it absolutely should be stated. But I think it's abundantly clear that just the amount of time and thinking that you put into things is, it is the ultimate mark of respect. So, I'm just extraordinarily and for this conversation. - I'm proud to be a friend. And I just wished you showed me the same kind of respect by wearing a suit and make your father [Andrew laughing] - Next time indeed. Thanks so much my friend. - Thank you. Thank you, Andrew. - Thank you for joining with Dr. Lex Fridman. If you're enjoying this please consider subscribing on YouTube. As well, you can subscribe Please leave any questions that you have for future in the comment section on YouTube. At Apple, you can also leave If you'd like to support this podcast, we have a Patreon. That's patreon.com/andrewhuberman. And there you can support us Also, please check out at the beginning of the podcast episode. That's the best way to Links to our sponsors can And finally, thank you for [bright music]