When I first played The Witcher 3, I thought I after a dozen or so hours of playtime, but then I had played plenty of massive open-world some had incredible and expansive wilds to journey explore, I had never played one that did both cities never felt realistic. For instance, take and impressive in terms of theming and visual they are far too small and singular in with each city having the amount of people you'd and not a place with a fortified keep. I don't the Cloud district lately, it's a bit baffling separation between it and the rest of Whiterun. given the general design goals of Skyrim--they want anything, and creating bigger cities where most set dressing would take away that aspect. Also to reality probably would have broken Skyrim's right choice for the game, it does still have makes it all the more obvious that it is just a Novigrad however really feels like a city. all going about their business--and more often one place for all time. They move around, they places to be. Along with that, there are more the majority of which tower over you making it It can't be understood in just one glance and is and mountains of the world outside the walls. that's undeniable and makes the game far richer rest of the world, and how it operates as well as provides a sort of realism to it. It Now, of course in reality to be. The design goal of cities in real life transportation, and work to those living accommodate hundreds of thousands of people, to build something that supports the people who the design goal generally is to support just one game city doesn't need to provide anything for the It doesn't matter that new ships will these carts in Assassin's Creed 2 are always City don't really make any sense--although it in that video he makes a point about how video The aim of developers is to capture a vibe, focused on creating practical cities--they're enough. With the exception of stuff like City aren't truly simulations, they're simulacrums--a therefore am almost certainly missing its full doesn't have the components to truly operate, they are able to convincingly fake it. Novigrad the trappings of one that is, making it extremely immersion we so often hope to find in games. This to shatter though. If you spend time following each is not an individual, they are an archetype. then move around interacting with environmental tasks are. She'll clean clothes in any washtub from one spot to another, he'll count the but there is no rhyme or reason for any of it; to wear or earn them money to help support their because why would it? Who cares about a nameless What does matter is that at a glance, it in all likelihood, you'll only give them a have better things to do than watch this guy saw You've got a daughter to find and monsters appreciate the moving piece of the city, the game going to run by these people because what you have any single person's mundane life here. The game matters is that it adds to the player's sense to the aspects of the gameplay and story that a missing part of a place with a sense of life to Designing a city in a way that enhances the operates or seems to operate, it also can be seen real world sprung up near various water sources and then had to take the natural environment into in games, devs aren't having to figure out they're making the landscape. The two can be vision and not have to compromise to account be used in the lore to justify why a city the player something to interact with. So or placement of buildings--they all exist for the plausible feature while also being engaging to to walk, especially when certain goals may it seems pretty clear that CD Projekt Red wanted could get lost in, but at the same time, as they almost certainly wanted it to feel navigable whenever they try to go from one spot in the city pursues and choices they make, one can spend an so making sure that moving through it didn't feel game mattered a fair bit. To their credit, of the few areas in The Witcher 3 where I feel and this is done through the inclusion of clever instance, a few branches of the Pontar River cut the city. To the south are the docks and various the market district which is also alongside some temple isle, which is controlled by the worst There is a lot of space to get lost within, but to make it easy to get your bearings. Finding the out of the city. It also is right near Heirarch's based out of. Following the coast gives an easy and even when further away from the bay, the sails different places across the city, giving players As for how it uses the terrain, there are north the elevation increases and when going but generally when heading north there is an stems from how we tend to associate so having that reflected in the topography social classes to various elevations, with the lower class being at the bottom. This has a fair were often settled at the top of hills as they but here it mostly serves to further create a Quest design even plays a role in making the city locations for main quests and major side quests much draw a straight line from the Rosemary and to the Passiflora, And these are all places that there are tons of streets that weave throughout this line through the center of the city, so if you'll typically be able to figure out where mini-map. Of course, some players still will just have turned it off completely won't really be of these aspects don't mean that players will but the general layout and the natural guides it These aspects aren't necessarily things you but they can be felt, and this sort of subtle a player feels within a space. Novigrad's clever in, but feels lived in by you, and by the it goes from a city you thought you'd I think it's worth mentioning that despite does take cues from real medieval ones, and of legitimacy. Some titles of course take this a In Assassin's Creed II for instance Ubisoft famous cities like Florence and Venice. and they contain many real world buildings player and provides information on, and as a whole. Almost like if these buildings and of course that's not really the case. The are plausible, but not accurate. Doing a perfect over 500 years ago would be impossible, and more of the game which is to make Ezio's climbing and can. Everything is scaled so that the player escape or an undetected approach. Buildings tend windows and other ornamentations are spaced halt Ezio in his tracks, and, of course, lookouts in the city. It takes just enough but then every aspect of how it operates from the to scaffolding that helps you get from the street Another, more modern example of this can be Now while it is inspired by Los Angeles, Los It has plenty of notable LA landmarks that even but it isn't worried about presenting them how they structure every bit of the city. In fact, actually uses the same elevation trick as Novigrad tends to take you north and to richer areas, where income parts of the city--a technique Rockstar seen with Saint Denis in Red Dead Redemption 2. people see everyday whether it be in person or the city that makes it more believable, but then What I find most interesting about Los Santos in the Grand Theft Auto series, is that certain serve an opposite function within the game. and stop signs aren't placed around the world they are there for you to run into. Honestly, Grand Theft Auto is a series about ignoring thoughts that cross your mind. The things that and slow down and be safe, are meant to not transgressed. It is a city that looks the same are supposed to engage with it is fundamentally Honestly, I think this is part of why with GTA and people get annoyed that they can't enter every isn't something most of us would do in the real break into almost anywhere, sso the fact that in property, most buildings don't have insides Of course, having interiors for every single and the benefits of it would not outweigh the toll not being able to enter any house does still the game is trying to cultivate. All things few and far between. The city and how it operates want without many obstacles. Roads are bigger making it easy to swerve between them. Despite Los yourself in a traffic jam. Curbs are low and easy and places to hideout from the cops during a chase even Los Santos' demographics play into this. had included them, in order for the game to get Skyrim route of making them invincible, which be as destructive as they want, so to not get in The Grand Theft Auto series is meant to feel surface it resembles a real city, the shifts it to engage with it in a way most people never in Rockstar's follow up to GTA 5, Red Dead more about including things that will enhance of a chaos playground, but by and large the game use him as an avatar for destruction. While there there is a distinct story the game is aiming to a role in telling it, and this is reflected Reaching Saint-Denis is a pivotal point of the the Pinkertons are closing in on the Van Der Saint Denis is that corner. It represents the way Where Novigrad feels similar to the rest of the Saint Denis feels like a whole new world all trollies attached to powerlines weave through the skies. Civilization is creeping into the frontier and time is starting to run out. It is designed this new way of life starts to take over, and Arthur is going through during this section of ever changing world? Who is he if everything he to live a good life? Technically players but coming by it through the natural progression of story aligning with setting. Of course, while I from an open expanse to a dense metropolis to the world as a whole feel more cohesive, and something to be said about titles that use their Take, Cyberpunk 2077, it largely takes place the opposite of Grand Theft Auto 5 in terms of not is simple and quick to navigate, Night City is an sense. There's a really great video by Morphologis and one of the major things he talks about of the setting it takes place within. Cyberpunk are king and red tape and regulations are for a road or anything really that will help their long-term efficacy. Night City is an amalgamation making the city itself a nightmare to move through while it may create the desired effect of it also risks alienating players whenever they here is that navigation feeling so sloppy plays overwhelming urban expansion that hardly cares the greater system you barely are even recognized in an oddly beautiful way. Unlike Novigrad, and while you may be able to orient around some few more regularly traveled areas, it is hard to offers like the mini-map. And for those who watch thing, but I actually think it works better here genre and this game in particular is a reliance upgraded and is a part of who they are, so needing fits in perfectly with this concept. Despite design, it's not what the game really centers like The Witcher 3. The point of Novigrad's scope for a needle in a haystack, but the point of it feel inescapable and heavy, which I imagine an incredibly dense and abstruse place instead of beyond Night City almost feels impossible, and I think the reason cities in games pique settings do is because of how layered they need pieces all concentrated in a relatively small a village or a cave or a forest. When looked feel wrong in one way or another. Realism and as graphical capabilities become more we get closer and closer to being able to make While I am sure that there could be an incredible city--one where the actions of NPCs change the matter in order to keep the city running, where the place you're in--I don't think that this kind It sounds good and in the right context could be actually serve most titles. Games are tailored ways, and that means creating a reality to that's what players want. They want a city that want one that enhances the core gameplay, they they never could in real life, they want one that are weird because if they weren't they wouldn't games. Ultimately, as much as we may say we at least not to its fullest extent--it's limiting what I think we actually want is the illusion is an illusion often breaks the illusion, And while we're doing some pretending, I have a pair of headphones that I really love--my else sounds like trash now. They are what I plan to them is that they are just headphones, has the perfect solution for this problem in the that might be great for you depending on your and it's awesome. It sounds great--it's and it can be attached to any flat surface, even a and it comes with a USB3 adapter meaning you your phone or a steamdeck. It's practical for doing anything from chatting with friends to they did recently come out with the ModMic UNI 2, great. Whatever your needs are, there's a good Antlion Audio offers from the ModMic to the in-ear bang for your buck, and if you're watching this running a Cyber Week sale from November 26th to and Kimura products, making your buck bang even microphone without breaking the bank, check them find what works best for you. Anyway, thanks For all of you still here, I appreciate channel possible. It means the world. With that, I hope you have a great day and/or