We can't control the weather (yet). But we renewable energy. So how do we snatch up batteries can only go so far...and our historical only works in certain locations. What down? By making use of geography like salt caves, compressed air energy storage can be an aren't available. What's better is that it has that other technologies can't for a lower If that weren't enough, Canadian company Hydrostor variation of compressed air energy storage that method has been years in the making, with for decades -- but Hydrostor is one of a handful of Can compressed air change the energy storage I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by If you haven't noticed, we talk a lot and for good reason. It's like the corner pieces a pretty picture without it. For example, our which means that making the best use of solar can't fully rely on the whims of nature to reserve to draw from as our plan B. Or perhaps We briefly discussed this mostly underground tech worldwide deployment have sent compressed air of the more important updates, on top of a spate of grid-scale, emissions-free CAES within To understand what that means, let's We'll expand on the full process behind it here's the main gist. CAES systems convert sunshine into potential energy in the of CAES sites as being divided into there's the machinery that runs the plant, where Underground lies the storage, where the compressed air in question is pushed usually, but not always, inside a pre-existing though, that Hydrostor is opting to bring out by planning to dig a greenfield cavity. the air flows through an expander turbine that Compressed air has actually been with the 1978 Kraftwerk Huntorf project in Germany widely cited as the first in operation. Part of time though is, ironically, heat. Compressing around, but you also need heat to keep your The reason why heat is so essential to to thermodynamics. Air rapidly cools down can form condensation or freeze turbines. about the handheld cans of compressed air This is getting really cold! This can is and I don't know if you can hear it, but the air Without a means of extracting the it goes to waste...and that means falling back on I'm sure you can see right away However, Hydrostor's method enables its systems without the strings that usually come one of many groups contributing CAES. You could say compressed air Before we get into how compressed air is evolving, really helped me decompress. My schedule is nutritious meals for myself at lunch time. not so healthy stuff ... way too much. That's I actually signed up for Factor well before they I've been eating more well rounded meals that been partial to their Calorie Smart and Vegan + to time and can mix it up week to week ... or even taken the guesswork out of grocery shopping and hectic schedule, but it's like getting a quality for less money than takeout. I feel better about no mess, never frozen, and ready in just 2 link below and use code UNDECIDED50 to get 50% off of orders! That's code UNDECIDED50 at FACTOR75 off your next month of orders! Thanks to Factor So how is compressed air evolving and why discharge durations as long as 24 hours, and energy storage (LDES) out there. Unlike with down the per-unit price. For lithium-ion, it's designed for durations of four hours or to extend lithium-ion's energy capacity, translates into increasing system cost. In the to ever become economical or practical at It's also a thrifty investment thanks to its low that comes out to significantly less money Here's how those numbers shake out. According delivered between 2018 and 2024, compressed air LDES technologies included in the data: about at an average capex of $304 kWh in 2023...but systems. Interestingly, researchers at the U.S. that the capex for utility-scale lithium-ion the opposite is true for system costs (in out to lithium-ion being a progressively more Of course, cost is not the only consideration greatest strengths is its excellent round-trip you put into a storage system versus what the less energy you're losing over the Lithium-ion batteries boast an average RTE of efficiencies of 90% or more. This beats out pumped on the other hand, is not yet in that an international team of researchers concluded (and we'll get to what kind later), its estimated 75%...but this figure has "not been practically lower for older systems using a different CAES also has a much longer lifespan that Hydrostor's promise of at least 50 considering the Huntorf It also doesn't hurt that, like a mature technology with basis in already necessary for already standardized knowledge and infrastructure from fossil and there's opportunity to convert Again, there's plenty of room for more pumped take advantage of places like spent gas fields have a cave to work with, you can always opt for CAES projects are not invulnerable to but compressed air has more geographical You might be wondering: where did there's been a lot of stirrings in the CAES the 300 MW Hubei Yingcheng CAES plant of a national pilot project in Hubei, China. The this one developed by Zhongchu Guoneng China. Over in the Netherlands, Corre very same German technology conglomerate you gears up to establish two 320 MW plants, one If any single company is on the CAES it explicitly promises A-CAES, or advanced or "advanced adiabatic" CAES. Fun with here? The key letter "a" word here An adiabatic process is one that doesn't involve earlier that heat is one of CAES' major obstacles? have been diabatic, therefore they do transfer fuels. That's because a CAES system without compression will have to release said heat...leaving energy to warm turbines during discharge. As But by combining CAES with thermal energy generated during compression and re-use there's no need for an external, fossil-fuels adiabatic CAES has a much higher RTE, The concept of adiabatic CAES has been with experiments starting as far researchers at the Chinese Academy of Sciences water as its thermal storage medium, in Wuhu, not sure if that's how they want to pronounce Swiss Alps using a proprietary TES medium -- but the team took advantage of an unused As you might have guessed by its name, Hydrostor choice. It's less that Hydrostor is setting itself happened to be the company that won the race to it's definitely worth noting two things: 1. largest" and "first" about as fast and loose Hydrostor's Goderich, Ontario location is still in operation since 2019, but its peak power during a recent interview the company's president, "We are more a systems integrator on how we are integrating the system, Hydrostor plans to prove its mettle on a larger a 200 MW Australia facility in an old mine, and greenfield cavity. Earlier this year, Hydrostor the permitting process for the Willow Rock follows the completion of the company's between the Southern California Edison (SCE) Operator (CAISO) last December. The goal Centre in Australia operating by 2027, Up until very recently, there were only two Germany's Kraftwerk Huntorf, and PowerSouth established 1991. Both are diabatic. When you incentive to invest in long-duration energy the chance to show us its A game. But as more we might just find that it's what we One last thing... I'm going to be at the Everything September 6th - 8th. I'll be moderating panels heat pumps, the impacts of wind, solar &amp; storage, about home energy hacks. It's a fantastic show recycling, solar, and much, much more. You cool electric vehicles. If you're interested in tickets. I'll have a link in the description ... But what do you think? Will CAES end up one? Or will it cave under all that pressure? and be sure to listen to my follow up podcast, going. Thanks as always to my patrons for your