- This is one of the strangest It is not sticky at all. You can't even stick regular tape to it. But if I drape it over this tomato, it holds it up, unless you turn it upside-down, in which case it just falls off. Now does it only stick to fruit? No, it'll stick to a water basically any approximately And that's because this material is made to mimic gecko skin. Artificial gecko skin comes out of Professor Mark and it has now been used on tiny robots that can pull way more than their weight, on a robot that floats around the International Space Station and even enabling a person to scale a glass wall, Spider-man style. It all started with a competition to make a robot that climbs a - Here's sticky type. Everybody's familiar with it. You press it on and it sticks. Sticks pretty hard actually. And then you peel it off. Here's gecko material. And the first thing you notice is that it's actually... It's not sticky at all, but if I lift it from the You might say, &quot;Well you could do that if you had this other sticky tape&quot;, right? Well, yes, but if I had it wouldn't do that. And that's important because trying to climb a wall, you can't afford to have something like chewing gum on your feet, 'cause then every step you take is effort. What you want is something that only grabs when you need it to, and that's kind of the main principle of our gecko-inspired adhesive. Here this is an early gecko-inspired robot. This got us into a a long effort to understand what is it that makes gecko adhesion work, having something which grips but is not sticky. - [Derek] Geckos are incredible climbers. They scale walls and but for a long time we They don't use hairs or spikes like spiders or other insects. You might think they'd have at the end of their feet, but their adhesion is actually way stronger - [Mark] A gecko can easily from just part of one toe. - [Derek] The clue to how if you zoom in on a gecko's toe - [Mark] These are called lamella. They're regions of stalks, which are called seta. And the seta branch into these incredibly fine which are less than one micrometer across. - [Derek] And that's important because the physical is actually incredibly weak. It's not like an ionic bond where atoms are attracted to each other because one is positive and the other is negative. It's not even a hydrogen where part of the molecule and the other part is slightly negative. No, geckos rely on the So how does that work? Say a gecko is climbing up a glass window. The gecko atoms are neutral and the glass atoms are neutral, but at any particular instant the electrons around in atom are not perfectly evenly They may be a little bit more And this makes the atom momentarily a little and a little negatively Now if there's a neighboring say an atom for the glass this charge can induce a on the glass atom. So now the electrons from the glass atom are attracted to the and vice versa. There is a very weak force of attraction between gecko and glass. And this is known as a Van der Waal's Forces why gauge blocks, smooth flat pieces of steel, can stick together. - It's there all the time. If you have a car with, you know, you can put these vinyl so that your kids don't when they're in the car seat. That's also Van der Waal's Force. - [Derek] But generally we don't notice Van der Waal's Forces. We don't feel them with our fingers because at least on the molecular scale, our skin is incredibly bumpy. Touching a piece of glass is like putting a mountain There aren't many points of close contact. Geckos overcome this using - So this means that when the gecko puts its foot down, it has a very large It's almost as if you were pouring glue on the surface and letting it flow. And that's what makes the adhesion work. - [Derek] Replicating the gecko's intricate branching structures is currently impossible. - We cannot make what the gecko has. We can't. - [Derek] That structure, that really fine branching structure. - That sophisticated branching structure. but we can make a more - [Derek] Under a microscope, you can see that the is covered in rows of sharp wedges. The tips are around one That's a hundred times To create such fine structures requires a labor-intensive process. A block of wax is used and then a razor blade into the block creating A silicone polymer is poured into the mold and a backing material is attached. - This is silicone? - [Lab Worker] So it's called Sylgard 170. And it is a type of silicone, yes. - [Derek] And after about 24 hours, the adhesive is cured and ready to go. And that's what it looks like. But the mold can only be used a few times before the quality of and you have to start all over again. - This sharp wedge structure, which has this interesting property that when you first the only part in contact is these tips. So therefore it's not sticky because there's no Van der As you load it in shear, these things all bend over and we get a much larger, in fact almost continuous contact area. And so like the gecko, we have some Van der and that's what give us adhesion. - [Derek] So to make the adhesive stick you have to pull it that's known as a shear force, and you have to pull it in the direction that will bend the wedges so that they make If you pull it in any other direction, it won't stick. This makes it easy to pull the adhesive straight off the surface. I mean, there is basically - [Lab Worker] And so is just with tape, because tape doesn't stick to the Sylgard, but the dust particles do. - [Derek] They used this property to create an incredibly small and lightweight robot called MicroTug. It weighs just 17 grams, but is able to pull a 20 kilogram weight. That's the equivalent of a Just six of these tiny The gecko adhesive is on the So when they're pulling the car, the material is in shear and it sticks tight to the ground. But as the car moves forward, the shear force decreases and so it's easy for the and move itself forward. The amount of pulling force attainable depends on the area of adhesive that's in contact with the surface. So they've developed a by shining light through acrylic. - [Tony] So what it does is shines the LED across the acrylic and whenever there's a it frustrates the ray and it shows you exactly - [Derek] One square inch of contact area can support the weight of or 10 pounds. Since the adhesive is directional, to grip an object two pieces of adhesive are So when you pull up, both sides are in shear and so they both stick. Two opposing pads of adhesive were actually tested on a robot on the international space station. - It's called Astrobee. Think of it as like a drone, a UAV, only actually uses inside the International Space Station. And the idea is that it could be there to take video or fetch something for astronauts. Our proposal was, &quot;How about it should be and stick itself to a wall, for example. Or pick up a big box. - [Astronaut] Our goal is to - Because there's no gravity. You don't actually need a lot of force but you do want to be and and release easily. And so we got the gecko adhesives up at International Space Station and it works just as well up - [Derek] This went to space, - This was in Space station - Wow. This principle can be extended to three pieces of adhesive so that when you pull them all in they can stick to a flat surface. When it's at rest, these just a little bit and then when you pull there, then they become flatter right? - Yeah, the entire pad doesn't touch because it's both surfaces And then once you activate it. - [Derek] Oh yeah, I - [Tony] So I'm going to unplug the power so there's absolutely and it's still attach the surface. - [Derek] Yeah, I was thinking that you'd have to keep the motor on but it just sort of like - [Tony] Yeah, as long as it just stays there forever. - [Derek] There are lots for this material, but the most obvious one Since the adhesive sticks well with just a small shear force, it's great for picking up delicate items like produce. - These are meant to be So we're trying to grasp - We're not even really engaging the ratchet mechanism there. - [Lab Worker] Yeah, not at all. - So it's like less than a Newton. It can also grab bulky items or palm a basketball. Now can the gecko adhesive pull a car? They have hooked this one up to this rope, which is connected to a winch here, but the winch is not actually secured. It is tethered back to four which are just sitting on this pipe. So the question is, can these four pieces of gecko adhesive anchor the winch as it (winch grinding) Oh yeah, it's moving. (winch grinding) Wow. Could I pull these off? - [All] Yep, yeah. - How much does... like there was nothing holding it on. That's wild. But of course the is to be able to climb a building. And this was actually a PhD project for grad student Elliot Hawks. It was a challenge because he had to get in contact with the glass at any one time to support his whole weight. Let me know if you want me to try to climb a building and maybe even go a little bit faster. (electronic beeping) Hey, this video was the online learning tool that helps you understand Not only in the physical sciences, but also in computer science. You know, these days everyone's talking about neural networks. How AI can win any game or Tech like this is already and you should really know how it works. Brilliant has courses that delve into the inner machinery to discover how a computer You'll be able to apply and build a neural network yourself to recognize numbers, shapes, and objects. And if you need to refresh your math or computer science skills first, Brilliant has a whole library of courses, ranging from beginner to Personally, I use The other day I was going through a lesson on group theory, and the thing Brilliant does better than any other platform is it forces you to think for yourself. It asks you questions and the material is carefully curated to increase in complexity as you go. I find it really satisfying That's the only way to And you can try Brilliant out for free by going to brilliant.org/veritasium. And if you want to sign up for an annual premium subscription, the first 200 people to join So I will put it down in the description. I want to thank Brilliant and I want to thank you for watching.