Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard where we lives of those who lived to entertain us, Today we're exploring Glen Haven and such stars as Rose Marie, Vera-Ellen, Join us, won't you? Turning our compass once again to the we make the way up a quiet desert canyon called Kegel Canyon, to find an adjacent the canyon. Situated on the hills that Sholom memorial parks. We'll begin at Glen Haven, where the of the grounds, and scorched your host I brought plenty of water. It's quiet and This cemetery was founded in the Following the road into the main entrance we reach Brigham Park Harry Cording. He was a British actor in films from the 20s through the 50s. the villains in Adventures of Robin Hood Lugosi's henchman in Black Cat. He would of Sherlock Holmes series starring Basil is a moose. Cording belonged to a He died at age 63. North-east of here is Herein we find several members of the Keaton family was Myra Keaton. As a her father's Medicine Show in the late and marry Joe Keaton, and they would vaudeville circuit. They had a son named child, and they would become known as to become one of the legendary pioneers Myra appeared in small roles in a She lived to be 78. Myra and Joe would have two more Louise had a small acting career brother's films. She was also the frequent After her death in 1981 at age 74 she was interred though there is no marker for her. In the unmarked grave to Jingles. He was named after family friend noises he made as a child with his toys. family and occasionally on screen in in 1933's King Kong. After his death in next to his mother and sister. Hollywood Hills and Joe is at Hopping across the street north to Olive section, in the shade of a Trek will recognize him as the original Christopher Pike, in the pilot episode of The footage was later used in the &quot;We aren't going to go? To be certain?&quot; &quot;Not without any &quot;Continue on to the Vega Colony and take care of our You have the helm. Maintain present course.&quot; &quot;Yes sir.&quot; When the first pilot was rejected Hunter left of the series. He was then replaced second to pilot. Hunter's main focus was movies like The Searchers and as Jesus in an on-set explosion, suffering a suffered an intracranial hemorrhage, He underwent surgery but would pass away in Just months before his death Hunter She's best known for her long-running role in the daytime soap opera She would perform in over 300 1963 until 1991. She was nominated for a actress nominated for a Golden Globe for Zone fan that I am, I have to mention episode &quot;The Jungle.&quot; Emily died from cancer at age 62. Following the road northwest we reach Here is the grave of dancer Along with the likes of Eleanor Powell of Hollywood's favorite on-screen the 40s and 50s. In her early years as a Rockettes at Radio City Music Hall in cast her alongside Danny Kaye in Wonder perform with major stars of the era, from On the Town, and The Belle of New York. role alongside Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, classic, White Christmas. She would go on to be a regular like the Perry Como Show and the Dinah performing, living to be 60, until cancer Across the street west is Acacia Section. This is where we find the final resting She was named a WAMPAS Baby known for playing Buster Keaton's well as for her role alongside Laurel She in 1980 at age 83 and was laid to rest Let's turn northeast now to Poplar The dark exotic beauty is known for the 40s, including lead roles in the On television she played the lead role Nurse from 1954 to 1955. Ella even in 1944. The next section north is Sycamore. Fans this next name. Here is Rose Marie, beloved the wisecracking Sally Rogers on the would play in over a hundred episodes her three Emmy nominations. &quot;What are you worried about? You goin' &quot;You've done the Stevie Parsons Show Why are you suddenly afraid?&quot; &quot;I know, Robert. &quot;So dazzle them with your beauty.&quot; &quot;Thanks, Buddy. I don't need &quot;That was a joke.&quot; &quot;K, I'll settle for the flattery.&quot; But you probably know that earlier. In fact, she was one of over her 94 years. At the age of three Rose Marie, and by the age of five was a height of her fame in the late 20s and records and would appear in a handful of return to stage and screen, no longer films like Top Banana. Television soon in the Dick Van Dyke Show and the Doris legend died of natural causes in 2017 at Across the street north are the Chapel we find the crypt of Jerry Fielding. bold and experimental approach to film He began his career arranging and In the 50s he was caught up in the Red refused to name names before the House subsequently blacklisted for nearly a among those in the 60s who fought to political blacklisting, and intentionally Trumbo and Jerry Fielding to work on his quickly rise, his film scores earning him Bunch, Straw Dogs, and The Outlaw Josey His television music includes a couple shows like Hogan's Heroes, and The Bionic Woman. He died from a film titled, ironically, Funeral Home. In the west wing, just left of here, is Stanley Andrews. The character actor is Daddy Warbucks on the popular 30s radio on to become a familiar face in western Ranger in close to 300 episodes of Death hundreds of film credits to his name like Captain Harmon in Road to Rio. He lived to be 77 Back to the road let's circle around to In a ways from the road is the grave of whose career began performing in become a regular supporting player in frequently working with filmmaker Jules legends like Buster Keaton, Harry Langdon, contribute visual gags and work as a scenes. Among the films he wrote include Monte Collins is on the verge of launching a died of a heart attack. That's all we'll Let's hop over next door to Sholom. En route across the a WWII cannon captured by our brave men Shalom is a Jewish cemetery which opened Just a handful of stars to find in this main road is Hym Salomon section. A few grave of Bernard Gorcey. Born in Russia vaudeville and eventually the Broadway Irish Rose, which ran from 1922 to 1927. when he reprised his role in the film Bernard would later encourage his sons to try play Dead End. Leo and David Gorcey would of the group of young hooligans known as the Bowery Boys, in a popular series of would star alongside his sons in dozens as Charlie Chaplin's meek Jewish He died from injuries sustained in Curtain-up 1884, curtain down 1955. Several rows south in the same section comedic actor Len Lesser, known to fans &quot;Jerry, hello!&quot; &quot;Hello Uncle Leo!&quot; &quot;Leo, I saw you in Brentano's yesterday.&quot; &quot;Why didn't you say hello?&quot; &quot;Because you were too busy &quot;You still say hello.&quot; Lesser also had a Loves Raymond. stretched back to the 50s, delighting Munsters to The Untouchables. He made Birdman of Alcatraz, and Kelly's Heroes. Lesser died in 2011 from cancer related pneumonia at the age of 88. As of filming his grave is unmarked. Finally we proceed further south Not far from the eastern fence is the grave of Michael Strong. A graduate of perform in the plays of Arthur Miller He then found his way to film and Point Blank, Patton, and The Great Santini. for his role as Dr. Korby on the &quot;It's still me, Christine. Roger. I'm in here. You can't imagine how it was. I was frozen... dying.&quot; He would continue to make guest until his death in 1980 from cancer at the age of 62. And that concludes our tour. What are some of your favorite Share them in the comments below and be sure to like, share, and subscribe for Thanks for watching! If you could use a little cheering up here's Winnie the Pooh sitting on a