If I bought 12 seats at the theatre, and got I could then write a spoiler on their heads one letter at But why? Well, it's all about my mate, Charlie. We like Charlie. Charlie's helped me out &quot;I am gonna burn.&quot; But recently, Charlie Because Charlie spoiled Game of Thrones for me... &quot;No!&quot; By telling me what His argument was that it came out ages ago. I don't agree. Therefore, I'm looking So, this conversation was a number of months ago. decided to tell me probably the biggest [screams] I think I was in the right that he shouldn't have I've harbored some resentment towards Charlie for get back at him. But I've had no idea how to do it Charlie told me yesterday in a group chat, he's going to be watching The Lion King at I'm going to spoil The Lion King for Charlie. I'm going to be You know me, if you've watched the channel, I'm the Sign Guy. But the sign is going Now everyone knows that the big spoiler in The Lion King is... Spoiler alert in 3, 2, 1... Mufasa dies. &quot;Long live the King&quot;. Simba's dad gets killed. So I'm So that means I'm gonna need a person for each letter, but So that means I need... M-u-f-a... 11 bald men. I also need 11 seats to The Lion King. So I snapped up 11 seats right in front of the stage for the And my, my, it wasn't cheap. PS2,200... This video With the seats sorted, I now needed some bald I've got to do something I've never done before which is put out a casting call for bald Right, I've got to make the first line punchy. &quot;Do you rarely &quot;Looking for bald individuals to be a human sign.&quot; And it wasn't long before the replies came pouring in. There's so many people who are interested! Let's call one. [dial tone] Hi, is this Tom? I see you've responded to my casting call. Do you I'm not gonna delve into that, Tom! Great, you've got the job. Great, I can't wait to meet you. Cheers, Tom! Great! I scoured more of the internet for some famous bald men, and once we had who we needed, the day of the show had arrived. With 10 bald men about to descend on Silly office into something suitable for our makeup Uh, this is Bunny! BUNNY: Hello! [laughs] I showed Bunny my vision for But her pen of choice wasn't that easy to And is this easy to get off? We set up the office for our incoming snooker Now, we were actually one bald man short, but that as I was going to become a bald man. I was surprisingly excited to be turned into and I was getting to know my fellow follicly challenged friends. And I was amazed to hear that someone in our midst, was a hero. If I could just pause right there. Steve has just told us an incredible story of courage, and bravery. The man's a hero. But all he got from us, however, was a very British response. Our bald production line was in full flow and I was getting a bit nostalgic as I was sat in the chair. &quot;My life is just peg, peg, peg&quot;. Shopify are at the cutting edge for go to shopify.co.uk/MaxFosh. I didn't And thanks so much to Shopify for empowering So is this gonna be really hard to take off? Yep. The 'Mufasa Men chatting to one but I was always hovering, making sure we were How many bald men do we have left to do? That's not a sentence I ever thought I was gonna With everyone finally finished, including myself... I gathered up my we threw on some hats and we set off for a day Let's go. Off to the Lion King. Now we made our way into the city as the theatre, where I laid in wait for Charlie's As our spy on the inside - Charlie's girlfriend - ferried him to his seat, my I then made my way inside Hello, guys. We all OK? &quot;Yeah, I think I, however, was starting to have second thoughts. It was too late now, though. Everyone was in position, and we had a few carefully placed camera friends to capture Charlie's reaction. But there was one piece of the jigsaw that I needed to slot into place. I wanted to make so I sent a brief text message telling him to look down into the stalls. With his interest Everyone ready? There it is. The silliest spoiler imaginable. I will admit the music under this video right now is a bit over-dramatic, but I put a lot of work People were loving it. This guy As did Charlie. I then had to sit and watch The Lion King for before I could finally get Charlie's reaction. So two and a half hours later, I found him on the street.