- This is me in a flimsy cage, in the middle of the ocean at night, surrounded by hungry sharks. We were there experimenting with some mesmerizing bioluminescence we captured in this jar, which was really cool. But unfortunately for So once again, I found myself in a precarious situation And for that, I blame because for Shark Week this year they sent me to the Now, in the past to celebrate Shark Week, I've ran experiments to answer can sharks really smell a drop of blood in the water from a mile away? Or given the choice, do for human blood over fish blood? And so this year I'm headed back with some contraptions I built to potentially debunk And our experiments are gonna get us dangerously close to and then so deep, it's like And we're even gonna whether the Bermuda triangle There's a legend on this here island. (everyone screams) - But of course to do in the paranormal, AKA, from Stranger Things. - This is spookier than the Upside Down. - And so before I head in an eight second travel for the first time, in an more comfortable, I'm gonna (upbeat music) To kick things off, I reunited with my marine biologist shark - Luke. - Good day, mate. How you doing? - What up, buddy? We learned a lot last year, I feel like. What attracts sharks? What kind of noises I make (Mark screams) And then as soon as Noah showed up, we decided we wanna get him right out to see his first ever shark in real life, and to test our first potential myth, which has to do with sharks (upbeat music) Come here. Come here. - No. (Mark laughs) - Oh my God. There's no way we're swimming with that. (Mark continues laughing) - No way. - Bonkers, right? - [Mark] Look, down here. Look at this. No, no, no, there's no way. Are we going in with those? - Oh my God. (water gurgles) - No, I'm going home. - And so while Noah we came up with a game plan. All right, Luke, last we have these like 360 cams on a stick, and the sharks went for it. Like a number of times, they And I've actually heard on a dive, like in tell you you cannot bring a GoPro, because they say the sharks the electromagnetic waves Is that true? there's something to it. - According to Luke, he's snap at GoPros on a selfie stick. But it was unclear if that's just 'cause you're shoving the stick way or is there's actually some from the GoPro that got them excited. And that's sort of an if you own a GoPro. We prove that they love maybe don't attach one to your head. So, we came up with an We would dive down and Luke with the GoPro actively filming inside. And then as a control, I would be right next to him with with an identical GoPro So the only difference the tiny electrical field And then at that point we each of our selfie sticks And while I was obviously there is some validity to the theory here. Part of the reason sharks for 450 million years and hunt their dinner, not we do, but with two bonus senses as well. Their sixth sense is to detect in the water in all directions And then their seventh is their ability to detect electric fields. That's what all these little And this matters because it gives off an electrical signal. That's how the brain controls them. So sharks can sense a to try and swim away or even simply because of its beating heart. And so with the testing plan in place, it was time to gear up and enjoy Noah's first ocean scuba dive experience with a warm welcome - [Noah] Oh my God, there's so many. - [Luke] We have about 20 and Noah's looking pretty freaked out. - [Noah] This is unreal. - [Mark] So we set up camp on the bottom and started the experiment. And it seemed at first they were kind of scoping us out for a bit, after which they got a little bit more confident. - [Luke] Okay, we got There's a second hit on the camera. - [Mark] I got a hit. - [Luke] Well, I've definitely - [Mark] So after about 10 minutes, while there were a few close calls- Oh gosh, oh gosh, right by my face. And certainly some interest there were definitely no attacks yet. So, we headed back up to Yeah, that's the scariest part, right? They swim, like, right at your face. like they're coming like this. I don't know the last moment. - they, like, try to - They swim right past me And I'm like, do I keep- - Do I, like, look away, like- - (laughs) Yeah, don't When we looked at the footage, Luke's running GoPro while my empty camera which was interesting, call that a clear cut result to the rumor that sharks will attack GoPros because they mistake the But lucky for us, I had a backup plan to get more conclusive evidence. I think to really level it up, I've got something over Dun, duh, duh, dun, duh, duh, dun. - Woo. pow! - I'm glad you asked, Luke. 21! Okay, so we're, this is a twofer. First of all, we've got a bunch of GoPros, so if they're interested in one, we'll take it to an extreme, and they should really - Yeah, if they don't like this one, then they don't like GoPros. But the second purpose for this rig is because the 21 cameras this is a waterproof version of that fancy bullet time rig made famous by the Matrix. Now, two years ago I came of this by sticking a 360 and that worked pretty But we tested this new and improved rig at the pool that morning, for this version, because we were able to get some super dope shots like this one. Now, Caribbean reef and this is why some argue they're the most dangerous sharks because they get each other And so my hope was, the get really worked up by all the GoPros to the point that it was a frenzy. Because I'm pretty sure Noah would want to experience underwater, you know, - up close and personal. So, now that his mind for what might lie ahead, it was time to get back in the water I gotta pee, and luckily two years ago we proved that sharks aren't I'll be fixing that situation when we're in the water. (Mark splashes loudly) - Yeah, the rig! And so while we conducted our super-sized follow-up experiment, to capture some bullet time shots as well. In the end, they just in a rig with 21 running GoPros, so it was pretty clear will attack a GoPro thinking Now to be fair, they can that electrical field, which is why they would sometimes It's just that it would electromagnetic signature for hundreds of millions So, you're totally cool next time you find yourself And so while we did have and a busted myth, what we didn't have was Noah's front row seat to a feeding frenzy. But luckily I had another backup plan, because before we got in, I introduced him to my secret recipe from last And while it might make us humans gag, sharks love this stuff. So, the plan was to have the with the super chum and hopefully creating a real life And now since our experiment I let the boat crew know We got the sharknado. Here we go. Coming in hot. There it is! Oh, it's coming down fast! (laughs) Oh, it hit the bottom. They're converging! They're definitely agitated, they're moving around it trying to figure out what's in the box. Oh, they're really going for it now. (laughs) Yeah! Sharknado! Sharknado! - [Luke] One of the sharks - [Noah] No way. I think our smoothies worked. - [Mark] Dude, they like what we've done. - [Noah] Why's it feel like there's, like, double the amount of sharks now? - [Luke] Hey guys, they're I want you back, back, back! - [Mark] Ooh, they love it. Yeah, this getting crazy, I think we better hit the boat. - [Luke] Time to head up. - [Mark] Okay. So with feeding frenzy and even another dive later of a super rare great hammerhead, about a creepy looking We should ask if we could explore it. - Oh God. - You know what? What's the deal with the lighthouse? - It was brought here in 1952, and that's when they actually There was a ship that wrecked here, and everyone died except for one kid. This five year old. He survived, they found But they said that you see a spirit here they call the gray lady. And on a full moon you can hear her moaning at night for her son, you know? So it's pretty spooky, man. - What's the name of it? Does it have a name? - So, I mean it's called the Great Isaacs but the locals call it the Ghost Island. - Of course they do. (laughs) - (laughs) A lot of spooky stuff, man. - We should- - Yeah, we should. Are we cool? Can we go explore the lighthouse? - [Andy] Yeah. (Mark laughs) - All right. - Andy said it was cool. (laughs) - [Noah] Let's get to it. - And while this was it would be a good chance to behind all the Bermuda Triangle lore. Dude, I thought that was the gray lady. And so we started exploring for this place was legitimately creepy. Now, I'm not gonna show you everything that happened on Ghost Island. To see that, you gotta get Discovery Plus, 'cause it has all the Shark Week show this year and from past years, like my show with Shaq and Dude Perfect. Not to mention my upcoming based off the glitter bombs. So to get it, just download Discovery Plus for free for seven days, and after that, it's just like five bucks a month. So, this excursion was a as to whether or not the Bermuda Oh dude, this is just something the gray lady would wear, too. But I still wasn't ready to until I could do a bit And so after encountering I've ever seen by a factor of four, we hopped back on the boat to return home. It was a long day and we because the next day we real fancy snow globe to try and lure some sharks And to do that, I had a few And the first trick was this stuff. Now it doesn't look all but when you simply add it to water, something remarkable happens. It's called BioLume, chemical reaction that occurs in nature when an organism uses bioluminescence. It's totally non-toxic and natural to the point that you I mean, how cool is this? When we're deep underwater, the sharks can see this stuff that sharks have really bad eyesight. But I've heard that, too, is a myth. That each one of their Their electro receptors are effective to hunt And in previous years, on their sense of smell in the right conditions and But allegedly they rely quite a bit on their sense of sight for hunting, too. And they can see as far as And while they can't see in colors and could only see in black and white, their night vision is 10 which is why we wanted to test their eyes with this glowing stuff And my second trick was good but with a catch, just open the hatch and pour some out when you're 600 feet underwater. Plus, there are some pretty about what you can attach to the outside of the sub due to the crushing So, we handcrafted this beauty. An environmentally we could fire from the sub. Everything is made from wood and this middle section is balsa wood, so it would easily break away because that's where the in a bag that biodegrades in the water. And as you can see from our the idea was for the sub's mechanical arm to pull this lever, which would allow the surgical tubing to contract, forcing the torpedo out, in the process, but intentionally only traveling a short distance, where we could still So with our final test it was time to head back out to sea for both of our first ever (Mark laughs) - Oh my God. Which one's mine? - I think you're this one, Old Yeller. - [Noah] Oh my God. - Shall we get in? - Let's do it. (dramatic music) (seagulls squawk) - [Nomad Operator] This is Nomad reporting that hatch is - Top Side, Nemo, please dive. - Oh my God! (dramatic music) (peaceful piano music) - Nemo, good to see ya. You ready to go on a 270? - Okay, Nomad, I'm ready when you are. (peaceful piano music) - So, we're at 130 feet right now. - Yeah. - And we're going 600. - We're gonna go deep, man. - This is Nomad reporting. We are approaching the edge of the wall. - [Mark] And the wall was like the Grand Canyon, On the way down, at around 300 feet, you could see signs of before the end of the Ice Age And he said everywhere he you see the same thing And the deeper we went, the darker it got. Now it was time to lure some sharks out. - Yeah, let's settle down here. I'm gonna get the manipulator going. I'll let you drive this. - Oh, wow. This is like the arcade, Nice! Oh, yes, yes. Look at that glow. - [Nemo Operator] Nomad, Nomad, Nemo. We are ready to fire the torpedo. - [Nomad Operator] We are attempting now. Oh, torpedo launched. We launched it! (laughs) - [Nemo Operator] Secondary Ooh. (laughs) - Oh, my. No way! - [Mark] And with a bit of an assist, the second chum torpedo was in play. And now the sharks just come swimming. Here sharky, sharky, sharky. (suspenseful music) And as we waited, it dawned we were almost certainly the first and quite possibly the last to ever explore this exact spot on planet earth. (suspenseful music) Oh, the fish are coming. Whoa, yeah, dude. The fish love it. Whoa, whoa! (laughs) (peaceful music) And a number of times, we thought we saw some sharks lurking in the shadows, but it was always just fleeting glimpses. So, we decided to try our a bit higher up the wall with (dramatic music) - I think I see some. - [Mark] You see one? - Way out in the distance. - [Nemo Operator] Oh, there's a shark. - Oh my God. - [Mark] And here we hit jackpot. - [Nemo Operator] Whoa, look at 'em all. - When they bump it, you That's terrifying. Yes. Oh, you're angry. He's right on it. - [Noah] Oh my God. - Oh, he's right underneath us. Holy cow. (upbeat music) That's rad. Look at that. Top Side, this is Mark. Chumpedo worked flawlessly. We are surrounded by sharks. And so with mission accomplished we decided to make our The BioLume was just so we sort of confounded our the chum torpedo at the same time. So, we still wanted to will be able to see it and then come check it out. And with the subs already put away, that meant we had to get in the ocean in the Bermuda Triangle in I make a point of not swimming I especially make a point of not swimming in the ocean at night surrounded by sharks. I feel like that's just general knowledge. You don't go in the ocean at night. - That's a good rule of thumb. If it wasn't the sharks it would be my family, when they saw my ability - [Mark] Okay Noah, here we go baby. All right, buddy, you ready? - [Noah] I'm scared. - [Mark] Okay, we need (dramatic music) - [Mark] This is bonkers. Oh, that's cool, dude! That's like X-Men. I think you guys can throw a bunch on top. Whoa. That's crazy. Look at that. That's cool. - [Noah] I feel like I'm in a dream. - [Mark] This seems pretty cool, but I want try it with like, with no lights. Okay, total darkness. Super not okay with this. Now, let's try it like this. Oh, this is a lot creepier now. With no lights on. This is the trippiest (suspenseful music) All right. All right, we got blue. Whoa, shark, Noah, shark, shark! A shark just swam by. - [Noah] Where? Oh my God. - I'm starting to notice bigger gaps in this chain link fence all the- - [Noah] This is the scariest (suspenseful music) (Mark screams) - [Noah] Oh my God, this is unreal. (Mark screams) - Another, oh my God! There's a sizable hole in this cage. Who made this thing? (dramatic music) Holy crap. (laughs) Oh. - [Luke] And you guys - Okay. - [Luke] Yep, thanks. that was the scariest thing I've ever done in my entire life. That was unreal. There's like 10 sharks circling around us, like, I thought they That's actually my nightmare. Like that- - it can't get scarier than that. - We threw the BioLume we flipped the lights on, BioLume went in, sharks came. (crew members clap) - Nice dog, we did it. let's get the rigs. - Once again, it was an to learn more about our and as a bonus, I survived. Which leads us to our Is the Bermuda Triangle really cursed? Has it caused the mysterious disappearance of thousands of boats and planes? As a kid, I loved trying to unravel the mystery. And as an adult with a I was shocked to discover more boats and planes do disappear there. But, there's a catch. At a random moment, you can and take a snapshot of and it will look something like this. Now keep in mind, this region Can you spot the problem? Way more boats and planes crash there, because way more boats It's in the middle of used shipping routes and It's like how California is the state with the most car accidents because not because there's some supernatural force causing them all. Statistically speaking, is no more dangerous for a single boat or plane than anywhere else. And you can double check that by checking if insurance for vessels traveling through that region. And it turns out, they don't. And yet, as sure as I our first mate, Andre, had a way of telling firsthand chipped away at my - We had some guys fly in, running through and up to this day, they still can't tell what it is. Bermuda Triangle, guys. You never know, man. You never know. (upbeat music) (Mark screams) (snowballs thump)