You really want me on the team, You want first place, come play with me It's like, I would watch Magic play I'd watch Michael play and I would see them and I'd say, you know, I don't know but let's find out. Everything was done a better basketball player. And so when you have that point of view then literally the world to help you to become So because you know what you want the world's giving you because you know what you're looking for. So many guys tell stories - Yeah And for how long did you stay disciplined? Umm, well, I mean I mean every day, I mean since, you know, 20 years. It was an everyday process and trying to figure out For example, jumping ability Man, my vertical was a 40, My hands are big but they're not massive. Right, so you got to figure out so your hands are strong enough to be able to palm a ball Quickness. I was quick but not insanely quick. I was fast but not ridiculously fast. Right, so I had to... rely on skill a lot more. I had to rely on angles a lot more. And... But I enjoyed that though. So like from the time I was... I can't remember I studied the game, It's a good separation for me, to be able to put myself in a place where at practice or when I'm training I switch my mind to something else. I switch my mode into something else. Right, for me, It's the equivalent of... Maximus Decimus Meridius in Gladiator picking up the dirt, smelling the dirt it's go time. Right? So that was my mental switch. Getting ready for a film. You got to put yourself in that cage, when you're in that cage Then when you leave there But when I'm in that cage, bro, Please leave me alone. How did you get mentally where it doesn't bother you? Well, you know, it's-you got to You know, like for me it's not, you know... you kind of got to get over yourself. It's not about you man. You're not that important, like... - Yeah, that's where you go. Right? Like you're worried about and like you're walking around because you shot 5 air balls. Get over yourself, right? And then after that, it's okay. Got it. High school, year before, max. Right? Week in between, spaced out plenty of time to rest. In the NBA it's back to back to back I didn't have the legs. So you look at the shot, Every shot was on line Right? I got to get stronger. The weight training program I got to tailor it for an 82-game season. So that when the playoffs come around my legs are stronger So I look at it with rationale and say okay well, the reason why I shot I go oh, well, next year they'll be there. - That was it. Done. Were there some names these three guys are as crazy as I am? I do, at the time I'd deal with I went to Goat mountain and I talked to Magic, Michael, Bird, Hakeem Olajuwon, Jerry West, Oscar Robinson, Bill Russell. You know, so I would talk to them. What did you do? Michael in particular, He's been my big brother And what was that process like? So I went to them and started understanding the ins and outs of the game. And you know, how they approach things and their level of detail that's what I did. The players that had that passion but weren't willing to commit Right, it's a choice. Right? You have other things, you have all these other things that The game can't really And so I was just looking at that like man, this is going to be fun. If I'm buddies with you from what happened to our relationship? How did that gravitate when you went you're determined to become the greatest or you're determined to become - what happens to our relationship? - It does suffer? - Okay. And you understood that, Well yeah, and the people that love you like friends and family, Got it. So they let you be you and when you reconvene you know, you pick back up but make no mistake about it everything in between is lost. Right. so those long-term relationships the commitment of time of... you know, of taking.. take vacations with other players or just take vacations just to take vacations or just hang out just to hang out like I- I'm not.. I never did that. - But it was a choice. Well, because when I retire, &quot;I wish I would have done more.&quot; I don't want that. You know, I don't want that. You know, you got a lot of people to come watch you perform. Perform. Perform. It's your job to be in shape. It's your job to be strong enough every single night. And as a competitor, Like, it's not, &quot;Oh my God, oh We got to play Vince Carter We actually had this happen, in 2000 and Vince was tearing the league up. My back was jacked. Jacked. But like the perception of that, like what? Kobe's missing a game against Toronto, Vince Carter because.. But people would look at me like, Excuse me? No, I don't think so. So I would be in the layup line like Ok, there's a lot of days where, you know, Today ain't one of them. Your back can bother you any other day that- it ain't bothering me today. - Yeah. - Yeh I know. If you're looking at a big investment what is the decision making process there? Do you call? you take this much time - Is there, is there a system you follow? It's, it's do you understand the business? Is it a business that you What are the barriers And then the entrepreneurs themselves. The company itself. Do they have a culture Are these leaders Or they people that are obsessives? And in turn, have they created So I tend to look at That's big right there, by the way, That's pretty massive right there. Same determination, what's your current It's- it's... it's different because I personally am not writing every word of the novels. I am not animating the films. What I have to do now is make sure that the people that we bring in, are challenging themselves to do the best job that's what I'm there for. Is for them to constantly look and challenge themselves. If we have a project, and you're that's not the project we want. The projects that say, I don't know how to write that story. I don't know how to do that. Those are the things we want you'll reach a level And so, running the studio You're playing against score is 107-109 you guys are close You know exactly what happens in the game you go up, you're about to take your shot - boom Your Achilles happens. right? He went and hit the free throws - Yeah Right. I went in the trainer's room and you know, and I'm looking at them &quot;It's alright, dad's going to be alright. It'll be fine. It'll be alright, As a parent you got to set the example. You got to set the example. This obstacle cannot define me. It's not going to be responsible for me I'm going to step away on my own terms. And that's when the decision was made that I'm doing it.