This metal is about as close to magic as it is possible to find in nature. I just don't get it. It can adjust its arrangement of atoms to return to some predefined shape, but it also converts between And it can stretch up to 30 times more than an ordinary metal and still spring back I can feel it in my hands shrinking back. Because of these unique properties, it's being used in everything to bulletproof bike tires. And it's allowing NASA for a space exploration. - This is the bones of the tire. - [Derek] The bones of - So basically this is the - You just wrapped a slinky around a rim. - Yeah. It doesn't get any Here is a bicycle that has if you look inside there. - [Derek] This tire does not The structure and shock absorption are all provided by that metal slinky. - [Jim] So that's like or what a normal road - [Derek] Yeah. Which means you should with no loss of performance. So we're gonna drive but first we'll test a just to make sure these nails are sharp. (tires popping) (upbeat music) - [Jim] Another puncture, - This one, kind of expected. So now I'm going to put these driving over the same bed of nails. Here we go. (tires popping) I heard a lot of pops. I must have hit some nails. I don't feel anything different. (upbeat music) Still rides well. I'm gonna get up some speed. - [Jim] That's definitely a nail. - [Derek] I think the nail broke in it, why does it look like- - [Jim] That's what it looks like. - [Derek] Yeah the nail's in the tire. - We're now gonna try to and see what happens. 3, 2, 1. (bullet firing) (upbeat music) - There it is. - There it is. - Whoo! (Derek chuckling) - [Derek] Wow. It's a really clean shot straight through. - [Jim] Yep, you can barely Looks like this one actually hit the- - [Derek] Alloy? - [Jim] Yep, it does to me. - [Derek] Yeah that's what it feels like. - [Jim] You can see we before we even got to the cardboard. - [Jim] How's the ride? - Yeah no problems. Bulletproof bicycle. This bulletproof bike tire actually comes out of NASA's research into making wheels for space missions. (upbeat music) It is really hard to make I mean a lot of the places there is no or very low - We can't use rubber pneumatic tires because of the extreme there's no confining It can basically explode. - [Derek] Besides with temperatures dropping to extreme lows, - If this were a flagpole, would be 250 degrees In the shadow it's 250 degrees below zero. Let's put some rubber on the moon. - 90 is the glass transition temperature. It's when the polymer to a rigid element. - [Derek] This is what in liquid nitrogen. (rubber exploding) (bright music) (Jim chuckling) That's why you can't This is why almost all the wheels used for exploring other planets - This is actually a spare They're made out of aluminum. A single billet that gets machined down so you don't have to worry or anything like that, that could potentially be a failure point. - But with it being so expensive to launch matter into space, the wheels have to be as It's lightish, but it's still heavy. - To meet those mass 0.7 millimeters thick thin. - Thinner than a credit card. - Yep, these structural members here, which we also call grousers, they're there to give the wheel strength, but also help grab onto The problem is that because and heavy and the terrain is they're actually seeing kind of focused on areas than what was predicted. This is the actual condition of the wheels on Mars right now. And as you can see, we've where that skin was. Now the wheel still operates, It's still gonna complete its mission, but it does affect where it - [Derek] When you apply that is known as a stress. And what you're really doing is tugging on all the atoms inside the object, and as a result, their and so the material deforms. For example, if you pull on an object, it will get slightly longer. And the per unit change in Now for most materials under low stresses, strain is directly proportional And the more you stress and the material is elastic. If you remove the stress, the object goes back to its original size. So no atoms have moved around and no bonds have been broken or formed. You've just made them flex But if the stress applied exceeds the yield strength of the material, well then the strain is so great that the atoms can't relative to each other. Defects called edge dislocations can move through the material. The atoms are actually and so the deformation is not reversible. It's plastic deformation. So the object won't go when the stress is removed. If enough stress is applied, the material can completely fracture. In the worst case scenario, like in the Mars rover wheels, which reduce their performance and ultimately could Ordinary metals can withstand a strain of only around 0.3 to 0.8% elastically. Any more than that, and they so they won't return to Ultimately, they could even fracture. All right. - [Jim] Yeah and you kinked it too. - Kinked it and stretched it. And that's why every is designed never to stretch But that's a significant limitation. There is a different type of wheel that NASA has tried in space, which are those on the Apollo - [Jim] That particular is something that we call pantograph. All it is is a set of wires that have been over, - [Derek] And this on the surface here to get ripped also to strengthen? - It's primarily to ensure that the tire does not sink into the ground. So they did some studies to figure out how much And so they found out that to keep the tire kind of and still maintain that flexibility. - [Derek] The Lunar Roving for the short distance I mean the farthest this vehicle ever went was 36 kilometers, but still, these wheels needed to be designed to of the steel mesh. - And so they put this internal We call it a bump stop. So as they hit a bump, when it hits that it stops the deformation to keep it just below where they would induce plasticity. - [Derek] This wheel was good enough for the short Apollo missions, but for longer journeys a to prevent plastic deformation Mesh steel wheels have but their performance - This was the Mars steel on that same test rig. And there's no fracture but you see a lot of - [Derek] What we need is a material that is strong and durable like steel, but which can endure much more strain without deforming permanently. And that is where this stuff comes in. In 1961, the Naval Ordnance Laboratory was doing experiments involving nickel and titanium. A sample that had been repeatedly was shown to one of the who just happened to be a pipe smoker. So he decided to see if he applied a bit of And when he did that, he found that the material changed shape. This shocked everyone and into the material. Which became known as nitinol, for its components nickel and titanium, and for the Naval Ordinance laboratory where it was discovered. So why did nitinol change shape? Well it's really because a phase change in the solid state. In heated nitinol the atoms are arranged in a cubic lattice arrangement, and this phase is known as austenite. But upon cooling, the known as twinned martensite. It's a messier lower symmetry And in this phase, you can and deform it. But unlike in an ordinary metal, this deformation is not causing and edge dislocations moving Now in this case, the crystal structure to a detwinned form of martensite. And now when you heat it back up, the material goes from martensite Which means all the atoms go back to their original locations, and so the material returns - We can basically set this shape as the parent known memory shape. That's why we call it shape memory. I can stretch this out. If I cooled it down I could but as soon as I heat it back up, it'll remember that original parent shape. - [Derek] And that's why a shape memory alloy. The shape is set at high temperature when the material is Then as the material is cooled down, it undergoes a phase transition If stress is now applied to it can be extensively deformed structure into detwinned martensite. When the stress is released most of that deformation remains. But when the sample is heated, the atoms return to the austenite phase, which returns the material (Derek laughing) It's like you're barely in the water. - No. - And it just- - It's as fast as you or get heat away from it. - [Derek] Whoa, whoa. I mean that's cool. This is the property of nitinol that most people are aware of, and one that makes it useful So that's a stint. - They slightly cool these and then they crush it or elongate it. So you can see it gets real thin. And then they put in a catheter and that catheter goes through the body to the place where they And then upon deploying Increasing that outer diameter Nitinol is absolutely perfect for that. - [Derek] Shape memory significant forces when they're heated, which means they can also - You're gonna see a huge amount of force and stress build up in the wire, which we can see here with - [Derek] Six pounds, seven, you can really see it contracting there. 13, 15, 16, 17, 20 pounds. Oh it's lifting it. That's about 90 newtons of force. Scientists have even to fracture a rock. Shape memory alloys are being investigated for use in aviation. I made a video before Which are these little fins that stick up outta the wing of a plane to trip the airflow into turbulence. This is important for takeoff and landing to keep the flow attached to - But when you're up at cruise and you don't need those you want these to stow because As the plane just climbs we go from some temperature on the ground to something close to The alloy is designed in between those so that we can just take temperature change that When we cool this one down, it autonomously stays flat. - [Derek] The temperature at between austenite and to be anywhere between -150 This is done by changing and using different heat treatments. - [Santo] And then as coming into landing, - [Derek] This principle has been extended to operate the main flaps on an aircraft. Now the heating and but controlled by a heating element. - So we've done demonstrations and no hydraulic All we have is a shuttle mechanism that's driven by two tubes in nitinol and we've driven those on the wing box of a 737 in flight, 60 degrees flap angle down, just by heating and cooling replaces all the hydraulics. - [Derek] The shape memory effect is the main thing people know but they have another unique property which makes them ideal - And you're just gonna take a couple times around your hand like that, and you're just gonna pull on that wire and feel 6 to 8% strain - Oh that's really weird. - [Santo] That's 6 to 8% strain, which you can't do in other wires, right? - But what's weird about it is that it feels a little crunchy. - [Santo] 'Cause you're feeling - [Derek] Oh so weird. - [Santo] So cool though, right? - [Derek] Yes, very cool. (nitinol pinging) Can you hear that? - [Emily] Yep. - [Derek] How weird is that? - [Santo] That pinging is 20. - [Derek] Shape memory of their length and still spring back to their original size. This property is known as super elasticity or pseudo elasticity, but they're kind of misnomers is not actually operating What's actually happening is in the austenite phase. It's transition temperature is But by applying a stress, even you can force the crystal structure to change from austenite And this rearrangement allows the nitinol to deform by that 8% and to its original configuration and the atoms return (nitinol pinging) That sound you're hearing is the material undergoing a stress-induced If you wanna think about it Now this transformation is occurring entirely above the martensite So the material starts off and then the applied stress is from austenite to detwinned martensite. And when that stress is removed, the atoms spring back and so the material goes and shape. - If this were a normal and it would plasticize. If it was a brass tube, which you know has a it would go like this and it I would never take my hands and have it completely returned to shape. - [Derek] At the bend the from austenite to martensite and back. - When we go from the the austenite to the lower which one is it? Exothermic or endothermic? - I feel like that should be exothermic. - Good job science guy. (Derek and Santo laughing) If you were to put your you'll actually feel the heat energy, the enthalpy of that You ready? - Yeah. Oh yeah that's real hot. - Ooh, ooh, ooh. That actually is like burning. Like I can't keep my hands on it. - [Santo] No keep your - Geez that's hot. - When the stress is removed and the material goes that phase change is endothermic. It absorbs heat. Woo. Right? It's like you could use - So it's exactly right. So another area where these is in a field called elastocalorics where we use this equivalent to heat pumping. I wanna shoot this with We got a FLIR with us. How's that? - This dissipation potential like the dissipation in So the tire itself could actually perform some of that dissipation - It almost acts as a damper, right? To get rid of that energy loss. So then your tire actually has a potential of becoming a complete suspension system. - Hmm. - Which obviously really simplifies building vehicles for space. The original tire, when okay you can see I'm from the footprint to this little section of the tire, all right? By tying this bump stop element to here, when I go through a footprint, you can see now I'm around the tire, right? By doing that, I have now increased my load carrying capacity significantly without adding any more mass. - [Derek] So to make a tire they weave nitinol springs It's a pretty tedious and - [Engineer] So you're - [Derek] Yep. - [Engineer] You're gonna grab both ends? - [Derek] No. - [Engineer] And I'll take it. - [Derek] No you're not. - [Derek] Yep. - [Engineer] And screw it in. - Oh my goodness. Are you kidding me? Is this what you do every day? - [Engineer] 684 Times. - [Derek] 684 times- - [Engineer] Per tire. - [Derek] But will these wheels work on rovers on the moon and Mars? Will they test the wheels extensively on a rotating carousel of from sand to small rocks to bigger rocks? - So the terrain endurance of a circular carousel that The wheel tire assembly is So we can create a force slip condition, so we can drive with zero slip. (rover wheel whirring) And this is about how slow a Average speed is about 6.7 That's a nominal speed, - All right, I'm gonna go walk It looks like beach and This side is meant to simulate and this side is meant to It is very sinky sand. The wheel is rolling along, Am I pushing into it or - [Santo] I'd say get on top and just put all your body weight onto it. - That's basically my full weight on it. The shape memory alloy is strong enough to support the weight of a but it's also incredibly flexible. So it can deform up to 8% without And that's what's needed - [Santo] So that's a pretty good amount of deformation, right? - [Derek] That's a great - [Santo] And still not beyond 8%. - It's so gooey. Just walking back to Tricky for a rover, right? But these tires won't just be for space. They're also looking at - Most aircraft, the they have to be pressurized to really, really high Not the conventional 30-60 psi you do in a car or truck tire, right? We have issues where at they can explode. The other construct is maintenance, right? So if I'm a pneumatic tire and I'm relying on that pneumatics for the performance of the system, I have to always be to make sure that I'm at so that I'm not burning too much fuel, or I'm not at a place where I because of the loads. By going to a structural and is designed specifically All of those things go away. - They've tested one on a Jeep. Since it doesn't rely on you just can't get a flat tire. Plus it can never be under inflated, which significantly improves fuel economy. With a metal that works like magic, you can make airless off road, on road, into the (fire swooshing) (logo plopping) NASA's nitinol tires are designed to last the entire lifetime of a rover mission, even on a rough terrain of Mars. But here on earth, few From bike tires to phones to toothbrushes, pretty much everything wears out. But with Henson Shaving, you may never need to buy Henson actually came out of that built parts for the So they are experts in If the temperature to changed as little as one degree, they had to scrap the entire piece. And that sort of precision is overlooked by most razor manufacturers. In a typical razor, the when they make contact with the skin. And this movement causes micro cuts leading to skin irritation To many people, this is just but it doesn't need to be. You want advice about a good razor? Trust a guy with a beard. This is Henson's AL 13 razor. It's so precise that the blade extends past the shave plane by That's less than the The blade is also securely leaving almost zero blade flex for a smoother and cleaner shave. This razor is designed to last a lifetime, and it's standard double-edged blades cost only around 10 cents each. Which means the cost of ends up lower than most after only two years. And besides price considerations, having one razor for the rest of your life is both more convenient So if you want one aerospace quality razor to last the rest of your life, go to hensonshaving.com/veritasium and enter code veritasium with a purchase of a razor. That's two to four years Make sure to add both to your cart for the code to take effect. So I wanna thank Henson Shaving and I wanna thank you for watching.