- This video is about one of what leads to a happy life? - Realistically, money. - Being wealthy is definitely - To save a lot of money. - Money. - Earning money. - It's very important to be rich. - It's easy for people to say they don't care about having money and that money can't buy happiness, but that's really not true. - 'Cause I would rather cry on a yacht than in a like a Subaru. (both laugh) - [Derek] Clearly, having and financial wealth Is there a number in mind? - At least a million. - Yeah? - In a survey from 2018 of around a hundred about 55% said they wanted to and 83% reported that they But do these accomplishments Well, that's what I wanna But how do you study Well, you can ask them. What's gonna make you happy? - Um. - Uh. - Ooh. - [Derek] But people aren't really good at judging what will make them happy. Winning the lottery seems - What!? What!? What!? - [Derek] But numerous find that after the initial many are no happier than the rest of us. Some are, in fact, more miserable - 'Cause you don't see as many Obviously, you become slightly isolated, I think in some ways. - Yeah, I agree. - Another problem is that - We only detect, encode bits and pieces of the entire It's called reconstructed memories. It happens to us in all the aspects of - Most studies on and ask them to recall But as we've just seen, So a better way to conduct a study would be to follow people capturing the choices they make and how those affect their happiness. That is really hard to do. But there is one study like this that's been running since 1938. Now, 85 years is a long so it has been passed down from one generation of It's currently run by its fourth What is the claim to - You know, the claim as far as we know, the longest that's ever been done. The longest study of any depth. These are studies that take and their mental and physical health. - [Derek] The study actually by two groups of Harvard researchers that didn't know about each other. The first group followed to find out how they would - So of course, if you wanna study normal you study all white guys (Derek laughs) You know, it's one of those limitations. - [Derek] The second from middle school onwards from Boston's poorest and - So there were these two studies, both meant to be studies of and how we predict who - Eventually, the two The Harvard Study of Adult Development. At the start of the study, the and received extensive And as they grew, they Some of them became and factory workers and lawyers, and one even became president (presidential music) Every two years, researchers about their lives. Like, &quot;If you could stop would you, what would you do instead? How often do you feel True or false, life has And other questions about their marriage, career, friendships, and their While the study started over time, their spouses and children were also included in the study. So how many people are who have been part of the study? - Between 2,500 and 3,000 - [Derek] And as technology improved, so did the methods of data collection. - We now draw blood from DNA. You know, DNA wasn't We measure messenger RNA, DNA methylation, we bring people into our laboratory, we deliberately stress them out and then see how quickly Looking at heart rate looking at cortisol deposited in hair, because that seems to of circulating cortisol. But all of these new of studying the same big phenomena of human wellbeing. - So what do 85 years of research across entire human lives teach us about a healthy and happy life? - Two huge takeaways really. One is no surprise. It's that if you take care it has huge benefits, not but for how long you stay healthy. Eating well, getting regular exercise, not abusing alcohol or drugs, not smoking, getting preventive healthcare, exercise is hugely important. - [Derek] A Taiwanese study of 416,000 healthy people Eight years later, they to look at the link between They found that people who had a 14% reduced risk of dying, and a three year longer life expectancy. Every additional 15 minutes of exercise decreased the risk of A large meta-analysis from 2008 confirms that people who are physically active have a reduced risk of dying during the timeframes Exercise also protects A meta-analysis from 2014 found that participants with higher had a 35% reduced risk and a 14% reduced risk of dementia. - And then the big surprising not just keeping us happier, but keeping us healthier - It's not just the Harvard study. There's now a whole list of studies that show the importance of relationships to human happiness and health. They teach us three main lessons. The first is that relationships In 2010, researchers with a total of more than They found that, on average, people with stronger social connections had a 50% increased likelihood of survival for any given year. Being married, in particular, has a large impact on - There's one study, I think that suggests that married men live 12 years longer on and married women live seven than unmarried women. Marriage is always a better than it is for women. And it's not because you have It's because people living together in an intimate partnership tend to keep each other healthier. You have somebody who's kind of watching, looking out for you. It's a very real, concrete effect. - If feeling well-connected to others makes us happier, healthier, then what happens if we feel disconnected? - There's a researcher, out of the University of Utah, who did a meta-analysis of the physical effects of loneliness. And her calculation was that being lonely is as dangerous to your health as smoking half a pack or as dangerous as being obese. - [Derek] Feeling disconnected from others also makes you more prone to disease. A large meta-analysis from 2016 found that poor social relationships were associated with a 29% and a 32% increase in risk of stroke. - So these have real sort when we look at studies - One caveat is that most studies on the health effects of loneliness focus on people aged 50 and older. (clock ticking) And loneliness is on the rise. - The U.S. Surgeon General today declared a new public Loneliness. - We're now finding that one in two adults report measurable levels of loneliness and it turns out that young And here's why this is so concerning. It's because we've realized that loneliness is more It has real consequences for our mental and physical health. - The UK has appointed a Many, many countries are concerned about this breakdown in social connection. - A question about loneliness, like, what does that look like? Because, obviously, everyone experiences some periods of loneliness. So you know, when does it become and how do we define that? - Well, loneliness is different So you can be alone and quite content, and many people are, in fact. The ability to be is quite a skill and Loneliness is that subjective experience of being less connected to And that's why, you know, We're all on a spectrum you know, wanting lots and introversion, actually and not wanting a lot of people, a lot of people are And what we know is that Like introverts are perfectly healthy. They just may need one or two and don't want a lot more people. Nothing wrong with that at all. Whereas extroverts may want - [Derek] So the second lesson is that it's not how many or even whether you're married or not, because a bad marriage can be worse for your health than getting divorced. Instead, it's about the quality of your close relationships that matters. - When we'd followed out to their 80s we said, &quot;Okay, what data actually at age 50 of who's gonna be happy and healthy at age 80 as And we thought we were gonna be looking at blood pressure and as the strongest predictors. It was their relationships. It was particularly their satisfaction with their marital relationships that was the strongest predictor. - And relationships don't and physically healthier, they also protect our brains. People who are in secure where they feel that they find that their memories And people who feel lonely, well, their memories fade quicker. A study of retired U.S. adults found that the rate of cognitive decline was 20% higher over 10 years A meta-analysis from 2018 further confirms the detrimental effects of loneliness, finding that it also increased But there's still a big open question: what is it about the relationships that makes them particularly - The best hypothesis, for which there's some is that relationships They're stress regulators. So stressful things happen every day to many of us, right? So then what happens? Well, the body goes into blood pressure goes up, respirations become more rapid, circulating stress hormone levels rise. But then the body is meant after that normal fight-or-flight response when we face a challenge. If I can come home and there's I can literally feel my body calm down. What we are pretty sure happens is that people who are isolated, to stay in a kind of chronic And that what that means is that they have higher levels higher levels of chronic inflammation, and that those things gradually So that's how, for example, chronic stress can predict but also arthritis and because of this common mechanism that breaks down multiple body systems. - The key to preventing Just spend a little more time with the people you care about. Unfortunately, we seem to Before going into why we're this part of the video was There are many things that can negatively impact our happiness. It could be stress or fear or like depression or anxiety. But regardless of which one it is, therapy can help you to approach your life And that's where BetterHelp comes in. They connect you with an who is trained to listen and give you helpful, unbiased advice. I know that finding a especially when you only have But BetterHelp changes the game on this because it's an online platform. And by filling out a few questions, you'll get matched with So you can get talking in and then you can have your as a video chat, or even via Just whatever's the of therapy for you. And it's easy to sign up, there's It is betterhelp.com/veritasium. Clicking on that link both and it also gets you 10% off So you can try it out And if you don't really fit which is pretty common, you can easily switch without stressing about insurance, who's in your network If you feel like you could getting feedback, advice, that might be affecting your then visit betterhelp.com/veritasium or click that link in So I want to thank BetterHelp for sponsoring this part of the video. And now, back to the There is an alarming trend in our society. - [Newsreader] Social engagement from 60 minutes a day in 2003 to just 20 minutes a day in 2020. - The technology has fundamentally changed how we interact with one another and how we communicate with one another and, unfortunately, has often replaced what used to be rich in-person connections with online connections, which - Now, you may say you're an introvert and you don't need to to feel good. And while it's true that need different amounts both need human connection. In 2015, Holt-Lunstad and her colleagues looked at the data of with more than 3 million Similar to other studies, they found that the subjective increased the risk of But they also looked at the objective measure of social isolation, how much time you're actually And they found that social isolation increased the risk of And unfortunately, of being socially isolated. Just like many young people today, many participants from the Harvard study also believed that money and achievement were what they should go But what this study and is that the people who were the happiest were those that leaned with their partner, friends, And when they were in their 80s the researchers asked them, and what is your biggest regret? - Many people said that they were proudest of something to do with So it could be, &quot;I was a good I was a good friend, I was a good mentor.&quot; Nobody said, &quot;I made a fortune,&quot; right? Nobody even said, you know, which a few people did. It wasn't about those badges that we think of as, &quot;Oh, to feel like we've had a meaningful life.&quot; Everybody looking back The biggest regret was 'cause this was the They said, &quot;I wish I hadn't I wish I had spent more time - So what about our original question? Do achievements and money Well, according to the Harvard study, badges of achievement do not but doing meaningful work can. And what about money? Well, there's a famous study from 2010 by Daniel Kahneman and Angus Deaton that found that above an income there is no improvement whatever in the measures of emotional wellbeing. But 11 years later, Matthew Killingsworth studied data on 33,000 employed U.S. adults and he found that higher incomes corresponded to higher So he wrote, &quot;There was no evidence for an experienced wellbeing contrary to some In 2022, Kahneman and to resolve the conflict with When they analyzed Killingsworth's data, they discovered an interesting pattern, depending on how happy people earning more resulted in For each income level, they divided people into groups low, medium, high, and so on. And they found that below a threshold of roughly a hundred a higher income was associated with more happiness for all groups. But if you go above that threshold, then for the unhappiest group, a further increase is not However, for all the happier groups, higher incomes do seem to And the real twist is that those who are the stand to gain the most Relationships, meaningful work, and money all play a So why can it be so hard to realize just how - You know, if you think about it, relationships have been there since before we have memory, right? So they're like the air we breathe, we take 'em for granted. So you don't think about that in order to make yourself happy. We don't think about that at all. And yet, when we study it scientifically, we find that that turns out of happiness as well as physical health. - What's gonna make you happy? - Um. - Uh. - Um. - Being wealthy is definitely But that loving family is kind You know what I mean? But like building deep connections with people are what's going to make me happy. - Having like good - You raise a family. - Have a family and provide. - Friends and family. - Seeing my family happy, - Giving back to the community where you came from, the world. - A strong family base just - Yeah. I wanna get I want to- - Probably like five-ish, six. - That's a- (Derek laughs) - In fact, when I interviewed people, I was pleasantly surprised to see how many identified the So if you could give people advice on what to start doing today what suggestions would you make? - To think about it as if you go out today, you don't come home and say, &quot;I'm done. I don't ever have to It's like a practice, right? That the people who were were the people who made it a practice day after day, week after week, to stay connected to the You know, to talk on the to have coffee, to do The people who took those were the people who stayed very connected and stayed happy that way. So what we propose is that this is a practice we can cultivate and that there are tiny We have many stories of people who thought that they were that they were never And then it changed. And many times it changed So like, we have a story about one man who really didn't have a good marriage and was kind of distant from his kids, didn't have any friends. And then when he retired, he joined a gym and he that became, for the first And that's just one example of how our lives take that we usually can't predict, that we don't expect. And many of those turns The message that the science tells us is don't give up on this 'cause many things can change at any age. (transition beeps and chimes)