Hey, Dr Bernard here. This is medicine. There's a you how to take it. Cooking food in it, is not how damage to your body using it improperly like Also, the Nyquil chicken meme isn't new. 2020. If you search, the exact image was making its rounds on Twitter that particular day. Media Challenges Involving Medicines, mentioning was written by an FDA staffer who remembered Update sometime in between these 2 years. I don't this specific trend, it was just an example that and the idea was presented as new and amplified trend before the news stories dropped, so because NyQuil Chicken poisonings leading to a hospital the ingredients in here are used by at least 60 per label, but sometimes mistakes happen, and poisonings involving these medicines every year. specific cases of nighttime cold and flu medicine actual poisoning of this looks like, by using the A Man Cooked Chicken In Nighttime Cold and Flu Medicine. This Is How His OP is a 19 year old man, presenting His mother Lana, tells the admitting nurse that she noticed that his skin and the whites She had no idea what he had been doing for locked himself in his room before she broke in OP was someone who liked memes. Every day, first dump images online. His parents believed they'd see him sitting alone in a room, silent and him cackling maniacally because he remembered He'd spend hours everyday just scrolling, and would express no emotion while he breathed One day, OP came across chicken cooked in rich turquoise greenish color of the meat outside, however taste very good, he thought, as he In the kitchen now, OP whipped out and he poured at least 2 bottles of night time it all so he could meme the video. But as the he felt the smoke waft up into his nose, and a It must be ready to eat now, he thought, as he In the minutes after finishing his meal, OP down. He could hear a bell ringing in his ears, some cringe video games, he thought, As the hours passed, OP kept thinking that he that may not have actually been there. opening the door and slurring out as the door slammed shut. OP wasn't sure he could remember was waking up on the only getting up because he had to scramble to the As the day continued, OP kept feeling he noticed the contents in the toilet were a skin and the whites of his eyes. He wasn't sure he was wondering if what was being pushed into of his skin sloughing off and melting into labored, and as his stomach starts to hurt more He can feel his eyes push out of his skull, as As at least 36 hours pass, OP starts to convulse. was or what he was doing, but as she walks she calls for 911 and he's brought to At examination, doctors immediately see several jaundiced. This yellowing of his skin and eyes produced from breaking down red blood cells in around in the body that it's attaching to his must be wrong with his liver, and a blood test have died, and are leaking their contents around in The same blood test reports that his kidneys clues as to what's happening, because they Nighttime cold and flu medicine is typically a which is a cough medicine, doxylamine, which night time branding of the medicine, and which is a pain reliever and an anti-inflammatory fevers associated with flu. These 3 medicines As doctors move OP into the Intensive care that a machine can help breathe for him. Clearly something happened to his brain, Dextromethorphan, can cause hallucinations and it can cause serotonin syndrome, where too brain can cause problems. OP thought he could see but the dose he consumed from the bottles of than a dedicated cough syrup. It could have but it likely wasn't enough to cause have the signs and symptoms of that, and so, But how about the ingredient that increases branded as nighttime medicine. If it makes Well, it could. But doxylamine isn't just a medicine it works similar to how Benadryl does, so OP could dose of doxylamine in this formulation isn't his blurred vision, but it shouldn't cause liver All of this leaves us with the final active on any medicine label, acetaminophen is safe. different over the counter medicines, and while of one medicine, they could be taking another that the person following these labels correctly, acetaminophen intake. Even worse, they might also for pain, and that also contains acetaminophen. need to know. The acetaminophen in here, is that following the label exactly on both bottles isn't paying attention to what they're putting OP consumed at least 2 bottles of nighttime cold and drank all the remaining liquid. makes things even worse for him. If you take acetaminophen for aches and pains and form. In the stomach, it takes time for these to the blood stream through the small intestines. they're in a form ready to be absorbed into the much quicker. When it absorbs into his blood from This brings us to an idea called metabolism. are often administered through or it's put into a nasal or mucous membrane, vessels are mapped in the body, these routes before they get to the liver. This is or breaks down, everything that enters your if not more of the dose you took, is metabolized in an effort to protect your body from something be in excess in your body. Smoke and injection higher amount can get to the target organ. All As the nighttime cold and flu medicine absorbs to get processed. The interesting thing about the any given substance. These different pathways one pathway be overwhelmed for some reason, a This is what happens to acetaminophen. But in As more and more acetaminophen floods into isn't made as much. The liver moves on to the a reactive chemical. Because it's robust, the a chemical named glutathione that can neutralize so much acetaminophen, more and more reactive starts to run out of glutathione, and there's When chemicals are reactive, they want to become reactive chemicals floating around, because bits and pieces from parts of the body. And in reacting with his liver. At first, it interferes to produce energy. But then it starts ripping off As the cells start to die because they're reacting capacity to process the body's waste, becoming As the days continue, OP's blood starts showing around in his body. Even more acetaminophen cells, as the liver shuts down and waste continues gut produce ammonia, which in normal function glutamine. As OP's liver keeps necrosing from the spills into his blood causing hyperammonemia. a substance produced by the normal breakdown of The brain tries to compensate for this presence to metabolize ammonia to glutamine, just like ammonia overwhelms OP's brain cells, a fluid to swell. At first, the skull has a little room becomes unable to handle anything because it has in causing the brain to swell even more. All of overwhelmed suddenly, as the brain starts to crush vessels and causing the brain to ooze through the Is there anything that can be done for OP? factor. Unmetabolized acetaminophen isn't stop the liver from metabolizing it. If the its stores of glutathione, then the solution N-acetylcysteine is the antidote because chemical from reacting with liver cells. If then the antidote wont help, because and a liver transplant would be the only signs and symptoms when he presented to the In the FDA consumer update, it says Boiling a Boiling wont create a higher dose, it but it will take some liquid out. More concerning means the molecules move faster. This increased and the chemicals may break and you won't know exactly what you're case is, don't cook anything with any OP was not able to get a liver transplant in time, was from an intentional massive acetaminophen it was, because like I said earlier, acetaminophen prescription medicines that 60 million Americans you have no prior health conditions, and you're have enough glutathione to handle the metabolite. in OP's case, but if you accidentally combine too retirement home might, or you think it's a funny the damage can be permanent. This is why you Thanks for watching. Take