(ethereal music) - Hey, everyone. Today we're touring this stunning English countryside estate, newly built in 2022. This home features rooms that with exquisite details and the location of this to the incredible experience Also, the owner of this home just happened to be someone who has created some of the most iconic video and I mean wait till you We got so much to cover (majestic music) (majestic music continues) (water burbling) All right, everyone, once again, welcome to this stunning property. We wanna start our tour on the exterior because the way this house how we have this gorgeous and the way this property interacts with the outdoors is so special. And it's a beautiful We're only minutes away from And on this level we have this with multiple different And the focal point of this backyard or this patio is this stunning these breathtaking zen I mean, this is absolutely gorgeous. - [Cody] It really is. And it's so so close to Sunset Boulevard. We don't hear any of the like we're on our own Couldn't agree more. And I just love this the surrounding landscape. We're within Bel Air, and you have this really cool and this beautiful infinity You have your Baja shelf here and your incorporated hot tub design with this glass perimeter wall. And they also have this around the pool where we and the zero edge. And the way this pool contrast against this light marble It's contemporary. It's warm. It's elegant. And then you have this with an outdoor dining really cool outdoor seating anchored by this fire pit right in the center. And again, you get to enjoy these views. Now I'm gonna come over where we have a really nice outdoor And if you follow this walkway, it takes you to a full to the terrace and the pool area. Now I wanna bring everybody about the exterior architecture This is an English country style home that consists of three levels. And the way this property is of the sloping terrain of this property. You get so many different spaces for you to enjoy, interact. And on top of that, I just of this property, how we on the exterior, slate roof, accordion doors seamlessly to the outdoors, and we're gonna talk more about the exterior Now I wanna take everybody this way, go through these accordion doors, so we can continue our This is a really nice complemented with a fireplace. I love the marble surround. This fireplace is both a which is super cool. And on top of that, you have I love these wood-paneled ceilings. They bring that additional warmth. Then we have some built-ins Your AC diffusers are nicely and if that wasn't enough, even your speakers feature That way, they blend into which I thought was a Now behind me, you can see the kitchen of this stunning home, but before we cover these spaces, I actually wanna talk about the We have seven bedrooms, 10 of interior space built on the market for $24,995,000. And I wanna give big thanks Aaron Kirman, for making And as always, you can about this property in the so make sure to check it out. Now I wanna bring everybody about this elegant breakfast nook. I love the details here. The casement windows, window treatments, the built-in seating, this and these fun details and textures. Look at the leather upholstery the woodwork, the warmth of this space, the way they dress the table. This is so beautiful, and what a great way to complement your family - [Cody] I completely agree. I really like the pop of and I think that is gonna be these little pops of color that bring more character into the home. - Absolutely, these little details. In fact, right behind me, and look at the bar stools here, how they have this burgundy/brown They're certainly not afraid And in fact, let's cover I love the two-toned cabinetry, on the back, your marble but the stone on the island In fact, this is a fossilized stone, and we're gonna see this stone throughout the property as but I just love how it Then you have your massive island, and I love the millwork, the And in fact, Cody, if you you can even see the brass Even that is curved to carry out and unify all these details. Your pendant lights, and the island features a farm And bringing everybody this way, you have your massive Fridge section has the And going this way, we have dishwasher, Thermador gas range And I just love how timeless It complements the kitchen so well. And to bring in an additional material and dimension to the space, they actually plastered this section, and this is where we have the vent. And looking at the vent, it's actually a little bit That way, you get a as you are cooking. Now on the other side, again, your farmhouse sink, And we're gonna see these throughout the house as well. Again, it's all about tying these elements and unifying the overall which is really, really Now over on this side, we but, Cody, I actually have - Oh, yeah? if you know this. - Little coffee bar. - [Cody] We love a coffee bar. - We love a coffee bar, and even better, look how they incorporated the marble around the opening here and the shelves. That's elegance. - It really is. - [Cody] It really is, and it's also nice that they incorporated the microwave to keep the exterior - Exactly, more minimalist, and you have the appliance - [Cody] Exactly. - [Enes] This is a - [Cody] I like it. - Now before we leave this space, I want to talk about the staircase here. The door in front of us opens The door to our right opens And if you follow the we have few more rooms up there that we're gonna cover later in the tour. Now let's continue our tour. By the way, the kitchen to the terrace that we saw we have a pocket door that And welcome to the formal dining room. (downtempo music) Now before we continue, to BetterHelp for sponsoring this video. We've always emphasized the importance of mental health on our channel, and therapy is something Given the life I live and managing relationships, And that's why therapy is so important, and a platform like BetterHelp For those who don't know, BetterHelp is an online therapy service that makes therapy more Getting started is really easy. All you have to do is go to their website, answer a short quiz, and you'll from their extensive network And the best part with BetterHelp is that you can communicate via phone call, text message, video call. That way, therapy is never no matter where you are in the world. And if the therapist that you match with isn't the right fit for you, you can switch to a new So whether you wanna talk finances, business, or and think that you can benefit please click the link in the description or go to betterhelp.com/enes to get 10% off your Again, big thanks to BetterHelp and now let's continue our tour. (powerful music) I adore the space, between the wide-plank hardwood floors, oak paneling on the walls the ceiling design, the light fixture, and how every single surface, so thought out in this space You'll have your bay windows and I just love that it and this lush landscape. Just brings that additional warmth. And if that wasn't enough, we have this gorgeous table in the center. Love the space. - [Cody] Between like the it almost reminds me of a formal in like a New York townhouse. - That's a great, great point. It has that kind of - Totally. look at all these brass details, was actually designed by Ingrid Donat. I hope I'm saying her name correctly. This is a $250,000 dining setup. (Cody vibrates lips) - I know. - That is a lot, but look how elegant these chairs are, the upholstery. It's a timeless design for sure. And in fact, Cody, can we get a close up? I'm already getting so excited. This is all leather wrapped, exquisite, and it's all about making the space count. I mean, this is not the biggest but the way its design, the light fixture, the elements, furnishings, All right, next up, we also Now we are at the foyer of this property. Again, we're doing this tour reverse. We started at the backyard, and we're gonna talk about but first, can we cover this space? They have the same fossilized creating nice contrast You have your plaster walls, crown molding details, front door here. And before we check out the formal living room that is on my left, I'm actually gonna bring You have a small mudroom and to my left we have I'm always a big advocate and being bold with your powder rooms, and that's exactly what but they've done it in such a creative, timeless, and tasteful way. Look at all the finishes the wall paneling, the way This is actually wax paint, almost lacquer-like finish that I love. Again, so timeless. Look at the mirror design giving you that character, And then you have your elegant fixtures, and, Cody, can we lower the camera a little bit? Look at that marble shelf. And even the drain line matching the hardware here. You have this frosted glass almost giving this room a And they followed up on the toilet itself and you have your making this toilet a And I mean, why not? - [Cody] Exactly, why not? - It's just, it's a cool design. In fact, Cody, can we get a close up? Look at the way they've that holds the tank separately And when I was looking at it made me question why someone over a regular seat or a plastic seat, so I did a little research. It turns out it's more Obviously, when you have you need to maintain or put the protective It can get damaged a little bit easier, but it certainly looks cooler. And I don't want to get (Cody chuckling) are a little bit more - [Cody] That's what I was gonna say. - Yeah, so it's just a really nice touch. But anyways, it's a beautiful powder room, and let's continue our tour. We have an incredible formal I mean, please, look at the space. It looks straight out of an the way it's laid out, the furnishings, the vaulted ceilings here, the I feel like I'm drooling over this house, but what an elegant space, the herringbone hardwood floors, how it opens up to the front of the home. And some of the details here, the marble coffee tables The sofa here, I love the skirt detail. If anybody knows where this sofa is from, please let us know in But actually, I know this couch here. This is a vintage sofa that was designed by the late Pierre Paulin. It's actually worth $60,000, which is insane. - And when we walked into the our associate producer, was When we looked at the listing photos, we saw the design, this it's actually a really, and it just complements this area so well. And Cody, before we go to the left, I actually want to We got a gorgeous piano here. This room opens up to that we're gonna see in I actually wanna take quickly mention a couple more details. We have a gas fireplace and look how they incorporated into the headers as well, so you have this beautiful contrast against the white plaster walls. And, yeah, that is your connects to your staircase, to the other side so we can The furnishings here are from the 1940s, so you get this nice elegant, rustic feel. And out of all the pieces here, my favorite is the coffee table. Cody, we need to get a closeup. I'm gonna knee down for this. Look at the texture on this coffee table, how you have this moss, basically hand-chiseled stone table here. Such a clever design and into your conservatory, your - It really is. look at the wood plank ceilings, and they do something in this They use the same material in different forms. That way, they create and experiences in different spaces, but at the same time, it's They do it with the wood floors and they do it with the That's why the ceiling design than some of the other And it gets better. You'll have three sets of steel case French And I wanna show you the of these doors, which is super cool. You have the latches up. (Cody chuckling) Just like that, you flow to your terrace. Tell me that this isn't special? - [Cody] It's so serene and the pool outside the conservatory. And there's just so much They really had the goal of making an English countryside cottage, and I think they did that perfectly. - Couldn't agree more. I mean, the fact that and how it just flows to the outdoors, the French doors, the rustic furniture, they really committed to it. They owned it all the way. - All right, now let's Actually there are two more details here that I want to cover. This house is just packed with details. The same marble flooring they have it also in this space. Second, the plastered brick, This is not something You basically have your and on top of that they that gives the dimension, and they brought this detail in different rooms as well, But my favorite detail is how they did the floors. They've installed it vertically, and they installed it horizontally here. - [Cody] And I like inside the conservatory to make it the indoor, - Exactly, it's that sunroom feel. - All right, now let's continue. We have two bedrooms here Another door that I'm gonna skip the first bedroom, but it's actually a good size. You get your corner exposure. Beautiful bathroom with marble finishes. And over on this side we to the second guest suite. We have the same Also in this room, your casement bringing natural light. The bed, desk set up. I love And around the corner we that serves as your this room comes with a full bathroom. This is a small bathroom, the finishes and the features Love the mosaic marble floors. Then you have your marble that's oak cabinetry the handles, your marble There's also really cool skylight detail with this glazed glass cover that adds up to the rustic touch. And lastly, to my right, with more glazed tiles Very, very tasteful bathroom. Now I wanna take everybody so we can talk about more features. So the door to my right not a service dumb waiter. This is a dumb waiter - That's cool the laundry room down below us. That way, you don't have the beddings throughout the property. You can just drop it here, send it straight to the laundry room. And also like, look how It's a mini elevator. - [Cody] It really is a mini elevator, but I'm curious, why a dumb waiter instead of just a traditional laundry chute, where you open up a and they fall straight - That's actually a great question. Well, normal laundry chute, you're just dropping your versus when you have you can bring up the basket. You can also use it- - To, you know, send Even though it goes into a laundry room, it's nice to have the elevator contraption rather than just like a big chute. - Good point. to the staircase landing. I know the staircase We'll talk about it later. The mood and the vibe here, how This is elegance. I love the Is it really obvious that - [Cody] I think so, especially with this wax paint. Super good call because it a lot taller than it is, and think, when you're in the lower level looking up, it's almost infinite too. - And I'm gonna try to And again, it's almost People are like, &quot;Enes, you're selling the I'm not a realtor. I don't I'm simply a guy that's when it comes to properties and design, and how do you not like That's all. - We're just excited. All right, the hallway to the primary bedroom, but of course we gotta save so we're gonna come back But, Cody, you know what we gotta do now? We gotta take everybody outside so we can show the front Off of the formal living room, we have this really cool reflection pool with two water features. The homeowners call this the pond, and I just love how it and the zenness of this property. You have beautiful and if you look closely, you'll see that we have So it turns out this pool can actually put a little show for you. It's syncs itself to a music, and these jets can basically like the fountains at the And why not make the entrance of your property more interesting, something a little bit different? - [Cody] I like that it also connects to your family room as well, so you just have that nice - Absolutely. And to my I like that this section is covered. And here you can see the and the stacked stone with the stone element here. This is a nice warm entry to this home. And now, Cody, let's take so we can talk about and the arrival experience. I love the cobblestone here. This driveway is really spacious. You can probably park 12 to And I just realized something. Look at the driveway and its color, then think about the reflection and the rest of the house. So these spaces feature and the rest of the house features more of these lighter tones. So even the way they created contrast between these two colors are unified throughout the property. How crazy is that? As soon as I saw the cobblestone They're using the same gray tones pretty much everywhere they can, and they create the same kind of aesthetic throughout the home, and beige tones with the house's facade. Super cool. It's nice that they have throughout the entire home. - Absolutely. Now the Before we go there though, I wanna quickly push everybody back so we can see the arrival Again, I love the landscaping the retaining walls, hedging. And to our right we that takes you all the of this property that And before we continue, I This home is owned by Dave behind &quot;Call of Duty: Black and many other iconic I want to give big thanks for allowing us to tour and share it with all of you. And I just love that to some of the most - [Cody] Exactly, and when I mean, these games total have sold over 60 million copies worldwide, so you can really tell like - Iconic. I mean that's incredible. And wait till you see Dave's office, which is on the top floor. He has some incredible and we are beyond excited to tour this stunning Now let's talk about some of Again, we have the plastered steep roof lines, and they also which is super cool, again, tying all these natural Bay windows, that's where we Again, your spacious motor court, two-car garage right in front of me, and then staircase takes you up to the top floor of this home or you can also use the staircase by the kitchen that we saw earlier. Now before we go up there, Recently we launched our Patreon, which we are so excited about. This was our way to get one to our viewers, and with the rest of the world. We've been so fortunate and get the opportunity to showcase some of the most exquisite assets in the world. And that allowed us to different type of assets, and we want to share the knowledge, these experiences with all of you, and that's why we started our Patreon. So if you wanna check it out, we'll leave the links in the description. And on top of that we're really exciting projects If you want to be informed there's also a signup link in That way, we can the moment we are ready Again, big thanks to all for being part of the for the last five years, We're working on new projects, new videos. All I can say is stay tuned. I am going to take the stairs right here, and I'll meet you guys up there. So over on this side we have nicely hedged, super private, and in case you're we have French doors here I love that the gym has wide-plank hardwood floors. You have your gym equipment It's a cool space. And we have a treadmill can we have you on this side? We have this contraption that is perfect for you to stretch your back, and I know someone who - Yeah, I do too. (Cody chuckling) And probably after you, it's me. We should get one of these for our office. - I think we should. And it's a cool touch. Now Around the corner we have a full bathroom. They certainly didn't skip to designing these bathrooms. They've used all of their resources. Every single one of these bathrooms or these spaces feature I love the subway look here. You have this minimalist bathroom design, glass enclosure, wainscoting. And look how elegant this And if you think about it, you can just close off this section and turn this into You don't have to use it as a gym since the entire space has it Now I wanna go back to the hallway here so we can check out the This is the staircase by the kitchen. And look at the volume here, It's a cool space before In fact, I'm gonna now so we can check out I love the natural stone approach here. This is the same fossilized on the main level, and and even better, they used But this countertop here or this vanity setup has Look how they poke the legs - That's pretty nice. Look how nice the shelving design is. - Ah! It's basically holding And then you go in, you You have a small window Make the spaces count. I love the attention to to all these details, and it gets better. To our right, we have the office. We talked about Dave earlier, and this is his personal office. We have so many different but what I love about this how we have this wall to but then you have this massive TV on the other side. And there's also a camera attachment here. That way, you can take meetings. And let me tell you, the I would love to take my - [Cody] 100%. Now I'm You see those game Do you recognize those at all? - No. They do look cool, though. - [Cody] Yeah, what do they say? - Oh, wow. It says Atari. - [Cody] Yeah, so I'm gonna but I am way too young to but like, my dad definitely - I think I'm also way too young as well. (Cody chuckling) and it says 1982 on this. - Wow. This is super cool. - [Cody] Yeah, that's but we're aging both of - There you go. I mean, there are so many and just cool artifacts in this room. In fact, Cody, you know what we gotta do? We gotta take everybody to the other side. So Dave is the person behind and many other games as well. And here's some of the And this is also his &quot;Wall Again, he's been kind enough to let us tour his incredible home. And what a cool office. In We have the stormtrooper here. Darth Vader on the other side. And before I cover this section, I want to quickly showcase this bar. This is not the biggest opening here, but the portal and the way it's design and the material selection Who would use brass to and create a countertop out of brass and the sink and the fixture? Then you have this these elegant wooden and the bottom shelf that gives the lighting of denser feel, and it's just super cool. - [Cody] It is cool. I like that it illuminates So like those two in the That's pretty cool touch. - It is a really nice touch. All right, now on the other side, we have some built-in cabinetry. This is super cool, &quot;Ghostbusters.&quot; - [Cody] I think I'm aging myself again 'cause I've never seen &quot;Ghostbusters.&quot; - It's so cool. And again, you have so Cool stuff. This is Dave's personal desk. Again, you have this elegant seating area right in front of you. Darth Vader statue. That's why I was saying, &quot;What a cool backdrop for your meeting.&quot; Can you imagine having - [Cody] And you're short - Well, it's a massive statue, for sure. And we have hardwood floors here, and these hardwood floors feature a really cool design element that I want to talk about in the primary bedroom. Again, Cody, let's give it one more look. Really cool office and gets better. We also have French doors here, opening up to this really cool balcony. That way, straight from your office, you get to enjoy these views, and enjoy this environment Now it gets better. On that side, we have the Let's go check it out. (downtempo music) This bedroom suite is I love the palette here. The ceiling design, plaster It has an amazing feel to it, and, obviously, it faces But before I talk about actually wanna talk about a Cody, can we tilt down? So the hardwood floors in this house come from the Black Forest in Germany, and they have different width of planks. And on these wide planks, to give it a more smooth these bow tie insets that are This is one of the most tasteful details I've ever seen applied to hardwood floors, so I wanted to mention that. And then when you're ready, you can actually lower because you have a but my preference would be to and enjoy these views. I mean, I love the fact that to this zen environment. You have a really nice balcony here. This would be a fantastic - [Cody] I agree. - This is such a tasteful Follow me this way. We have the first walk-in closet here. I adore the millwork, the cabinetry, and the color contrast between the ceiling and the oak-paneled walls. You have a nice built-in seating That way, you maintain And look how exquisite these handles are. This is all leather wrapped, Now follow me this way back to the bedroom because there's another to the second closet, Obviously, the homeowners the property, so we wanna and keep our tour here nice and short, but this walk-in closet is so elegant. I love the island, and I love the fact that it is leather wrapped. Your cabinetry is so minimalist. You have the LED lighting. You have natural light coming in as well. Ceiling looks super cool. And look how nice this makeup area is with the marble finish on the inside. And then you have your Really nice walk-in closet. And going back to the hallway, on the other side, we At this point I'm a little exhausted when it comes to covering the features and the details of this home I mean, look at this The marble installation here, the floors, the walls, stunning. Then you have your built-in cabinetry. But the focal point of this bathroom is this Catchpole &amp; Rye Such an elegant piece that was because that's where they make these tubs. Then you have your casement softer tones, your beautiful vanities that are actually recessed into the wall, so it's like a portal design. Big marble reveal here your Waterworks fixtures, this Beautiful bathroom. And we also have a with a motorized toilet. Big congrats to the architect Oren Dothan and interior designer Marie Carson for designing this incredible home. They've done a phenomenal job. And lastly, look at these to this stunning walk-in shower the floors, the walls, the This a beautiful space, and we still have so much more to see. (downtempo music) What an arrival to the lower level. I know we talked about but the way it's curved, to this landing is quite special. There are a couple details here Number one, Cody, I need to get a closeup because I know you also Can we get close to this handrail? You see the layers of - Yeah. all the way to the floor - It's very cool. and they used all these veneers. They glue it and then and that's how they get the shape. That way, you can have the integrity, and I just love that they left it exposed. They've owned it. And if you look at the steps, they also have this edging And to make the landing a they also have a scale And Cody, let's get a close up again. The details on this scale - It really is. - [Cody] It probably - I was gonna say, these - Definitely. to the right-hand side where we have the lower level lounge, arguably one of the coolest You have your seating and look at some of the the wood-clad ceilings with all these bulky beams, marble floors. And then you have this cozy seating area, these two colorful chairs, They're making every room And if that wasn't enough, to a gorgeous terrace where And, Cody, we need to show Isn't this incredible? - [Cody] And it's a massive - Not only that, we are so close to the iconic Sunset Boulevard, and you have all this that is extremely, extremely private. I mean, look at the hedging here and how green this property is. I love it. I love the vibes here, I love the privacy, and it just has a zen, I - [Cody] It does, and the amount of events that you could have is like just infinite. You could have weddings, parties, fundraisers, anything. And we're gonna check out but now I wanna flow Now we haven't shown which is this elegant bar, and I promise, we're gonna but first we gotta take Cody, meet me on the other Look how beautiful these brass doors are, the paneling, the detail, the fabrication. I am thoroughly impressed And on the other side we Normally on our channel, we tend to tour movie because when you think about it, there are not a whole lot You have your seating, you screen, and that's pretty much it, but that's not the case We got a lot to cover here. Number one, I love the design palette, the carpet, fabric lined Look at the ceiling design And then you have your mood lighting, which accentuates the texture of the plaster ceiling here as well. And when you look at the seating, you realize that you have and all these seats are so they're super, super comfortable. And gets better. They're All you have to do is tap the button here and just lay back, enjoy. - [Cody] I'm a little jealous right now. Not gonna lie. It's been a long tour. - (chuckling) And there you go. And they also have these built-in sections with the stone inserts. These are so nice. - I feel like a lot of our viewers are gonna take inspiration - Definitely. you can obviously go for those chairs, or you can kind of have And I also like that they left You have the second tier here. They could have easily squeezed but I like that they left it grand. And you obviously have 12-foot screen behind me, fantastic space. - [Cody] It really is, and of that Star Wars memorabilia. Yes, you know who that character is? - I wanna apologize to all - [Cody] I'm pretty sure that's Yoda. Correct me if I'm wrong - I think you're right. - [Cody] You might get - (sighs) You know, it is what it is. You win some, you lose some. (Cody laughing) all right, that's it Now let's go back to the lounge with the bar, but before we get there, there's also a really so why don't we check it out? The walls here have more of but they left it matte, Your toilet, and can we the marble fabrication, curved I just want to take this to my home. I don't even need it. I - [Cody] Hey, it's - Without a doubt. I Look at all these exposed That's why I wanted to Now let's go back so we I mean, look at the bar stools here, and wait till you see the Your dual elevation countertops, as a back wall here, and The cabinetry, floating shelves here with this stained mirror on This is such a vibe, Your fixture, and gets better. On the other side, they I love the design of the doors here. (doors squeaking) They are a little squeaky because they have the seal on the bottom. - That's good. And, of course, it's - [Cody] How's it feel in there? - Fantastic. - I feel like you should get in here. You look like you're sweating today. - [Cody] I might right after this. - It's crazy. We're shooting this episode in October, and L.A. is so hot today. I'm sure you guys probably seen me sweat throughout this episode. Listen. Those are some solid doors right there. - Those are Love the thin frame. All Now before we leave this room, I wanna talk about two details. Number one, there's a photo of Dave with Sylvester Stallone I was like, &quot;Okay, that's really cool.&quot; Then I saw what's on my right-hand side, which are boxing gloves I'm like, &quot;This is-&quot; - Yes. I mean, what a cool memorabilia. - Totally. to the landing. The door to my right opens up to a really spacious laundry two dryers, built-in cabinetry and a sink. And then going this way, to two more guest suites. Now to my right, we have another bathroom with the same marble vanity, Great space. And then to my right, we which is currently And this is super, super cute. - It really is. down below, and you have This gets me excited to - [Cody] Totally. - Like seeing a room This is heartwarming. And then you have the to a really nice terrace And then going this way, we This one also features a king size bed. French doors open up to the outdoors. We have some built-in cabinetry here. And around the corner, we have a really nice bathroom You have these square floor tiles that give you the feeling especially on your feet. And then you seamlessly walk with glazed, oversized subway tiles. And then you have this with a natural stone Another beautiful bathroom. And now let's jump to the outdoors. (downtempo music) If all that that we just you'll also have this lower garden area, which is fantastic. It's so green and so And keep in mind, you're living right in the heart of the city, like this all to yourself. They also have a very intricate security and surveillance system throughout as well so you can keep your And we have the house right behind us, three-story countryside home, and I just love how all these levels and different spaces so you're getting these really cool spaces. And getting a chance see all of the interior spaces, really made me think a 20, 30, 40,000 square foot mega mansion. Maybe you can come up where you can pack so many under an efficient layout, and impressive about this property. Now don't get me wrong. I do know that 9,000 square but when you think about the rollercoaster of an experience that seeing all these different the experiences, the amenities, I feel like this property Now there's only one and that is to see this property at dusk. (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) (water rushing) (dramatic music continues) All right, everyone, Hope you'll enjoy this episode. It's been a memorable and exploring all of its And for that, I wanna give and the listing agent, Aaron Kirman, for making this tour possible. And as always, as you about this stunning estate in Make sure to check it out. Now lastly, if you enjoyed our tour, give us a like, subscribe, and we'll see you guys on the next one. (dramatic music)