In a previous episode, I covered the Apple 1, some early commercial success in 1976. And in which came out one year later. Now there's a which I'm not going to tell in ad nauseam in other documentaries, There's even some controversy as to how some even contradicting Steve Wozniak's version regardless of how I would portray this, it would not something I want to find myself in the middle not usually covered in these documentaries, When the Apple II landed at the West facing competition from 2 other home computers, magazine referred to this as the 1977 trinity. finally making personal computers affordable and Now before we get too deep into the details here. First, let's talk about byte magazine. how Byte Magazine coined the term the 1977 all 12 issues of Byte Magazine from the year reference I can find is from a 1995 issue of the and they do at that point use the term If they used the term any earlier than And now let's talk about a little more from 7th grade. This is really the only especially anything showing the school's our classrooms full of Apple II computers. while the two on the left had color monitors. And monochrome monitor, oh and look. There's I had a full head of hair back then. And here's and here's even some of the office staff using OK, now the thing is, this was computers for about 7 years. At this and I had even seen Amiga computers My 12 year old self was very underwhelmed their green monochrome graphics and their, And while I'd never seen an Apple I had seen them advertised in magazines, and saw the price. I knew that they were pretty Like, why would my school have bought these an amiga 500 for half the price? So, I spent a lot kids proselytizing my view that Commodore or as me and my friends used to call them back be explaining to them why Commodore computers I wasn't wrong. From a perspective of comparing there were two glaring errors that I didn't being that it's very likely that my school didn't Apple IIs. And we'll circle back around to that my 12 year old self didn't understand is that, which is what a computer would be considered, they those Apple computers that we were using at that time. In fact, the Commodore 128 that the Apple IIs that we were using in school, So, I think it is important to go back to 1977 of people at that time. While the price was it's worth noting that the Apple II had a form of BASIC. All 3 machines came with 4K one to offer bit-mapped graphics, color of any Taking a look at this ad from 1977, one the Apple II was also available yourself hobbyist. I'm not quite sure how OK, so I don't actually have an as they are really hard to find. Even after where there were untold number of Apple II systems Apple II. They were all later models like the II they did acquire an original Apple So, what I do have is an Apple II Plus, which is and ROM, and a slightly different badge that says power light. As you can see here on the Plus, it at the original model, the power light sticks Also, even this model here isn't quite ever Apple IIs to come off the production line nearly impossible to find because Apple realized so the vents had to be added. I believe they even One possible reason why the original models upgrade kits to convert your Apple II many of the II Plus systems that you find, There were a few other minor differences such as the original board only supported 4 colors Also the original boards did not have a color both of these later. These last two upgrades rather by the time the II plus came out, So, taking a look at the Apple II, ports you get on the back by default is and a composite video output. There is but it is actually a DIP socket The keyboard layout is somewhat irritating key is in a weird place, the plus symbol be. There are only left and right cursor there is no backspace or delete key. Instead the as annoying as this is, let's be objective two competitors. The TRS-80 had a keyboard Commodore PET had a much worse keyboard than the would not have seemed weird to the people using and thus nobody would have had any preconceived Let's talk about Apple II graphics and color. monochrome. There is no way to change the color 40x24 character display, and that's all there is in 1977 there weren't a lot of computer monitors manufacturing one of their own yet. So the most II was, in fact, a CCTV security camera monitor early Apple II setups using this sort of monitor. Another option would be something which was available at the time. It simply And while this monitor is borderline it was common to just put the television like this as well. Also the 1980s which also could eliminate this problem by Of course, in text mode, it's So, if you had your original Apple II would you be able to do? Well, let's start is no exaggeration. You literally get 40 something nearly unheard of at the time. like 15 because the there are Steve Wozniak demonstrated the low res graphics which you can see running here. One big advantage it was really fast to manipulate, even in BASIC. write little action, or pong style games in BASIC You could initialize low res mode by simply you'll only get 40x40 pixels, and sort of a split-screen. This mode was handy display any text at the same time as your There were some actual commercial games such as Three Mile Island, which is one was Polywog. And here's OK, so what about hi-res graphics? Well, here's the original Apple II has the needed but what it lacks is the needed RAM. Let's take a look at the memory layout at the top of address space. Next to that is RAM area for hi-res graphics. But, if you only There's no RAM available for hi-res graphics. You have to expand the RAM all the way to 16K of RAM would set you back around $400 in use of the second page of hi-res for double On the bright side, Apple II systems were all the way up to 48K. they even left is in contrast to Commodore, who actually upgrade the PET by drilling holes in OK, so let's say you have enough RAM for a hi-res II graphics work. And that is a challenge. It's One issue is from a perspective of RAM. The a lot of extra complex math in order to figure which is more work for the coder. But it's to displaying graphics. Meaning the graphics that came later. But the best way I can describe completely different depending on whether you it's easiest to start with the monochrome monitor, mode, you get a 280x192 monochrome bitmap. There they're off. Unfortunately, in memory, each 8 bits you have to keep that in mind when programming, of video RAM. but otherwise, Apple's monochrome and in 1977, was in and of itself pretty obviously didn't appear until years later in when most people picked up their first Apple II see would be whatever they programmed magazine, as there weren't really any graphical Ok, so now it's time to talk about Apple II to mention is that is that the Apple II like later computers would have. he had to use off the shelf parts to come up with with was actually very innovative. It's kind of and it's probably beyond the scope of this video. a programmer or artist's perspective, how When a color monitor is attached to an due to something called the color-killer, signal when text mode is active. Although about earlier with the original Apple II, your text would always appear rainbow colored But in graphics mode, color is generated these single bits would simply generate instead actually light up the equivelant can change the color by moving the pixel. So shift between green and violet. And two pixels using combinations of two pixels, you This was the only 4 colors you could use However, an improvement was made on later of this extra bit we talked about earlier. And bit is set, then you can now make orange and blue additional colors. And with this setup the Apple one problem with this setup is that it is to each other. And, if you attempt or using the lower 4 rows in a split screen because now it will be forced to follow And when graphics designed for color screens you wind up with these vertical line this is true even for the low res and you can clearly see each of the large One way to sort of sum up Apple II hi res graphics to a monochrome monitor then you'll get 280 x monitor, then you get 140 x 192 pixels with lived in a country with NTSC video, because the most Apple II users in PAL land simply got black video card in their computer, which had the OK, so hopefully you have a basic understanding sound generation. So, it was very innovative computer when basically nobody else was doing that I think you're going to see why that I the worst in the industry. At least the worst Inside the Apple II is just a simple speaker. it will produce a single click. It really memory address, what causes the click is the So, in BASIC, for example, you can type POKE you might be wondering why you would poke to a integer BASIC that shipped with the original instead of 0 to 65535 it would be negative IIs with applesoft BASIC, you could do a more just as well. You could also PEEK the address, Now, what if you wanted to make an actual tone. BASIC isn't very fast so that's about the highest like maybe this, to speed it up a little bit. pitched tones, you'd have to do it in assembly allow making some creative sounds, and it is even But there are two huge problems with creating CPU has to do all of the work to click the specific tone and then have the CPU go off its thing. Even on the IBM PC, a computer with least tell the speaker to make a particular tone playing. The second problem with making music internal timers. Everything has to be done by difficult when you have multiple subroutines a particular subroutine to run. So that makes it one moment to the next, thus making music with And that's why the vast majority of Apple II games and in most cases the game actually stops during very short, then the player usually won't notice such as WindWalker, but since the CPU had to this means not much can be happening on music was pretty much always confined Of course there would be improvements to both the more about those later in the episode, but for One of the great features of the Apple II was that well, all sorts of things. And I'll start the Disk II controller. Just so we're a year after the Apple II had been on the way to load and save programs on the Apple The slots on the Apple II are different from The main thing that sets them apart is that map. And a peripheral card like this disk on board. Typical cards had 256 bytes of ROM. then that ROM will appear at a So, I'm going to attach a disk drive to the card Obviously, a second drive can attach here. to the drive and cannot be removed by the but I'll put it in slot 5. And then the cable smaller one here is just about the perfect size if you were using one of these then the disk drive would usually fit perfectly monitor or television, then you'd probably OK, let's boot up the computer. You'll headbanging. The reason for this is that to reduce cost. But one way around that was to thus ensuring the head would be in if you boot up the computer without a bootable the Apple II logo. The code that is actually in those PROMs on the disk controller. It's code might be on the boot sector of a disk. The So at this point you have two options. One option boot process and return you to BASIC. The trouble you can't actually use any disk commands. As So, what you need is a bootable disk. simply boot directly, without needing if you boot to a DOS disk, you'll get a able to list a directory using the catalog There were actually multiple types of DOS being either Apple DOS or ProDos. But I'm Another thing I wanted to show you real quick. you can re-initialize the disk boot process people claim the PR stands for print output, which the second makes more sense because all it stored in a card it slot #5. And as you can see, if I move the card to slot #3, I can There were a number of cards designed over the card. Here's a Microsoft softcard, which has CP/M software. This is a sound card, which will which we'll also circle back to shortly. But this called a language card. The name can be confusing You see, the ROM originally contained Integer people upgraded their ROM to contain Applesoft what if you had software that needed the older to swap the ROMs out all of the time. So, what here in this address area that can be switched or it even adds another little 4K here that can also in another language such as an older version of And the RAM can be write-protected if you want, And so, that's what the language hence the name. However, as more time went by, way to just add more RAM to the computer, lot of games eventually started requiring 64K in And thus by the year 1980, the Apple II quickly with virtually all commercial software being As the time marched on into the less and less competitive with other computers In 1981, Apple introduced the Apple III computer, which was supposed to replace the Apple but this computer was a massive flop in the market line instead. We'll revisit this computer in a So, back to the Apple II, one issue with company by the name of Apple Corps, which was a And the problem is, Apple computer had already which resulted in a settlement where Apple And so, as you might imagine, Apple was hesitant you might think that adding better sound be considered entering the music business, for adding a music synthesiser chip to the but nevertheless illustrates Of course, the Apple II had expansion slots and So in 1983, a 3rd party company did indeed which is the closest thing the Apple II card. The Mockingboard used either 1 or 2 AY-3 The card also contained 6522 control chips, which which were also badly needed to make proper music. the internal speaker on the Apple II, it was Atari and Commodore, since the Mockingboard The worst part is, software support for the 50 software titles that supported it. Most of some other musical oriented applications as well. 4 of these are actually modern games OK, so it was possible to improve the audio on to improve that was with an 80 column card. Apple II cards. These cards essentially doubled which was immediately usable in BASIC by typing Crisp 80 column text became very important for Also in 1983, with the Apple /// not doing well, enhanced. This computer came standard with internally. And there was a special slot that add 80 columns and 64 additional kilobytes of Visually, It looks very similar to the II and such as the power light and an overall have been added, what we call the open apple these keys are not electrically part of the button 0 and 1. You also now have 4 cursor keys, would ever use them. You also get things like Although the delete key is somewhat infuriating never really understood why it was done use the left cursor key to correct mistakes. making a typo, not only will it not correct the key does work correctly in some The rear of the Apple IIe is also quite a bit slots are gone and now there are various for example, if you had a card that needed you could simply remove one of these empty controller also had the option to mount in one of more elegant design and used a D-Sub connection joystick port on the rear, which does require a The 80 column card in the IIe didn't just double resolution too. So now you could display 560 if using a color monitor, the resolution of the quirky way color is produced you The trouble is, the Apple II base That's what the software companies give them the widest audience for their in the computer industry and we kind of Of course, there were a few programs that And for graphics, Dazzle Draw offered support think it was until the 21st century that we were graphics modes, thanks to modern conversion photo to the double-hi-res graphics. OH, and it wasn't just the hi-res graphics, actually makes it considerably more functional and that actually runs in this mode. Another game that runs in the standard 6 color graphics mode, double-low-res graphics for that, which means you Also around this time, Apple started producing Monitor II. This was meant to be both the for displaying text. So if you were a business and be the perfect monitor since the Apple II couldn't feature of this monitor is that the CRT can pivot The other monitor would be the Applecolor Monitor obviously it displays color. However, due to it also has a button to kill the trying to use a program that needs hi res then you can switch to that mode Not long after the IIe, came the IIc, the Compare it to the IIe and you'll see exactly comparison because the IIe doesn't have a disk elegant design with the disk drive in the side you wanted a different typing angle. Apple also and even a flat panel display that could sit It wasn't necessarily cheap, starting of hardware built in. Besides the obvious serial ports, and 80 column capability. Of course from a software perspective, everything had ended up. In fact, by this point in history, this the entire Apple II line because certain software The Apple IIc really deserves a video of its own and we'll get to that some day, but for the the Apple II line was the IIe enhanced. Which IIe was already supposed to mean enhanced. So Anyway, what I have here is actually a later different color scheme, and a number pad. These OK, so, I want to compare the keyboards of I just want you to listen to the different way keyboards are actually pretty terrible. I've got and they can even bind up if you don't push I can't get more than about 20, maybe 25 words And I make a lot of mistakes. Now, moving what they did but the keys are significantly they have a nice hard stop to them and they 40 words per minute or more on a keyboard like just. This one is the absolute best keyboard. per minute, without making too many mistakes on It was around this time that which is actually a 16 bit computer, and I think it should also be its own The last computer I'm going to show you in in 1988. It's an enhanced version of the IIc, the platinum look of the IIe. The IIc plus has a the plus feels much better to type on. Also the is sort of weird since very little software was computer also could run at 1 or 4 Mhz, making OK, so now that I've shown you all of the for a moment about the Apple II's role in the as a computer for playing home video games, other computers like the Commodore, the Amiga, Those computers were often cheaper, they electronics retailers, and honestly they just continued to do well is in the business market. fast disk access, and 128K of RAM is what in running a word processor, a spreadsheet, graphics and sound so much. An Apple II was a say a Commodore 64. Another place Apple Remember earlier in the episode when I talked how I couldn't believe they would pay those actually gave away a lot of free computers to buying more later. This was accomplished There were also attempts to pass government equipment contribution act&quot; otherwise known as the it never passed the senate, but there were that did help Apple get tax credits for And then top it off, here's an official price if they chose to buy more computers from a school district might be paying as little disk drive and monitor, which at that price was And of course, by the mid 1980s, a school system Apple II compatible educational software, so In fact, these Apple II systems continued the reason was simple. I'll give you my in the mid-1980s they had replaced all of the and even some IBM PCs, but they still had all of wanted to have an Apple II or even a few Apple like, why not? I mean, they have them.. so they might as well use them for something. to use them throughout the 90s because he had some play to help you learn German vocabulary. And and it was still relevant, and it still did The last Apple IIe was produced in 1993, also quite the end. Apple also produced something inside of certain Macintosh computers. Since and not just some emulation, many people and it continued to be produced until in production in some form or Apple II computers have been featured in just look at this list. So I'll show you some in The Explorers as well as 2010 The Year times in Young Sheldon. And a Standard Apple And that about wraps it up for I do plan to come back in the future and cover and of course the Apple IIgs. But that's all