There are various estimates of how big a drain on the digital economy is. One data point is that 1% of are created by people just or on their PCs. Smartphones, computers, data centers, and all the digital are estimated to use around And that's only going to get worse as we rely more and more on our devices. Probably the best way to look at that is what's going on in data centers. These are these giant that are processing all of the information that you generate. These giant data centers are on a course to be by perhaps the end of the decade. Clearly, that kind of a drain We need new solutions. We need novel solutions. Scientists and startups around the world are developing low-energy computer chips which could be better for the environment and upgrade the intelligence Everything's tied to It could be finance, it could be chemical engineering, name your field. So my goal since founding the company has been to develop a a new technology platform, that will allow computers to It's not only about design but also sending them for fabrication, testing them and making system prototypes for various application. The focus of the application would be reducing the energy consumption to the minimum level. It's a very high risk, high So if we're successful, then we'll transform this industry. That'd be this enormous From space hardware to toasters, almost everything in modern life depends on silicon-based They're the things that At a very fundamental level, semiconductors are made up and these are the absolutely the on and offs. On or off means zero or Say a modern graphics chip will have tens of billions and this is something that's So how do we get all onto something relatively small? Well, we do that by building on a disk of silicon, scraping off patterns layering on other materials until we have these tiny circuits that give the chip its function. For half a century, the semiconductor industry has made chips exponentially faster and better by shrinking the size of transistors, turning room-sized computers propelling the digital revolution. Clearly, new technology is presenting both management and staff with an ever-growing range of choices about how and where work But traditional computing is reaching its limit. State-of-the-art mass produced chips are made with what's called a dimension that smaller than a virus. And materials inside some devices are already one atom thick, meaning they can't be made any smaller. And we're reaching the limits of physics. We're reaching the The increasing consensus is that these advances are beginning to come to an end. So that if we really of the full potential of and the absolute ocean of data that we're all creating today, we're going to need new materials, we're going to need we're going to need new My personal first time about learning and discovering what a carbon nanotube was was when I was just about finishing up college, undergraduate. And I saw a presentation by the vice president of research of IBM and immediately I was, thought it was very special. A carbon nanotube is a material made entirely of carbon atoms. The carbon atoms are arranged in a tube. Imagine taking a sheet of carbon atoms and rolling them into a tube and then making that tube smaller and smaller until the diameter of that It's this extremely small, which is about 100,000 times smaller than the diameter of an eyelash and a hundred times smaller than a virus. The really cool thing about nanotubes is that they conduct electricity better than just about any other material that's ever been discovered. Electrons will move along faster than they do in silicon. And that means you can get between on and off states. You can make faster computer chips. You could turn them on And that means they use less electricity, less power than silicon. In theory, nanotubes will be able to do a thousand times better than silicon. Same computational capabilities, 1,000 times less power. Another advantage is that carbon nanotubes can be processed at a low temperature, so layers of nanotubes can be Silicon has to be processed at an extremely high temperature, which makes 3D layers much harder. If you really think about a city, what happens when you run is you build up, you build skyscrapers, you build into the third dimension. And so if you can't make then you could improve your computer chip by making more transistors, by making multiple layers of transistors on top of other transistors. Since the 1990s when nanotubes were different methods have been But every process creates metallic ones and semiconducting ones. A metallic nanotube like a copper wire, it's stuck in the metallic state. You can't switch it, and that kills a circuit. So we need only semiconducting nanotubes to really make nanotube electronics work. So molecules and polymers that can be mixed in with which is this tangled mess of nanotubes. And those molecules to just the semiconducting ones and not the metallic ones, or they'll stick differently. And then you could sort the based on these differences. Initially, in a powder, there's about 67% of the But using these chemical approaches, we could extract over 99.99% of the semiconducting nanotubes. After the semiconducting nanotubes have been extracted, they float around in a solution, and so the next challenge on a silicon wafer, which can then be turned Carbon nanotubes really right from the beginning. I mean they really have the opportunity to potentially revolutionize electronics. This challenge of aligning them in these highly packed, has really been frustrating the field of carbon nanotube electronics since their discovery. During my PhD, I was kind of tasked with you know, how we can better We just found, you know, that when we layer carbon where carbon nanotubes like organic solvents, if we layer that carbon then instantaneously will collect and confine at And that high ordering and really helps to align What you're seeing here is a aligned array of hundreds of thousands As you can see, individual nanotubes, these light-colored regions, and then the dark-colored They're all really well-aligned with respect to each other. Occasionally, there's a then we need to improve to eliminate those instances. The biggest current challenge is being able to achieve in extremely uniform arrays across, you know, 300-millimeter wafers, which is an industry before they start changing silicon to integrate carbon nanotubes instead. If we can overcome these challenges, if we can make these the major players in industry will really jump into this field and it could just progress at that point The technique isn't perfect yet, but it's already an advance Michael and Katherine with an aim to solve remaining challenges. But many more breakthroughs are needed before nanotube transistors have even a chance of replacing silicon. It absolutely shows promise, but it's been showing There are many issues, you know, how robust are these devices, but more importantly can The semiconductor industry is based on silicon transistors, and enormous sums have in infrastructure to manufacture that technology. Plants have a price tag of $20 billion, take years to build and need to turn a profit. Change will be difficult without a guarantee that carbon Silicon's been around a long time. People know how to use it, they know how to program it, they know how to mass manufacture it. It's still, in terms of And until those economics change, nothing is going to replace it. I've always been obsessed with computers. You know, I had an opportunity at a large semiconductor company for a number of years. And I got to see there some associated with continuing and I found that to be not So my goal with Lightmatter has been to develop a a new technology platform that allows you to do calculations When electronics uses electrons, that's the medium of transfer, that's what represents the data. Photonics is using photons, which is the basic constituency of light. So for example, a fiber optic cable that spans the Pacific Ocean is using light to transmit information. Why is it using light? Well, it's because the energy required to shove electrons along a copper cable would be absolutely enormous, and you would just have So if you can convert that you can send it faster and So that's obviously a desirable thing. There's nothing faster So when you think about the latency between when you make a query and when a photonic computer it's really the fundamental limit for how fast you could do these things. Electrical wires, there's a certain amount of time that it takes for them to turn on and off. And every time you do, it takes a lot of energy to do this, to turn this wire off and on. Now with a photonic computer you have a type of wire that femtoseconds maybe, even It takes almost no energy other while the optical signal is You have another great which is that you can through this photonic wire, encoded in different all at the same time. So you have massively parallel through these nearly perfect wires. The idea of silicon photonics has been around again for a long time. The problem comes with changing those electrons-based So the traditional way of doing that is to have all of these that are expensive and use Silicon photonics is, well, maybe we can just design a chip that directly deals in that we can have, you know, And that's what was supposedly Again, it's been promised for a long time, it's gonna change the world, or has been about to change and it hasn't yet. But Lightmatter still believes silicon photonics is going to happen, and it's harnessing used in the telecoms and semiconductor processing industries. Their chips are specifically like chat bots and self-driving cars. The startup plans to launch later this year. One of their current which enables chips to talk to each other. It could help solve in data centers and potentially bring down costs. In these huge factories, processors are closely arranged together so they can communicate at high speeds. But this also generates So not only do you have to power all of these components, but then you have to use to actually cool them down to stop them literally melting. What this company is trying to do is to come up with interconnects and ways of connecting components that use light rather So that means, in theory, that you could have a memory in another, storage in another, and that would help with the density and the power and the heat. And that's definitely a solution that's being tried by numerous companies, but we're still waiting for that to show, you know, practical everyday results and be widely adopted. Human brain is very efficient. Our brain operates all the time. It doesn't dissipates which is very small value. To solve the problem of Rubik's Cube, so the amount of energy which is required to learn as compared to the actual systems. Just solving the problem, put learning aside, that itself will need to become parallel and then dissipate a lot of power, which can go beyond megawatt. These scientists in India have been trying to build low-energy chips mimicking the way the human The human brain is that communicate with each known as spikes. Each neuron releases molecules and control if the electrical pulse is passed along the chain. This transmission happens which are called synapses. Neurons and synapses, they are fundamentally different from the way computers compute. Computers use transistors, They do zero, one, on, off. The brain sort of does a similar thing except that it works in analog. It's also partly stochastic. A neuron may spike or may not spike depending upon inherent The brain itself doesn't It likes to do everything This sort of enables creativity. It sort of enables problem solving. And the youngsters' creative imagination is not neglected. Once there was a bear that was and lived on the sun. The connections are different. So if you look at a computer chip, every transistor roughly Every neuron, on the other hand, talks to about 10,000 other neurons, and that's literally what Neurons use time as a Computers don't understand time per se, they just sort of, you know, and do mathematical operations. To mimic the architecture of our brain more closely, the team designed an artificial neural net based on the biological Each artificial neuron is built with a few silicon transistors and connected to other neurons. We try to mimic the auditory cortex. So the auditory cortex has this neurons which are connected in random. And that sounds weird, but it turns out it serves which is in speech processing. What we are doing is that there which means that the neuron including itself, creating some sort of loopy pathways, which are fairly random. And these loops are part they are called liquid state machine. They naturally are able like when you hear speech, which is sort of occurs in time. We are doing some analog compute. There is some noise also in the neurons, so there could be some stochasticity. In the traditional or everything is digital. Everything is defined based Analog computers, which are eventually signals would be able to get more complexity at the same time more Here we have our neural network chip which is on the test board. So what we'll do is we'll and that will sort of convert It's gonna get processed in the chip. We run the code. One. So it detects a one. This neuromorphic chip has been able to recognize speech using a fraction of the energy Just like biological neurons, the artificial neurons wait for inputs and only spike when data comes in, and that means lower energy consumption. Each neuron is also highly efficient by using a quantum mechanics phenomenon called band-to-band tunneling. So electrons are still able with very low electric current. Quantum tunneling is nothing that humans essentially If you have a human being the human being has to walk up the hill, burn energy, and then walk down, And so there is no way for without using up energy. If you make this hill thinner and thinner, narrower and narrower until it goes to the size scale on the order of, say, a at which point, an electron doesn't need to surmount it, it can, in principle, tunnel through it, which means it will sort and appear on the other side magically. If you take a transistor, there's this same idea we have a barrier that we sort of reduce, and when we want to turn it off, we increase the barrier. That's when you expect but that is not true by quantum mechanics. So even through a barrier, when it's narrow enough, electrons can sort of, quote So far, there are 36 artificial neurons on the chip, and their energy consumption to biological neurons. If we want to approach which are already in human brain, so we need billions of them, and therefore we need to generated by a single Intel, one of the world's has been working on brain-inspired They've released two versions of their neuromorphic research chip Loihi. The latest one is only 32 but contains up to a million neurons. The company said Loihi has demonstrated multiple applications, including recognizing hazardous odors and enabling robotic arms to feel. In the near term, based on the most recent I would say that solving are the most exciting application. Things like planning, navigating, you can think of it of solving for example, if you want to These kind of optimization problems are conventionally really compute heavy, but we found that on a we can reduce the computational demands by orders of magnitude. So over a 10 times speed up as well as over a thousand Probably the majority of the groups that are working with Loihi sees robotics as kind of the long-term, best application domain After all, brains evolved and to deal with real-world stimulus, respond to it in real time, and adapt to the, you of the real world. And if you think about robotics today, they perform very But if you want to deploy a we really don't have the technology yet to make them as agile, as adaptive as we really would like. And so that's where we really thriving. Intel and its collaborators have used the Loihi chip to power iCub, a humanoid robot designed to learn in a way that children might. This iCub robot is intended to interact as opposed to being pre-trained with static data sets beforehand. So using kind of saccadic motions, moving the eyeballs, it can trace through and detect change or edges in the objects And using a fully neuromorphic paradigm, we're able to design a network that understands and even at different angles It adds to its understanding, it's kind of dictionary of What is this called? That's a mouse. Oh, I see. This is a mouse. Let me have a look at that. Sure. Can you show me the mouse? Here is the mouse. So far all of this technology But to fight climate change and power the progress of civilization, we need at least one of Greener chips absolutely have to happen. People are concerned about people are concerned about the efficiency, people are concerned about the results and the way that chips So there's been, you know, an absolute in chip startups and trying these things. This is definitely the Will they all be successful? Absolutely not. But now, I would say more than ever, there is a chance that out there in some corner of the world, there is a chip startup within maybe the next 10 years. You can't get your enjoyments from only the successes in science. You need to get your enjoyment from just enjoying solving hard problems. And so if you fail, that is just part of the process of eventually finding a solution.