With its opening in September 2023, the in the entertainment industry. The with a screen that spans across the entire that sends different audio tracks to each seat. Sitting here should make you feel And to achieve that no expense or $2.3billion on creating this But how does all of this actually work? Let's take a look behind the curtain of the Sphere For this video we partnered up with Jared the Las Vegas Sphere. It's truly impressive, so The Madison Square Garden company, Sphere in 2018. These are the same people behind you guessed it, Madison Square Garden building entertainment venues. But with the They selected the best people from every fulfill their vision - to reinvent live opened for business. And with an exterior like This is the Exosphere - the It was designed by SACO, the company behind some of the world's most amazing light shows they'd just finished their work on the world's the media facade on the Burj Khalifa - and then The Exosphere is 3 and a half times as we get closer to the screen, on your television or phone. But That's because screens are made up of pixels. On tiny, lights, known as subpixels. green and blue. By combining these we can produce millions of different colors. and stand back a little, the distinction The Exosphere works in the same way, except 1.2 million individual lights; each one about the like the individual pixels on your TV, except that As you can see here, each cluster is so if you're standing closer to the sphere it distance, as is intended, the lights It's crazy that you get such a sharp If you rather watch content &amp; movies on you've probably already experienced there is a solution, and this is where we With CyberGhostVPN all of your traffic your ip address is hidden Thanks to CyberGhost you can access all kinds Just change your online location and play games blocked in your region, of over 40 streaming services like What's even more important: CyberGhost brokers that want to sell your information online. Cyber Ghost's 38 million worldwide highly recommended VPN on trust pilot. Over CyberGhostVPN is available for all platforms, and 1 subscription can be in use of 7 devices so With our link *insert link like get their best deal ever. Just $2.03 84% off. There's a 45-day money-back It's a great product, I can recommend in the description you also help And now let's go inside the And now let's go inside the Here they have a collection visual technology but what immediately Whilst the images look 3-dimensional, Remember those little handheld fans the holographic wall basically works the same way. Hundreds of little rotors, each with four Each one is fitted with LEDs and they spin at probably even faster than many. This makes And that's why it's possible to Looks pretty amazing, right? But that's not all. This is Aura. One of the most advanced humanoid company called Engineered Arts over the last 15 and machine learning. They don't walk around, but answer questions and give presentations The engineers describe Aura as "artificially intelligence". They built it to including large-language models like like Whisper and facial-recognition The combination of all this software with Aura. Over time, Aura will learn from conversations. They're already pretty After spending some time with Aura, visitors This is the Sphere's main screen. It's roughly 20 times larger than the biggest IMAX cinemas It's made of tiles, covered in LEDs that are They're actually so thin that sound can pass The screen has 256,000,000 pixels, making world. At first glance you could super sharp. But that isn't the case. Since the surface is so huge, 160,000 square feet or over 14800 square meters to be For comparison. The latest Iphone has 460 Despite that, the Sphere's Screen still looks great. And this is because The Optimum Viewing Distance is the the audience. The screen in the the seats but would start to break up into You can actually test this at home. then zoom in as far as you can. you should be able to see each pixel broken we talked about before. That's because you The designers, SACO, had to keep the screen. And there was another much that capture film for flat rectangular screens, So, the film-makers had to get creative. to produce content specifically for the replica in California to edit the films for On a normal screen you just couldn't In the beginning, they welded 11 separate footage together in post-production. But shooting With no suitable alternative on the market, And they ended up making what many consider This is the Big Sky Camera System. It's a 316 mega-pixel camera, shooting In other words, it films in a super super smooth. The quality is actually so high, And that's not the only inconvenient thing about Big Sky. It actually takes Those 11 cameras from the first enormous lens. It measures 1ft across and 165 degree field of view - big enough to cover some additional room for "overshoot But the lens is only one part of the capture the images. And Big Sky's Sphere Studios partnered with the biggest sensor in commercial Here's how it works: The lens bends incoming light rays These light rays are then captured by The sensor breaks them down into individual pixel. These signals can then be further In normal cases, the sensor is a rectangle, which corresponds to normal TVs. To produce an image that fits Sphere Studios and STMicroelectronics This way it's much better to convert the image. Overall their new system Sphere Studios have actually filed 10 And because looking at these images on the crew uses a VR headset when filming Big Sky is one of the most technically Sphere. But there is something that's SOUND SYSTEM To match the visuals, the Sphere needed That's why it contains some of the designed by German engineers Holoplot. Hidden behind the Sphere's wrap-around screen are 167,000 speakers. That works And remember we talked about the super thin LED thin to allow the sound to pass through without and Holoplot had to work hand-in-hand with What's special about this system is that the audience, providing custom audio But how is that possible? Take a sound wave, which looks something like aligning the peaks, it will amplify That's constructive interference. If, however, you layer two waves like this, aligning the peaks with the troughs, the two waves will cancel each other Noise-canceling headphones actually work by using Coming out of a speaker, a wave looks like this, When there's more than one speaker, the create interference, causing differences Holoplot's speakers run extremely every individual soundwave will interfere moment that the speakers emit certain waves single interference and therefore control The result is kind of like the difference A lightbulb sends out light in all whereas a laser beam sends a focussed Holoplot speakers produce in terms the Sphere can choose the audio track that providing different languages, soundtracks and It sounds complicated, right? Well, it is. anywhere in the world. They're describing If you enjoyed this video so far, subscribe to people &amp; put out better and better And in true Sphere style, even the seats seats in the theater are fitted with "haptic During performances, they vibrate at specific audience are seeing and hearing. It sounds like experience. On top of that, wind machines generate and even smells and fog! Though the team do say By this point you might be wondering how Well, for now, they're running two types of shows. The first is a live show, with artists like U2 that looks pretty mind-blowing. audio to everyone in the audience and the visuals concrete silo with a skylight, to a wide open The second is part of the Sphere Immersive speaking to all 5 Aura robots before Earth" in the theater. This film by shot on the Big Sky System and tells the Tickets prices range from $79 are definitely debates whether Other films are in the works but take a lot of are also scheduled for the Sphere later in the but seeing live combat sports in full Looking to the future, other Spheres are the most likely seemed to be in London, and MSG concern from local residents about light reject the proposal and MSG ultimately South Korea and Saudi Arabia have sphere and though MSG has held talks with In the near future, Sphere Studios plan to take want to film a space walk in real dimensions Would you like to visit the Sphere one been there, would you say it's worth it? Let And If you want to try CyberGhostVPN, make sure to will protect your data while you browse and on the Internet. This supports us as well. deal for $2.03 a month and 45 days money That's it for today, so thanks a lot for watching