The Best Actress winner is Xu Yan Congratulations to Ms. Xu Yan Xu Yan relies on her superb acting skills Become the youngest person in Golden Phoenix City She also achieved her personal post-image Grand Slam. just a beginning My time has just arrived Xu YanXu Yan Are you okay Xu Yan Xu Yan Xu Yan Open the door, what are you doing? Guys, bring me something Ready to break down the door I took over the sex scene Hey, don't say that This actor? Pretty cool to make a wish Everyone watched This wish hasn't come through yet. While I'm at work in the factory Bring a man home cuckold me It's a shame I did it for my brother's sake Call you sister-in-law It turns out you are just a loser What are you talking about? You're still pretending to be stupid All clothes were taken off Everything that needs to be done must have been done in the room. This must be done in the old society He should be in the pig cage You all shut up What year are you now? Today is March 18, 1980 The Provincial Party Committee and the Provincial Government determined that in 1980 the appropriate development of Xinhua News Agency reporter recently On how to restore and develop individual industry and commerce in cities and towns Visited farmers and merchants Luggage, you actually traveled to the 1980s Others said he broke his shoes Xu Yan, don't pretend to have amnesia with me. My brother is the workshop director of Tangtang Steel Clothing Factory What kind of city daughter deserves it? Not worthy But I have a baby with you, a village woman who cannot read or write. relative He doesn't even dislike you How dare you steal someone? Everyone watched it It's not me, Wu Jianren, I'm sorry for him It was Xu Yan who stole people first Come and have a drink Bitch brother, I can't drink anymore. Come, come, have a drink, have a drink It turns out that I traveled to another virtual person at this point We can only let go of our engagement. It turns out you designed to frame me for breaking my shoes I was thinking of breaking off the engagement. OK I agree but Hum, I made all your clothes and pants What are you doing? I can use embroidery needles Don't want to do needlework His grandma's Who is digging the needle? What needlework doll Just speak. What are you doing to a woman? Did it hit you where it hurts? you you You're a new second-level worker Do you know who I am Do you dare to attack me? I am the workshop director director I think this guy doesn't take you seriously at all. Brother should charge him with hooliganism Send him to the police station Let him sit in jail To everyone, catch this stinky gangster. Even if you catch me, stop it We are in free love Love each other Why do you say he is a hooligan? Free ass You are free. You have obviously been engaged to me for a long time. I said it too That's a doll Dear, this is a new society I don't recognize your bad feudal habits. If you want to force marriage I'd rather ask your superiors A person like you who is not advanced in thinking Why should I be a workshop director? Let's go and register for marriage. Brother, let them go like this Li Qifeng, right? How do you get the certificate? Do you really want to marry me? Otherwise, you want to be imprisoned for betrayal and hooliganism. I know you were tricked too What's the best solution now? Just let's get married Wait until this storm is over before leaving The impact of divorce on you, a lesbian, is too bad no What's this? This was in our time ah your era I said in our hometown In our hometown Divorce is very popular Especially for female celebrities like us Divorce equals sound card sound card The sound card works Stop wondering Go get your household registration book This is the household registration book you want, Director Li Don't call me factory director outside I'm just a laborer in the steel garment factory now Who doesn't know that you are the first college student? The organization directly appoints you as our new factory director. All you have to do is reveal your identity Who dares to judge the flow You are a gangster There is no need to put your life-long affairs into consideration All integrated into the organization Isn't the assigned task a big deal? The leak of steel plant drawings Don't reveal your identity before investigating clearly. Don't you have a crush on Comrade Xu? What are you talking about? But ordinary people have to encounter this kind of thing I was crying early He can still remain calm in times of crisis It's really different Ah I mean Construction of our motherland We need such courageous lesbians. Yes yes yes right Help me keep an eye on Wu Jianren I want to start by investigating him Good factory manager So fresh What if the paparazzi knew I had a flash marriage? This shouldn't have 10 hot searches Paparazzi, you still have a dog? Yes, I used to have a lot of puppies around me Little milk dog, little wolf dog The result is now Tethered by a Chinese pastoral dog Forget it Where is your home? In front Please come in Your home is too small, right? I am a second-level small country It's not my turn to be allocated housing in the factory This is what I rented This is still rented But don't worry When we get married, the factory will give us priority in allocating rooms to us. Oh my god This nasolabial pattern This yellow and black skin And this old-fashioned hairstyle It was because of this face that I was told by others that my shoes were broken. I think it looks pretty You haven't eaten yet? Let me get you something to eat first. Fortunately, it is similar to my previous one. If you take good care of it, it should be fine as a plant flower. Let's eat some steamed buns first to cushion our stomach. Yo You quite understand the eating habits of a beauty like me. But I have this kind of high-fiber whole grain in my hometown. I'm used to it, since God arranged for me to come here I made a decision From now on, I will pay respect to rice and noodles every time. Big fish and meat Comrade, you are really greedy for pleasure So arrogant and licentious Hey, maybe you Maybe you don't know who I am yet In our hometown Some men have sex with me just to face each other Not even a bite or a life I would risk my life just to have a meal. This kind of man tends to go to extremes Don't just eat with him How about I take you to a state-owned restaurant for dinner? State-run hotels are expensive, right? Aren't you a second-level worker? Where did you get the money to treat me to dinner? Oh, actually I've never eaten in a state-run restaurant. But aren't we getting married today? A luxurious time we are all married Don't be so lavish. Eat at home Well, we only have steamed buns and sweet potatoes at home. Well, I just saw a chicken in the yard. Thump thump thump thump Um Eat with your hands Hmm, smells good Delicious. This is the best chicken I have ever eaten. That's not why I went to Chinese restaurants in five seasons consecutively. Brother Xiao Ming told me not to think about it as long as i feel Hey, what's the name of this dish? Fried chicken with French fries Oh, right It also has a name: Mad Thursday It took you a whole year's worth of Gintama to make this meal A whole year's worth of sugar Who is not crazy about this? Don't worry I repay you my wish and never owe anyone anything. we are husband and wife You don't need to worry about it Well, since we are husband and wife Would you like to do something else for me? Hmm, so comfortable Thank you for heating the hot water for me Hey, I can't get used to cold showers. will get sick I didn't expect you to be so particular Li Jifeng Um The briquettes at home are gone I'll go out and buy some Hey, hey, hey, don't go Can you help me buy some shower gel, lotion, essence or something? Let him spend some money and run away man Pooh It's not like Li Qifang's father has never seen women before. Don't be so worthless Director, this is the shampoo and shower gel you want. I didn't expect it would cost so much to marry a daughter-in-law. These are the best, right? I asked the mayor's wife from the supply and marketing cooperative what the specifications were. What are the specifications of our factory director's wife? OK Ah what's wrong Director, you smell so good What will madam do for you? So delicious Can you give me some points? If you want to eat yourself, let your wife do it. Comrade Xu College comrade, are you awake? I brought you breakfast came back Comrade Xu, why have you changed? What has changed Can't tell Nothing seems to have changed But it seems like everything has changed I permed my hair with a poker I used the cream you gave me last night I also remodeled it by the way. clothing How does it look good? nice Where are you going when you dress up so well? I dress up so well Of course, you have to go to your enemies to collect debts. Hey, who is this woman? So beautiful Isn't this the person Director Wu is trying to break the shoes with? Why do you look so good after you retire? Come get some food tonight Hey, these two pounds of pork were stewed. Oh this But the daughter of the deputy factory director gave it to me. Brother, you are so awesome You took down the deputy director's daughter It's a sure bet Before The deputy director thinks that I am engaged to the village girl who made a wish Now if you make a wish and mess around, you won't be blamed on me. This old factory manager has retired The deputy director is also old. If you are married to the deputy director The position of the factory director Yo Not too ambitious No wonder they framed me for stealing someone It turned out that I had climbed up a high branch. Xu Yan, please don't beat me up. The whole factory caught you when you broke your shoes. What does it have to do with us? Xu Yanna We have broken off the engagement You don't have to dress so flashy. Come to seduce me Okay hum Hu Jianren, you really live up to your name. I'm too lazy to talk to you anymore Give me the 100 kilograms of food stamps you owe me 50 feet of cloth stamps, 50 pounds of stamps, 50 pounds of candy stamps Plus 5 big unity cards are given to both of us. It's all settled Bah, you really dare to speak Why did my brother give you so much? Otherwise I sent you the registered letters your brother sent me all these years Let me give you a thought It's been cold recently Can you support me with 50 step tickets? Gorgeous and harmless The food cooked in the cafeteria is never as appetizing to me as the food cooked by you can you support me Give me 10 pounds of food stamps I want to believe it all right Then give me the money and food stamps you have owed me over the years Give them all back to me Otherwise what? I will send these letters to the radio station in the factory. Let everyone listen to it See if the deputy director will marry his daughter to you Where is this soft rice? Okay, I'll give it Oops, I just remembered it wrong It should be 200 kilograms of food stamps 100 feet cloth ticket 100 pounds stamp 100 pounds of candy coupons Plus 10 big group bonuses You, you are starting from the ground up Yes, but so what? I'm ouch Okay, okay, okay Get it for him Still 5 yuan short Just take this as payment Okay, write me a letter Don't make any noise My grandma's blank paper Where's the oil tank and the sugar tank? I'm full I said I can get money if I can get it. How did you come up with the idea of lying to him with a blank piece of paper? No way, a letter written by Wu Jianren Xu Yan accidentally lost everything Xu Yan cried for a long time because of this Why are you saying the same things as others? Aren't you Xu Yan? Yes, I am Xu Yan But I am no longer the Xu Yan who was in love with me back then. I would never spend a penny for a man I understand the meaning of your words Here is 100 yuan From now on, I will give it to you for household use every month. Doesn't your mother's second-level job earn 20 yuan a month? Where did you get so much money? I saved it I am a great old man I don't have to buy nice things to eat and wear. Besides, wait until the factory allocates a room to us. This rent can also be saved Then take it Take it back We are having a fake marriage It's not really like living a good life But you have no income That's just now This is the 1980s gold everywhere The most indispensable thing is opportunity I definitely have a way to support myself Well said, heroes think alike Comrade Xu, my thoughts are the same as yours the same I believe that the future of our motherland will definitely get better and better Everyone eats braised pork get on a bike Not only in the future, but also in the future Every household can drive a car People are tired of eating meat I even dig this wild vegetable to eat. Tired of eating meat, I still dig wild vegetables Li Qifeng informs you Your qualification for room allocation has been cancelled. Why why? I am the workshop director Why I have already reported to the office director You are passive and lazy during work hours Drag and sell the pure land of production No longer eligible for room allocation You are avenging a private vendetta Ah yes What's wrong with me just avenging my personal revenge? As long as I am the master of the workshop for one day Don't even think about getting a room for just one day You, you are so indifferent between public and private matters I'm not afraid that the factory manager will be punished if he finds out. The factory director has been ill for several days and has not been here. So what if he knew? He is the director of the factory You are a first- and second-level worker Can he take care of your shit? What about you? Just rent a house in this crappy place for the rest of your life. Hey, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't make a wish Don't worry about such a dishonest person. I definitely won't let him work in the steel garment factory Stayed too long Your office director in charge of housing allocation What kind of person is he? The office director is very serious about his work. I heard he is afraid of his wife OK, don't worry I will definitely let you live in a family home within a month See for yourself What kind of workmanship is this? All the threads are there Also, your sleeves are so short How should I wear it? I'll give you 5 yuan My husband is the office director of the No. 1 Steel Plant I owe you these 5 yuan It seems he is what I am looking for What if you don't solve this matter for me? Stop doing this business of yours Sister, please calm down let me see I have a way to remedy it Hey, is it still me? You are really capable Sister, I am not capable It's you who was born with a clothes rack Oh, I called you Isn't it inappropriate for me, sister? I see that you are one or two years younger than me. What are you kidding? Our girl is getting married soon Oh, what a coincidence I also just got married My husband is a second-level laborer at the No. 1 Steel Factory. What a coincidence My husband is the office director of the No. 1 Steel Plant. It's so fateful I really want to be as beautiful as you A kind-hearted sister becomes a neighbor But the men in our family haven't divided their rooms yet. I didn't assign a room to you when you got married. Well, don't worry My man is in charge of this matter I will definitely do it for you Thank you very much, sister. Director Wu Oh, sister-in-law, why are you here? This schoolgirl is my friend I heard that they haven't been assigned a room in the wedding factory yet. What's going on? ha Logically speaking It is a rule in the factory to divide houses when getting married. Yes, yes, then if someone breaks the rules When people ask, do you make it difficult for you to be the eldest brother? Didn't you know this before? Make a wish is your friend Don't worry, I will definitely take care of the house issue as soon as possible Then you should pay more attention to my sister's affairs. Hey, definitely, definitely, definitely so happy I'll move into my new home tomorrow Guess how big our new home is? Why don't you wear pants? What do you know This is the most popular way to wear it in our hometown Bottoms are missing Then you, you, you can't dress like this here. Dark and windy night You, you, you, put it on quickly Is this coat made of wool? How can you, a second-level worker, afford this? This is the only one that has been passed down from ancestor to ancestor in my family. Do you want to go to the toilet? I can accompany you to the public toilet You want to go to the toilet? Just use a urinal at night I have to walk that mile to smell the toilet. Not using a urinal is the last dignity of a beauty Who said that Diao Chan and Yang Guifei must also use urine? Pot boo in a room Hissing was heard How embarrassing is this Oops, go get the kerosene lamp I gotta go pee Comrade Xiaoyan Just use a urinal Holding in urine is bad for the bladder When I was a child i have a neighbor He always holds his urine As a result, I couldn't use it even if I beat myself to death. Hey, Tang Dao was really embarrassed when he saw a woman. The room is so quiet He heard everything We workers have the power, hey We workers have the power to work every day This is the house assigned to us Not even 6 square meters And next to the public toilet Director Wu said The quota is tight and this is the only one available Where is Wu Jianren? I'll go find him Director, he went out on an inspection trip If you have any questions, please come to me directly Um Hey hey hey you two Stop, hey My shoes Dang dang dang dang dang oh oh Why did my shoes come here? Wu Jianren, come out here I know you're in there Hey, hey, don't make any noise, don't make any noise Director, he is not in the office You start driving Wu Jianren, do you still want to go to my house for dinner? Yes I do Didn't I hear that Factory Director Fu likes to drink? This is a bottle of fine Shao Dao knife Pay filial piety to Director Fu That's pretty much it You pack up and get off work quickly. don't make me wait Hey, okay, okay Hurry up Hey Wu Jianren Please explain to me the matter of dividing houses. What explanation? Won't I give you points? Oh, there are only so many rooms. This is the only one left What can I do? Aren't you afraid that I will complain to the owner of the office? Hey, please stop pressuring me with this matter. I tell you Did you see that person just now? The daughter of the deputy factory director is with me. When the time comes I became the son-in-law of the deputy factory director Your office manager How can you offend the deputy factory director for your trivial matter? cut Oops, start and start. Stay somewhere cool Don't worry about this Leave the house to me I promise to let you live in a big house How about you, a second-level worker? Why talk nonsense all day long? Wu Jianren targeted you because of me. So I have to solve this matter Factory director It's not pleasant for Wu Jianren to come to you again and again. Let's just shoot him open now is not the time How to solve the house problem? What should I do, sister-in-law? Um Doesn't the factory reward workers who make special contributions? Please report this to me Factory Director, this is the mechanical improvement drawing you drew. This can greatly improve the operating efficiency of our factory. In the face of absolute strength All conspiracies and tricks are just paper Sister, I've been looking for you for a long time you are here Hey, you came just in time My niece and I were talking about you He is also from our factory Look at the clothes you gave me You also give him some outfits money is not a problem My niece's father is the seventh in command of the Telecom Bureau. The leader of this telecommunications bureau Who is bigger than the deputy director of our factory? what do you mean You look down on my dad, right? Oops, that's not what I meant do not mean that I'm just envious of having such a wonderful mother-in-law. It's not like I was bullied and no one protected me Girl, who bullied you? Wu Jianren He deliberately gave me a 6-square-meter house I had a baby kiss with him before Later later Why is this bitch so bitchy? aunt We must help Comrade Xu Yuan vent this bad breath Don't forget to come to my house to carry rice after get off work tomorrow And I will pick up my nephew from the country at the station the day after tomorrow. OK Don't worry, keep it with me I'm leaving Ah ok Isn't she just the daughter of the deputy factory director? What are you proud of? Oh, you really treat me like shit After all, I am also the workshop director. Hey, Director Wu I'm looking for you Oh my sister-in-law I ask you That um are you single Ah ha I already I already know that your niece is having a different relationship His father is also the director of the telecommunications bureau. Nor does it require the man to be rich It's expensive but you need to be down-to-earth and willing to work hard. It just so happens that Director Wu is such a talented person I think it matches well Hey, you just said what happened to you? I've been single for many years Right? I've always wanted to find a good partner. Don't ask for great wealth Do you just want to be single-minded? That's so good to say Then I'll help you get connected. Hey, thank you, sister-in-law, thank you, sister-in-law. Fuck, fuck Come to Tingting and try this dish This dish is delicious Never been here? I'll bring you here often in the future Well, can I call you Tingting? I called your grandma a dick As expected, Wu Jianren went on a blind date outside behind my back. I tell you We're done playing together, right? ah Mrs. Hahaha Ai Tingting We are the daughter of the deputy factory director Always had a crush on me Stalking you have to believe me I believe it After all, any smart young woman Everyone wants to have a relationship with you elder What's the meaning It means you want to climb the dragon and follow the phoenix As a result, both ends were defeated Now Zhu Bajie looks in the mirror and is no longer a human being. Ouch That's good. It's you who sets a condom on me. You two are talking harshly You can only cheat me You let me live in a bird cage I also won't let you live in the big house of the deputy factory director's house. Tingting, let's go Um Stop comrade I haven't paid for so many dishes yet. yes As soon as the daughter of the deputy factory director came out at that time, Wu Jianren's face turned green Made me laugh so hard hahaha Although I took revenge on Wu Jianren, right? But we can only live in this pigeon cage Not always You said the best house here should be given to us A full 20 square meters Hey hey hey Why are you here? Do you know where this place is? This is a house allocated to workers who have made special contributions in the factory. Are you worthy? What is your special contribution? Is this such a special contribution? no how can that be possible you You are a first- and second-level worker What are you performing on your own? automatic gas ignition device Great news Comrade Li Xifeng Designed electronic igniter for converter gas automation Won the Most Innovative Invention Award in the Steel Industry This device will soon be rolled out nationwide You are a workshop director Can't even compare to a second-level worker Thank you Wu Jianran if it weren't for you I can't be the wife of this advanced technical talent. Husband, let's go into the house. good Wow Wow So happy Sure enough, it's 20 square meters. Also has a bedroom This sofa is not bad either It's over, it's over, it's over i have fallen I am so happy with a house of 20 square meters I used to live in river view rooms 400 square meters oops Emotions are so volatile Could this be the days when Uncle Fan Bing was talking about women? Oh, these shabby shoes have been admitted to our family home. It really ruins the atmosphere of our hospital. Who are you talking about? Sister-in-law Wang, the whole hospital knows it's you You don't know yet? Let me tell you. Make me so angry Talking bad about me everywhere again I want to vent Why do you always follow this sugar and oil every time you find it? I can't get through it These are all expensive things Expensive things can solve problems Um Wow, what about us? Just entered the family home These are for the neighbors one per person Why are these 4 so beautiful? These four are the most respected in the courtyard The sister-in-law who has the most say In our hometown This is called KOL Crazy to give them impression points It means that we have grasped the direction of public opinion. This is called control and evaluation By the way, control review Um The vegetables in my backyard are growing well Go get some in the afternoon several sisters-in-law We just moved here From now on, I have to rely on everyone to take care of me. This is a small cake I made for everyone What kind of cake are you cutting? Don't be poisonous I don't even want it for free. I haven't prepared anything for you, dear Sister-in-law Wang, give it a try Oops Then let me have a taste, eh Well, when I got married I have never tasted such a delicious cake It smells quite fragrant I'll try it several sisters-in-law Everyone has a share Delicious and beautiful How many sisters-in-law? If you think it tastes good Can you shine a light? Come to our housewarming party Not just cake And my specialty dishes? go Go Hum, I'm not going anyway I didn't invite you, dear Come when the time comes Okay What about Qiao Tianyan? Don't overestimate your capabilities Do you have more than 100 stools in your home? Is it difficult to invite people to eat standing up? no stool It doesn't matter to you how you eat with or without a stool. so beautiful There's no bench here How can you eat when you have to climb on the table? sisters-in-law What about our meal today? It's called a buffet reception Everyone takes a plate take a chopstick You can take whatever you want to eat or drink. Right, right, right, right Sister-in-law Wang, I remember you are from Hunan I made your thunder pepper preserved egg Sister-in-law Zhang, the meatball soup from your hometown Sister-in-law Qian, the sweet and sour short ribs from your hometown Your sister-in-law spicy rabbit head Delicious Let me tell you, I haven't had food from my hometown for a long time. Xiao Xu, you are attentive Sister-in-law, this is the benefit of the buffet. Something to suit everyone's taste You don't need to eat until you're full We can have a taste of everything, right? This is the first time I've seen this When I was sitting at the table before, I was too embarrassed to turn around. this is so convenient Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha Bring the drinks to the sisters-in-law. Hey, here it comes, here it comes Come on, sisters-in-law, come on The drinks are a bit eye-catching Your mission is to serve our sister-in-law well Hey, you guys eat first I'll go in first You're busy, go ahead Xiaoxue, your man really listens to you You and Xiao Li The relationship is so good Sister-in-law, we are in free love Only after we confirm that they are suitable for each other can we be together Got up To tell you the truth I once had a partner who was a doll relative How can a person get engaged to someone he has never met? Isn't this a feudal society? Right, yeah you're right We are in a new era and we don't want to do this. Isn't that right? right Oops, eating at Broken Shoes' house You are not afraid of getting sick either Shufen, who allowed you to address Comrade Xu with urgency? They are breaking through the shackles of feudal forces The pursuit of freedom Respond to your nonsense Being a female representative requires advancement I don't want to play mahjong with a conservative like you. Go quickly Bye-Bye go Go My sister-in-laws are delicious and delicious. The hormone ones are particularly delicious, right? Thank you. See you later. See you later, see you later Slow down, sisters-in-law. Let's play mahjong together tomorrow, sisters-in-law. How about it I did a good job at the buffet reception today But it would be better if there was some music You are quite particular about your earphones. Then you should buy it I'll do it What's going on with Wu Shufen's upgrade report? Wu Shufen worked as a second-level laborer for two years Calculated according to working years She should be promoted to third-level worker this year Upgrades are not based on years It's based on ability This Wu Shufen makes irresponsible remarks every day The workload is not yet saturated Downgrade one level Later, ask him to write a review It's good to reflect carefully on your own ideological issues. By the way, why don't you get me a radio? Are old songs really good? What old song This is Teresa Teng's new song What are you doing this late at night? Like a fairy immoral It doesn't look serious at first glance He is just as good as Li Qifeng Smart, young and promising Why do you like him? In fact, it's not necessarily that he likes Xu Yan that much. Hey, I'll tell you secretly They are still sleeping separately now There was no movement at all at night Maybe Li Qifeng has never touched Xu Yan This wish will be kicked sooner or later Yeah Hu Shufen You are an unmarried girl So interested in this little thing between husband and wife I don't I heard you were demoted I can hardly keep my job. Go home and study it quickly, silly girl What do they mean? You can compliment me on how I look like a fairy But why do you say that I am the Li Jifeng who was dumped? Since we are getting divorced Then we must discuss a post-divorce external rhetoric Well, let's do this Just say that the men and women have incompatible personalities. Everyone should have their own career pursuits You have to be polite, of course And half a year after the divorce You can't have an affair with other girls Is it okay to show your reluctance to leave me? I never thought about being with other girls, but what are your hands doing Didn't they say we were silent? I'll make some noise for them to hear. Forget it, my hands will be sore if I don't bite them. Hey, please don't Just bit it for a while Where do I put my face? Who do you want to bite such a big thing? I'm so annoyed that I won't bite and let me sleep Li Qifeng Li Qifeng What's up? I've thought about it. I am going to work I thought about it all night I think it's because I don't have a job They look down on me Women hold up half the sky I support your work But have you decided what to do? There is an extra barber's station in the steel factory I want to take it But this position is very popular Everyone rushed to give gifts to Secretary Fan The director's wife told me You can't buy diamonds without 200 yuan The money I got from Wu Jianren Only 20 yuan left Comrade Xu, you are capable enough It's okay to participate in the competition well Don't always think about giving gifts It's because you don't understand this You are just a second-level worker While we have the ability, we must also understand human relationships. It's called cultivating both inside and outside And I still have my nemesis Wu Jianren in the factory. He goes around asking for connections to his sister I heard that I gave Secretary Fan a bottle of Maotai as a gift. I can't lose I've already thought about it I went to the black market to sell things to raise money. No, the factory has lost a lot of important parts recently. The black market is the focus of the investigation Are you committing a crime against the odds? If you are caught, you will be sentenced. If you don't go, I will I'm not afraid Hey, no gays allowed Hey comrade Make a wish and I want to see what good things you do International big-name cosmetics Purely natural and pollution-free limited sale 20 yuan a set Sorry, policeman It's also my first time watching it Otherwise, I will give you all these cosmetics Wow, that scared me to death How did you come I came to see you get arrested by the police You came just in time to help me sell things together. A set of cosmetics for 20 yuan You robbed This beauty's face They are all very expensive What if you don't want to spend money? You can go hiking and enjoy the scenery. You look good with or without makeup when you look like this If you have the ability, you can draw my sister beautifully too. Your sister is quite pretty herself. Just don't know how to follow instructions Sister, I can do your makeup for free It doesn't look good, so it doesn't cost money. OK, okay Wow is this makeup? Is this a head change? I want all these cosmetics Wow how much is this I want a set too 20 yuan a set Limited to 99 sets No discount if sold out and not replenished If you want, ask my assistant to queue up and register. Why did I become your assistant? Okay, if you want it, it's 20 yuan a set. Come to the queue at the back No replacement when sold out Come and take a look Over here, uh These two are combined together Stop counting 140 Thank you for your hard work, Assistant Li. The PR is here, run quickly Go, go, go, go, go, go, go I haven't picked up the makeup case yet. I won't take it anymore. I won't take it anymore. This way, this way, it's a dead end. I just saw two people here Don't be afraid. In fact, there is a TV series in my hometown. When encountering this kind of situation, you usually don't Indecent Why Finally left I still have my cosmetics cabinet Then you go back first and I'll look for you Don't take it. Don't take it. Director Li Why are you here, Uncle Wang? Uncle Wang, come check out the black market. Our factory People often come to this black market to resell steel. Let me see the situation My dad also said that he would let you drink at home some other time. Yeah I haven't seen my old boss for a long time. How is his health? Hey, still like that you know too My dad has never cared much about his body There is a lot of work arranged here Make allocations every day I can't even persuade you. This is the old leader It's rare for our uncle and nephew to meet each other. Come on, I'll treat you to a meal at the Orchard Restaurant. OK I'll treat you This was taken away Why haven't you come back so late? Hey, how are you? Were you tortured to extract a confession? Are you injured? Comrade Xu We have had enough contact today If you still want to contact me Then we need to speak clearly. I did not mean That kiss today was just forced by the situation I'm not that kind of number lustful person Do you still believe me when I say this now? Comrade Xu Yan I talked to Secretary Fan He thinks you don't need to give gifts because of your talent. The working committee of this barber shop is also yours Thank you, Secretary Fan, for your appreciation and affirmation. Ah, it should, it should Secretary Fan, come out I heard that Wu Jianren wanted to get a job in this barber shop. I gave you a bottle of Maotai I didn't enjoy it I'm about to hand it over to you Don't make this kind of mistake again in the future. The person who gave the gift should be demoted. It's time to write a review. Write a review. what are you talking about So serious I'm reporting to Secretary Fan. Then I'll go to the meeting first. Can you do it here alone? What's wrong Set an example Secretary, I'm leaving first a secondary effect Why so many times throughout the day? Is anyone there? I want to have a dinner tonight I want to cut my hair I'm coming Do you know how to cut your hair at such a young age? Although I have never cut hair for anyone else But I cut it for myself I've had it dyed and permed I'd better go somewhere else to cut it first. Hey, it's not cutting I'll just say it ha I don't know how you got this job position. I work with a professional hair cutter I studied hard for two months Why do you I think you just feel guilty Okay, let's give it a try Let's see who can cut it better It just so happened that your brother's marriage was ruined. Your phone didn't go out after three turns and one ring. We have a radio at home I want your sewing machine, bicycle and watch Okay, then you're going to lose You shave your head no problem But I won't lose There is a competition in front of the barber shop There is a competition between rural brothers and enterprises Got a haircut Take me to see you Well, thank you everyone for coming to watch our game. Is there any beautiful woman willing to be my model? Hey, it seems no one dares to let you cut your hair. It's not shameful for you to just admit defeat and forget it. Secretary Fan I helped you handle the matter of your recruitment to Moutai. Director, I am willing to help Madam But I don't have much hair Don't you have a wife? ah Wife, please do me a favor I don't want to cut Even if you become bald, I will still love you All my future lies in your thoughts please help I beg you Since no one recognizes your haircut skills Then I declare Wait, I am willing to be a model for Comrade Xu Thank you, sister Okay, that way, I can still win with dignity Wang Xian, what kind of hairstyle do you like? Just pick the most fashionable hairstyle I want right now That's it hey No problem, I also want this hairstyle Sister, this is not suitable for you do not worry I will definitely help you design a me that is most suitable for you I see you just won't brag there. Then let's just wait and see. Then the game starts now This combing and parting method is quite skillful. Why did Xu Yan cut off Anna's hair from the back? And it's not even Factory Manager, I'm going to kneel on the washboard when I go home tonight. Good time has come OK OK No, then why are you so beautiful? Is this, this, this still my wife? This hahaha Wow, your wish-cut hair looks really nice It's like he's become a different person How can it be Where is this hairstyle I designed for you? The length is just right and reaches the side of the neck, 37 minutes to the left. What about the length of bangs? Just enough to cover your jaw How do you like it? I like it so much Hey Comrade Xu When will you get your hair cut next? I want to make an appointment first Oh, I can do it, I can do it, I can do it no problem Sisters-in-law What did you cut for me? Hahaha Comrade Wu I guess we don't have to split it equally. Why Where can I take my car, brother? I bet with Xu Renda I lost my bet and gave away my sewing machine. Now I have to give the watch and the bicycle to someone It's okay for you to make a wish What are you betting on? bet You bet me that I won't give you anything? Oh no, brother You can't get a wife anyway Then give it all to me Otherwise, people will say that I am dishonest and my reputation is bad. How can I still get married? Sister is a prodigal humph If you dare, don't come back tonight I don't know any of the big characters for this wish Why did Zi become so smart after that incident? There must be ashes Thump thump thump thump and this How about I'm awesome? Awesome now My skills have spread Just now, Director Liu from the Industrial Bureau asked someone to bring me a message. Let me go and cut his hair later. You want to see Director Liu, right? I'm going to see Director Liu soon too It's over. Now my sister is exposed, right? Uh, I'm going out for a trip. Factory director Get in the car quickly Director Liu of the Industrial Bureau is waiting for your meeting. I'll drive there myself You go Take away the radio from my house Go, go, go, go Take the radio away Director, why do you want me to hold the radio? Comrade Xu's house was robbed The radio was stolen Hurry up, hurry up You bastard Dare to steal my radio? I used to do aerobics on an empty stomach every day You race me, little paicai Where have you gone? Ahem Looks like he should go away, damn thief Secretary Ai Fan Hahaha Comrade Xu Secretary Fan, why is it you? My hands and feet are usually unclean I can't control myself Secretary Fan's life is very stressful in this era. It's normal to have a little quirk But you can't do this right? Don't report it to the factory How about this You take the radio What else is missing in your home? I'll pay you one more Hey, we don't lack anything at home. I just need a big TV, huh? You laugh dangdang dangdang Where did this big TV come from? The thief will pay for it You caught the thief who stole the radio? But I promised the thief to keep it a secret Can't tell you who he is What's wrong with me What's wrong? it's okay no problem It's over Comrade Fan I'm sorry for you this time TV money for you whatever Anyway, my reputation is already ruined. what are they looking at Oh, in the factory To hold a basketball game In response to the national call for national fitness If you win, there will be prizes. Prize, what prize? Reward a camera A camera Then what kind of bike are you still riding here? Hurry up and practice ball This reward must be given to me Okay, Master Li Qifeng is here. I tell you I have already ordered the camera The game is just a formality Who gets first and who gets the camera? As a workshop director, you are thinking in vain Law ignores organizational discipline Ouch yo yo Let's leave this to train people. For those who didn't know, I really thought you were the factory director. Who thinks of perverting the law I also want to practice football All right Move the ground quickly Secretary Fan, you came just in time. This workshop director is actually thinking of cheating I heard that the new factory director has always advocated clean government What do you think we should do? Fired from the factory Do you think it will work? That's not necessary Remember him for his great contribution Okay, just do as you say Oh, it's not Secretary Fan Oops, you misunderstood I was joking with Xiao Li Oh, Xiao Li is practicing ball, right? Okay, I'll go practice somewhere else. little things little things Director Wu, please pay attention. Yes Yes Yes Yes OK, Li Xufeng I tell you Even if I don't take the back door This camera is mine too Do you know why I'm in the factory Out out out haha The scorer for three consecutive years That's because I wasn't there before Hehe, you have a loud tone Let's make a bet then if you lose The camera is not just mine and You still have to spit out the three times that you tricked me. What if you lose? My surname is Wu There is no word book in the dictionary So and so hit me If you lose Get out of the family home Husband beat him I've long been unhappy with him Are you so sure I can win? Well, it's not just because you are awesome And I have a secret weapon Sister-in-law Wu Jianren's abuse of power simply shameful is not that right Hey my man Just because I never gave him a gift I have always been a third-level worker My man gave him two suggestions last week And deduct money from my man My sister-in-law faces this unfair oppression You never thought about resisting Who doesn't want to But how to resist? The opportunity has come My man's match with Wujianren this time more than a personal struggle Every proletarian Faced with the opposition of the privileged class who are seeking to bend the law Resistance I believe the proletariat will win The proletariat will win Must win must win must win in order to win I suggest organizing a cheerleading parade Why are you cheering? What are you talking about? Yes, what are you doing? listen to me Da da da da da da Ha ha You all know my brother's identity How much bonus can you get at the end of the month? It's all because of my brother's words I must help my brother win the championship in this competition I suggest we form a cheerleading team too Hey Xu Yan I see you are a cheerleader. It's better to disband as soon as possible Yellow-faced women gave birth to children one by one I still want to compete with our young female workers Don't humiliate yourself Where does the barking dog come from? Sisters-in-law, let's take a detour. I stepped on dog shit and made myself stink. snort Sisters-in-law, I'm here to help you rehearse. Don't be afraid Let's try it out Everyone, please remember where you stand. Hey swallow Someone is stealing our dance moves Let him learn The sisters-in-law are in our hometown There is a saying that it is not scary to wear a shirt. Who is ugly and who is embarrassed Hahaha sister-in-law There's a game tomorrow Before everyone competes Come to my house two hours early. Okay, okay, let's get here first today. Well, let's all recharge our batteries. I heard that Make a Wish even created a cheerleading team for you. You are going to lose How about such a big battle? Didn't your sister also help you form a cheerleading team? This is to send you off to the family home, right? Brother, we are here Come on, workshop two Come on, workshop two Come on bro Making a wish for others It's almost a game You should be afraid that your uncle will hide and cry I think you are the one who should cry. Hey, why did they change clothes? Low pitch jump 123 Sisters, cheers from the workshop Li Qifeng must win The director's wish is really like a fairy. Why were you willing to kick him in the first place? You can't speak Damn it, can you shut up? Aren't I the only one left with a pair of worn-out shoes? Hey, why did you hit someone? It teaches you to respect adults Hey Zhu Lianshun Did the referee see it? He's beating someone Well This game has not officially started yet Those previous behaviors? Not all counted Now our competition officially begins. Hey, hey, hey. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on I announce that the scoring champion of the basketball game is Li Qifeng I don't own this camera It's yours Are you happy? Are you happy? But I have one more happy thing Director Wu, you lost the game It's time to keep your promise and move out of the family home, right? Moving, I said moving. But they didn't say when they would move. Let's move again in 80 years Hey, isn't this a joke? You're so embarrassed Words don't count Shameless Oh, that's so embarrassing Brother, you still have the nerve to talk about me What kind of bad cheering team did you form? bumpkin snort snort Let's go to a dinner party Let's celebrate the victory together Well done, Ozawas Let's go to my store to change clothes first. OK, OK, OK See you then Xu Yan, you forced me to do this Let's go today Really good They dance very well Looks really good today Just like it My sister-in-law, Xiao Li, has such a pretty face. This color matches Hey what's wrong Xiao LiXiao Li Xiao Xu is injured My foot is stuck in a nail Make a wish Are you okay? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay I'll take you to the hospital It's okay, just a little thing That's a nail What to do if infected wrong Why are there nails in the shoes? Let me find out who did it Hey, I'll do it right away Comrade Xu's lover is so handsome Secretary Fan, you are the secretary of a dignified factory director. Why do you listen to a small worker? How can this be round? As a member of this leadership team, I Caring about employee safety is my responsibility Could you please check it out? Thank you, Dr. Zhang, for your hard work. Jiawei, what's the relationship between us? This is the first time you have asked me to do something for you after being the leader for so long. The patient is fine I also had tetanus. Why isn't he awake yet? He was sleeping soundly at this time Have you found out who did it? I didn't put the nails in Why do you say it's me? Only you can't tell clearly Where were you when everyone was at the party? Someone else caught you sneaking into the barber shop I think you just have a grudge for losing the game. Although I didn't go to the cafeteria But I went for a walk Wang Qin Wang Qin testify to me We were together Wang Qin, do you want to testify? The police will be here soon You continue to testify May I remind you? You will be jailed for committing perjury. I I don't know I didn't go for a walk with him Sister Wang People like you don't deserve to be workers in our factory Wu Shufen, you are fired Let's wait for the police investigation Wu Shufen, right? Come with us take away No no no no no no no no I am the true lady Deputy director I need your help with this matter Don't let my sister be kicked out of the factory Wu Jianren, you still have the nerve to make demands of me? What did you say before the game? That camera was a birthday gift to me But now I didn't even see a fart. Hey deputy director That's it, I want to give it to you too Why didn't Li Qifeng appear halfway? And does his wife make a wish? Otherwise, the camera would have been given to you long ago Come on, you can't even do a second-level job. Let me look at you as the workshop director. Don't do it either No Not the deputy director You can't say that I've done a lot of work for you in the past two years, right? You just turn your back on me and don't recognize anyone else What about the drawings? you shut up Secretary Fan has been checking the drawings lately. What if he finds out? We're both screwed You can rest assured, Deputy Factory Director This matter I will handle it deliver Wu Jianren, what are you doing to me? Received a report from someone Say you sneaked into the Iron and Steel Garment Factory to steal the core blueprints This barber shop is your secret trading den. Are you farting? Workers here come and go every day. What secret deal Can be hummed under everyone's noses The directors are here to get haircuts. They are not from our factory at all. There's no way they're all wearing work clothes. Which factory are you from? We don't know what drawings We just heard he had a good haircut That's why we borrowed some time to come in. Take a look He also said that there was no insider knowledge me The director's drawings were found It's in his barber book or something? Haha, look, look, look All witnesses and evidence are present What else is there to quibble with? what are you doing what are you doing Make a wish, make a wish Anyway, we have been together for a while I didn't expect you to be such a person Is that Li Qifeng also with you? Loot their house There must be more evidence of crime in their house Take a walk let me go let me go Why are you searching my house? What are you shouting about? Hey, don't go, don't go, don't go What a wish for you He also said you were going to resell public property. What happened to your color TV? There's also a radio, okay? Simmons is still sleeping Where is the special Tieguanyin? Simmons, you talk about the common Simmons in our house. Simmons, you said our mattress is Simmons Stop pretending to be stupid for me Your man is a second-level laborer Your monthly salary after shaving your head is only 50 yuan, right? Where did you buy these? You also said you didn't resell the drawings That big color TV was compensated to me by someone else. That three-piece suit is yours Okay, let's go explain to the police. I think you should explain it to the police. Hey, what are you doing? What are you doing? I'm late Hey, Secretary Fan, you came just in time and I caught him. Reselling the blueprints from our factory The thief This is Xu Yan His man Li Qifeng is probably an accomplice Please tell the factory manager immediately inform No need to notify The person in front of you is the factory director Ah, he is the factory director Li Qifeng It's the factory director Director Li Ordered to secretly investigate the leakage of factory drawings Just conceal your identity As a result, you actually said that the things in his house were dirt. It's nothing Hahaha Director Li Hahaha oops I have blind eyes and cannot recognize Mount Tai. You are young and promising Haha, I also came to investigate for our factory. Don't blame me haha you offend me I don't need to argue with you But you framed my wife I have to settle accounts with you And please explain it carefully Why joint deputy director The core drawings of the reselling factory Oh, don't say this nonsense. Factory Director, I am devoted to the factory. Factory manager, don't talk nonsense to him. Just lock him up in the police station. Feed your blood and spit on others This is what we say when doing things, right? You slandered me, a good person, for no reason How can that be done? You're talking nonsense You want evidence You want the deputy director's private social account book? Or do we have to confront the black market middlemen? I have notified the police Both of you will be punished for your crimes Just wait to go to jail Hey old factory manager Hey, hey, hey, be gentle Director Li, please come with us. Let's record the confession in detail good I'll come back as soon as I go I'll explain it to you when I come back. Okay, I just have something to say to you. Make a wish Make a wish what Why don't you just say go for this? Why did I go there all day long? You don't even know how many people came to give gifts today I heard that you are the factory manager who came here to curry favor with you. I've sorted out all the gifts. I originally wanted to withdraw directly But I'm afraid if there is any evidence in it let me tell you This Section Chief Song Don't look at it, I'll give you a cigarette Inside here all money And that Wang Xiaofeng He wants to buy our second-hand sewing machine He bid 500 yuan Anyway, I'm telling you What about the gifts here? In addition to taking care of my sister-in-law's deposit eggs Where are the rest of the people? Can't accept it I didn't expect you to love gift recipients so much. You actually think so much about me I have principles In the past, when I was working as a top streamer, There are many more gifts from fans than these What fans? I mean we are having a fake marriage I definitely can't accept the gift for you Who says it can't be done? It's really good No, we are not in a fake marriage I'm sincerely in love with you I I will not tell you Li Jifeng, you have no sincerity at all. I can't tell you like me at all I refuse to have sex with you she likes me she doesn't like me The factory director is bad Madam, she wants to talk to someone else about a date. make a wish comrade you are so beautiful Really? Really? Then take a few more pictures Notify Security Division Get this guy in a floral shirt out of here Thieving eyebrows and rat eyes He looks like a spy at first glance By the way, then confiscate the camera from me. Isn't this appropriate? What's inappropriate about this This guy is filming us secretly Secretly filming the smoke emissions from our factory Then we need to further speculate on the steel plant what can be done I am the factory manager Then we must defend our national property to the death Um What are you doing I ask you Did you go take pictures with a guy today? Even talking and laughing Are you talking about Wang Qiang? He is the manager of a clothing store Let me model for him Say I have a good image Good temperament I think he wants to be with you I think so too But he said that he prefers beautiful women He prefers money He immediately asked me about the design drawings of the 12 costumes I bought. He also encouraged me to do business too. I can also encourage you I not only encourage you verbally I'm okay Give you money to introduce people to you No need for money Wang Qiang said He let me use his garment factory first Let you use it first let me tell you He just wants to be nice to you This man understands men best Anyway, you are not allowed to have any contact with him in the future. That's not okay We have an appointment tomorrow Let's go take promotional photos for clothing together. Why are you crazy? Why hasn't Wang Qiang come yet? Xu Wang Qiang took a big order temporarily I can't take a photo for you. Let me place a big order for him Secretary Fan, this is the big order you mentioned. Aren't you lying? If I buy a bed sheet as big as yours, it's not a big deal. I haven't asked you to give us pillow covers yet. Hey, put this camera up Come over here Stand up like this Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes let's try it ah so Hey, your photo pose is wrong Sure enough, straight men of any era would not know how to take photos. I teach you You have to imagine what this camera looks like It is a nine-square grid Then you have to put my head on top Then put this corner on the bottom line do you understand Ah, let's continue while the light is good You are lower You are shorter Hey, you're still too tall A little lower, as low as the minimum, OK ok that's it Hahahahaha Isn't this the director of the steel factory? Why are you taking pictures with your butt stuck out? This woman looks like a tigress at first glance How dare you instruct her like this? Hey, isn't this Qi Feng? Come have tea. Why are you free today? Come here, sister Today Your Qifeng was taking pictures with his partner in the park I was caught Nonsense that his partner Manyu is still in Guangzhou What photos are you taking? What's the name of making a wish if it's not Manyue? Ouch, I see him dressed up in a seductive manner. At first glance, he doesn't look like a good person. He even yelled at Qi Feng Just like that landowner in the past Like using a long bow Haha you Must have seen it wrong Our family is Qi Feng It's not like you don't know How could he give orders to a woman? Oh sister If you don't believe it, call Qi Feng back and ask. I know it all Okay, I haven't seen you for a long time anyway. call him back Mom My son, come and eat quickly Second Aunt, please sit down. Please sit down. Are you coming back today? I specifically asked Ma Wang to go to the supply and marketing cooperative to buy fish. Try it while it's hot I still like Wang Ma's fried pork liver You just like these worthless things I heard what your second aunt said You recently talked to someone What is your name Xu Yan? Is this happening? Xu Yan is not my partner I'll just say it She's my wife You got married to your dad behind my back. Don't be impatient Qifeng, where is he from that wedding banquet? What do parents do? I think his speech is quite organized. Is he also a college student? I didn't investigate But looking at his profile, he seems to be from Niuxi Village. His parents farm in the countryside There is also a younger brother Although I haven't studied for a few years But I think he's smarter than me He doesn't know a word of Chinese characters because of your nonsense. Is it worthy of you? Your fiancee Manyu is a college student like you. Similar family background You should quickly leave that person who makes a wish. What fiancee? Have I admitted it? That's what you forced on me Besides, I'm just rushing to make a wish. Well, then people may not be happy with it. Get out of here Go out and close the door Why don't you just tell me to get lost? Wang Ma, help me get a lunch box I want to pack this fish and shrimp My Xu Yan hasn't eaten yet. Get out of here. mom Come on, come on, don't be angry, don't be angry Come and have something to eat quickly What are you going to eat? As soon as possible Inform Chen Chu and warn him. Funding should be implemented as soon as possible This is a major matter related to people's livelihood Okay, I'll pick you up on time at 8 o'clock tomorrow morning Qi Feng is not coming back Yet As for others, just treat him as dead. Are you ready for the next one? Oh, my wife, what's wrong with you? Look, I'm already this old That's okay, I'll try my best to fight Oh, get up and drive It's all your fault that you insisted on asking your son to work at some grassroots level What are you doing to ruin the factory manager? This is just great Falling in love with such a person Illiterate rural girl What happened to the rural girl? Simple and capable Besides, the grandchildren here will have children and grandchildren. Why are you worrying so much? If I don't worry, who does? You see what his second aunt said He wears fancy clothes At first glance, he doesn't look like a serious person. Very bad tempered Let our son stick his butt out and take pictures of him. Don't talk about taking pictures with your butt stuck out He just took pictures with his butt naked As long as he is willing Can you manage it? No, I can't have a daughter-in-law like this Transfer Manyu back to me from Guangzhou Isn't the workshop director of the steel factory still vacant? Let him be the one What are you going to do? deploy troops and generals Beating the mandarin ducks with a stick make a wish make a wish Well, sister-in-law How did you come Why are you still in the mood to eat melon here? It's spread all over the factory Said that the new director of the workshop is your man Previous acquaintance Impossible Li Qifeng At first glance, it's you Too much search I guess I didn't even touch the girl's hand before getting married. Oh, what are you searching for? Hey, look, you still don't believe it Let's go, let me show you Hey, look It's the one wearing the blue shirt The one with the best looks Hey this My stomach hurts a little I'm going to the toilet Hey sister-in-law I'm wearing a blue top here. Not even a red Is this the one wearing glasses? Or this one with braids? Are you Xu Yan? You should be looking for me Yeah, the clothes are right But looks good Probably not you what do you mean I am the workshop director Shen Manyu you are looking for. You were Li Qifeng before That's right I am Brother Qifeng's real fiancee I can rest assured that Do you have time to come home for dinner? So humiliating I'll tell Brother Qifeng later In the 1980s, I relied on my older brother and younger sister. Hey wait a minute let's talk I did my research before coming here. I know you and Brother Qi Feng have no relationship foundation. You are only with him because he is the factory director. You guys should get divorced I will give you the compensation you deserve. How much is one cent less? 500 yuan hahaha No, that's too little for you, right? Li Qifeng's annual salary is 1,200 You think I don't know how to count? Is this your situation? What about in our hometown? It's also very common But at least it costs 5 million You don't even count as a fraction. The annual output value of a town of 5 million is not that high. Are you lying to a fool? If you don't believe it, forget it Wait a moment I know you want to open your own clothing store I can trust the relationship Help you get your business license as quickly as possible I can also help you arrange store employees. I heard that Manyu Shen went to find you Li Jifeng, let's get a divorce Did Manyu Shen tell you something? She is the marriage partner my mother introduced me to I'm not familiar with her at all I didn't even know her last name was Shen before she entered the scene. Not Comrade Xu Yuan I promise you that After we get married I never thought about others That person named Shen is even more impossible. i know you like me But this marriage must be divorced No, I don't agree Oops, even if you get divorced, you won't be divorced. Taking advantage of fake divorce What's the meaning Manyu Shen said Just get the divorce certificate He helped me get a business license Just one month after the divorce, he helped me fix the facade and employees. Just three months after my divorce, I introduced 10 high-quality clients. This is not a big fat sheep that comes to your door to be harvested. I can also do what he promised you. Does it cost you money to do it? You owe a favor Once you get a divorce certificate, someone will help you with the work. How wonderful. Stop talking. Anyway I don't agree You weren't willing to follow me in the first place I will have no chance of getting divorced. Didn't you confess to me before that I rejected you? As long as you agree to divorce I agree to have sex with you Really of course But we are going to fall in love secretly Cannot be discovered by Shi Wenyu OK I listen to my wife snort call ex wife I didn't expect that I would get married and divorced within a year If this is discovered Weibo must not be paralyzed Who is Weibo? Is it hemiplegia or total paralysis? nothing oh Oh right this is for you Isn't this the one assigned to you by the factory? No, this is what I just bought Aren't you going to open a store? It is convenient to have a car Wait a minute. I also have a gift for you. What? Like it like As long as you cooperate with me in acting Deceive Shen Manyu into it I will reward you in the future I listen to you Why are you girls chirping? Winter has come recently Give you a pair of gloves It's cold. You need to drink more hot water. We are separated from today Well, then I'll go home Divorce is great I heard that brat got divorced Isn't he indispensable? Is this now and then that? This is not me coming back Hey aunt Didn't you see it? Brother Feng was holding the divorce certificate and couldn't stop laughing. Hey, I probably wanted to leave a long time ago. My son I know him Even if he is sad, he won't show it. Now you are in the same factory Just care more about him Don't worry, auntie I will send warmth to Brother Qifeng right now Brother Qin Feng, I knitted this for you with my own hands. How many times have I told you You should call me Director in the factory Take this back I already have it This was given to me as a wish This color is not stain resistant at first glance What do you know This is called Hermes City Hermes Ah, I don't understand. Made a wish this It's the most powerful brand in their hometown. Aren't you all divorced? Why are you still thinking about him everywhere? I am thinking of him I think about his ruthlessness I think about his indifference I'm thinking of him I was wondering why he bought me a pair of gloves Just 5 cents I bought myself a coat costing 200 yuan. I'm thinking of him I wonder why I didn't divorce him earlier Li Jifeng, why didn't you answer my call to your landline? Ah oh oh If you didn't hang it up properly, you won't do it next time, huh? we are divorced What happened if I didn't hang it up properly? I've hung up I also want to get married, so I won't get married. The factory director is right I'm in jail Are you looking for me Isn't there a party held in the factory next week? I see the choir clothes haven't been ordered yet. Otherwise, consider our family. Okay, ouch You are so cold-blooded I started my ex-husband's business just after my divorce Brother Qifeng, I feel sorry for you What business do I do? I won't just advertise I don't want money Hey, how can you do this without money? Then you are doing business at a loss? These clothes are on my account Why are you so nice to me? we are divorced Can you have some sense of boundaries? It's just because I'm divorced that I can't ask for your money. Otherwise, it would seem that we are very close to each other. let me tell you This clothes not only requires money You can't give me any discount at all Why Not really necessary I am the factory director and I have the final say. Hey, it's not Comrade Shen Mingyu As the workshop director, shouldn't you be responsible for production? Why are you hanging around my place every day? I will fine you to write 10,000 words think carefully How do you plan to increase the production capacity of our factory? snort Director, are you looking for me? I heard that you prescribe medicine from the factory health center every week. My father is seriously ill and has to rely on medicine to hang him up Hey, those are all Dr. Zhu prescribed illegal drugs to you privately, right? Dr. Zhu prescribed it to me because he felt sorry for me. This has nothing to do with him I have the final say whether it matters or not Don't be nervous. I'm not going to report you. I called you here this time just to ask you to do me a favor. You said I would definitely do it I'm going to make your hand hurt on the day of the gala Can't play the piano Let the program open the skylight But didn't Xu Yan want to take the opportunity to advertise? I'll give her a chance to advertise Sister-in-law, you look so good today They are all dressed in clothes designed by you. But I still like my ex-sister-in-law's style Hey, where is she? My hand was accidentally twisted Maybe I can't play the piano Accompaniment How can we sing without accompaniment? That's right. I'm tone deaf. If you don't have the sound of the piano to cover it up, your secret will be exposed. I don't make any noise I don't make any noise Even if we don't make noise, we can't We can't do it Sister-in-law, your hands don't look red or swollen. Otherwise, I'll take you to the health center now Checked the health center The doctor also said that it is not easy to play the piano. It seems Your attempt to use your performance to advertise is going to come to naught. Who said it was a waste? Isn't it just playing the piano? I'll play it You, a village girl I guess I've never even seen what a piano looks like. Also plays the piano Do you think you are playing with cotton? Hahaha You're just waiting to be slapped in the face Next, please invite the First Workshop to bring us songs Cachusha Make a wish How did he get on stage? Qian Linlin's hand is injured Make a wish and say play it for him How can he play the piano? No, I have to help him Brother Qifeng doesn't look like he's trying to make a wish Since he said he could play Then let's listen and see I'm ready Humph, you're just waiting to be embarrassed Great! Our factory director burst into tears. It seems he has a lot to say Next I would like to ask our Factory Manager Li to say a few words to you. as factory director I was particularly moved when I heard this song Sing well and play well Clothes are also good Comrade Wang Qiuxiang Please use 3,000 words Please briefly introduce your clothing to everyone. You can find a way to put this book in students' homes This is not okay This is pornographic If the secretary is caught, he will tear up the forest. Xu Yan is usually nice to me I can only feel guilty when my hands are injured You still let me do this kind of thing now? Don't forget that you have a treasure in your hand Doctor Zhu is finished I don't want it for you Your parents will follow too To do or not to do You should weigh it carefully yourself How did you come I miss you Didn't we agree? You stay in the office first To avoid Shen Manyu's suspicion Don't delay your business because of the long love between your children. I have something serious to do look This is the business I got you Yo Pretty good at selling stuff. Otherwise, don't be the factory director. Follow me and do sales We'll talk about going into the sea later. You know, let's settle the commission on this order first. Gone Boss, you are too harsh. Then who will work hard for you in the future? As a factory manager, I Manage thousands of employees I think the most important thing is You need to get along with your subordinates first. And then it's so black and big Girl, are you there? Hurry up you hide Hiding in the cupboard This cabinet is full of stuff You jump out of the window There is a river outside Oh, stop dawdling Hurry up Otherwise I won't be with you Girl, what are you doing quickly? I have something to tell you Sister-in-law, isn't my hand sprained? I want to ask if you have any medicinal oil Medicinal oil, please wait for me I'll look for it Come and give it to my sister-in-law Hey sister-in-law If your hand is injured Inconvenient to work I'll go back and tell Li Qifeng I'll transfer you to that logistics department first. sister in law What happened to the cabinet? Just take a look without me Oh girl I'm sorry, don't blame me Sister-in-law, this is great What do I blame you for? Didn't you help me play the piano last time? I'm leaving first Hello, I have received reports from the public. Talk about the obscene books you have in your home Please cooperate with the investigation Hey, who asked you to translate it? What are you doing this early in the morning? Hey, why are you here? Director, I keep your books privately affects my face You guys hurry up and catch him Who said this book is mine You live alone in this house It's not yours Could it be mine? Maybe it's mine I just stayed here last night Why don't you go back first? Look how dangerous this is I never do things half-way Let's continue Let's start with getting together Aren't you two divorced? Why are you still living together? Why are you so anxious? Just got the business license Neither the store owner nor the employees have helped us solve it yet. You look like this You two are working together to trick me. It's a matter of lying or not? Talk to you later Whose book does this belong to? Just to make a wish Brother Qifeng, hurry up and clear things up with him. The private collection of obscene books can be large or small. Maybe you two will go to jail together Then I'm afraid you will be disappointed Director, he wants to destroy the evidence I'm not destroying evidence. I just want everyone to see clearly This is not an obscene book This is a human anatomy book When will you be arrested for loving medicine? It seems to be a misunderstanding Then let's go first impossible I know your little trick I've long been mature So I changed my book to human anatomy. Thank you for claiming to be a graduate of a prestigious university. Your frame-up method is too low-level. ah Auntie, you have to make the decision for me. Don't worry Slowly tell me that there is a scheming in making that wish. He and Brother Qifeng are simply having a fake divorce. Just so that I can do things for him Qi Feng clearly knew and still lied to me with him. It seems that they are getting involved again I can only take action myself. good leadership Mom, why are you here? Go and call Xu Yan over here I want to ask him What kind of ecstasy did he give to my son? Make my son so obedient You are just biased against Xu Yan if you meet him in person I'll definitely like him very much OK OK OK Then let him come to your house tonight and take a closer look. It's me who makes the judgment Or you don't recognize people clearly? Not tonight I have to be the driver for Make a Wish tonight Help him look after the store Let's not talk about things like meeting our parents. I have to ask him what he thinks You are a big factory manager Walking around women's butts all day What does he need to agree to? Not everything needs to be approved by him For example, whether to mop the floor first or wash the dishes first? He just let me watch You good-for-nothing You good-for-nothing Let me discuss something with you Well, my mom wants to meet you But it's my mother, right? She has a strong sense of family status Not very good at talking either I'm afraid he will make things difficult for you when he sees you I just want to ask your opinion If you don't want to go Then we won't go Why don't you go? Oh, isn't it just to meet the parents? Well, just tomorrow OK Hello, do you have bitter sausage and pork liver? There's only so much left 3 yuan 7 cents 5 A bit stale If you want to eat fresh food, buy meat. Pigs in the water are already cheap Still picky If you want to buy it, hurry up We guys are waiting. Okay, okay That's all Comrade Yo I don't have enough change 5 points left Can I pay you back next time? Not even 5 cents This guy isn't here to cause trouble, is he? I really gave it to him Thank you, girl fine what do you want I want to buy ribs and pork trotters Comrade, I don't want these ribs and pig's trotters. Just kidding There are at least 20 kilograms of ribs and pork trotters here. you have that Look how much money you have Don't say it's 20 pounds Can I afford this 200 pounds? You are a real person girl Even if you are venting your anger on me There's no need to buy so much in one go. It's okay, aunt It just so happens that I'm going to my partner's house today By the way, I'll give you this bag of ribs and pig's trotters. Hey no no no How can I ask for your things in vain? Oh, this is too heavy I can't take it either You can't just throw it on the street, right? But no more Just take it I have something else to do I go first Goodbye hey Girl Madam, I have bought all these dishes. Have you bought the bitter sausage and pork liver that the young master likes to eat? Bought one The girl also gave me a bag of ribs and pig's trotters Oh, this girl It would be great if she could be my daughter-in-law Even if the madam doesn't like the person the young master is looking for, Please be polite when we meet later. I know it well Qi Feng and the others haven't come back yet It's almost time I'm here to open the door You are the Li family's helper, Wang Ma, right? What are you doing? Help me carry it These are rare things You should be careful Don't mess it up You must be uncle I'm Manyu Oh, I came without saying hello. You don't mind Ah, I don't mind. I don't mind. Hey, aunt is not at home? Your aunt Aren't we carrying things for you from behind? you are aunt Oh auntie Excuse me The last time I saw you was in high school. I didn't recognize it for a moment I come uncle aunt I bought a lot of fruits I'm going to wash up You see, he just thought of me as Wang Ma Look at his posture My chin is almost lifted to the sky Now I realize I was wrong and I'm all smiles It's really a matter of watching what people eat. His old Shen family is also from a scholarly family, right? Since I raised a daughter with such a powerful face, Didn't you really like her before? You still have to let him be your daughter-in-law He was just in school at that time Polite and sensible Who would have thought that only a few years have passed? You become like this Xu Yan, you are not satisfied I think people are uneducated and have too many ideas Now that you are selling jade, you feel that you are following the trend. Take advantage of the situation Just let your son become a bachelor. Well, it would be great if that girl could be my daughter-in-law during the day. If my mother says it makes you uncomfortable, Let's go, don't worry I'll always be on your side Son is back Aunt Why are you here? you know my mother When did you meet? We met in the morning Are you Xu Yan? Wang Ma will take them in first. I'm going to make a phone call Dad Hello uncle, hello Why are you here too? I'm coming to see uncle Aunty and uncle eat fruit Qi Feng I happen to have a document that I want you to help translate. Come to the study with me It's okay, go ahead dad You're from the countryside, have you never seen such a big house? Hey, when you want to go to the toilet for a while Remember to shout and order the tortoise don't get lost You said where did the flies come from such a nice house? I really want to beat him to death Hey, don't move What are you doing in your face? If you know you're afraid, don't push it Laundry detergent Tell aunt what you want to eat today I asked Ma Wang to do it It's okay, aunt I'm not picky about food Xu Yan, it's your first time to be a guest at someone else's house. I just brought some pork trotters and ribs. The total is less than 50 yuan. Thanks to you for being able to get it Gifts matter From the experience, it seems that you have done your homework in advance. know me Don't like to eat beef and mutton Wang Ma, I'll add a few more dishes later. Okay, okay, do you think the things I gave you are cheap? Are you going to send a passbook? Aunt This is the special liquor I brought for you and your uncle. There are also imported skin care products snort Your uncle I stopped drinking some time ago Our family Even the cooking wine is not included Where is aunt? Natural beauty What are the best skin care products? I just use rice water. These two things I can't even use it Leave it to your parents Come, come, make a wish This is your uncle Toffee brought back from a meeting in Beijing Thank you aunt oops You who came from the countryside must have never tasted such good candy, right? Auntie, please eat more Save it and you won't be able to eat it later Okay, then don't eat it Give it all to me If you like to eat Take it all back soon Wang Ma, there are still a few boxes of chocolates in the warehouse. you pack it up I'll bring it back later to make a wish Okay How can you give away Auntie's chocolates just for giving them to others? Things from our house I can give it to whomever I want. I bought a bracelet some time ago Put it on It must look good. I'll go get it. Xu Yan, don't be proud Auntie does it for Brother Qi Feng's sake That's why I'm so polite to you I tell you You are just a poor village girl You are not worthy of being a servant of the Qi Feng family. Do you know better? Leave quickly I see it's you who should go Please open the door there Aunt, did I do something wrong? Stop pretending to be innocent here. I've already called Secretary Fan. Where is Secretary Fan? told me everything You were in the factory during this time There is nothing left for Xu Yanxia to do How to frame someone You have used all these despicable methods. A scheming person like you You can't even compare to a finger that makes a wish. Auntie, why do you believe in making a wish? Don't you think he's not worthy of Brother Qifeng? that was the past Now I know Qi Feng is not worthy of making a wish Make a wish, not only do people look beautiful Kind-hearted He can be my daughter-in-law That's the blessing I've earned over several lifetimes What are you still doing here? Are you busy seeing off guests? Auntie, what are you doing? Let's go, brother-in-law Let's go uncle Some time ago I heard rumors and misunderstood you In fact, you are a very good person The girl's aunt apologizes to you It's okay, aunt Where are our beauties? I understand that I am destined to be misunderstood. My mother accepted the wish More than just accepting it From now on, we both have to stand aside. From now on this home It's just these two women who are talking. It's okay, stop working I'm coming I heard My son and Xu Yan still sleep in separate beds. Our son won't be able to do it, right? Uncle Lan Ouch Ouch Ouch Don't drink this Maotai tonight. Drink that bottle of wine Dr. Liu gave you What kind of wine did Dr. Liu send? It's because you drank the tiger's wind The bottle that made me pregnant with my son in one week You still have many ideas I must let my son drink tonight It's all on me If you don't drink, I won't drink. Where can I store this fine wine from China? My son did it Hey, this is good Drink less and eat more Eat more vegetables to fill your stomach Eat a peanut Drink this glass of wine again Mom, I don't drink well. If you drink too much, you will get drunk easily. How many times can a man get drunk in his life? Then you have to drink properly when you drink. Come, my son, do it and drink it Dry I think it's almost done Make a wish, please take Qi Feng to the guest room Sober up and wait for him to recover. You go back again You sit down and I'll get you a glass of water. ah Yeah What kind of wine? A fishy smell One glass of Liubian wine every day Revitalize men's glory Your parents are really worried about you. What is this? I'll go find them The atmosphere has been enhanced to this point. Don't let down your parents' good intentions No movement Listen to me, I am a leader I won't listen to the corner There is movement. There is movement. Hey Hey I'm busy at the store opening today I'll come find you when I'm done. Parents, why are you sleeping here? Why are there so many people in the store today? Director Li Call us while it opens tonight Must come Girl, this bag looks so good. How do you sell it? Sister-in-law, what do you think? This bag is really good. It's a limited edition in our store cannot be purchased separately Need distribution? ah What are you stocking up on? That means you need to buy some clothes first Gloves, scarves, etc. After reaching a certain amount You are qualified to buy something like this What a troublesome sister-in-law I just said those rules are for outsiders. Our sisters are so good I'll give each of you one as a gift. Hey girl Don't say anything anymore I'll introduce you to some big clients later. I'll introduce it to you too Thank you, sister-in-law. Thank you, sister-in-law. Why are there two prices on this dress? This expensive one is the spot price. The cheaper one is the pre-sale price If you are not in a hurry to wear it, just buy this pre-sale one. It arrived in more than ten days and Also delivered to your door Wow, can everything you buy be delivered to your door? Didn't the store just open now? Just give one piece From now on, you have to be over 39 Then I'll get one for pre-sale. We can now get a 10% discount by recharging 50 yuan Recharge 100 yuan and get 20% off Hearing this It's a good deal to recharge 100 I'll charge 100 Then I will also charge 100 lines Sister-in-law, I also charge 100 lines Sister-in-law, I charge 2,000 Congratulations on becoming the 100th customer in the store I don't apply for a card I want to get the certificate from you I owe everything to you two today I will never make it easy for you That's it, that's it Your man has been disqualified as factory manager how could it be possible Li Qifeng never fulfills his duties with all his heart I heard someone wrote to report him for abusing his power. Harm the interests of the factory Someone wrote a letter to report it Did you find the person who wrote the letter? This matter still has to turn around. impossible impossible No bitch, it's you who is behind my back again You still have the nerve to talk about me My land today Who hurt me? I can't get better Don't even think about it In the past, Li Qifeng didn't rely on his factory origins. Are you putting pressure on me? Not anymore I see he is still How long can I keep talking? Just keep following him I won't even be able to eat shit from now on. hot You, an outsider, don't need to worry about our family's affairs. daughter in law Even if I am not the factory director I won't let my wife go hungry either Just be tough Let me see how hard you can get I heard that your sister married a gay in the city Now you are living under her hand. I want you to take care of it Do you think you are still the factory director? Even if it is, I can't care What a coincidence It's because the leader values my ability Got my job promoted I happen to directly manage the department where your brother-in-law works. Hahahahahaha Are you dreaming or am I dreaming? Use this kind of rhetoric to trick me You think I'm stupid This is my work ID Do you see clearly? Let me tell you good news Your brother-in-law abused his power and harmed the interests of the organization. Already dismissed and investigated You will be the next person to check Therefore, it is said to be demoted openly and promoted secretly. You can also say that Great, then your salary is going to go up again. Not much increase Just 10 times Then take out all the money quickly Then we go to Pudong, Shanghai to buy a house Go to Sanlitun in Beijing to buy Finally, I will buy a house in Nanshan, Shenzhen. These places don't sound like they're worth the money. No place is worth investing in If you throw the money into the water, it still has to make a sound, right? No no no no You don't understand that we have to buy it And I have to buy 10 sets Wrong. Buy as much as you can. But all my money is gone I have sponsored a child Who asked you to sponsor your children? Why don't you tell me? Who is this child? He is a child from Guangdong It seems to be screaming Ma Huateng Ma Huateng Yanyanyanyan Yanyanyanyanyanyanyan Yanyanyanyanyan Honey, you scare me to death You were knocked unconscious at the award ceremony just now Are you OK I'm back in the 80's It was all a dream Li Qifeng is also fake Yanyan It's okay, it's okay Fortunately, Mr. Li from Yida Group was by your side just now It was he who saved you Miss Xu Comrade make a wish Comrade make a wish Li Xufeng Yanyan, why did we meet you for the first time? Just call him Chairman Li's name. He is an investor in your lower bunk business. It's okay to call me whatever you want Miss Xu has admired you for a long time