Welcome to paradise! Seven vibrant worlds wait just for you, traveler. They're all infected with evil goo or something, someone will fill you in. Now we WILL get to the majesty, but I DO have Hey, you did it! Good job. A game's first level is incredibly important. It's a game's one and only chance to make as just putting together something easy and A first level in a video game has responsibilities First levels are inherently located at a place world, and most likely to fall off of a game A great first level can be the difference a game that can't quite get off the ground. They're high stakes gambits where failure matter how good the rest of the game is. Let's talk about first levels, their responsibilities, for the long haul. Today's episode is sponsored by NordVPN! Here's a variety of classic gaming scenes sponsored by Nord. You know what a VPN is by now, it keeps you Secures your browser traffic from prying eyes. BUT ALSO did you know it can save you money to? Get better prices on Steam through INTERNATIONAL Get more stuff on Netflix, Disney+, or other OTHER INTERNATIONAL DEALS. Nord lets you connect through over 5200 servers speeds no matter where you live. Nord is turning 10 years old in February, with a special gift with purchase of a 2-year Head to nordvpn.com/designdoc to support our money-back guarantee. Click the link! Sephiroth endorses it probably. Nordvpn.com/designdoc stay safe. First levels are unique. Only one of them can be 'first', after all. A well-designed first level has to find a quickly as possible and get the player both It has responsibilities it can't get away of the game will get. Failing, in either case, can cause a player again. Unless a game has a super hardcore userbase into, slipping out of the gate might make is. A great first level is some combination of much of each can depend on what exactly it The most basic responsibility of a first level That means controls, but it also means teaching and verbs, that sort of thing. For some games, that can be a little trickier Super Mario 64 has a couple of first levels. Of course, you have Peach's Castle, which It's an essential opener, especially given Super Mario 64 was the first playable 3D environment The castle hub is built as a worry-free sandbox It's tough to get into too much trouble as you move around. Teaching and getting people accustomed to in a video game was an important first step. However, Peach's Castle isn't really the It's more of a toy than a game. The first proper 'level' is locked away Bob-Omb Battlefield. Where Peach's Castle is the pre-treatment concept of 3D movement, Bob-Omb Battlefield Mario 64. It's the first place that introduces you and the first place that enemies appear while It's still incredibly chill, even though attention. This is one of the rare levels in the game nor can you even lose a life due to a huge or freezing waters. The level's star objectives cover a wide be doing throughout the rest of the game. There's fighting on top of a mountain, using access to a star, racing characters somewhere, back here a little later when you've unlocked a cannon and fly through rings. Super Mario 64's first level is a variety frustration at as low of a level as possible. Great first levels are about a lot more than First levels need to establish the baseline You have to set up a game's default expectations you want to make off of those expectations. First levels are a chance to expose players and even the base difficulty of how you intend gimmicks for later. Take SUPERHOT. The first few screens are both a teaching basic version of the game, which it does in That's it. 3 sentences, a couple enemies, and the space that form the very core of the game. In seconds, you get everything you need. That concept applies across different genres, Most kart racers start with a dead simple Look at the first tracks in Mario Kart. Mario Circuit, Luigi Raceway, Peach Circuit, Circuit. Figure-8 Circuit, Luigi Circuit... Again. The names aren't even trying to get spicy. Most are generic stadiums with flat, gentle item boxes and maybe a shortcut here and there. Ooh, a ramp. The gimmicks shown off this early are only of the game, like paragliding in Mario Kart The goal isn't to astound you, it's to crazy. Though don't stay in basic mode too long. Mario Kart DS had 3 of these tracks in a single It's important to teach in general, but early. Games with unusual core mechanics have a little and first levels are a great place to start Sonic Heroes is a kid-friendly platformer mechanic. You control a trio of characters with different You can swap the lead character, which creates other with unique abilities, pros, and cons. The moveset is more diverse than most other formation system to get through levels as The game's first zone, which holds Seaside used to the team mechanic. The opening stages have a bunch of these special the best character to deal with what comes Got a long stretch of terrain ahead? Blaze a trail with the speed formation. If you have a lot of rocks or enemies coming Steep platforms? Fly up with the flight formation. You'll see these enemy and obstacle patterns stop leaving out these formation gates. They might instead just leave out a little recommended form. This is the game slowly taking the training Players can pattern match their way to switch As players get used to the patterns, they'll rewards with power-ups, rings, extra lives, lessons and get the player prepared to use By the end, the game has repeatedly reinforced especially for new, younger players. The 'firstness' of an intro level can also Games that try having high replay value need so they aren't annoying on repeat playthroughs. Take... ugh... Shadow the Hedgehog. Yes, this is going to be a serious point about I'm sorry. Shadow the Hedgehog is built around - and the game repeatedly. The game's branching path structure expects and make different choices to see a fairly That structure makes the first level in Shadow you'll be visiting it over and over again the rest of the game. That type of game should lean its first level basics and be flexible enough to get out of 4th, 9th, 20th run. For them, maybe make the first level act as Sigh. Sonic Team didn't really do that. Shadow the Hedgehog is split between Hero, Wanna go neutral? Just get to the end of the stage. It's... serviceable. Good enough. It's a level. Wanna do either of the other paths? Do the evil or good objectives. That doesn't sound so bad. What's the object...oh no. In this stage, eliminate ALL the enemies of It's a long grind over a lot of flat terrain back to the start and scouring them all again Getting the neutral mission is a breeze. Getting either of the other two options is pace right from the start. If you want to see every ending and level, MINIMUM. Star Fox 64 is what you get if you did that Corneria is a fantastic first level on replay. The opening cutscenes are skippable. The tutorials are non-intrusive, don't stop unless you're currently struggling to do the For example, if you save Falco from these how to boost to go save him. The environments of Corneria are pretty well-varied, to the outskirts. The branching path determiner is even partially to do some pretty smooth flying. Getting to the alternate boss is not overly sequences onto players. Corneria is a classic opener, accessible to veterans on another run. And it's not just for games with branching Streamlining a repeating first level will games, too. So first levels are responsible for setting But first levels aren't just about what's There are unique opportunities to draw a new The best first levels get a player to CARE Knowing HOW to play is important, but WANTING A lot of successful first levels are vertical off the high points of what's to come with This is where the first level becomes more Bayonetta doesn't mess around. It throws you in to a combat arena with bombastic The enemies aren't tough at all to dispatch and combos, and you get to do that while you The first level's goal is to be a pure vision to be, and bring it to you as quickly as possible It was so nice, why not do it again? Bayonetta 2 does basically the same thing, the city. Same idea, same goal, different setpiece, It's not rocket science - just front-load emblematic of what you want the game to be, But a game doesn't have to be as in-your-face Bastion's most interesting quirk is its as the game goes along, weaving together the player as it's happening. The first level in Bastion is a vertical slice the narrator right from the start. As the world builds around you, the narrator tutorial as you pick up weapons and meet... Both Bastion and Bayonetta put their best being the most complicated versions of themselves, flattering aspects of themselves out of the Games that start off with a showstopper can Lots of games use the progression of character keep playing. If a game starts off at the top of the power there? If the answer is 'nowhere', you might stagnant. So how can you start a game off so capable to go afterwards? Devil May Cry 5 starts out with a set of basic controls. The small encounters give players a little in the game's flashy combat system. At the end of the first level, the game throws the game's big bad. The fight is technically winnable, but it's By just changing up who you're fighting, to how capable he felt minutes before. You aren't supposed to win against Urizen far you have to go. After you lose, the game moves on normally, in the players. Better yet, if you're coming back here in if you're good enough and get a secret ending. It's really funny, actually. Devil May Cry 5's first level sets you up for the mountain ahead. Though, you COULD just start at the top of Yakuza Kiwami is a brawler RPG that starts bar and a collection of special moves and in your way. For, oh, about an hour. At the end of the game's opening chapter, time skip. Your health bar is now a fraction of what battle just to underscore how much you've You've gotten soft, Kazuma. The early game gives you a test drive of what to walk the path. The chance of disheartening players from loss more bad than gaining something feels good, if you can tie the events into the game's can be a very compelling technique. If you need a technique to help jump the first story, try using In Medias Res, where you You can pick and choose your moment to grab over-explain who everyone is and what they're It's powerful in part because the lack of to whatever fun scene you're deciding to It's also flexible in how you can start You can just keep rolling forward and explain earlier point in time and start a more traditional get from here to THERE' stays present in Chrono Cross starts with a really good In last half of a climactic dungeon that will You, Kid, and a randomized third party member intense tunes going. There are a handful of enemies that you can fully-developed than what you'll see when Do some very light puzzle solving, and before cutscenes of the game. Kid has been stabbed, maybe by you, you give to the start as if it were a dream. Was it real? I wonder... You even meet Kid for the first time not too The randomized third party member and the especially intriguing if you're playing Who's this guy? Who's she? Who's the wrestling man? Chrono Cross could have started with a basic or whatever, but instead in the first 15 minutes accessible for newbies but also gives strong Head down to the comments and let's talk first the smoothest warm-ups, the biggest spectacles, Also, the bad examples of those. First levels have to teach and entice, but Study them carefully because there's no second *chill vibes outro from Sonic Adventure*