- [Narrator] This half gallon costs $2.18 cents, eggs 1.87, bread 1.29. Aldi is the fastest-growing grocer by store count in the country, and its no-frills approach has also made it one of the cheapest. (trolley thudding) it's been growing at a rate And when an economic - It's about simplicity, and it's about a consistent - [Narrator] This is So how does the company Take its store set up. - You walk in, and the moment you step foot in our store, you can see all four walls. - [Narrator] Aldi's are typically about the same as a Trader Joe's, and much smaller than Operating a smaller space saves money when buying the property on the lease and on utilities. - The layout at Aldi is as much designed for our operational And so being very specific it takes to service our store and a very limited store size allows us to operate a and that creates a lot of value. - [Narrator] To further its efficiency, Aldi doesn't have extra services like a customer help desk, a fresh bakery, or butcher, and its stocks significantly Supermarkets typically carry Trader Joe's has about 4,000, but Aldi stocks about 1,600. Often, there are just on the sales floor, so having fewer items and leaving them in the means employees spend less These cost-cutting strategies are critical to Aldi's profit margin, and they're why the company that are cheaper than but they also serve another purpose. They help maintain Aldi's Customers make compensatory inferences. Basically, marketing experts say &quot;When people see an item's price, they quickly make assumptions If it's cheap, they may which is why Aldi's no frill From the moment customers and walk into the store, they can see all the Marketing experts say, &quot;These tactics all signal to the customer that milk, eggs, and because of its efficiency though, the results of its aren't always popular with customers. In a survey of roughly 6,500 people, Aldi scored on par with, or slightly lower than many of its peers in categories like store But there's another key tactic grocers use to aid their low-cost These are staple household products whose prices people often remember. As Aldi has expanded across the country, other grocers have reduced particularly on these types of items. - When Aldi comes in, it prompts other retailers and kind of, you know, surgically examine how to adjust what they - [Narrator] That's because for staple goods, they infer that the business And when it comes to value for dollar, Aldi ranked highest in the but stores can only without hurting their profit margins. So what does Aldi use other than price point It's private label items. 90% of Aldi's stock is private label, like its other strategies, this reduces costs for the company. - We take all of our buying power and we put it into the seven most popular or common salad dressings That allows us to deal and make sure that we - [Narrator] Analysts say that, Trader Joe's uses private-label items to differ from competitors that customers can only find there, like its Ube Mochi Pancake Mix, and Butternut Squash Mac &amp; Cheese. But at Aldi, you'll that look quite similar to the most well-known national brands. Instead of Wheat Thins, According to analysts, &quot;This is because Aldi wants customers to think they're essentially but at a significant discount.&quot; - There was a time when you know, they're a generic brand and, you know, they're just cheaper, but not as good as the national brands, and those days are over. - [Narrator] As consumers felt the lasting impacts of inflation sales of store brand products increased. From 2018 to 2022, there was a 34% increase in industry-wide private label sales, totaling more than $57 billion. - While some other grocers might have private label offerings, this is the existence of what we do. - [Narrator] Aldi has The 2008 Financial and decision to add around - What was really interesting is we never lost any of those customers, and as the economy improved and we had a really long Aldi grew throughout that - [Narrator] And now as inflation Aldi continues to grow. - In the beginning, that was sort of their target audience, people who, you know, wanted bargains, and wanted to buy food for low prices. But in recent years, I think they've really to also go after people who who want the necessities, and wanna be in and out of stores. (playful music)