They came, they saw, they slaughtered...and of its entire population, as many as 40 to in absolutely brutal warfare. This is what you get when you mess with us, away from mountains of skulls, from great even the household pets were impaled. The Mongols weren't just unstoppable. They left the scariest calling cards in military Today, we are going to focus on the greatest the man who brought together and unified the With him at the helm, the Mongol Empire became history. Under Genghis Khan and his offspring, the that conquered lands far and wide, covering Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, China, Persia, Syria, Turkey, and India, and making Ghengis Khan was a brilliant military leader, much more to this man than brute force. He developed trading systems and communication he showed towards his enemies, he was somewhat their culture and religion were concerned. Nevertheless, the Khan's strategy for conquering call the specter of fear. If bells began to ring in your town and people you feared the worst. You'd heard the talk. They didn't just conquer; they annihilated. The Mongols didn't take many prisoners, Submit to us, or face our wrath. Take the knee and pay tribute, or we will even have anticipated in your worst nightmares. If war can be avoided, good, if not, so be We've warned you. That's us paraphrasing, but as you'll The Pearls of the Orient stories, a kind of subplot to the larger Mongol It's the story of the city of Termez in It was the summer of 1220. Two of Khan's generals, the ultra-formidable were busy in Persia. Genghis Khan was resting his soldiers and south of Samarqand, Uzbekistan. That autumn, he moved south with his army, As usual, the people of Termez had been given They decided not to do that, with historians city's fortifications. Like so many other foes of the Mongols, they siege. They managed to hold off the Khan and his was overrun. Genghis Khan ordered his soldiers to get hold They were told to count the citizens and send Every soldier was then given the number of This was a small city compared to some of Nonetheless, slaughter is slaughter. As they got to the end of the massacre and was seen running away. She was soon caught, but before they killed She told them she had swallowed a large pearl, Instead, they disemboweled her on the spot, about the pearl. In fact, she'd swallowed a whole bunch of There were pearls in this city, and other woman, so he ordered his soldiers to disembowel looking for pearls or other jewels. Let's now dig a bit deeper...excuse the The Battle of Kalka River region of Donetsk Oblast because of the recent but long before Vladimir Putin was sending on a much bigger scale, led by the generals Both these men were campaign masters, having by the time they got to Ukraine. On this occasion, they were up against a strong The Rus' were a people spanning part of woven into the historical fabric of what is In this particular battle, it looked for a They chased the Mongol hordes away. The Mongols, who were exceptional military of a larger plan, spreading out their men They stopped and got into battle formation It was the Cumans that got there first. These were nomadic people from the steppes Alone against the Mongols, they were beaten Historians can't agree on how many men died, army, but it seems the Rus' outnumbered The Mongols were just better soldiers, faster, smart and usually had spies. We'll talk more about this soon. This Rus' coalition was eventually defeated, Rus' told the Mongols they'd pull back The Mongols agreed, but they also lied. They soon took all the princes and leading But as the Mongols had a rule about not shedding these men in a unique and savage fashion. They erected a kind of scaffold and placed They then set up tables and chairs for the Only, below the wood, propping it up, were When the Mongols celebrated, eating, drinking, to death below. This was supposedly a respectful death, but In terms of victims, it was also small-scale The Deletion of the Khwarezmian Empire have ever heard of was the Khwarazmian Empire, Asia, Afghanistan, and Iran. This was a powerful empire and one that really be the more powerful Genghis Khan. In 1219, the Mongols went after the fortified The governor of Otrar, known as Inalchuq, Around a year earlier, a Mongolian caravan sent by the Khan had been massacred in Otrar. The Mongol caravan had brought with them gold the empire's famous Khwarazmian fabrics. Inalchuq murdered them all, down to the last Noone is really sure why he did this. Some historians say he thought there were there probably were. Maybe Inalchuq just wanted all those Mongolian as this city was a major trading hub on the all the time. Massacring traders was not good for business. Whatever the reason for the massacre, a camel The Mongol leader was furious. Even so, at first, he sent two Mongol diplomats Muhammad II, with a message explaining he The Sultan was evidently not afraid of Khan. He subsequently had the Muslim diplomat beheaded, which was seen as very dis. This act has become known as one of the most What happened next might also be one of the remember this was more about the balance of The Mongols under Genghis Khan soon besieged long months. It might have lasted much longer had a sub-commander become a traitor and opened the gates of the The Mongols piled in, slaughtering every single Qaracha, who thought he was now on the good Mongol side. They were all slaughtered, too, with Genghis As for Inalchuq, he barricaded himself in he was surrounded by the last of his army. He managed to keep the Mongols back a month, All this time, the Khan had told his men, Bring him to me alive." Even when Inalchuq was on top of a roof, resorting made sure not to kill him. Inalchuq was eventually captured. To say Genghis Khan was upset would be an Inalchuq by pouring molten silver in his mouth, Some historians doubt it, but that's what was never going to get anything but a grizzly The Khwarazmians had picked a fight with the They knew very well what the Mongols were the Khan's men meant war would follow. It's likely he knew a war was coming regardless, Now Otrar was out of the way, Genghis Khan The Sultan was now on the run, occasionally his great cities had fallen. The Khwarazmian Empire Part II off the face of the Earth, and we mean annihilating The Mongols were known for their take-no-prisoners they did, in fact, sometimes take craftsmen as slaves. Genghis Khan also sometimes took young men Such massive territorial expansion would have on the way. The Mongols captured the city of Bukhara, of Samarkand. Genghis Khan, something of a psyops expert, in-fighting among the nobles of Samarkand. He then endeavored to start a fake news campaign, He wasn't just a good military strategist. He knew how to play the misinformation game. The strategy of divide and conquer was never you'll soon see, he made sure the same couldn't always be loyal to him. When he knew the city was weak, Genghis Khan, and about 10,000 men, attacked. Here, the Khan made good use of some of the forward with them as human shields. Not only do human bodies act as protection, firing into your own men dampens the enemy's To further douse the broken spirits of the the captured enemy over the city walls. But at one point, the Mongols retreated after Yet again, the retreat was just a ruse to The Mongols soon turned back, killing most In the citadel, the last of the city's nobles As he would do time and again, Genghis Khan Come out, he said. You'll be alright, he said. If you surrender, I'll spare you, and I'll them. There were something like 100,000 citizens debate the actual numbers. Regardless, they surrendered to the Khan on He then had every last soldier cut to shreds. As was normal, he got his own soldiers to town and to attempt to estimate the numbers. He then gave each soldier a quota he had to hours consisted of massacring thousands and This was, of course, quite unbelievably savage, This was psychological warfare. When other cities heard about this, surely rather than fight back. As you'll see, this was often not the case. We should also talk about how the Mongols, They conscripted males as young as 14 and Each man received part of the bounty distributed This meant that said soldiers would all take cattle, textiles, precious metals, and food. If you served, there were many rewards. If you disobeyed orders or fell asleep on maybe death. If you ran away or deserted, you'd be caught But yes, there were significant rewards, which The Mongols were famed for being able to ride distances than their enemies. They used wooden saddles with high fronts and take their shot. When they had whole populations of towns rounded discussed, they used spears, axes, long knives, to 127 cm) to cut down the populations. Did the soldiers sometimes feel bad about It's hard to say, but since they were rewarded city a chance to surrender first, maybe not. And anyway, the Mongols didn't invent mass They were just good at it. As is always the case in war, Genghis Khan enemy. Did Britain and the US feel bad about bombing Not so much at the time. People criticized the US when it was discovered and Cambodia, but a good few Americans believed those damned Commies. It's well known that Genghis Khan and the whether serving to spread fear among enemies The Siege of Urgench the city of Urgench, also part of the mass Genghis Khan's eldest son Jochi hit the city Ogedei came from the south. The invasion was made all the more difficult Moreover, there was a lack of large stones It's worth noting here that there was sibling Their dad was no spring chicken at this point, his place. It was Ogedei who came out top in this siege this would create a family feud. The Siege of Urgench was one of the hardest but with their catapults, their huge siege and their battering rams, they eventually The Mongols also had gunpowder, something To give you an idea of a typical arsenal for of: arrows, 300 catapults, 700 mangonels to discharge and 2,500 sacks of earth for filling up moats." Naphtha, in case you didn't know, is a highly Under this kind of attack, Urgench finally A Persian scholar named Juvayni later wrote the job of executing 24 Urgench citizens. That would mean executing 1.2 million people, long time. Juvayni was no doubt exaggerating, but modern of Urgench was one of the bloodiest massacres Again, the Mongols took artisans and other citizens were executed on the spot. It's worth noting that prior to the systematic written to the Sultan saying, "I am master those of the setting sun. Let us conclude a firm treaty of friendship As you know, the Sultan wasn't buying that. And as you'll now see, perhaps he had good Massacre at Merv When Ghenghis Khan's son Tolui went up against one. On the 7th or maybe 8th day, the governor he'd surrender if the Mongols agreed to Tolui said he agreed, and then the next day, to massacre pretty much every single person The scene was worse in the city that fell Nightmare at Nishapur at times in the past when it came to the number For instance, it was written that the Mongols when they sieged Nishapur. This couldn't have been true, but that didn't entire population of the city. The siege only lasted three days, but in that killed in action. This infuriated Tolui, who ordered every last He asked that Tokuchar's widow watch over Tolui even told his soldiers to murder every and dogs. But seriously, that many executions in one frankly, was just impossible. There weren't even that many people to kill, that the Mongols did slaughter most or all The history books also tell us that Genghis people may have only been injured, so she She was granted her wish, and the heads or something that was said to have taken a whole We can't be sure exactly how many people Empire off the map, but that's certainly to 15 million Khwarazmians were slaughtered That's incredible and horrifying at the disposal. The Mongols never did get their hands on the He was still on the run when he passed away. Historians have said he could have died of before his eyes. The sacking of Kiev at the Battle of the Kalka River. They returned to this region in 1240 when They burned the entire city to the ground, about 2,000 people from the population of This was under Genghis' grandson, Butu Khan, Genghis had died in 1227. An Italian diplomat named Giovanni da Pian What he wrote in his diary is one of the best caused. He wrote: we came across countless skulls and bones Kiev had been a very large and thickly populated nothing, for there are at the present time are kept in complete servitude." China although, with a kind of postal system they'd This is one reason how they managed to become The conquests in China went on for over 70 the Mongols conquered various dynasties and Again, they engaged in what's called annihilative inhabitants of the cities they plundered and The Mongols created their own dynasty in China This would collapse and be replaced by the 1368 to 1644. The Hongwu Emperor, the founder of the Ming of people he believed were plotting against This often consisted of slow slicing and flaying. He even ordered that any man found to have partially shaved style with bits of hair hanging You can understand his fear. It's thought the Mongols killed around 30 from a population of around 120 million. It all started under Genghis, a man and his chance of breaking through the country's China. Beating China was by no means easy, but Genghis "I had trained my men to attack with the Now they had to learn the guile of the wolf." They went from city to city, slaughtering As China was so divided, they employed Chinese makers, men who had great scientific knowledge, got to Europe. When they couldn't get past a wall, they The Mongol armies were well-prepared for long They set up camp outside cities, living in Each soldier was equipped with tools for cooking a leather food bag that could double as a They had two bottles for water and other liquids, Their entire life could be lived on the road. This is how they crossed great swathes of kilometers) in a day. If the soldiers' dry ration ran out, such their horse's neck. While not as civilized as some of the nations hand in a fight. Iraq of Baghdad, where, again, they slaughtered Baghdad was an advanced city of the age. The Mongolians burned down its libraries, history, and philosophy. A modern historian described the carnage in Mongols worked: falcons attacking a flight of doves, or like reins and shameless faces, murdering and spreading encrusted with jewels were cut to pieces with Those hiding behind the veils of the great alleys, each of them becoming a plaything...as The Mongols also kept to their promise of It's said instead of cutting down the Baghdad a rug and trampled him to death. The Mongols were military technicians, amazing disinformation, helped by their development understood how important psychological warfare They were great at what they did: wholesale Genghis Khan thought his destiny was to rule course, but he sure made a good go of it. He once said: If you had not committed great sins, God would upon you." Now you need to watch "Mongolian Death Worm It." Or, have a look at "Most Evil Man - Attila