(birds chirping) (soft music) (birds chirping) (soft music) - [Jacopo] Cadarese is a place where I really love to spend time. It's really quiet. I feel like in peace with myself. It's the place where I and where I started to bring on the rocks. (soft music) And Tribe especially, is all the stages of this, let's call it evolution as a trad climber. (soft music) I remember when I saw the that was in 2014, I think. And that day, I just climbed and which were challenging And yeah, I simply didn't thought that this line would have (Jacopo yells) Fuck! - [Richard] I'm filming. No, stop chewing this muesli. I first met Jacopo on He was obviously very and very shy as well. - [Woman] That is good enough. - And absolutely unable to jump - Come on, Jacopo! Make that meet far as possible by pushing. If it's that way, you push-- - I don't actually think he'd ever really been trad climbing. But he seemed like he was a young climber that was just hungry to learn new things and discover a new world. - [Richard] After La Reunion, to come and climb with me and my friends. We were discovering these And he started being intrigued and this style of climbing. (speaking in foreign language) - When I stopped competing, I asked myself what I and trad climbing was the answer. When I first tried it, I realized that that was (soft music) In trad climbing, you so you have to find a using just the features of the rock. The gear you place is not always safe. So it's way more engaging I simply love the fact that I was scared but at the same time I had to focus on the actual climb. It was a huge challenge for and that's probably the thing (birds chirping) And Cadarese is the place where I found the perfect - [Richard] Through the years thousands of times and that were obviously too futuristic for me and my friends' skills, but some of them I saw they Jacopo was visionary enough to go opposite of the line and check the features. - I remember when I rappelled down on the route the first time, I was really impressed by but at the same time I had the feeling that the last section was and the holes were so far apart. (dramatic music) - [James] It's impossible as you walk up to the crag. It's one of the first things that you see and it's just staring you in the face. It's one of the most that I've ever seen. - [Richard] You could see of this line to be climbed although the runout was serious (dramatic music) - [James] At first it seemed I knew how good of a climber he was and I just assumed he linked But the thing is on stuff like this, even if you can do the moves, it doesn't mean you can link them and even linking two of those moves is already a really, really tough effort. I mean we're talking about It's seriously hard climbing. - When I started trying it didn't matter if I I spent weeks just camping and climbing alone trying the move. I was, I think really, really driven. I hadn't experienced that before. (soft guitar music) I think I was so obsessed by the line because I didn't know if The cool thing about this process was that a lot of people just showed up and they started to offer their help, like they came to help They helped me to build a landing. I met so many people and they became my friends and we just shared a lot sharing the same vision, the same passion in a place that we all loved so much. (soft music) And maybe it was exactly this feeling that motivate me the most (clock ticking) (gentle music) (hits landing) (Jacopo yells) (gentle music) (clock ticking) (Jacopo yells) (clock ticking) (Jacopo yells) - [James] It takes a real to keep on going back trying things, sometimes than you had done before and just keep on pushing the ultimate dream of seeing (Jacopo yells) (speaking in foreign language) - He did so many hard routes over the last couple of years. It's pretty crazy in all and they all went down really fast, in the space of a couple and still his project in (speaking in foreign language) (soft music) - I remember that a lot of times, I thought about just giving up and I asked to myself, &quot;Would I care?&quot; And in those moment, I always try to think why I was doing that. It was my desire to climb that thing. Didn't matter how long it would take. It was just important to (soft music) (belts rattling) What I learned from Tribe is definitely the importance of believing in our goals, in believing ourself even when we have a maybe be we are not doing the right thing, but if we really want to do something, that's probably the only right thing. (soft music) (birds chirping) (Jacopo yells) (Jacopo panting) (soft music) (Jacopo yells) Tribe was definitely but all my friends played a really important role in it. They showed me what the and I'm really thankful for that. That's why the route is called Tribe. (upbeat music)