Halt. My friend, Lao Huang, left something up there. I only want that and won't touch anything else. I guess we're fighting then. We're going to fight these people. What are you going to do? I'll charge in with you. Great. You're a good brother indeed. You're planning to take advantage of the fight, aren't you? Brother, I don't understand. I said I'll allow it. Since you're willing to charge in for me, I must honor your selfless spirit. Brother, what are you doing? Brother! I'm just a kid. Look how my brother swoops in! I'm just a kid. You're quite skilled, my dear brother. This is what you want? I'm waiting for you to get rid of all of them. I don't work for Xu Fengnian. That's right. So please have mercy on him. Brother! Where did this young child come from? This is the prince of Beiliang after all. That child must be a secret bodyguard. A well-hidden one at that. He only appears now. He's a skilled fighter. He must be Xu Fengnian's trump card. We have studied the ones around him thoroughly. Except for this young child who came as a surprise. When we attack later, focus on the child. Shouldn't we kill Xu Fengnian first? If we can kill him first, that would be great. But look at this child. He faces six gladiators yet remains unfazed. If we go after Xu Fengnian, that child will intervene. Keep waiting. Makes sense. Stop right there! Your Highness. I feel like these gladiators are not doing their best to stop us. We have come so far. There's no need to look back. [ Liao's Fish Stall ] Here's our chance. Go! Twelve gladiators in total. That's right. They're all here then. You're here too. Greetings, Your Highness. I'm your brother-in-law. We meet again. We're family. Let me help you. You don't even trust me? I recognize the Red Armored General. What if I tell you that I have nothing to do with the Red Armor? Do you think I'd believe it? I won't intervene. Have fun. Go ahead, Your Highness. So you plan to strike when our fight is over? If the six of them fight you together, your guards might not be able to protect you. What if I decide to turn back here and leave? Your Highness isn't that kind of person. You're right. Your Highness. We're surrounded. We're at a disadvantage. When you're under a siege with no clear exit, what do you do? We create one. Exactly. We create one. [ Wudi City ] Xuanjia. Qingmei. Zhuma. Chunshui. Zhaolu. Taohua. Come forth. Go! [ North Gate ] Why'd they stop fighting? He has actually intervened. Whether they block us or not makes no difference anymore. Return. Thank you sir for intervening with your sword. Thank you sir for intervening with your six swords. Are you the Peach Blossom God of Blades? I am Deng Tai'e. I, Xu Fengnian, will not forget this favor. I will repay you one day. No need. I'm here to repay a favor. Xu Fengnian, your mother is a distant cousin of mine. You're my relative too? Fengnian, you're born with a silver spoon in your mouth. When I was studying the art of the sword in the Wu family, your mother fed me, saved me, and taught me. I owe her too much. How could I not return it? Unfortunately, when your mother entered the Imperial City alone, I was far beyond Donghai. When I had returned, it was already too late. Your mother was gravely injured in that battle and died in the end. Thinking about it always fills me with regret. These six swords can only repay half of what I owe your mother. Retrieve whatever you must from the rampart. These 12 flying swords have accompanied me all my life. Today, I give them to you. The technique to command the flying swords is also contained within the box. Whether you can master it or not will depend entirely on you. The other half of my debt is now repaid. Your Highness, from now on, we don't owe each other anything. Many thanks. Your Highness, you should take the flying swords first. I'll grab it on our way back. The Peach Blossom God of Blades' flying swords technique is one of the strongest techniques there are! I know. But blame my shortsightedness. At this moment, that sword box matters the most to me. Mr. Deng, if you want to kill me, do it now. Being on the edge is not a great feeling. I have returned the favor. Everything has ended. The prince's business is not my business. So, if I attack Xu Fengnian later, you won't intervene? I gave my swords away already. Knowing your status, Mr. Deng, I can take your word for it. Not now. I'm not dumb. The first half of Mr. Deng's favor is to help your prince retrieve the sword box on the rampart. If I want to attack, I have to wait until he gets what he wants so that Mr. Deng's business here is concluded. No one can stop your prince from retrieving the sword box now.