If you've ever thought you've probably heard this one piece of advice &quot;I'll be very simple. Under the conditions probably Articles, high school econ teacher have increasingly promoted this special place &quot;Definitely don't do * investing &quot;Statistically, to build wealth for probably And slowly, American workers trillions of dollars into this investment But, its success is built on a 50 year of how the world works. And that theory might be off by a factor of 500. For the first time that simply track like the stocks in the S&amp;P 500, now have more money than actively managed But as money some analysts are getting People joining passive funds might be overvaluing stocks the market towards So should we keep going Let me step back The reason I got into was because of this chart, which isn't that different from this one or this one. These are graphs to track the overall growth And they're going up almost too fast. And I'm invested So obviously But I'm also skeptical. Why is this happening. This is the story index, index, index, index funds&quot; how they slowly gobbled up the stock market and might be based on a giant lie. 50 years ago, index funds didn't exist, they've gained One of the first people was my high school So I'm going to talk to him why he thinks they're good. &quot;Hello&quot; &quot;There he is.&quot; What's up man. Good to see you. Thank you again Hey, it's my pleasure. It's awesome. So I wanted to just ask you Why do you think index funds Well, there's an awful lot of volatility So the idea for an index from this long debate makes the stock market As long as the market there have been countless that one question, because you can make a ton of money. And in the 1960s, economists a theory called market hypothesis that became a foundational belief behind Could you start by describing what the efficient market A giant lie. All right, Sorry. The efficient market just means that as much information as could be obtained in a economically and therefore prices are rarely wrong by all that much. Explained the efficient market It's like bidding on see. Hey bidder bidder Today we're auctioning off inside of this box. Hey, bidder bidder, that's a tail. Oh, I've seen this before. It's got to be an elephant. $500. That good with you? Sold for $500. We've got 24 million more of these folks for the right price. 20 more sold Oh, we've got an update. The object in the box seems to have a bidder, bidder leaf on it. Uh oh, sounds like a tree to me. $300. $500 $475 $400 Oh, fine. Sold for $300, $300, $300 a sold $300. Sold $301. Sold. As you can see, the price of the box, updated to whatever It's basically impossible to predict Oh hey, new information that feels like gold to me $600 $900 $1,000 sold. So if this hypothesis no one, neither Warren Buffett nor the market because doing so would require But if every stock is updated the most efficient way would be simply to buy the market as a whole. And that doesn't guarantee But if it does, which it has historically, then you'll get as good of a return But how do you follow The most popular way market is through an index like the S&amp;P 500, from 500 of the largest weighs then combines them If the number goes up, stocks If it goes down, they're generally So in the early 1970s, people tested this theory their individual returns to the S&amp;P 500. They found that over time, the S&amp;P But there wasn't an easy way to actually invest 500 itself. So in 1974, after the idea had been floating this guy named Paul in the Journal of that someone that tracks S&amp;P 500. So the idea is essentially of all the investors to figure out and just putting And by chance, Bogle, who just started a new mutual fund read this article and So he makes one by buying in the S&amp;P Vanguard makes a single fund that gets the same returns as the S&amp;P 500. And now you, can buy a piece of that fund and take that portion the first index fund. Bogle thinks this is the next big thing, but others don't. In 1976, the fund IPO's, with the goal of $150 million investment and gets $11 million. Meanwhile, opposing who get money through fees try to kill indexes their clients. One famous poster group read &quot;index funds are unAmerican&quot;, arguing of just thoughtlessly But over time, the logic of According to a 2020 analysis, 89% of all domestic funds underperform in the last 15 years. &quot;There's no 20 year period of time where the S&amp;P 500 has gone down right. So over that long period of time, Like the market Sometimes people do better. But over time if not impossible the likeliest success is the average. I can't believe how much money I have and my starting salary in 1992 was $13,900. And I'm, you know, probably going to retire with a few million dollars. That's just it blows my mind away. And buying an index fund than an that has the same Because there's not you're paying to decide That's allowed companies very low fees Across the market, tend to charge between 0.2 of the cost of the fund managed funds charge upwards of 12 times more, with rates between 1.3 and 2.5%. So in a sense, with an index fund because, C Bogle would say, you get what you don't pay for. So while many people pay big fees to get market people invest in smaller fees and thus get more of the returns. From 1980 to 2023, holding which was fueled by the rise of 401K auto enrollment like Fidelity that enabled regular people to invest. And now tens of are sitting in index funds, reaping the rewards But not everyone thinks so. If we believe the efficient market hypothesis, this line is just what things are worth. And we'd also assume that the giant fluctuations to tons of people tiny little adjustments Generally, economists assume a marginal $1 invested had nearly no impact, perhaps a cent, but a study from 2021 challenges this notion. This is one of the guys My name is Xavier Gabaix I'm French, so I'm a professor of economics at, Harvard University. In this study, a system distinct Most investors just stay on the sidelines. We don't participate. Or if we do participate particularly thoughtful and attentive way. This is a big realization. The auction scenario assumes care about what's in the box and how much it's worth. But the way a lot of nonprofessional investors today doesn't Hey. What's up? Just got my paycheck. How much for one? Share? $500. Sweet. Cash it. It's payday. Deal me in too. $600. Works for me. One more for me. I feel bidder bidder bad, but $800? Great. That means I can get two. Through the rising popularity and other passive investment More and more people into the stock market of how much a stock And according to Xavier Koijen inelastic market hypothesis, this money coming in much faster The surprise is The stock market where you invest and the machine $500 more. And of course, it's So for every $1 the overall value And for every $1 the overall value It's a hypothesis because it's not a proven theory. But if it's true, this could mean at least 500 times as fast Under the efficient market So what are the consequences Well, could be overvalued. And if enough people that's the case, investors which would send the prices and cut the value many people And given what hypothesis says about this process could happen very fast. Beyond volatility. Others worry index funds are overvaluing as they systematically and with huge amounts under their management. Some, including the founder of Vanguard that companies like and a significant portion stocks are owned But to push most people don't think at least not yet. In response to fears are somewhat mindlessly the market asks, from Vanguard says have a tiny impact on how stocks are valued. A report at least 95% of the stocks bought and sold in a day are by active managers, suggesting prices by people So that would change scenario Hey what's up? Just got my paycheck. How much for one share? Based on our analysis, we believe the value is $312.42. Cash it. If this is true, there's But Mike Green would urge us the impact of quote unquote, passive investors, they're supposedly They are still buying and selling, which affects If you actually believe in the theory of passive, it is distortionary for you to decide to do anything Still, if you ask they'll scoff My econ teacher I tell young people, in my personal Start don't touch that money into a stock index mutual fund. Always works. When I ask a certified if he knows any doubts People have doubts about index funds? That's interesting. I don't know, too many like you gotta go, gotta go active management. This is the only way to go. Trying to give you an answer on that one, And Xavier is the best move The guy in charge of all of Vanguard's equity more tempered, and said past is not indicative but most angles Returns American businesses have and people seem bullish And even if the stock market does end up going down, many would argue indexes are still the best at the end of the day, market is a lot of things. It's a marker of companies It's a measure of hope and it's a function fundamental fears. And as long driving the market continue a hill, investing in index funds might still be After all, and you're not invested, So are you dancing while the music is playing? Unfortunately, but eventually or get quieter. So there's an argument to reducing your risk. The market doesn't exist The market exists of capital at an appropriate And so when we break those systems, the least bit surprised that capitalism itself is threatening to break. Ultimately, market's but I hope this video leaves you with one insight. 50 years ago, a guy made a fund since this simple idea among many investors, and for many it's worked. But the stock market to do anything break it down There's nothing ensuring that the stock market other than through the faith So if you're investing all I hope for you Maybe it's Maybe it's because But even if you're investing passively, be a little bit less passive of a passive investor. Toto, Toto Toto Toto Toto Toto man, it's really No! Lose it.