Transcriber: Sue Lu Buna ziua. Good afternoon. As a storyteller, [Inaudible], I know sometimes the truth hurts. As I've traveled around the world, I've often realized that sometimes depends on and seeing it firsthand for yourself. Oftentimes, it depends on perhaps to see it in a different light. My journey to Romania began 22 years ago, in the summer of 2002, when I arrived as a group - with a group of 65 idealistic Americans - We came to do humanitarian The Peace Corps was started and the idea is to send American citizens, regular people, not diplomats, skilled volunteers, to developing countries to offer assistance and and to help the country I worked in community economic development and we had colleagues in environmental, We trained for three months This is the lovely school where we did And then we were deployed I was based here in Timisoara. It was the start And it was just 12 years in the fall of Ceausescu and communism. It was a grey time It was a monochrome of sad faces and Dacia cars that were spewing fumes. And there were horse carts feral dogs roaming the streets It was an eye opener for me, even though I had been and had been in But this was the reality we were facing, And probably the toughest was the mentality and the culture. In any Peace Corps assignment Here it was the sort of rampant negativity and widespread mistrust and that was very different But there were plenty of good things too, and small victories, and incremental accomplishments making new friends, learning It was fantastic. Over time, I realized that and also a lot about myself. In time, I, too, realized that Romania I even met my wife here. (Laughs) But that's a whole another story. So fast forward to today. Romania is a vastly different country. In fact, I've had the privilege to witness for the past 20 years. I've had a front row seat and I've written about it And about eight years ago, I actually left California And I live here in Timisoara But Romanians often ask me, "Why? Why would you leave Or "Why would you leave Perhaps some of you are wondering. For me, it's an easy answer. It's a beautiful country. It's very safe. It's calm. There's a lot to see and do. No place is perfect. But it's a great place. And we like it here. The difference is, I think, for foreigners to adapt to a new place, it just takes time. But I was well used to Romania. And having lived here now over 11 years, I'm not just a casual observer. I've traveled around the country. I really have seen a lot of it, and I appreciate it. And I think, in a word, it's authentic. The country has cosmopolitan cities that are vibrant and It has Transylvania, fortresses, painted monasteries, etc. It has an entire border that flows to the Danube Delta, It has the Carpathian Mountains, a wide swath of the Carpathian Mountains. It has multiple It has a Black Sea coast and it has time-honored traditions So what's not to like? Then why does Romania rank near the bottom It's a pity. I appreciate Romania so much - and I believe in this - that I wrote a story last year I believe it's an underrated country, And Romanians contacted me from the diaspora, from around and many people were proud to see their one of the world's most important journals with millions of subscribers. But yet, some, even my own friends, "Why? Why did you write that? Is Timisoara really worthy Are we really worthy This is, again, some of the mentality So the fact that Romania I think, is due to several factors. Partly, I think Romania sometimes or is holding its own self back, or Romanians sometimes But I'll give you some concrete reasons One: There's a lack of sufficient government and competent promotion There is lagging infrastructure, still not enough freeways and trains. There's lingering mentalities still sometimes creep into society That can turn off travelers. There's an inferiority complex that Romania and Eastern Europe It shouldn't be the case. There's also an image problem abroad, or just a blank image of a country There's plenty of wide open spaces here with room to to have tourists, Romania has capacity. Look at the overtourism problems Dubrovnik, Venice, There's been backlash. Romania has capacity, and I think capitalizing on nature are one of the keys to do this. I just read a story in the BBC recently that are actively recruiting travelers with infrastructure and marketing The countries might surprise you. Georgia, Greenland, Morocco, and Serbia. Romania should be on this list, but it's not. But it's not all bad news. (Laughs) Romania is generating This is certainly respectable. It's been growing a little bit. But take a look at Croatia, Greece, Now I realize Romania's economy so I wouldn't expect it But I think there's room to grow. I would think you could with help, perhaps from the government, Perhaps there could be programs to incentivize starting new companies or hiring in sustainable tourism, or for the government an apolitical national tourist board and Romania still does not have. I think this would help a lot. Before the pandemic, and then they've been In 2023, Romania had 13 million tourist Hungary, a much smaller country with no offense to Budapest, had 50 million, five zero - 13 and 50 million in the same year. But before the pandemic, Romania's tourism numbers and that's rebounded back to those levels So again, a good sign Again, I think sustainability Romania has vast virgin forests that are the the envy of Europe, There's plenty of natural sites and cultural - and heritage treasures There's a lot of great stuff going on regarding sustainability. For example, there's an NGO called which is trying to protect 200,000 and make it the largest to create this continent's Fantastic. There's another one that is trying to, but also connect it And there's Via Transilvanica, a fantastic hiking trail that goes all the way across Romania And its idea is to unite cultural and various And it goes through villages Another great addition to the scene. At the same time, Romania could thank King Charles for He, as Prince Charles, bought up a lot of property he has a personal residence as well - and he championed conservation efforts. He really, really cares about Romania Similarly, the British documentary also has done a yeoman's job with his documentaries and short films, and again, conservation efforts, He also was one of the first to call out on their lackluster efforts and they've since collaborated Also, there have been a recent in prestigious British, European, including my story in The New York Times, that have shed new light on Romania as a legitimate tourism destination. So the momentum is there. There, again, is so much nature Wide open spaces. It's just a matter of putting it and a proper brand and marketing strategy There are fantastic sites like this that when people come and they see it, The sky is really no limit, I think. The fact that the country has changed The stray dogs are gone. The facades have been restored Those old Dacia cars are mostly long gone. They're replaced with new Dacias, or as you've seen in Timisoara many BMWs or Mercedes. There is new prosperity here The attitude has changed. I've seen this for 20 years, It's for real. It doesn't mean but we're on the right way. The truth sometimes hurts, but it can also inspire us. I think that Romania and having been a Peace Corps volunteer, I haven't lost But I also went to MBA school, and I think this is I know Romania can do this. Thank you. (Applause)