Prof: So anyway, is called Financial Theory. I'm going to teach an actual I'm going to spend the first the course and why you might be and then I'm going to start There are not that many semester so I'm not going to So the first half of the class study it and the mechanics of and the second half of the the first part of the course. It'll give you maybe an idea of interesting too. So I think I'll turn this--I here. So you should know that finance ago at Yale. It was regarded by the deans faculty of the arts and sciences worthy of being taught to Yale It was growing more and more however, in the world and there professors, Robert Merton, Steve Ross, Myron Scholes, who had a huge following in subject, Wall Street, investment banking parts of Wall and became extremely successful. Finance became the most highly It became the most highly paid although they were all in There are more physics PhDs there are working in physics. So this merry band of financial believe in regulation. They believed markets left They believed in what they idea that asset prices reflect information. So an implication of that is whether a company's doing well the trouble to read all their just look at their stock price. If you wanted to know whether a don't have to study its entire events, market of the country and They believed that you could market as a lay person as you the experts were competing to price, reflected all their knowledge the lay person could take stocks. Everybody should be an A monkey throwing darts at a any of the greatest experts. Now, their own theory was own experience because all of world and invest, extraordinary returns and made a which made them even less and sciences. So, a critical part of their so efficient, are competing to exploit every and therefore compete away and by doing that put all the prices. The implication of that theory extraordinarily clever way of investment assets, financial decision's a good and that was the heart of what schools, assets and making optimal One striking thing is that the the business people and the adopted their language. So this had never happened in I mean, anthropologists study kinds of people all the time and I venture to say, language invented by themselves in their own but the business people that ended up using exactly the Now, Yale was very different. There was no divide between the business school finance At Yale the greatest economists very interested in finance. Maybe they were financial So the greatest Yale economist twentieth century was Irving He wrote, possibly, Yale. There was no economist to teach with Gibbs, maybe the greatest There's a building, on Science Hill named after and you'll hear more about his but he was a mathematical an econometrician but he economics in order to study The most famous Yale economist twentieth century was James a famous macroeconomist, possibly, of the second half of Keynes, But he got the Nobel Prize for economics. Finance was incredibly So Bob Shiller and I went to the deans, of finance and economics and so it's not a vocational It's actually central to understanding the economy, the global economy. So we'd like to teach it to and we believe a few of them course,&quot; it, now for the last ten years. So as you know Shiller has been efficient markets tradition. He feels that these finance essential out of the whole What they left out was They left out the idea of fads, and narratives, effect on prices as the hard the business school professors I myself have been quite theory. I started off as a straight To me economics was almost a that happened to tell you So I got my PhD with Ken Arrow, very shortly. And I came to Yale, I came back to Yale and I And the Cowles Foundation's &quot;Can we make economics Economics, a social science, mathematical analysis just like and people didn't believe this And the Cowles Foundation, in these lectures, transforming it from a verbal political economy, Well, I decided around 1989 economics, finance people doing all kinds Street and doing it very I thought I might just check So it might be fun to see what So I went to Wall Street and I in fact, professors I knew went There was a famous finance before, named Fischer Black who attracted a lot of people. And so that was the traditional but I decided to go to a Peabody, investment bank at the time. And one thing led to another, wanted to reorganize their income. And since I was a professor economics, year somebody said, Income Department said, of it and hire a new Fixed me. So I did, and ultimately there department. All the time I was a professor And after five years Kidder even though it was a hundred formed by a famous family, Peabody--familiar to you, thirty-five years, I had to invite the into my office and say, And then I went next door to guy there said, And so that was my first taste And after that six of us Ellington Capital Management, fund, and we had-- It started after the Kidder fund, mortgage hedge fund, hedge fund in the country. (Although recently we found out trades mortgages is basically a Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, funds, so it doesn't mean you're a big mortgage hedge But anyway, we almost went out a story I'll tell you at great and then we just suffered year or two, So these experiences, understanding of Wall Street and So I took on, finance and economic theory on I didn't think like Shiller to economics I just take it on in in its own mathematical terms. And what I found was that there Standard Theory. One is that it implicitly for everything. It's the assumption that's And secondly it leaves out never see, almost in any single the idea of collateral or And those, I think, insurance for everything and you know, you have to be able to pay them back if you borrow convincing way of persuading him the lender. Those two things were missing so I built a theory around which is a critique of the So in a way Shiller and I have I mean, so let me just show you Well, maybe I will, was. So let's look at the Dow Jones. The Dow Jones is an average of value is. We'll talk more about it later. But here it is back to 1913 and up and up, which we'll come to later like and then--but look what Look at that. The Dow Jones was up at 14,000 something like that, and now it's gone fifty percent So if you believe these finance that everybody realized that going to be less than half what be before and that's why the And then miraculously when it &quot;Oh, my gosh, Actually it's not nearly that higher because now people think going to go, didn't drop by fifty percent, twenty-five percent. And that was the only way, to explain what happened. Now Shiller would just say, everybody's--they're crazy. They got this into their head be great and then some rumor and things were so high, they thought things were and this his story. And I'm not sure how he gets it They changed their mind again. By the way it's a little bit correcting for inflation and looks-- remember before the Depression It's grown so much over a seemed like anything was Well, now in log scale--going by ten-- in 1929 through the early '30s I don't remember what it is. It looks like it's almost two It looks like it's eighty or and the fall this time has been fifty percent, So it's a whole thing down but It's not a whole thing down. It's less than that. A whole thing down would be the It didn't go down two thirds. It went down less than two It went down fifty percent, was much worse in the Depression We're going to come back to all What else can we get out of I just want you to notice a So these numbers are all very If you're mathematical these attention to. So these efficient markets in price every month. So there's a lot to say for They said, &quot;Look, randomly.&quot; In fact we'll see that there whether you can predict it's basis of how it did yesterday, It's very difficult to predict going up or down. It seems to be random. Well, it's random and they used distributed. A lot of people argued it was but it's hard. You never get these gigantic distributed. They're just way too unlikely So Mandelbrot, retired a couple years ago, formed his theories, he said this couldn't possibly traditional Brownian motion never get these big outliers, for why they might be there, an explanation either. I mean, is it that people then the next week they change bad after all? But you'll see that the theory explain these kinds of things. Let's just look at the Dow. We just looked at the Dow. Let's look at another, Where's the S&amp;P 500? Here's the S&amp;P 500 data. Here's the history of the It looks very similar to the history back to 1871, more thing in the S&amp;P 500. So this is an average of not just thirty, But let's look at the same check for inflation. So you see here that there are Things seemed low in 1871. They go up and they go down. Then you've got another up and Then you've got another up and Then you've another up and a Four times the same thing has Now this could be just but it will turn out that the the baby boom cycle, boom we've had four of them, which they're each time a happens to correspond exactly the different age distribution So another theory of the stock which wouldn't have been financial theorists, something to do with the stock not information about profits of ages in the population. So I'm not saying this theory although I was one of the but it shows that there's room, in finance for economic things, for leverage to matter and not future profits. So let me show you another So this is a second way in He said, &quot;Well, the Case Shiller Housing Index. So he's also famous because he housing prices. So it's quite amazing, by law you have to record in and they're often on the every sale of every house. So everybody has it and it's internet, or most of it is internet. And nobody thought to gather and take the average and write it. So here's the Shiller Index. All right, so you can see that stable throughout the '80s and started taking off, market was taking off too. So Shiller says this is People just went crazy. They somehow think things can and they're just going to keep and they keep buying because go up, Psychology--eventually a new Somebody's going to say, so long they can't continue to Things have to go down,&quot; I think there's something to something missing in the The finance guys, &quot;Well, the rise is not so Look at the mortgage rates. (This is the interest rate you mortgage.) There's been an incredible the years, so it's less costly If you take the present value have to pay less. You pay over a long period of and so the interest rate is is worth more because you're at a lower rate. (You'll hear all about So there's no mystery.&quot; On the other hand nothing They kept getting lower so should have crashed. So, again, this seems like a Now, it also, my theory which is So I'm distrustful a little bit anything, although I agree it's So my theory is when you take a things, the interest rate and Who's going to trust you to pay When you buy a house they say, whole value of the house.&quot; They say, &quot;Well, percent. Borrow eighty percent of the And so what I say is that attention to the interest rate Why is it twenty percent that Maybe it should be ten percent Well, in fact, time. So here what I've done is--the future, that pink line is inverted. So you notice the scale on the but I've inverted it, payment percentage. These are non-agency loans. We'll come back to the graph I don't have time to explain but what you see is that from people were asked to make to buy and lower, and lower, three percent. You could put down three house and borrow the other value of the house to buy it. So amazingly the prices go up the leverage. So why is it called leverage? Because the cash you put down say ten percent, asset that's worth a hundred dollars. So you're leveraged 10:1. If you put down three dollars house you've leveraged it 30:1 So that's why it's called So anyway, the point is that The margins kept going down and peak of the housing cycle, curve, that's when collateral people started asking for more and sure enough the prices So if you look at the prices of again, the inverse on the margins on the left, buying securities-- this whole graph, securities. So '98 is a big crisis, I don't have pricing data back That's the blue line. And now from 2007 to 2009 you So to buy a toxic mortgage cash, they borrow part of the They used to put down only five Now they have to put down average. Well, what happened to prices? Prices--this is the inverse of collapse. So this going up means prices So once again, means lower prices and as the prices have gone up recently. So it's an alternative theory. So what else do I want to show So it doesn't mean that the wrong. After all, I helped run a hedge Six of us founded it and we've years. We must believe in standard how we've been making a lot of We exploit all those algorithms going to teach you, it's very important to teach you but there's more to the theory I want to show you one more S&amp;P which I forgot to And where is this? Oh, I can't get it out of that. Let's try Dow. Okay, so Dow. Where was the peak of the Dow? It was right over here. Now what was the date? The date's supposed to flash So it's October 1st 2007. So that's when people started with the world and things headed Until then nothing bad seemed but suppose that you look not looked--sorry. Here's a graph, sub-prime mortgage index. So you see it's a hundred. You'll understand what these So a hundred means nobody default. Over here January 2007, stock market starts to go The stock market is still going A month later, a month later the sub-prime You see it goes from a hundred We're already--In February or So that means the people, mortgages, already realized happen. This was long before anyone happening, moved, anything to correct the problem. So just as financial theory prices you can learn a lot about The people trading those fixing the right prices. Probably they know stuff that The prices are going to reflect If the price collapsed part of maybe margins and something had but part of the reason it something bad was happening. So for two and half years we've major catastrophe in the To go from a hundred to sixty calamity. So you know that there are one have already been thrown out of Another three and a half debts and are seriously Probably all of them will be and another four or five and have to be thrown out of So it's a major catastrophe and about it two and a half years about it, find out. So it's not that I think the standard financial theory useful. I just think it has to be and richer theory. Maybe I should show you how my you don't think that it was a Oh dear, where is my returns? Here we go, EMG returns, So Kidder Peabody went out of There was a tremendous crash in leverage cycle. The purple is Ellington, You'll see that these are other The S&amp;P 500 is the green doing great for a while. Emerging markets is the blue one, other things like treasuries, banks lend to each other at. So this says if you put your strategies, money each month to a bank and seeing how much money you or putting your money in purple, stock market and see what the S&amp;P 500, So you see there was a crash You're fired, you're fired. So we start Ellington and and so we have all these years Then '98 there's another crash. Look what happened. Overnight, practically, We almost went out of business. Long Term Capital, was run partly by two Nobel Merton Miller, Myron Scholes and Robert two of the guys I mentioned who financial crisis [correction: they bankrupted their company And why did they go out of Because they weren't aware of in my view. Anyway, so the prices collapsed. Then look it, again and the world seems to be everybody's doing great. Then there's another crisis in Everything plummets all everything is going up again. So it's hard to see this and to So I remember in '98, when there was a margin call. Our lenders called and said, We don't believe that the were and so the collateral is anymore.&quot; And we said, call. It's not legal. You promised not to change the You can't make a margin And they said, blah, blah, we don't really We're making a margin So we called up Warren Buffett terrible. They're making a margin call. They can't do this. We have great bonds. There's nothing wrong with the They're going to force us to the money, and how can they They shouldn't force us to do We've got great bonds, it's a great company and business. You can't let this happen. Warren Buffett why don't you us and you'll get rich and it'll He said, &quot;Say that And we said, force us to sell all the bonds call and we'll get terrible be driven out of business, bonds, just because they're You can't let this happen to us. Buy part of the business and You'll own part of a great And he said, should just show up on Tuesday So we survived. I'll tell you more about what We survived that, although he had a pretty good last crash. So we survived all these go up, they crash, they go up. Could it all be my fault? I decided it can't be all my It's got to be there's that's why I'm going to tell you Now, of course, may not turn out to be right, people are starting to think So I'm not going to spend a talking about my pet theories. I mean, I recognize that I have So the course is going to be I'm going to talk about the Theory, theoretically and mathematically view, hedge fund-- teaching are things that we fund. And so you'll get the standard from a hedge fund perspective practical point of view. On the other hand, mortgage crises and so it seems the mortgage market works, none of that in any standard how the mortgage market works, and what happened in the how other people didn't. And I'll talk about the I'll also spend some time--I the mathematical logic of the That's the most important free market does good for the people believe it. And part of that argument and knowledge of that argument is of government programs. I mean, the government can only generally believe. Is it a prejudice or is there that?. Well, I want to go over that how it works and how it doesn't And then, I want to talk about That's one more program. That's the biggest program in It's as big as defense and the than everything else, thing in the budget. So I want to talk about Social privatized and should it be bankrupt. It's also an interesting Social Security critically will go on forever, Each generation the young are Nobody would do that if they the last generation paying to nobody would help them. So Social Security rests on which makes it mathematically Anyway, so I got interested in view and then I got put on all Social Security and privatizing. And so I know quite a bit about something I know about, about that. All right, so this is too hard this. So let me just give you a few Uh-oh, I hope I didn't do a No. So let me just give you a few just so you realize there's Theory. There's a lot to it. So I'm going to give you ten of the Standard Theory. So these are things that I'm at least some of them, answer now, this should be totally obvious So suppose you win the lottery, it's a hundred million dollars, Now they always give you the Do you want to take five or just get forty million Which would you do and how do So now you get tenure at Yale say. You're making a hundred fifty think professors-- rate of inflation, next twenty years until you So that's twenty years of that another twenty years when you're So how much of the and let's say inflation is and what you'd like to do is same amount every year after you and so how much of the you spend this year and how much You'll learn very quickly how Now, President Levin wrote a the end of last year if you &quot;Well, the crisis was bad. Yale was going to weather it, percent, probably, That's five-billion dollars twenty-three-billion dollar So how much should he choose to It's his decision. How much should Yale reduce The total spending at Yale is a So the endowment goes down by you take to the budget. Should faculty salaries be cut, TAs instead of four TAs? What should you do? How big a cut should you take? Now, the same question faced I've forgotten exactly the year. Ten or twelve years ago the Benno Schmidt, was deferred maintenance, a billion dollars to fix the That's why, incidentally, fixed. They decided there was deferred dollars. A hundred million dollars every spent. The whole endowment then was and now we had a one billion problem. The budget was about one So how much should you cut the So Benno Schmidt said, percent of the faculty.&quot; He announced he was firing That was on the front page of &quot;Yale to fire Well, did he make the right Rick Levin took over as so probably not. What mistake did he make in his What should he have done? What was the right response? We're going to talk about it. It's not that hard a problem. Now, let's take a slightly more You're a bookie. The World Series is coming up. The Yankees are playing the let's say, and you know that you've got a bunch of friends willing to bet at even odds on it's a tossup. Well, one of your customers he's a Yankee fan, to win the series. He's willing to put up three on the Yankees. So if the Yankees win he gets but if the Yankees lose he So 3:2 odds he's willing to bet series. Well, you say, sucker here. I can take big advantage of him. On the other hand it's a lot of might lose if I have to pay off So even though I think that my because he's putting up three two hundred when they're even in fact--the fact is it's such worried about that.&quot; So what do you do? So what can you do? You've got these friends who each game by game, the first night you're going to You take the guy's bet, you take his three hundred You promise to deliver him five and to keep it if the Yankees What should you do with your Should you bet on the Yankees Should you bet on the Dodgers should you bet at even odds the So the answer is, the answer now, skillfully betting with your hundred or three hundred your friends at even odds. You bet some different number which you'll figure out how betting through the course of lose a penny. How do you know how much that Well, that's the kind of clever developed and you're going to So let's do another example I'm running out of time a Suppose there's a deck of twenty-six black cards. Somebody offers to play a game They say, &quot;If you want to give you a dollar. If it's red you give me a So if I'm picking, I get a dollar, dollar, I have to throw away the The guy says, you can quit whenever you So should you pick the first It looks like an even chance of Let's say you pick the first you win a dollar. Now the guy says, again?&quot; You picked a black one so twenty-five black. So now the deck is stacked Should you pick another card? Well, it doesn't sound like you But you should pick another many cards to pick. Even if you keep getting blacks picking. So how could that be? It sounds kind of shocking. Well, it's going to turn out to half way through the course. So, a more basic question. There are thirty year mortgages three-quarter percent interest. There are fifteen-year like five point three percent One's lower than the other. Should you take the thirty year mortgage? How do you even think about Why do they offer one at a One more example, hold a bunch of mortgages. That means the people in the money, they're promising to pay And you value all those dollars. The interest rates go down. The government lowers the Half of them take advantage to They pay you back what they owe mortgage. So now you've only got half the Let's say all the people had everything. Half the people are left. That shrunken pool, pool, half of what it was before, or less than fifty-million? How would you decide that? Again, this is a question which but actually you should be able even, So that's what mortgage traders They see interest rates went A bunch of people acted. The people who are left in the people who started in the pool. Now we've got to revalue so how should we do that? Let's say you run a hedge fund and says, &quot;Oh, Look at all the money you lost I know you're doing great this that you lost last year, risk. So I want to give you my money, I want to get these superior but you have to guarantee that I don't want to run any risk. I want a principal guarantee you a hundred dollars you'll dollars, but never less than a hundred So is there any way to do that? You know that you've got a but of course it's risky. You could lose money. You've lost money a bunch of So how can you guarantee the back and still have room to run Well, it sounds like you can't people want to invest that way, So you'll figure out--we'll So, three more short ones. A scientist discovers a If it works he's going to make He started a company. He's a Yale scientist, started this startup company. Yale, of course, profits, but anyway it's his really works he's going to make If it doesn't work it's going You calculate, calculation, he'll make if it works, times the profit, to the profits of all of General Should his company be worth the same as General Electric, since it's got the same expected Well, I can tell you the answer of you would think, &quot;Well, maybe the Then you'd say, it's so risky. It's either going to be way up and that's so risky, solid, worth more.&quot; But the answer is the AIDS So how could that be? So another question, efficient market stuff and you of this year from top to bottom return over the year. It's 2010, let's say 2010, So let's say you do it in 2010. All the stocks the highest Now, suppose you did the same stocks? Would you expect to get the order, or random order? Now again, if you believe in market's really functioning, I'll bet most of you will say, but you might say it should be because firms only did better but that's not right either. So you're going to know how to of the class. One last one, last fifteen years has gotten annualized return. A hedge fund, has gotten eleven percent over all its losses and stuff like So is it obvious that the Yale the hedge fund? Would you say that the Yale fund manager? Its return was fifteen percent. The hedge fund only got eleven So I'm asking the question, Swensen would think about it the So suppose I even told you that volatility-- endowment had lower volatility which it surely does, that the Yale endowment had been fund? Well, we're going to answer and you're going to see that surprising. It won't be so surprising--I otherwise. But anyway, that's the kind of taught to think about. So the crisis of 2007, long time talking about, subject. So that list of questions were to teach for years before I was crises, questions you have to face all and decisions you have to make, investors, the course, So I want to talk about the It started as a mortgage crisis. Now, how could it be that mortgages? I mean, they're four thousand The Babylonians invented What is a mortgage? You lend somebody money. They put up collateral. They don't pay you take the he's a slave or something, You borrow money and the guy something if he doesn't pay. Four thousand years and we How could that be? And why should a screw up in big effect on the rest of the Were sub-prime mortgages a Was there some logic to it? And how did we get out of the How is it, that everybody was since the Depression, things seem to have turned What is it that we did to get I don't think we're out of it than they were a year ago. So what is it that the around? It didn't do nearly enough, What exactly did it do? Now, Shiller would talk about exuberance. I'm going to say it's all the but anyway so that's the Now, are free markets good? I want to talk about the The argument was first made by hand. The modern mathematical my thesis advisor. And of course everybody knows things like that interfere with be regulated. But the financial markets, As long as there's no monopoly shouldn't the free market So I want to go over that missing in it, and then lastly we're going to how could that system be going I mean, it just seems shocking. There's a two-trillion dollar out in 2024 or something and broke. So how did it happen? Why is it broke? What can we do to fix it? So George Bush said, Even if we manage to sort of young people like you are going return. If you put your money in the even allowing for the last the returns have been six So it's terrible, Something's wrong with the We should privatize it and let money in stocks instead.&quot; Well, Gore, in the debate in &quot;You can't do that because expecting their money can't get And both of them agreed that it People like me we're getting That's why the system's going So that's the conventional All three of those things are out why. So in summary, It's to understand the which is really part of the It's to make informed choices. Is privatizing Social Security Is regulation of financial The language that you learn is Wall Street, and was created by use it. For me it's incredibly fun, As J.P. Morgan said, keeping score.&quot; You have to figure out what if you get it right you've it'll help you make good pensioned career. That's the standard reason to Now, the prerequisites of the clear, you don't really need It would be helpful because being good or bad, ECON 115. That's what they call it now, It's still called 115. I used to teach it but I So anyway, what you really need It's not going to be high math. It's going to be simple math, over again. And I can tell you that every you, hundred-twenty are going to just problem and you're probably not you know, those ten maybe doing it, it, then really have no idea what's My sister is probably much but she doesn't like math. She wouldn't take this course. So if you're not confident problems just don't take the You'll save yourself a lot of I don't know how to say this I want to warn you not to do it. It's easy math, Every week there's going to be The exam--there are problem The exam is doing problems just but if you don't like that, quantitative subject. What's so beautiful about it in you have these complicated weigh, up with one number. What is the price you're It's very concrete. I'm going to take advantage of every question into a number. I hate it when you get on the It's a number. So if you don't like numbers So what are the kinds of things You have to understand the (which, I have little kids and I understand). Anyway, and then you have to function which is a contingent Simultaneous equations; equilibrium in arbitrage. Taking a derivative, The idea of diminishing a concave function looks like That's risk aversion. Bankers invented the logarithm, so you have to know what taking means, to take probability weighted And we're going to use Excel we'll teach you. By the end of a day you'll be So my office hours are four to My secretary assistant is there's an accent missing as Wilson. She just started three days ago There are going to be two section. So every Tuesday there'll be a Tuesday due the next Tuesday. There will be two midterms. There's a lot of stuff to learn everybody I think agrees who's if you take the midterm it'll lot easier, only have half the course to It makes the final much easier I recognize that some of you them, mid-term, one exam than the rest I'll tend but most people don't, one exam than the rest. So the final's forty, and the two midterms are twenty Tuesday to Thursday, Thursday to Monday so they're So you see the classes are Tuesday. There's a long time in-between meet there. So they're at the same moment There are all these textbooks, all by those financial greats. You can buy any one of them, because as I say I teach a and there's a huge list of books Some of them are incredibly and so they're all on the at. I mean, there's never been a now. So course improvements, anyway. So that's it. Are there any questions about or how I will run it, take the course, preparations--So if you haven't 115, but you've got to be problems, Any questions? Yes? Student: So the first next Tuesday? Prof: Yeah, be due the Tuesday after. So I know that's early, whether you're going to take the Yes? Student: Will you teach Prof: Will I teach it Actually I probably won't leave, but I might, Someone else will teach it. Yep? Student: Which of the Prof: They're all good. They're all famous people They're trying to sell copies low level, but they're very Anyone of them is good. Merton's book is good. Steve Ross is a friend of mine. He used to teach at Yale, So any one of those is very the same mathematical level thousands of books, to this financial view of the efficient. Yes? Student: Will the taped Prof: That's a good I don't think so. No, they're shaking their head. So it won't be in time for you, look back in your old age, I saw the leverage cycle.&quot; Sorry. Yes? Student: Are the lecture the lecture? Prof: Oh, posted already before the class. So the first twelve of them are each year so there'll be some So last year's first twelve are little bit, but you can already about. This first lecture is not on, Any other questions? Yes? Student: When do we sign Prof: Oh, I don't know how to do this. It's online or something, right? You sign up online. Yeah, so you should pick your We might add another section if but probably you won't, TA section. Yes? Student: What's the Prof: The grade I don't know. The standard Yale junior level is when I was at Yale things so it's the standard I don't remember it offhand. But I'll tell you all about the So there will be a midterm drop the course after the another midterm right at the end Yes? Student: What level of be comfortable with to take the Prof: I was trying to I'm glad you asked me again. So I went over the things that If you have 3x-4x^(2) you have derivative of that which is If you've got the log natural derivative. It's one over x. If you've got 3x 5=10 and solve that simultaneous So that's the kind of thing you able to do it quickly and with doing it right. And for many of you that's no but for some of you who are everybody else that's a problem, yourself whether you can do that worry about the mechanics of You can think conceptually asking. When does this end, Student: Ten of. Prof: Ten of, I want to end with one So (Teaching Assistant), So this is something we're not the answer to. So I need sixteen volunteers. How about the first two rows? Why don't you just volunteer. You'll survive, you'll do it. What I'm going to do now is I'm So please stand up and eight of over here. That's okay, you'll be okay. I know everyone's reluctant to So I only need sixteen. (TA), help me count them. Two, four, six, the other way. The TAs aren't going to You're not in this, right? No. Two, four, six, you both sat down. So would you like to Come on. We could use another woman here. Two, four, six, So can you mix these up? There are going to be eight we say seller, Buyer, so shuffle them up and So we've got eight, they're selling. So we've got eight sellers and and I don't know whether you've before, but shuffle them, Student: They're all Prof: They're all shuffle them. On the other side there's a So we've got eight sellers here So each seller knows what his or hers, so please take one. Student: I have a seller Prof: Oh, That's bad. Student: Yes. Prof: I'm blind. Student: Thank you. Prof: Buyer, thank you. Does this say buyer and buyer? You should be one short. Here's an extra. So there are eight sellers and They've got the football Each of them knows what the There are three women here and &quot;hers&quot;. She knows exactly what it's So say it's fifteen. The football ticket's worth Now if she can sell it for more it. She's going to make a profit. If she sells it for less than trader. She's not going to do that. She's going to say, the football ticket is worth I'm If I can't get more than it's So everybody knows what the herself. All these guys, worth to them. So say someone thinks it's say, than thirty, I'm going to get it. That'll give me a profit of If I can only get it for forty because I'm paying more than I So you all got that? You have a reservation value You don't want to pay more than losing money, more than they think it's worth money. So nobody knows anybody else's The information is distributed class. Now this is a famous experiment. I'm not the first one to run ten years. I do it in my graduate class, the undergraduates, than the graduate students. So this knowledge is environment, happens when I start a chaotic sixteen people. What's going to happen? And you would think it'd be is going to happen. And if that does happen it'll But what the efficient markets &quot;Something amazing is The market is going to discover and figure out exactly the best what's going to happen.&quot; Now, it's hard to believe that that you've had, zero experience, two minutes to do this. So see the class has got eight You're going to miss the grand Anyway, so you've only got So with only two minutes of a result, and read all the numbers and them would take me much more and all this is going to happen It's hard to believe. It probably won't happen this So here are the rules. I'm going to put you all Start inching your way towards when I say go, you're going to start yelling So if you think it's worth you're not going to sell it for You're going to say give me or give me twenty-five. You're going to try and get as You have to yell it out. The buyers are going to be When two of you see that hands, exchange the football, numbers to (TA). Where's (TA)? (TA), you're going to stand So once you make a deal you happened to (TA) who's now back there. So it has to be public outcry. It's very important that you're and all the other people can two minutes. Now two minutes sounds like an which it is, think, wait, quiet here. You shouldn't trade--I'm giving you should not trade in the because you have to hear what If you trade right away you're stupid. Two minutes, is actually a very long period So be patient. Try to get the best possible happens. Any questions about what you're And now, in the heat of the frustrated that you can't sell fifteen that you sell it for I'm going to expose you in do that, so keep track of what All right, any questions So you have two minutes. Is there a second hand there? I can't see it. No? Student: It's on the Prof: Where is it? Student: Now it's on the Student: It's moving. Prof: It's on the three. I think I see something. When it gets to the four we're So start, go. &lt;&lt;students calling out Prof: Oh, no collusion. No collusion. &lt;&lt;students calling out Prof: Come out and tell If you made a deal tell (TA). &lt;&lt;students calling out Prof: How much time is One minute left, one minute. Any other deal made? Write down the price and the How much time? Twenty-five seconds, stay cool. How much time? How much time? I can't see. Fifteen. Stay cool. Don't make any mistakes, three, two, one, Did you get all the numbers? &lt;&lt;students discussing Prof: Give me back the Student: Was this camera? Prof: Give me back the Student: You designed camera. Prof: No, camera, you are. Give me all the tickets back. (TA), you getting done there? Teaching Assistant: Yeah. Prof: All the tickets. I need them all back, God, you're big folders here. These tickets have lasted ten They're all crumpled up. All the tickets, You can sit down now. Everybody's reported in? Now let's see what happened. You've got them all? Five traded. Teaching Assistant: Five Prof: Five bought and So here's what happened. Here were the numbers. So we have five minutes just to So all the buyer prices are in forty, thirty-six, buyers, and the red ones were So you notice that every seller who's underneath. So it could have happened that and thirty-four sold to forty and twenty-eight sold to You could have had eight trades. So what did happen? Nothing like that happened. You had five trades, and there are those three poor pairs of people at the end hopeless, unable to trade, camera. Now, let's see, So, (TA), name the buyers who Teaching Assistant: I Prof: The prices. Teaching Assistant: The managed to sell it for twenty It was all quick so I don't because they were all rushing. Prof: You got them. Teaching Assistant: I Prof: That's Teaching Assistant: I Prof: Here's what Mister seller ten sold to Mister seller nine sold to so nine, there is no nine. Teaching Assistant: Six. Prof: Nine sold to Six. Teaching Assistant: Prof: That's okay. So seller six sold to twenty at Student: Yeah, &gt; Prof: No, so seller six did well. We won't ask who buyer twenty Buyer twenty is going to screw So Buyer fourteen through--I Teaching Assistant: Prof: Buyer fourteen twenty, forty for twenty-two, buyer thirty for twenty-five. So five people traded, The sellers were ten, one, two, three, The five buyers were forty-four, forty and thirty. So basically forty-four, thirty, twenty-six didn't buy, So if you look at it, theory would have predicted, If you look at it, and you put the sellers, you put them from bottom to top, demand curve and a supply curve. And so what happened? All these five people ended up two, three, four, sellers. The price they sold for was all and the five buyers were thirty-six, thirty. Twenty-six didn't manage to So what is the theory of the The theory of the free market &quot;This chaotic situation minutes to decide what to do a demand curve together with a price that they miraculously Here it should have been It turned out to be twenty or took place at. At that one price you get all The people have the highest ones who get the tickets. The people with the lowest So the people who end up with at the top and the blue guys at All the tickets go from the to the people who value it more. So the market has done an minutes. So there was one mistake. Mister or miss twenty, protecting, although I'm mister or miss twenty got a She or he, let's say he, was twenty. That was a horrible deal. He didn't get any extra out of So he should probably have only and then twenty-six would have So twenty sort of squeezed his so twenty-six and twenty slight inefficiency. But basically with no training, no practice, managed to reproduce-- information in the whole and they discovered who were tickets the most and they ended For me to do it and sort it out The market solves a complicated incredibly quickly, of the people who value it the And the marginal buyer thought or twenty and that's what the So anyway, we're going to come beginning of the next class.