- I tell you what, if you've seen him before, you're gonna want to see him again. And if you haven't seen him before. You're gonna get a kick out of bad Sam. Okay Sammy. (audience applauding) - I Love this guy, love him! Well, having a good time folks? - [Unison] Yeah! I think this outfit says. I think this fashion statement says I'm having a good fucking time! (yelling) It's the kind of clothes you put on, says come on, come on! You want to party fuckhead let's go! Ah, I just love women! (yelling) My record proves that. I've been in love about nine times now and it's been real every time folks. Every time it was gonna last forever. Remember you fucking bitches! Forever! I buy it every time. I buy it every fucking time. I do man. Love comes along, it Come on, this is love. This is love, come on. (audience laughing) I'm not like the others no this is new love. Come on trust me, trust me I wouldn't lie to you 10 times in a row fuckhead, come on. Come on, open the door. Let's see what she's like. (yelling) Oh, oh, oh. I thought it was the door to love, it was the door to hell. (audience applauding) It's true man. So true. Yeah. But what else are you gonna do? You gotta keep falling in love. You gotta believe in it. What are you gonna do, give sheep the vote, you gotta believe in love. Right? That wasn't very funny. Women, I love women I swear to God. It may not seem like it. But I fucking love women. What am I gonna do. It's so funny, they're always out in the audience going how come you don't talk about men? How come you don't say How come you only talk about There's a reason! There's a fucking reason. Because a man never (audience laughing) Men never lied to me in love. A man never made me want to drive my car into a fucking wall! (audience applauding) So, when I talk about love, when I talk about relationships, I'm gonna take the male side. You know, that's all I have to work with here. But I love women, I do love women. I'm not with one right now 'cause it's a little hard to do this act and mingle after the show. Hi, there, get away, get away, son of a bitch. So I try to do the best I can. I love women. I don't think they get enough sexual attention. They don't, come on they don't. Guys aren't as in touch with that 'til they've been married Then, I know how it came to me, I was sitting around going you know, after my second divorce I said hey, I bet if I learned how I won't have to give away everything I own every five fucking years! (audience applauding) (audience laughing) Guys out there going, that's nothing funny, I'm writing that down. I'm gonna learn to lick I'm not gonna lose my house. Ah, yeah guys really give 'em sexual tension. Take care of your women. Make these women very happy. It's tough because we come on. Men don't get a lot of information in this country. Nobody helped us. The first time we had intimate sex, oh this is HBO, the first time we were licking pussy. Was anybody there to help you, now way. You were on your own. Nobody helped. That's why I try to help a little bit. I'm trying to pass things on. Trying to help people. And I know women get all upset. He's talking about pussy. Yeah, yeah, it's alright for Dr. Ruth, but I'm a fucking asshole! Is that the game here? Dr. Ruth can spiel her wrinkled elephant gray (audience laughing) But I'm out of line! Yeah, I don't know what I'm talking about. It's fucking nuts. I'm sorry. I get mad when I think about this one I don't know why. I don't know, where did she come from? There's a Hagen Daz somewhere missing a night manager you know. I swear to God. I listened to her one day on the radio she goes, &quot;Take the man's penis.&quot; yeah, yeah, when was the last time you saw a fucking man's penis? You remember, can you remember for us? Who was president then? Can we get some clothes? Were there cars yet or did you suck dick on horseback Annie Oakley? Tell me Dr. Ruth! (audience applauding) She pisses me off I'm sorry. Woman makes me a little crazy. Heard her talking, she goes &quot;If the man's penis is too small to satisfy the woman then it is perfectly acceptable for the woman to use a dildo or a vibrator and pleasure herself later after she has pleasured the man.&quot; So I'm listening to this psycho babble. (audience laughing) Pleasure yourself later after you've pleasured the man? Oh yeah, that's gonna give the marriage a second chance huh. That's gonna pump the guy You're trying to make love to your wife, the woman you changed your life for and she's going &quot;Listen Mr. Tonka toy would like You want to plug it in on your way out of the bedroom let's go, move it!&quot; Hope the grinding noise doesn't disturb Miami Vice. (audience laughing) The guys are going yes Dr. Ruth, thanks to you my wife's (audience laughing) yeah, you helped me out, thanks. You don't need sexual You don't need sexual counseling. Sexual counselors that's like animal therapy to me. Dog psychiatry. There's some money I'd like to get on. I'd like to get in on Dog psychiatry, yeah, sure. Now why don't I buy this folks? Guy coming into a fucking &quot;It's Rusty man. I don't know, he used to be a sparky dog, he was a happy dude man and he used to play with a frisbee and yeah he just hasn't been himself. Lately he's been losing his identity.&quot; I say yeah, come on in here we'll go have a session. Come on in. You're a fucking dog! Do you understand that Bark you son of a. Yeah that's it, Rusty's all better now. Yeah we had a real good session. That'll be 200 bucks alright. Yeah he's really opened up. He's found himself. (audience applauding) yeah he's a new dog now. That's what sexual counselors are. You don't need sexual You have sexual problems talk it out. Tell each other what you want. Tell each other what you like. If I can speak for the guys here and I think I can. Right? Hope you know what you're doing man. Seriously though guys, But women, if there's something that turns you on, if there's something Something that really gets how about filling us in Tell us! (audience applauding) We'll do it! If we know what it is. How can we do it if we don't know what the fuck it is. Tell us what you want. Will we do it guys! - [Unison] Yeah! - Lot of women are going to be walking around &quot;Yeah, I went to this show last night. God he got excited.&quot; Tell us what you want man. I like that myself. I like that up front approach. You go home with a woman they let you know right off the bat man. You go home and they go, &quot;Come on, get those fucking pants off, get 'em off! You wanted to fuck (audience laughing) Put a helmet on that soldier. Put a helmet on him! He's going into battle. He's gonna see some action God damn it, put a helmet on him.&quot; Put a helmet on a soldier? Ah I like that man, they get excited. &quot;Fuck me harder, fuck me harder!&quot; csh, csh, csh! (audience laughing) I'll fuck you harder, hold on. Ah, tell us what you want. I remember. You want it harder okay, Hah! You want it harder come on. Ha ha! I'll give it to you harder. Bam, bam, god damn it. You guys been great. Thanks. (audience applauding) - Thank you.