Among the sinister buildings Hartheim Castle stands out like no other. No one could have guessed nestled in the Austrian countryside, would become one of the most The shock on arrival is beauty. I know very well what happened there, Intended as a care center, Hartheim was officially a peaceful refuge However, by the end of the 1930s, Some people say they saw when they arrived and the bus was empty when it left. There was a lot of smoke, It was the smell of burnt meat, People were beginning to think in this house. Hundreds of sick people were mysteriously disappearing What intrigued a lot of families were receiving informing them that their relatives It was very fishy. What secrets are hidden What no one knew was completely renovated a place that was to house of human history. Hartheim is not a concentration camp, Behind this diabolical plan that sought to purify the German race Those deemed useless, a clandestine project that transformed WWhat was the daily life What atrocities did they commit? We will reveal the secrets that the Nazis tried so hard This is the horrifying story The small village of Hartheim around 50 kilometers A peaceful province and its farm markets, Hartheim Castle is located steeped in Catholic traditions Hartheim Castle, was built at the beginning between 1610 and 1620 approximately, in the purest Austrian style. It is a Renaissance castle with painted archways. There is a big indoor courtyard. As the centuries went by, and it ended up A family of local nobility. In the year 1896, it was given to a Catholic society, For over 40 years, for the mentally disabled It was a place The special thing was that they also helped in the surrounding. It was a little farm that they tried to work with the people A place where you don't exclude, You include because the mentally disabled The disabled people that could, It didn't look like they were being used, but that they were given In that sense, It's a place of life. For decades, disabled people without judgment. An oasis of tolerance At the end of the 1930s, the atmosphere in the castle Officially, for the care of the disabled, but they decided Disabled patients disappeared and the villagers noticed buses in the courtyard of the castle. In the village next door, and buses of sick people. People say they saw when they arrived, Little by little, people were noticing The weird things and they never brought out Even more disturbing, began to emanate from the chimneys There was a lot of smoke. It did not smell like normal smoke Witnesses at the time that was permanently being emitted. A smell of burnt poultry The villagers, frightened, They were quickly summoned who gave them an explanation. Of course, people were afraid. Local people spoke about it, that something was going on There was a meeting in a local restaurant, and they said they were working up diesel which is why it smelled so bad. These justifications hardly convinced However, how could anyone behind the walls of Hartheim Castle? What no one knew was that the castle developed by the Nazi powers in Berlin. When Hitler came to power in Germany he targeted those accused all the sick and disabled people The Fuhrer wanted to prevent them Tens of thousands of the handicapped Often without asking the advice To legitimize this war a propaganda campaign was even launched From 1933, there was a massive campaign managed by academic education and also by the cinema. We will distribute these in exhibitions, Monstrous, designed to shock and make these people seem useless. These campaigns They were awareness campaigns. In the end, these brutal measures led to the sterilization considered a threat However, this was still not enough. With Germany's entry into the war, Hitler wanted to completely eradicate This is where Hartheim Castle A top-secret operation was launched There was a meeting in the chancellery in which they decided One of the rare orders The T4 administration that they had to fill out. Then medical experts from the T4 and they decided who had the right to live and who had to be exterminated. To carry out their plan, six euthanasia centers Five in Germany, and one in newly annexed Austria The geographical situation of Hartheim It is located near Linz, a city that constitutes However, nor in the middle of a dense urban zone. an important communication hub. This position, a little bit apart, could guarantee that the crimes which would be perpetrated there They are aware that they are crossing with their Christian liberal would not understand. That's why Operation T4 remained a secret because the operation Their first step into an extermination center. Work began in the winter of 1939. The 4,000-square-meter building for the needs of the T4 operation. The third floor for confiscated belongings and clothing. On the 2nd floor, dozens of spacious single rooms as well as a large reception room. The first floor is dedicated the area reserved and administration officials. The bulk of the work under the arches of the courtyard. First, in the north wing, the creation of several rooms Then in the West Wing, which, in reality, was one of the first gas chambers It's the first time in history that they made a prototype In the framework of Hartheim, unlike some other extermination centers. It didn't work in masking the noise of the gas which entered. This gas chamber measures To make it completely airtight, two accesses were dug out, The door to the courtyard The gas is released where the gas bottles are arranged. There is a small room where they kept the gas cylinders. In Hartheim, they used carbon monoxide. Bought from a pharmaceutical Basically, they ordered the gas cylinders. As an extension of the gas chamber, Finally, is the room where they burned The crematorium. It's a crematorium with two ovens, It could burn In it was a grinder which was used of the crematorium. In May 1940, construction was completed. Hartheim Castle was now ready for use. Administration entrusted to a man Christian Wirth, a German policeman and was close to the Chancellory. Christian Wirth, Let's say a man, a feared man. He was the man They describe him and they were so afraid of him. He was a feared and formidable man. He was a member of the SS, He was then a man who Hitler trusted Known for his sadism without limits, Wirth organized in Hartheim that was planned From the moment of their arrival, the people brought here Throughout the country, especially to transport the disabled They arrived in the east wing where a garage with a roof was built. This way they disembarked out of sight. The condemned men to begin their last walk outside. As they arrived at the courtyard, This fence restricted them and directed them In the first room, the nurses and undressing them completely. There were nurses on the transport that had a really important role. They knew how to handle handicaps. They created a safe situation for them under the circumstances Some people were nervous, and that's why they needed nurses. The tasks were clearly divided, The whole thing worked Once they were naked, Then there was a large room in the corner This room, or as they called it, was in reality Actually, the examination they did was to look into the mouth They were given a sign, a cross Afterwards, they were told and before they can enter the rooms later. Then they were guided As soon as the door closed, One of the doctors for opening the valve The gas chosen for use by T4. After debates between scientists, it was finally decided that as it prevents the red blood cells The symptoms were vomiting. From this moment, after a few minutes, They died 20 minutes after. With the overcrowding, it must have been five horrible minutes. The gas chamber was not big, I refuse to imagine how you can cram 120 people in there. After these long minutes a ventilation system started up The macabre work A group of men who work 24-hour shifts. Their mission is to collect gold teeth They must then transport the dozens Once the bodies are burned the burners are in charge Tons of ashes. Disposing of them Among the Hartheim burners, Vincent Noel, Strangely enough, He could very well have been He was a really interesting person and he was handicapped afterwards. He describes himself He was hemiplegic, he had a right arm Some of his comrades said that, his place was not in front It's this simple individual in the middle of this murder In order to endure the horror of his work, the fragile Vincent Noel was given an extra half a glass Like the disabled burner, were not initially convinced but no one was oblivious The systematic murder the extermination center, whose mission to deliver to the victims' families. You have to imagine that Hartheim It was a hive of activities. There was an army of secretaries in charge of drawing up fake places and fake causes of death, It was a secret mission that allowed someone The perpetrators, of course, Natural causes, such as pneumonia, influenza, appendicitis, This false information as well as the famiies, so that the real events There was a real falsification of history. To add insult to injury, some families taken at random from the crematorium. In total, within the castle walls, there were nearly 70 employees forbidden to mix In the evening, nurses, secretaries and doctors We know that they threw a party All these extermination centers where they had parties and where those who enjoyed music romances between men and women, Hartheim was more than a place to live, On weekends, the Hartheim administration also gave its employees There were organized group outings as well as excursions. Every Sunday, they took buses and went on excursions in the countryside. In upper Austria, they often went where the Aktion T14 As soon as you get on the side there is a moment They compartmentalize, is part of the monstrosity. In this place, bathed daily in smoke a wedding was even celebrated. We have a couple who fell in love here. She was a nurse and he was a burner, They had their wedding celebration, they had it here in the house. There is also a photograph with the witnesses of the wedding, who is none other than Christian Wirth, You ask why. Why not go outside Why choose to celebrate it in the house? Among the members one man has forever marked A 30-year-old German doctor who joined Dr. Georg Renno. Mireille Horsinga Renno She's one of the last people still alive that personally knew the doctor He was a very proud and arrogant person. He was tall and had bright eyes. A good Aryan. He was convinced it was necessary In Hartheim, by T4 for his very particular skills. It seems that he was noticed by his way of mastering barbiturates. This specialty, even before Hartheim, was to kill patients He accepted the idea because, for him, His pride was above all else. It was his mission as well, his vehicle In Hartheim Castle, he earned double what Often presented as an artist, Dr. Renno was not at ease in the castle. Renno was a disturbing character because he had a refined side to him. He knew how to perform concerts, and so he had an artistic, He had a room where he played the flute while corpses were still burned downstairs and the castle reeked of burning flesh. As a doctor, Renno was directly involved He was responsible for turning the valve that released carbon monoxide One of his functions ended with the death of the patients. He also was responsible who regularly visited the castle. Hartheim Castle was cited as an example, and from time to time who came to witness Renno confessed There was an eyepiece that allowed him to see the inside of the gas chamber. The Berlin dignitaries The idea was also to see how it was, so they could set up It was all to see More disturbing, although he denied it, was that the doctor performed of the murdered disabled. A small dissection room was specially set up on the first floor Sometimes they were marked there was a dissection of the brain. To study the brain they would kill a 15-year-old, and send it to the faculty of medicine. It seemed that dissections Dr. Renno, as a zealous disciple took part in the darkest missions Mireille Horsinga Renno, his great-niece, only discovered In the mid-1980s, she discovered her uncle's secrets. At the time, She didn't know changed his name after the war and managed to escape justice He very kindly invited me, We were always welcomed like family, almost as if we were his own children. He was someone very kind, We had very interesting conversations. Then it got very cold. One day, a passing discussion made the demons of the old man resurface. He tells me that it is a difficult period. He also told me, &quot;Don't believe everything you read &quot;The gas chambers never existed.&quot; That shocked me, I said, &quot;You can't say that.&quot; He said, &quot;All that was built afterwards&quot; &quot;by the Americans to harm our country.&quot; There, I did not understand him anymore. Deeply shocked, and discovered I asked myself: is it the same person? I asked him and he said it was him. He said: it's been a long time since it happened. You must forget. He seemed to think A little detail from his life, as if gas chambers We took our distance, On the other hand, which contained cutouts Monstrous at this point, Harassed by his letters, In 2006, she published a book to tell At the beginning of 1941, the number Every week, condemned by the regime to their deaths. To get rid of the evidence the burners continued into the waters of The Danube. The pace of exterminations was so fast that the chimney connected They had a problem with the chimney It was told that there was a fire because it was too small One chimney had to do the central heating Another chimney a professional chimney, so to speak. The decision was made to build in the southwest corner of the courtyard. An industrial brick chimney measuring 20 meters high so that it didn't protrude from the roof and instead, Completely destroyed no trace of this second chimney In the village, bellows of toxic smoke and unsurprisingly, the terrified local population Nobody dared to break the omerta but the remnants of the murders In a crematorium, not everything burns, and we know that the hair If it never rains, this hair dies, if there is rain and wind, it falls down. The peasants in the area knew very well what happened there At one point, the local population and made a little pyramid It was a method of disturbing the peace. They knew. In spite of the danger, In 1941, Karl Schumann, took a photo of the castle from his barn when a plume of smoke This is the only existing visual evidence While the village was kept in the dark, hundreds of Catholic families began to grow concerned about who were dying The secrecy surrounding What intrigued was that a lot of families and conventional documents informing them that their nieces, had died from pneumonia Sometimes they would receive an urn. It became obvious and criminal was going on. A man of the church then the Bishop of Munster, It was 1941, Very courageously, this political murder and what they were doing, that all this was contrary The Nazi regime at that time did not want On the contrary, of the country, so that they could In the face of Von Galen's intervention, the Nazi hierarchy stepped back the murder of the masses by gas. It was at this moment In August 1941, the T4 Action ended, and the chimney of Hartheim Castle However, in the end, of which almost 20,000 the mission was, a success. The objective was 70,000, This first operation has reached its objective. We can move on. The crematorium in Hartheim Back in Berlin, The Nazis had invaded almost all of Europe Everywhere, opponents of the regime and deported to labor camps, and very quickly the number of them A problem that had to be solved. Hitler then launched Action 14F13 was an operation aimed The idea was simple, to empty They would use which means to transport all the people in the concentration camps elsewhere. Logically, Hartheim Castle of the nearest labor camp Mauthausen. There were three categories of camps, which means unwanted return. It's a camp where they sent people These prisoners in the Mauthausen camp must have been They were those that the SS There were prisoners Political prisoners, They came mainly from Poland but also from France, Spain, and Italy. Authorized by Berlin, the Hartheim killing center with its doctors, who once again to select those who were too old Doctors were also sent to the camps, and Dr. Renno It was often a rudimentary selection, Under Action 14F13, they decided based on whether or not he could work. If he could no longer work, The decision was made to transfer to Hartheim in order to eliminate them. The same trickery, and the same hiding of evidence. The process and was as horribly effective as ever. Besides the mentally disabled, nearly 15,000 prisoners In March 1942, decided to launch It was the first phase of the Holocaust. It will lead to the murder For this stage, were constructed: Belzec, Sobibor and Treblinka. Very quickly, to carry out the skills of the Hartheim staff According to our current knowledge, were sent to occupied Poland They included a cook, who played police officers, The burner, Joseph Vlasta, continued his career Christian Wirth, was even appointed of all the Reinhard action camps. He was to become He gained a reputation with which he treated always equipped with a horsewhip to the point of death. Christian Wirth is the real central point. It was he who was put in charge of the so-called 'industrial' process The mechanization and industrialization. Hartheim killed around 20 In Belzec, they killed It is because of Hartheim that Belzec and that they could take it The first Holocaust camps from the expertise acquired For historians, Hartheim Castle that made the Holocaust Hartheim served as an example, and played a big role In that sense, Hartheim had a more It was a school of humanity. A school of murderers In 1944, in the wake Hitler's armies were experiencing The Nazis knew that the war was lost. Berlin quickly ordered the demolishion At the end of December, a group of workers The military ordered the workers to completely destroy The partitions, the tiles, nothing must remain of the original They are going to erase things, break the chimney, They wanted to make all the evidence To make it look On the upper floors, the secretaries archives, to set them all on fire. Under the gaze of German soldiers, Hitler's men hoped to hide the massacre To better fool the future liberators, only a few weeks later In 1945, they arranged an asylum for kids, just to show that it was a place The idea was that when the war is over, it looks like a special house a beautiful house Once all the evidence was removed, a home for underprivileged children. With the end of the war, could have been buried forever. However, this was not the case. Thanks to the determination in charge of investigating war crimes. Major Dameran. Major Dameron was an American officer. He belonged to a unit He accompanied the Allies, and was in charge of the different sites This team conducted of the crimes committed at Hartheim. They were able to interview staff members, and interview people who lived nearby, accumulating a large amount of evidence. The major also came that had been forgotten Major Dameron was lucky. He found Nazi In these documents and these documents This means that Major Dameron through what he found. It is to the credit that the trickery did not succeed. Even today, the Dameron report remains the most important about what actually took place At the end of the war, Hartheim's executioners Christian Wirth, was shot in the back The disturbing Dr. Renno, after he continued to work died in his bed at the age of 90. Both of them have it in common [German spoken audio] That was not the fate for all of them. Vincent Noel, The Hartheim burner, answered for his actions He was caught up in the justice system since he knew what he was doing, and participated He was given maximum punishment. He said that he had nightmares etc, he also seemed like someone who didn`t have That was taken into account He was intellectually limited. Sentenced by the Court, Vincent Noel was the only employee Today, peace has returned In 2003, the building was converted to honor the thousands who were murdered there. It's not just a place of remembrance. It's a place for the younger generation, who are invited on subjects that are still relevant today. Eighteen thousand visitors Most of them are pupils It's good when thousands of pupils because something that happened once With respect to history, was built in the 1960s People with mental disabilities It's a sign that life goes on. Hartheim Castle is not only a place but also a place where disabled people just like everyone else. I think that the institution being just on the other side We have a lot of people who sometimes visit us. It seems important and came back to this place not in the castle, but around this castle. Even if it appears not everyone has received closure. Hundreds of the dead, reduced to dust, The Nazi cover-up led to a situation where we know We know that we will never know and that is also motivation We know that there are unknown victims We know that there are victims and the goal of the historians and if possible, to find the names who are unknown. Historians are still far on the many mysteries The ghosts of Hartheim