yes so we're going to talk about L-functions. I want to give you an example first of all of one L-function that I this is the Riemann zeta function, which s is x+iy. 'i' here is the square root a sum over the integers, all the integers, all the positive ones. Or, this is a great discovery of Euler: I can write it as a product over the encodes information about the primes. It unravel how the information in the zeta function is encoded you can determine properties of the primes. That's one of a little bit more about the Riemann zeta story. So the Riemann zeta function is product over the primes, and these But it turns out you can find formuli When x is less than one work as well. looks like. So these formuli work to the out here. And they tell you the value of region. Now it turns out the zeta function has this amazing symmetry which was discovered by Riemann, which say that the line that I have drawn in blue there a symmetry line of the Riemann zeta function at some point here, I reflect a point here and know its value here. I can deduce that very easily. So Riemann reflection formula, the symmetry formula, tells us function in this range I also know in just leaves this strip which we don't function is really mysterious. We know that in this strip, there are infinitely many points where the zeta function takes the value 0. The belief is - and this is the Riemann Zetas function takes the value zero, all lie exactly on Riemann hypothesis. And this is one of Riemann hypothesized this in 1859 and it's BRADY: professor, it's well-known in mathematics that if any mathematician can prove the Riemann hypothesis, he or she is destined PROF: Yeah. BRADY: Why? PROF: Well, because the Riemann zeta prime, so if we know the positions of the information about the prime numbers. BRADY: What information? What does it tell you that you don't already know? PROF: it tells us things we already suspect, because we sort of believe the Riemann hypothesis is true, but there are things we can't prove. So for example, how many primes are there up to a trillion? We have a formula that we believe is true but we can only prove that formula if we know BRADY: So it's like a whole bunch of houses would suddenly have a foundation. PROF: Absolutely, and there are whole books written assuming the so the foundations of our understanding of the primes would disappear if the Riemann hypothesis turned out to be false. It's Riemann zeta function inside the least 40% of those do lie on the result of hugely extensive computations lie exactly on the symmetry line. That's the first ten thousand billion. It's known that batches of zeros, much higher up, beyond the 10 trillion, lie on the line, so I think the world record at the moment is there's a batch of zeros up beyond the 10^36th zero, That is the billion billion there's a whole batch which we know pretty huge effort into this, and there's Alan Turing, when he built the first electronic was compute the zeros of the zeta function. He found about the first 1000 lie on the line. BRADY: professor, if a mathematician one day finds a zero in the strip but not on the line, is that mathematician gonna be a hero or a pariah? PROF: [laughs] Well they would certainly be very famous, and I think mathematicians very sanguine about this, they'll just accept the truth, they want to know the truth, that person would be famous, ugly kind of fame, not a beautiful kind of fame. So we got these properties and this is what I want to emphasize: we can write the zeta function as a sum over the integers, and the zeta function has a symmetry line, reflection symmetry line, and we believe that all the zeros of the zeta function around that line lie exactly on that. This is one of the great spent 150-odd years if you're given a mystery is to try to property? So are there other functions which look like the Riemann zeta function? And maybe by finding lots of those functions and comparing them that tells you the essential properties that make the us to prove it. So an example would be: Darwin wanted to establish evidence for and he has to find lots of identical, and by making comparisons of then understand the essential properties So we want to find the cousins of the there are any, what might you do? Well you might look at this sum over the integers, and you might change some of these plus can you have any combination of it's very rare that by changing some of this sum, the resulting sum, as a product of the primes but be slightly different to this product that had a symmetry line that's very one example of one. let me go back to the primes up into two classes: 2 will but the odd primes will either be - if you divide them So you divide 3 by 4, the remainders 3. The remainder's 1. Because 5 is 4 + 1. 7: divide that by 4, uh the remainder is 3. 11 is 3. and 13 is 1. So the ones that are divisible where the remainder's 3 will flip their We'll put a 1 there, a 1 there, and we'll do the other 2. And that gives you an L-function which has a symmetry property to expand these products out Reiman Zeta function so this is an a lot of these were discovered in the of them BRADY: You said they were rare Ya ya ya, um. despite the fact that there are many they're extremely rare amongst all possible combinations of plusses and minusses that you can have there. So we know there are infinitely many other functions that look like the Reimann Zeta function. you can write them as a sum of the integers, you can write them as symmetry line - and we believe they all 19th century then in the 20th century functions that have those properties you can write them as sums over the integers, or products over the primes, they have a symmetry line, and we believe that they a Reimann Hypothesis. And one of the heroes in this story's Ramanujan. Sir Ramanujam was studying the following function: X times (1- X) to the power of 24. (1-X squared) to the power of 24. times (1-X cubed) to power 24 you get the point and what he discovered powers of X. (1 times X) minus (24 multiply this thing out. that's 24 times X 1472 times X power 4 etc... and this keeps going on and you get these beautiful whole numbers coming out now here's the miracle. 2 times 3 = 6 -24 times 252 = -6048. So these numbers have the property that for example three times number in this series the the coefficient there, the integer that appears is 252 times 4830. This meant you could things. so here's what you do you write 1 - 24 over 2^s, + 252 over 3^s, minus 1472 over 4^s, + 4830 over 5^s, et cetera and this series follows from Ramanujan's observation a couple more observations that I won't sort of explain in more detail it follows that you can primes just as we did for the Riemann complex plane and he has a symmetry line does and the zeros of this function are Now these functions are a class of functions called modular forms. They have certain symmetry properties which we believe that you see in the Riemann zeta zeros on that line a Riemann hypothesis. twentieth century and Andrew Wiles in used this connection between modular L- functions that its functions like For all these L-functions we believe there's a say well can we find a pattern can we see any similarities that would Hypothesis is true, for any of them? and one of the things that's been done recently is to produce a huge database all the properties tabulated in a very idea is to throw this out to the world and what you'll find there is the Ramanujan's L- function, you'll find the you'll find even more exotic and weird L-functions that we believe all have a Riemann Hypothesis. and you go to this these L-functions ... What's the pattern? BRADY: if I go to this database though, I'm not gonna make a breakthrough, am I? Surly this is only a resource for Well... It's originally for mathematicians, but I think wide range of people this database is word, up comes an explanation of that word now you put some mathematics to understand that but looking at the somewhere in there is a pattern that well be that somebody else spots it. not too big for this the right knees this is a prime between and into an explained how to extend the this for one so there's only one billion