Get it Uncle, do you want a sesame cake? One penny each. The surname is Wu Why don't you hand it over by now? Sir, you got the wrong person. The old man's surname is Wang Everyone in Hou Jianji knows me You're in disguise Can you hide it from the eyes of the master of Jindao Village? Why do I feel less and less understood the more I listen to you? Wu Daotong Have you made up your mind not to hand it over? Now that we know Wu's name Still so unreasonable Are you too brave? I am bold and timid You just found out today? Judge Wu, you have great skills! Zhou Mu, please come down Spare the life This is a scam. search Please search carefully for me. Don't miss an inch of space I searched several houses, but found nothing. withdraw Biscuits... Stop, come back to me. Let me go... You...you stole my pancake You ate I'm going to cut open your stomach and dig out Wu Daotong The blood has not dried yet, and the death is not long ago It seems that the people from Jindao Village succeeded. Chase, catch up The black and white swords The two owners of Xuansu Manor have come to visit The two heroes worked tirelessly Arriving outside Houjianji City late at night I wonder if you two have any advice? Since everyone knows it There's no need to hide it. Objects from the Collection of Wu Daotong Has it reached your hands? It's unfair. Did you get it, brothers? No...No Brother Zhou Shi, don't blame Shi Qing for being rude. Brother Zhou Shi, do you want to swallow it up privately? Young leader, that thing was snatched away by him Master Shi, you are clearly robbing Although our martial arts skills are low But for the sake of Wulin's treasure We must fight to the end Leave this Shi Daxia, great kungfu, I admire you... Brother, I want to ask for some advice. I am very lucky to meet you today. Return to you Copper Coins Everyone, it's bad, something big has happened Boss, have you heard? Something big happened in Houjianji The old man who sells sesame cakes He was killed by the people of Jindao Village for no reason. They also massacred Hou Jianji. real? Why would I lie to you? I saw it with my own eyes. This area is several hundred miles No one dares to mess with the Golden Sword Village You said this old man How did you offend them? You don't know I heard that old Wang is... Everyone... go back to your tables Say what you just said again All this money is for you. I don't dare take your money. I dare not say this. We can't afford to offend the Jindao Village There is no one in the world that I cannot afford to offend. What difficulties do you have? I will solve them for you. We really don't dare to take your money. Can you leave without saying anything? Yes, say... I said, it is like this I heard that old man Wang What is he hiding? Brother Qing, maybe that object Most likely it's still on Wu Daotong Maybe Jindaozhai made a mistake. Let's look for it again. We searched for a long time but couldn't find it. Why bother? If you can't find the object Just the two of us It's really not easy to find Qiu Tai, what do you think? Okay, in that case Let's go to Houjianji again Walk... Unjust... We didn't kill anyone, no What injustice is this? You guys go to the county magistrate to appeal for justice. stop Do you want to rebel? They are innocent It is unjust to arrest innocent people and replace murderers How should I respond to the official? Please give me some advice Isn't it just about who killed someone? I, Xuansuzhuang Shiqing Still no Let's go inside and take a look It seems that the thing is not in Wu Daotong's hands When will the enemy who killed Jian'er be found? Let's go back to Xuansu Village first and discuss it later. Child, where is your mother? Child, where is your mother? Why are you here alone? My mother is missing, and Ah Huang is missing too. Who is Ah Huang? Ah Huang is a dog In less than a year, it has grown strong. It can understand everything I say. I see This cake is dirty. I'll pick up two clean ones for you. No, I've already taken a bite of this pancake. Others can't eat it. May I have your name? My name is dog bastard Bastard? As a mother Why did you get this name? He is an idiot, let's go, Junior Sister Poor thing, just eat two hot meals. Let's go go back Surround it on all sides Are you a friend of the Snow Mountain Sect? I came here, and I did not come to greet you, please forgive me. You must be the young leader of Jindao Village. Nice to meet you. Dear brothers of Maoshan Sect, Master An We are all good friends Don't hurt the harmony. Little brother, what are you holding in your hand? Let me see it, please? Shi Daxia, we discovered this first Sister Hua, please ask this little brother Was the silver in his arms given by me? Mrs. Shi, maybe it's you The little brother who discovered it first But this black iron order But we discovered first Give me Brother, give me Give me Give me stop... It's him who is he? Who ordered you to do this? Who ordered you to do this? Where is he? If you don't tell the truth today, I will kill you I...what, who ordered me to do that? Why are you pretending to be confused? I ask you Did you find this black iron order from Qing? I got this from eating sesame cakes You... are talking nonsense Who made me Xie have an oath palace? Never use one finger Harm the person who sent the Black Iron Order Little baby, don't be afraid. Tell me the truth, little doll Where did you find this piece of iron? It's like this, to find my mother and Ah Huang I ran down the mountain and couldn't get home Yesterday... Yesterday a group of people came Junior sister, since the property has been returned to its original owner We just found it There's no point anymore. It seems we can't find it The enemy who killed Jian'er Don't worry, we'll find it slowly. I think this revenge will be taken sooner or later. Brother Qing, today we met the Snow Mountain Sect Why not ask them? How's Yu'er doing these days? Okay, let's go Waiting at Yuelai Inn in front, okay good Finished Wait a minute, my friend. Could it be that you are the owner of the Black Iron Order? Thank you, smoker? Exactly How offensive that was just now I apologize to the senior. According to my usual rules You stabbed my left shoulder with a golden knife I must use the golden knife It makes sense to stab your left shoulder But today, I happen to be in a good mood This knife is remembered. You stabbed me in the chest You pierced my thigh Huantiao point You stabbed me in the left waist You stabbed my calf, I'll take note of all this When I'm in a bad mood someday They come to collect debts We are not as skilled as others, so if we lose, we lose. What are you still keeping track of and making sarcastic remarks about? Just stab me with your sword good Senior, good swordsmanship... Mr. Xie, please stay You showed mercy and didn't hurt my brother Wang The Snow Mountain Sect is deeply grateful for the great virtue. May I ask Mr. Xie Is the piece of iron in your hand the Black Iron Token? The order of Xuantie, whatever you ask for will be answered Motian Cliff, Xie Yanke This token is indestructible by swords and is rare in the world Mr. Xie, I heard from my friends in Jianghu that Mr. Xie has three pieces of iron in his hand. Give to three good friends Just return this order to you. You can do one thing And no matter how difficult it is You will definitely help him do it, are you serious? Yes, everyone in the martial arts world knows I heard that three black iron orders Two have been returned to Mr. Xie. This is the last one, it has been lost for many years. I wonder if it is? Very true This will disappoint friends in the underworld. But it can also eliminate the disaster from now on Let's talk about Wu Daotong. He got my Black Iron Order Can't find me He became the target of public criticism and brought about his own death. I'm in a good mood today. This black iron order It was easy to get. Mr. Xie has sworn to fulfill your wishes. Then this Xuantie Order But from this little brother What? What is a little beggar? Do you want me to listen to this beggar? My friends, have you heard it clearly? Mr. Xie said, don't listen to the little beggar Is this a violation of the oath? this... There is nothing in the world that can stump me, Xie. Brother, come with me. If you have anything, please ask me It's none of their business. Go. Little Brother You are a good boy, little brother. This old man loves to kill people. Go tell him to... Duan Ziyin, the mighty Lingxiao Gate Make Chou and Mao both chivalrous good good good Dragon Boat Festival, Snow Mountain Sword Like a Tiger Eliminate the ghosts in the world good good Junior Sister Hua, how is my son doing lately? Well, I haven't seen him for two years. This...why is this? Shi Daxia, my senior brother brought Master Shi I have already been to Lingxiao Ancient Cave I was gone for two years. Feng Wanli taught his son with great effort, Sister Hua, my son is loved by the hero. It's really a blessing, drink Junior sister, I'm coming... Shi Daxia, wait a minute You drink for Min Rou, who will drink for me? Girl, I drink Bring the wine jar Senior Brother Feng, Junior Sister, I admire your patience. It took half my life's hard work To teach a dandy boy Sun Wannian, you don't need to feel sorry for me Why is there water here? Senior Sister Sister Hua, my son has been spoiled since he was young It's really hard for Brother Fengxian to teach you Come, this jar of wine is from me, Shi Qing, Do you know what it can do? This is the Black Iron Order Anyone who gives it to me I promised to do something for him. But he has to beg me. I've been talking for so long, do you understand? You're a little fool. My name is not Little Fool, my name is Bastard What's your name? My name is dog bastard What's your name? My mom calls me a bastard. People in the world hope that their children will grow up There are people with all kinds of mean names. What is a cat, a dog, pig shit, dog eggs? I've never heard of a bastard. You are not only a little fool And stupid as hell. Well, you bastard, just ask me for one thing. For example, ask me to give you some money To the town ahead Buy a piece of meat and a bottle of wine Go back and honor your foolish father. I...I don't have a father So who's in your family? Me...my mother, and Ah Huang Who is Ah Huang? Ah Huang is a dog My mother disappeared two days ago. I brought Ah Huang out to find my mother Later, Ah Huang also disappeared You want to ask me... No, what if he asks me to find his mother? Where can I find it? Are you hungry? Let's go. Hot steamed buns, hot steamed buns fresh from the oven Waiter, give me two steamed buns. Here you go, two Eat another one I want two buns too. Eat enough Do you still want to eat? No more eating, I'm full, full Waiter, settle the bill That's four steamed buns, twelve coins. No, we each pay our own way. I ate two and I'll give you six coins I paid today good... What? Are you treating me? What's the big deal about eating a few steamed buns? This is your money. Walk How do you know I have no money? I'm in town these days. Seeing some people reaching out for money I searched for a long time but couldn't find it. Like you just now The expression on his face is quite strange Looking left and right He definitely didn't bring any money. I heard from the people in the store Many people want to eat for free They are all like this You stole this silver, too, right? No...the silver was not stolen That silver is from the man just now The goddess Guanyin gave me Let's go Maoshan Sect traveled a long way to find the Black Iron Order Do you have anything to ask of Xie Yanke? Master just hasn't fought with Xie Yanke Invite him to Lingxiao City many times But he kept refusing I want to use the Black Iron Order to ask for help What do you two want to ask Xie Yanke for? Aren't you still looking for the enemy from twelve years ago? Farewell Why are you running? I'm not going to eat you. I see you haven't eaten yet. You want me to buy you another steamed bun? Then I'll have no more money. Come with me, I'll return your money. I don't want your money. I want to find Ah Huang and my mother No, you haven't asked me yet. Walk Isn't that Ah Huang? Ah Huang... Ah Huang, where have you been these days? Ah Huang, where have you been these days? Have you found your mother? Silly boy, what's your mother's last name? What's your last name? Mom is Mom. Does mom have a last name? Of course, everyone has a last name. Take me for example. My last name is Xie. This Ah Huang, his last name is Ah Then what is my last name? What's your last name? How should I know? But your name, you bastard It doesn't sound good. Do you want me to give you a name? You can give me a name, but My mother used to call me a bastard You gave me a name I'm afraid she won't get used to it. What's wrong with calling me a bastard? The Great Compassionate Old Man Our Changle Gang's leader Situ Kindly invite you to join the gang But you said something crazy I think we should be together Dealing with the reward and punishment order of Xiake Island Isn't it good? Why are they here again? How could the White Whale Island owner To associate with such shameless people like you? White Whale Island It's better to surrender our Changle Gang. It's better to surrender our Changle Gang. When did White Whale Island appear? A coward who surrenders? Beautiful dragon claw hand Can't kill him Can't kill him You bad guys Why team up to beat up a good guy? You can't kill him. Get lost Please stop making things difficult for the old man. slow This guy must have someone behind him. Force him out Little Bunny Who told you to mind my business? He is the good guy, you are the bad guy. I must help you old man cut it. Do you know him? How do you know he is a good person? You guys bully an old man. You are of course bad people. Old uncle Get lost I don't want you to kill the old man. I don't want you to kill my uncle. Good boy Don't cry, baby. If you are afraid of death, go away You...you go away first Don't embarrass the old man anymore. I...I won't cry anymore Little Doll Little Doll I am old and in my twilight years, but I can still make friends with a kid like you. It's worth living this life Old uncle You...you go away Old man, you... you are a good person You can't let the bad guys kill you. Okay, little doll. If I cut you thirty-six times, you won't move. I let him go Are you afraid? You stabbed me thirty-six times, of course I was scared Boy, if you're afraid...get out of here! I'm afraid, but I won't leave Good boy, you have guts. Old uncle You can't die, you can't die This person is so hot Little fool If you ask me now, I will save him. It's him Old man, I'll go ask him Don't ask him, brother. I'm almost done You keep this opportunity Do something big for yourself Old uncle Good boy, you are so brave. Today, I let him go From now on we are friends, let's go Old uncle... I look at your injuries Old uncle Brother, this is for you. He was already half dead, and the bag was useless. If it is an injury, it must be covered. If it is not covered, it will still hurt. OK You have realized the true meaning of martial arts at a young age. I've lived in vain But I haven't lived in vain Finally figured it out Old uncle Okay, stop crying. Come, let's see the old man. What did you give me? This is a set of diagrams for practicing internal skills. If mom It would be nice if you could make them a set of clothes. Take it and play with it This old man is also a well-known figure. We can't let him lie dead in the wilderness. Your old friend died, and you didn't bury him? Yes, then how do you bury it? If you have the strength Just dig a hole for him. What if I don't have the strength? Just get some branches and mud Just cover it for him. But there's no hoe. How to dig the pit? You bastard, you are quite loyal. What is loyalty? So you don't like to be polite? Then you are being disloyal. Nonsense, I... Of course I'm loyal. Then how about being loyal? Of course, being loyal is a good thing. Those who do good things are good people Those who do bad things are bad people Then you always do good things Then you are a good person. Good guy... I need to find out about this as soon as possible. Ah Huang, let's go stop I'm too tired, I don't want to go with you Then where are you going? I want to find my mother I can help you find your mother. You come with me Okay, you are capable, I will go with you You can help me find my mother. But it's too dark. We have to go quickly What injustice? What kind of rubbish prescription are you guys prescribing? Listen, the master said There is no water today, so I'll let you do the dry cleaning. Young Master, please save us. So many people taking a shower together? What's going on? The old village chief is ill again These doctors Look at these prescriptions. None of them work It's all just a pile of waste paper Look, this... These doctors can cure my father's illness Because there is no cure I put them here to wash their brains first. Get a pen I'll give him a prescription. good Dog treasure pair blood Doctor Li Aihuo Young Village Chief Send it to the old village owner yes Do you tie them together when taking a bath? good Young Village Chief The old village chief saw your prescription and all his illnesses were cured Walk Young leader, what should we do? The persimmons here are so big Good man, do you want to eat persimmons? A good person? What good person? You are a great good person I'll call you a good person Who said I'm a good person? You are either a good person or a bad person Then I will call you a bad guy from now on. I'm not a bad person either. You are not a good person Not a bad guy That's right You are not human What did you say? What did you say? You are so capable Is it a god? You are neither this nor that So what are you? then You are neither a human nor a ghost. Are you a Bodhisattva? I don't think you look like Look, we have dinner tonight. Do you want to know who I am? If you want to know Just beg me I'll tell you Who am I? Tell me if you want to I don't want to tell you. I don't want to know yet. Who cares? you... Have you found the little bastard who took the Black Iron Order? Dad, I haven't found it yet. However, the child expected They must go this way Camel King Little baby, are you tired? tired You wait Boss, can you lend me your camel? Come on, why should I lend it to you? Mr. Motian, you must have heard of it, right? Motian Layman What kind of bird is Motian Jushi? I never thought that the camel king who had roamed the desert for decades In one day, his reputation was ruined. Someone who can fight Xie Yanke for more than ten moves I'm afraid that's me. What is your &quot;no worries&quot;? Go find your mother. Fish cannot live without water Melons cannot grow without vines The little camel cannot leave its mother Little baby, as long as you beg me I'll let you get on the camel. I never ask for anything from others. Why don't you ask for help? My mother often says You bastard, don't ever ask for help from anyone in your life. If someone wants to give you You don't ask people People will give it to you. If someone doesn't want to give it to you You ask people People won't give it to you. I begged her and she beat me severely Sometimes, she also said Why don't you just beg that delicate little bitch? So I never ask for help from others. Who is this little bitch? I don't know either Most likely your father is fickle Your mother is taking her anger out on you. How do you know? Do you know my dad? Who is he? Fish cannot live without water Melons cannot grow without vines The camel baby is going to find its mother Little kid, then you won't beg for food anymore? I've been in town for more than ten days. Never asked for If others want to give, I want it Do others want to give As soon as he turned around, I took it too. Then turn around and walk away Then you are not a beggar, you are a thief What is a thief? Do you really not understand, or are you just pretending to be stupid? I don't understand, so I ask you, what does it mean to play dumb? You are not a three-year-old kid. How come you don't even understand this after living this long? My mother ignored me for eight out of ten days. I talked to Ah Huang Ah Huang never tells me anything. You little thief, play dumb. Can't you talk to your neighbors? What is a neighbor? Neighbors are the people who live around you. Just like you and me now There is only one big tree near my house There are pheasants and hares on it. And pine cones and stuff. You have never talked to others since you were a child. I haven't talked to anyone except my mother. But a few days ago, my mother also disappeared So you grew up in the mountains? No wonder, how do you know that silver can buy steamed buns? In the town I saw others use silver to buy steamed buns So I know it too. You don't have money, I do. If you want, I'll give it to you. No thanks, little beggar. You'll call me a beggar. Call me a thief later What am I? You I tell you You are hungry People gave it to you out of sympathy. You are the little beggar If people don't give you You secretly take That's the thief. I don't care whether people are willing to give it to me or not. Anyway, I took it Then I am a thief That's right You're the old thief. What? What did you call me? Aren't you an old thief? Lang Ming didn't give you the camel. You robbed it You are not a child You are of course an old thief. you... Old thief, little thief, these are insults. You can't say it casually anymore. From now on you call me old uncle I call you little doll I'm not called Little Doll My name is dog bastard The name &quot;dog bastard&quot; is not nice. Your mother can call you, but no one else can. What's wrong with you saying that there's something bad about being a bastard? Ah Huang is a dog It accompanies me, then I am happy Just like you're with me But it only calls You can still speak Better than Ah Huang Uncle, you are seriously ill. I'm fine, who said I was sick? Come, touch it. Is my fever down? Old man, you are dying. Nonsense, why am I dying? Once my mother was like you Sometimes cool, sometimes hot Then I almost died. She was in a coma for two months before she recovered. I can't die Old man, wait, don't move. Old man, you are sick. Wear this and you won't be exposed to the sun. Go up Old man, this disease might be caused by hunger. Let's have a good meal today Sir, please take a seat... What would you two like to eat? My uncle and I want to eat rice, fish and meat. What good wine and food do you have here? Come up quickly. This money is all yours. I found it. That is Ah Huang Ah Huang Where are you going? Ah Huang wants to go pee Ah Huang Brother, let's talk for a moment. Please let me go I want to find my Ah Huang Do I need to borrow it to walk? Little Brother I will find your dog for you. Now I have something big to tell you. What's the big deal? Are you looking for your mother? yes Follow me Young leader, you are awesome! Your mother is in there. I'll see my mom soon. Jade Hall Make the dishes more varied. Dongzi, bring up that big pig head Lao Ba, bring up those two bottles of good wine, quickly. You rubbed me so hard Why are you using such a hard thing to scrub my body? Take Away Bring the soft one I want to give my little ancestor a bath myself Where am I? My dear, you are our Golden Sword Village's 100-year-old One thousand years, the most precious guest Don't throw it to me. My mother sewed it for me. Don't lose it Yes, don't throw it away, it was sewn by his mother herself. I will offer it later. Sir, let's take a bath. Look at this delicate skin and tender flesh. At first glance, it is the embryo of a noble person. This is the real shoe that beats Xifu Look at this soft satin. How comfortable it is. Don't you think so? Xiaoye Did my mother sew this? This is much stronger than that body. I'm not used to wearing this Hurry up and bring me the one my mom sewed All right, bring that outfit over to me. hurry up You sit... This day feels like a year has passed I'm so tired. Anyway I am the hero of promise We can't let that bastard starve to death. Dog mongrel Huang little bastard, where is your brother? Anfeng Day Thanks to you for being a famous person for decades. Xiao Jintian You went to great lengths to get this child. It's nothing more than not asking for anything from me You just want me to feed you To deal with the catastrophe I have taken back the Black Iron Order It's in vain for any of you to ask me Only this child begged me I will agree I have already promised them Well, then you can beg me. As long as you ask me, I can promise you Working for Jindaozhai I'm not begging you, they're begging me I'm not asking you. Can you help them That was earth-shattering. Thank you, hero, please stay. If you have something to say, say it now. If you have something to fart, fart now. Hero Xie is the most committed hero in the world, right? So what? Once this child asks you You get what you ask for, right? Yes, who asked him to help me find the Black Iron Order? Well, if he asks you to cut off one of your arms Please blind my eyes Please give up your martial arts Please kill... Stop talking As long as the child asks me I will answer your requests this... master...