(Lisa inhaling deeply) - Okay. - Okay. - Should we like... (Hannah panting) Wake up, wake up, wake up. Okay. - Ready. - Okay. (upbeat music) When it comes to buying kitchen gear, it can be tough to keep costs down. Some kitchen tools can be pretty pricey. - But you don't necessarily to get a lot. There's a ton of great gadgets - Hannah and I have put of our favorite tools, so you can decide if - First up, Lisa, with her favorites. (upbeat music) - First on my list, vegetable peelers. I love this thing. It's the Kuhn Rikon and I use it at home all the time. It's incredibly sharp. It's durable. This thing can whip through any kind of This has a carbon steel blade. It is like a fine chef's knife. It's very sharp, and it stays sharp. It has a little ridge on the back that holds the cutting blade so you've seen peelers you're getting so much is all faceted at the end. I measured the thickness of different peelers, and They're so nice and thin. You can almost see through them. You're not throwing away half and you've also seen over the same spot three, four times just to get something off of that food. This gets just the right depth. It really is kind of This is called the bridge, this area that holds and this is just about an inch from blade to the back of the bridge, and that means that food can pass through and not gets stuck. We've seen somewhere food is jamming up in there. You're constantly We just don't see those kinds of jams with this perfect little blade. It's very lightweight, it's plastic. Now you might think, I want something heavy. If you're actually doing a your hand is fatigued. You're trying to control a heavy object. This is very light, and very sharp, and you can just flick, flick, flick, and your carrot is peeled perfectly. So this is a vegetable peeler, You can make Harmsen shavings You can even make chocolate I put them on cupcakes It can hide a lot of First, you just wanna warm it and then you basically and you can make different widths depending on where you're You can make cool little and you just pile 'em Chocolate melts just so if you get it a little bit warm first, it will actually curl the chocolate, and you'll get a beautiful, there we go, look at that. And if you do it right, you can get long gorgeous curls with this. And like I said, this It's three eighths of an Our test cooks were carrying this in their chef coat pockets, because they could just have it there whenever they needed it. So after you've peeled next thing you might wanna This is a seriously undervalued This one's by Dexter-Russell, Let me just show you. (Scraper scraping) Boom. You're not picking up a whether it's peels, or that you've chopped up to put or to clean your bench after this is your tool. This is our favorite First, it has a nice, It's not gonna cut you, but you can use this little It has a nice handle that's grippy. This has got a little so it's not gonna slip if It's NSF rated, and that means it's ready in any cracks or areas It gets very, very clean. It can go in a dishwasher and it'll be good to go. And it's made to be used over and over every day by professionals, It's gonna last, but so that you can get down at a and lift it. Now it's called a bench scraper your work bench, and this It's used to clear flour or to divide up dough, I use it when I'm making sour dough, when I'm doing those folds and turns that you have to do at certain for it to develop it's rise before baking. It's really a terrific tool, and you keep finding uses for it. We also like it for picking up herbs when it's a great way to just and you're not in there catching things that are moving around. So again, this is our Bench scrapers are the most underused gadget in home kitchens. If you don't have one, go get one. So next up on some of our bargain tools, I would say our paring knife This is by Victorinox, is the Victorinox fibrox pro paring knife. It's a spear point, three and and really the beautiful thing about this is the same brand as super inexpensive, under 10 that were seven or eight It has the most wonderful a nice sharp tip. It nests very comfortably in your hands. You can choke up on it. You can do tasks that but it's nice to have a paring knife to just get in and do those little jobs that a chef knife feels like overkill, maybe you want to get of little detail work. I have some shallots here. I've got a little tiny shallot, so you can do things like slice garlic, or mince a shallot. It's so sharp that wherever and it's really fantastic. (shallot crunching) I am a home chef. I am not a trained chef, but even I can get beautiful We believe there's really three knives you kind of need in the kitchen, and then you can build out from there, a chef knife, a paring and you can do most things. This is a great choice It does everything the It's a workhorse, and you'll and using it every day. We compare this to many, and some of them are too big and clunky. They don't fit neatly in your hand, they're not comfortable. They don't have a very narrow blade. This tapers from the handle down to a very tiny narrow point. They can get into the It's called a spear point for a reason, and it's tapers from a narrow spine down to a very narrow blade, so it has very nice precision, and it really glides through food. It also has a really comfortable handle that's made of this plastic fibrox. It is a, again, a food service product that's in the industry all day long so it's durable, it's easy to clean, and it won't trap any food in the area between the handle and the blade. You can choke up on it very comfortably because it's got a of the bolster here, so you in your hand and control My mom was one of those in the air with a paring knife. She never cut on a cutting so I learned to do that too. It's only three and a quarter inches long. A longer knife, you're getting you're getting into chef knife territory. You want a small precise knife and do precision work, the spear point three and a quarter inch Victorinox fibrox pro. So another tool that is well under $15, and super useful is a jar spatula. This is our favorite. It won against many other competitors. It's by GIR, which and comes in lots of It's a great jar spatula, but it's good for so much more. This is made of silicone, so it has a little bit of but generally nice rigidity It's one piece, so you can't it's very easy to clean. It's very comfortable in your It can get into the bottom of jars. So, here I have some mayonnaise, mayonnaise is all the So you can get down You can get the last traces of everything, get your money's worth, and this spatula keeps We have them here in the test kitchen. If you're ever a little in the general equipment room, you're not gonna find one of these, because the test cooks even if they're not gonna be using jars, because this is so useful for so many other and people just love to use them. They're heat resistant up to so you can put 'em in a pan. A jar spatula, it's good and this is our favorite by GIR. (upbeat music) - If you followed us you know that we love A good sturdy rimmed baking sheet is an incredibly versatile Have you ever had a sheep Or just be uneven, or Those pans just aren't as useful. Yeah, sure, you can cook a but with a big, sturdy rim like this, the pan truly turns into a You can hold fried foods on it. Toast nuts, as you see here. They are incredibly versatile. I want to introduce you to my favorite under 15 version of the sheet pan. This is the quarter sheet pan. I also love the eighth of a sheet pan, which is half of this. These smaller sheep pans, but they kind of changed my life. A bigger sheep pan, you're like if you're toasting a few nuts, there's all this blank space around, which can lead to uneven If you size your pan you will get more even results, so using a smaller pan actually if you're cooking a They're also easier to clean, like think about turning It's a lot easier than I use this, I would say actually more than my bigger sheet pan at the moment. These also fit into toaster And when you pair a sheet pan of any size with a rack and a lid, that's when it's truly a game changer. But you can roast meats on there, you can drizzle things in chocolate, and the chocolate drips off underneath for like a perfectly This is our winning small It's perfectly tailored to this pan, so it doesn't slide around everywhere. It's like a well-tailored suit, and then you add this lid on top, and it turns the whole thing. Show you this, into a container. Now you have this container, and I use the lids of my You have a storage container, This is really sturdy, so you can put this in your refrigerator. It's a nice efficient You can stack stuff on top of it. For a recent holiday, I made a bunch of these put the lid on, and took because everything was nice Professional bakers have and these pans are also And finally, us consumers, us home cooks have gotten They've started to trickle down to us, so in our testing of rimmed baking sheets, we found out that all rim baking sheets will warp a little bit, but a well made pan with a will warp less. That's why pros use these pans, and they won't get bent out of shape. We also really love this higher rim here. When you have a really high sturdy rim, if there's like a really if you wanna roast a ton of and that just makes it just If you're only familiar try out one of the smaller sizes, and you'll be surprised how All right, so next up which all of the very serious They will geek out about these We love an all purpose whisk, too. But these little ones, But second of all, these I reach for mine all the time. Right here, I have this You can use a big whisk but what the little whisk allows you to do is use whatever vessel you I wanna put my vinegarette I wanna mix it in a little jar, so I can do everything right in there without dirtying additional dishes, whisking a can of coconut milk that hasn't completely combined. You can reincorporate right This is one of those tools you buy it for one thing, and then all of a sudden for all different things. So it's just makes things and allows you to sort of like finagle into different containers might not be as agile in. All right, so I have our So we found out that actually what brand you buy for mini whisk, and that may be surprising, Those with broader heads and more loops whisked more efficiently. Those with narrower heads and fewer loops, they took longer to combine ingredients, and any way I can take a I certainly will. All right, so the handle mattered too. Length, we like medium length handles. Some are so small, you were like, do-do-do-do, that didn't work. Some were bigger, and you to actually get control. This was a Goldilocks situation. We liked the medium ones. We also preferred ones Some of these were like they were so narrow it's of like force through so a little bit of a thicker handle will give us something to hold onto. We also really liked handles some of 'em have a little which sounds nice, but that while you're whisking, We also liked when the where they joined the and like gunk just gets in there. It's super annoying to I think if you have this whisk around, you will use it way more than you think. That's totally happened in my household, and there's a reason why with these little things. They're super fun, and Okay, next up, seafood scissors. You might have seen us talk with celebrity chef Tiffani Faison. We actually showed her these, and I think she was pretty impressed. - [Speaker 1] Wow. - [Speaker 2] Yeah, right? - That's a great joke. - Color me impressed. I'm gonna put these in (ladies chuckling) Security. - I have never had more friends than when I tested these in the kitchen, and I had piles of and shrimp just surrounding me. Everybody wanted to come over and say hi, but it actually was a because I didn't realize Like, I hate prepping shrimp, and these truly make it easier. Here are our winners by RSVP. I tested all kinds of scissors, and some of them just They weren't strong enough tough shells. Others were not shaped nicely. See this gentle curve? This allows you to sneak right up the back of a shrimp shell, right? Like this. It makes the whole super tidy and quick, so they're actually very lightly serrated, so they could really grip You know, sometimes shells are slippery, and serrations really help these scissors get a hold on things. You can see it perfectly mimics the curve of the shrimp shell, and that because if you think they're straight. You end up having to take like dink, dink, dink, dink, whereas these one clean swoop. So these are our winner from RSVP, and they truly were super and they're not just for shrimp. They're for lobsters, crabs, you know those little lobster crackers, and all those little tools that you get when you have a lobster? I won't even use those anymore. I get out my scissors. Everybody else can use whatever they want, but I'm claiming the scissors, because they make the Next up, champagne savers. So champagne savers are It does happen where It's never happened to me, You can actually have a bottle with our winner here from Cilio. This can actually keep this fresh and bubbly for a whole week, It wouldn't last that long in my house, but you could if you wanted to. Now, I know this might like a paring knife or cutting board, but let me have a little fun here, 'cause this was probably I have ever done. So this just clips right This is one reason why this Literally, just put it on, and then to detach, you So it got this little clicker. (clicker clicking) And you see inside there, onto the bottle, and A lot of the models we tested, either they were annoying to use, or yeah, maybe they kept it for So does a mason jar and a lid. If you really want your champagne to last for like three days or even up to a week, this dedicated champagne saver This is three days old at this point. If I may, let's check it out. (wine saver slamming) For science. Can you hear that? I can hear that, and It's a hard job, but Deliciously effervescent, I know this is not a core The Cilio does, do not mess they just won't work, but inexpensive little gift, and keep your champagne super bubbly. With my four favorites you have a really good start useful kitchen gear. - So for more information on all the gear we talked about today, or see americastestkitchen.com. - Yeah, and let us know in the comments. What's your favorite gear on your $15? What did we miss in our lineup? I'm already thinking of things. A microblade. Oh, dang it. Anyways, make sure to like this video, and hit that subscribe button (upbeat music)