Have you spent your life helping the expense of your own success? Have you got to a stage in your life much more in you to give to your career? That's the subject of our podcast today. And I'm here with Rachel Power, whose step into their limelight in their own Hi, Rachel. Hi, Jo. Thanks so much for joining us. Your book has just come out, hasn't it? My book is called Redefining with the Power Approach. It's been a long time in the making, told that I'd reached my potential. So it's interesting how Yeah, that's an interesting You've reached your potential. I mean, we're continuously And we never stop growing. I hope. Well, I think, and it's the happened to me, to be honest. But I think at the time, Yeah, it really was only just turned 40 and I was like, I've got a long way till, till hopefully So yeah, it was quite triggering. So your background is in I spent 20 years in Then I had this, you've reached your on a bit of a, What are you doing? Where are you going? Who are you? And that's what led me into the Because what I realized is I had been even realize that's what I was doing. Probably due to my people I didn't really even I was too busy doing rather than being. So yeah, now I help people either development programs with corporates what I really care about, that we haven't And it's too late, but until that Yeah. Well, we know, don't we? There is a problem in the workplace. A lot of women when they hit midlife, leave the work workplace when they hit to brain fog, hot flushes, not having them through those kinds of, of issues. Has that been your experience as a leader? I can't think of anywhere where but I know the statistics. In fact, I think statistics are higher people becoming smaller and playing it you lose your confidence, don't you? Because if you start to I remember I was working for a lady. It was going through the menopause but it was very difficult to be open And it was really challenging for her. I remember we came out of a meeting, trying to hold it all together, which Isn't it? If you're trying to hold it all together And the reason you can't be your all programmed to turn up in like power. Yeah, it's tricky. So yeah, I haven't seen certainly seen people struggle. The study that I was looking at was well in order to cope with the challenges We were talking earlier, weren't we, Brain, and how there's a graphic in there During perimenopause and afterwards the brain was significantly reduced Now, it didn't mean that she didn't ability, but explains why she was her ability to concentrate the things Because by the time you're In your in a corporate career, you're It must be terrifying to suddenly I think so. And I think there's also that piece, which about having the support network in place it can become very isolating because you're not good enough and all of those Rather than really focusing on physical conditions that I'm in. And I always say that actually, when about today, everyone's having a different is going to depend on how much sleep What mood have you come from? Where have you been? And that we're all having these aren't even always aware, are they? But, you know, just to be like, just now, you've got no idea where someone bit of empathy and awareness, I guess, say that, but I think it's yeah, there's What I found interesting as well, I think because we've all got our responsibility. And that's the whole piece with my It's like, what can you do and how can And then you've got the system side, but are like, we've got to fix the system. Because I'm like, well, the system There's no, you know, like it's not a and the bit you can, and I always come and take charge of is what can you do? And what can you control? Cause we can't control and change and change ourselves, which is Cause you don't, I don't know if you pointing at someone else, there's I said that in a work group like, how do you know this? And I was like, yeah, so when like three fingers pointing back at I agree with you that, you know, our we also need cultures in the workplace. That support our menopause isn't regarded not sure that I agree that it should be. But it does come under the Equalities Act. You need extra time for Menopause symptoms should be Maybe going home early one day or, you night because you've been up all night, changed your bed linen twice and, you And I think that the awareness that to be taken into the workplace. And there is some responsibility, would that some support might be needed? Yeah, I really do. And I think there's a long way to go. So I was actually in my last the women's network for the UK. So we did the big menopause day thing. And it was fascinating because Not many men came and the men that did So what brought you here? Well, I've got a wife, I don't know anything about this. So I think that that was You don't hear that often And I think there's that whole And we have to educate ourselves and I don't remember my mom ever talking but when I look back, I can probably we didn't know whether she knew. I don't know. Cause it wasn't even spoken about. Was it? But it's one thing, women knowing understanding and knowing it. And then they need to, don't they? Cause they might not be going by other people who potentially. Okay. Okay. And this is what they don't realize to be affected by it as well. I mean, I've noticed a real sea change When I was going through it, it husband wanted to talk about, you know. And I do remember that I, I didn't know what perimenopause And my mother certainly Like you say, you couldn't when, when you think about it. But I remember going through hell really I suddenly, you know, through my research, through seeing, you know, specialists and Oh my goodness, my hormones are changing. And it can cause this and And I remember I sent my children saying I'm not going mad. I'm in the menopause. Yay. How did they receive that? What did they say? Well, apparently there was a private in that went, has mum gone mad? I think they thought, why But my whole sort of like, you know, to go through what I went through. And now they're now in their late to be preparing for perimenopause. But my husband, when I sat at the of my husband and son about it, my son was, oh, okay, you know, not, you know, and my husband was, you know. It's a taboo thing, right? It's a taboo thing. It's a bit, but it's, it's It is, it's a thing. Whenever I talk, men come up Oh crap. I'm 50 and say oh I need to know more my wife does this or and I think well I'm not a medic medically trained know looking into things don't go menopause when she's raging at you. I don't want to be Do you know that's just reminded me of it was a meme somewhere, about all the put 10 menopausal women onto that one So true. Yeah, yeah, there is something called it, you know, where, that energy comes to go, but it's that transitional period. And I think that if you're in a career you want to stay in and you want to of the employer to help you as well Yeah, I think that's a really good point. It's interesting as well. So as part of how Power your Potential, I've been told I'd reached my potential things and fill in the leadership gaps doesn't include any of these things. And to be a, to be a good leader and talking about how do we change systems are, it's going to be changed through on the bits that never get spoken about. Cause that's where the real magic is. So awareness of people and So that's my ambition as we move forward talk about all these elephants in the in traditional leadership development. And that as well is where the charge of your own career. So you'll hear in big organizations, but nobody tells you how. Especially as a people pleaser, I get a job, make money, get a house. That's your job done. Nobody's teaches you this Your power approach power is actually your acronym, isn't it? Which is very handy because it fog day, you can remember. I mean, you say in it, nothing So action is required and that's, You're absolutely right. We do have a choice to take Can you tell us a little bit Yeah, sure. So P is for Personal Paradigm Awareness. So this is just taking stock And I think, as I go through the beliefs are created, attitudes, But how you see the world. Or don't see the world is based on attitude, but you can change those. So just because you've seen, seen it from And I think there's a big piece we About the whole growth But just having that awareness of the So that's the P. So, just being clear, What is this? I think as Jo Martin calls it, the Like where, what is, where are we? What is society? How do I see the world? Because how I see the world and how you anyone listening to this podcast, they're us too, because it's all based on our Yeah, I wanted to ask you about that quoted in your book really shocked me. It was saying that they believe people have self awareness. That blows my mind because we all It's funny because I used to think I I don't know, if that makes sense. There's so much we don't Like, do we really know Do we really know how our bodies work? Do we really know how Are we really aware of how Because the first time I was shocked think about it, the more I'm like, no, In fact, I was running a workshop feedback with a quite big company. And yeah, people are not aware. And the conclusion was, It's about rather than about you, but because it becomes about us, doesn't it? Whereas actually the purpose about the other person. So yeah, yeah, it's a shocking think about it, it's not surprising Cause we don't, unless we choose to go which is how I've ended up on this reach my potential to now like, Oh, okay. Let's find out everything I can about me. So that is, yeah, that's Right. And then we go on to the O. Yes. So, O, own your own value. Which sometimes starts off with your value before you can even own it. You've got to figure out what it is, which When when I got told this whole, I've go into this, well, what are my strengths? What are my values? What am I about? I couldn't articulate that. So I had to go on quite a And that's one of the main things that And I think a lot of the time people are innate, how you show up and how So you think it's normal, but most normal because other people don't So yeah, the big part of owning your what is the value that you can ask on your strengths and your values. Yeah, just, just to rewind slightly, said you'd reach your potential? Were they talking about Were they talking about whether or not, or that kind of? Yeah, so I'd reached my potential going to be going any further. Which is interesting because looking ever had because I didn't really want And I look back and actually I was laughing at myself as I often probably had my perfect job, but next level and I should have this job And that wasn't focused on what, what That gave how that fulfilled wasn't on that train at all. I was just on this. Oh, that's what you're supposed to do and success is based on how far can I But yeah, about 10 years ago, I fell into and used to run big, big the things that I love doing now. I never really valued it and And I, I, and I also went well, the people don't value it. And that didn't really matter because I value and can I see what value I do other people see it's valuable? Like do you see it's valuable? Cause otherwise if you can't see it, So yeah, 10 years ago I had the perfect Yeah. It's funny, isn't it? How the world works. And I do believe in that whole, Until you see it, because yeah, and I didn't see it at all. And now I'm like, Oh wow. But now I get to do it in lots of So, so it worked, it worked out in the me, I sometimes think I'm a slow learner. I think I learned that five years ago. Hang on a minute. Why am I needing to learn that again? Yeah, I really, really believe it. It'll keep, it'll keep bringing really, you've really got it. Really got it. Yeah. Oh gosh. So the W in P.O.W.E.R. Yes. So that's all about wielding your power. So how are you gonna show up as your best And again, I don't think we're And then we dive into like how much Are you eating the right food? All of those things impact how you can really wield your power. And it's not about power over people. And we were talking about that, weren't that leadership doesn't mean power over at all. But I think as a whole, well, it's maybe what leadership is, because I think a lot successful, and I suppose a bit like me to be successful, you need to be the one It's like, no, that's not what Wielding your power is how power rather than giving it away. And I know. For way too long, I was giving my power And a lot of people I work with feeling goes back to what we were saying on So it's just taking charge of those And that's how you can wield Do you think that a lot of times it's power or do you think it's fairly even? It's a really interesting question. So I think, The more I work think it's not a gender issue. I really, really don't think it is. I've got no stats to prove that other see men with the same challenges and it this up at all, Jo, but I wonder sometimes thing going on as well. That's interesting. So I've got no, maybe, maybe I but Yeah, I'll give you a little bit Let's go on to the E of Power. Yeah, so that's all about And I really debated actually if it support network because depending on, And again, I work with some what do I need other people for? Oh, wow, and I used to be have to do this all myself. I'm not a success if I Because actually, it's not very realistic And if you really think about that, it's think you can do everything by yourself. But I think some challenges, terms of back to what we were saying we've become that superwoman thinking like the world's changing, isn't it? And we want more women in leadership. We want more women in the workplace, but got to change in the home life. There's a saying, and it basically, good job at anything because we're So the whole evolve your Yeah. How'd you evolve it? Have you got the right support network, but externally in your house, in And that doesn't necessarily mean But if you can, then really invite afford to, then yeah, get a cleaner. If you can afford to, if Evolving your support network about where do you want to be? Who do you want to be? And again, we don't, this sounds awful, not necessarily the people that are going And sometimes we're going to which sounds awful, but. Yeah, that's one of those Unfortunately, I do like the word because as you say, as you go through and from different people and you, things to different people as well. It's not all take. The idea of evolution, more dynamic really than the relationships is a job in itself. You know, if you have too many that that a lot of women perhaps don't in their personal lives so much. Yeah, don't think about it Right. R. R. Probably the most underutilized one in Which probably goes back to that piece about releasing your emotional baggage. My biggest learning on my self discovery I've been carrying my whole life. Some of it is not even mine, Because it doesn't feel very nice. This is interesting, actually, when mentioned, Gabor Mate, the key message So if you want to experience joy, you've You can't choose which So yeah, huge piece. And I've done so much work. And I think the other thing is Oh, you just released the It's like, well, then you need clean in terms of emotions. So that's been quite a a big you've got to lean into things and you don't want to revisit. In fact someone I don't speak to network had said to me, do you not think You need to get on with stuff, I haven't, because I haven't, for 40 odd So I've got, It's not navel gazing. It's like, actually, it's a decluttering a bit like your network. But navel gazing is, is very passive. It's ruminating on things Whereas what you've been doing is Gabor Mate said, lean into emotions you know, and it's, it's evolving. It's not passive, like navel gazing. That's just a misunderstanding about I think it's a massive misunderstanding, baggage, like you said, it's a process. I've not thought about it in decluttering out all this stuff And it's, I don't know if you're familiar And the more I learn, the more I'm It's so connected. And if you're holding on to all this to show up in your body somewhere. It's your health, you know, you do Painful though it can be. Can I ask you about the little A little creature? Ralph. Ralph. This is Ralph. So Ralph came about from, university on the inner critic. So I did a little sketch. So yeah, I had to come up with someone So it was to indicate your inner critic. So I'm sure anyone listening what your inner critic is. But yeah, just that little Which I've learned to tame mine over time. Taming your inner critic and and it's there to keep you safe. But it just doesn't mean it has to the roost for, for way too long. Well very often your inner critic has your father or, or your teacher at anywhere or, you know, it's so negative. But if you can actually, you know, I mean, Now you can stop that. I know what you're thinking. I do. I do that so much. Like, thank you. Thanks for that. It's not really helpful right now. So we're going to have to move on. And yeah, saying it out Cause with clients, I'll be So mine is called Ralph for reasons All your circle will now Who's Ralph. Some people will know Yeah. Just giving it a name, people think it's just give it a little bit of distance. And it's not a bad thing, it's just goes back to the power thing, doesn't it? Don't give your power Yeah, oh well, thank you for coming to And I loved your book, I thought it actionable steps in it that you can take and think about what you want to do with So I'd thoroughly recommend that and If you'd just like to say your website notes, then where they can find you. Thanks, Jo. So my website is www. poweryourpotential. co. uk yeah, come and have a look. We've also got a quiz on there about might be, what's getting in your way. So yeah, come and have a Brilliant. I'll put the link to the Thank you. Thank you. You've been listening to the Midlife where we're changing the narrative