Hello everybody, I'm Helen Walters, and I am delighted to welcome you to another episode of TED Explains Ian, of course, is the president He is the head of GZERO Media, and he is here to talk to us about what just happened Today is November 7, President Trump was reelected So, Ian, please tell us what you make Ian Bremmer: You're right, but also the popular vote I mean, it's close, you know, 51-49, so half of the Americans We always knew that was So it's not as if the polls That's not the issue. One thing that's quite useful, of course, which doesn't always line up creates more legitimacy for Trump. And the fact that this wasn't just and that it's clear that there was nor definitive external interference. Clearly, there was a lot bomb threats mailed in, But nothing that would have And so you were able to not only get but Democrats across the board, recognizing that Trump So unlike in 2020, where Trump himself precipitated saying that the vote was rigged and undermining the legitimacy here, we do not have that. Furthermore, the Republicans have, Of course, conservative justices and the Republicans, in short order, are very likely, overwhelmingly likely, And what that means is that the Trump administration both domestically and in foreign policy, that they have said For example, on tariffs or on taxes, All of these things and now will have a mandate to pursue. So that is the long and short HW: So you talk about tariffs, A lot has been said about the fact that Americans were voting and how they felt about the economy. Do you agree with that? And what do you think when he actually comes IB: Well, let's talk They voted on a country whose direction they did not agree with. Over 70 percent of Americans, Helen, with where the country was heading. And when that happens, it is very, very hard to win And vice president Harris but she certainly had accountability for alignment with the policies And when she was asked on the media, when she started doing her media tour you know, &quot;What would you do Her response, and this is that you could ask her in this campaign, her response was, &quot;I can't think So most important question, And she tried to amend that but she was never able to really get away from what she would do and why she would do it differently. I mean, she moved a number of her policies but she didn't really explain it. She didn't really disassociate herself So pretty much everybody out there that was unsatisfied with where felt like she did not represent change. I mean, she's younger, she's different, she'd be the first woman. From a policy perspective, they didn't believe And of course, Helen, this is what we have seen In the developed world, every democracy that has had has voted against their incumbents. Canada is probably about to have one. They will also throw out Trudeau A lot of developing countries, India. Modi was doing pretty well, South Africa, the ANC, now in coalition. Mexico, is the only country of note in the year of elections, that actually returned the same party. And, you know, in many ways, because the Morena party and AMLO against a deep, entrenched, you know, sort of power you know, and the like. But if anything, they're the exception And so, you know, you and I know, I expected that Trump would win. I didn't have strong because Trump was himself very unpopular. But to the extent that anyone an election in this environment globally, it was Trump's to lose. And, you know, he was able So I think that's the backdrop And specifically what it is, it is inflation, which is high but the overall prices, it's not like the prices are lower just because the inflation those prices are still very high and you can't get away, Immigration, something that, frankly, the Biden administration was a problem not just in red states And those numbers are coming down, but the illegal immigrants are largely still in the US. And then also disinformation, a large amount of disinformation that has made it almost impossible to have a national debate And an awful lot of people, didn't necessarily believe or Biden was implementing them. A lot of people in America think that the inflation rate think that unemployment And the people that say that were far more likely to vote So I would say, you know, what drove this election was inflation, And that is something that we have seen HW: I think it's all And you said something interesting which is this idea that people and they don't necessarily know about a situation are. So this is also an election in which there has been plenty Elon Musk wrote yesterday on X, And I think we can argue a lot about how the media about the way that the media all of that vapidity, But am I alone in finding that type And isn't that driving us even further into a future where there are these or fractured truths that people have, that actually don't coalesce IB: Well, when I saw it from Elon, I thought he was talking to me, and saying, &quot;Ian, you're media now.&quot; I'm like, about time, right? I mean, here I am, a political scientist, So yeah, they should be thinking Of course that's not what he was saying. What he was saying CNN, MSNBC, Fox ... You know, and by the way, even though Fox is every bit as much because he likes one ideologically now, he doesn't like the other two, but you might as well have some His view is that all of those that they are fake news he's not making money out of those. And that Twitter/X is real news and that citizen journalists Now, I have a lot of things I believe that they have gotten focusing on their own interests, they're less trusted than they used to be. We see that across the country. They're more politicized. They're more for their own candidate, whether it's Fox on the right or CNN and MSNBC on the left. But at least the journalists on Fox not, you know, Hannity, but the journalists during the day that are writing the stories the journalists during the day the journalists that are working and the New York Times, but most of the people they have expertise, they've been trained. And of course, the big difference if you want to call them that, people that are posting random on social media, number one, they tend to have stronger biases to try to mitigate them Number two, they aren't so they don't have as much expertise and how to ensure and you follow through with arguments and there's research. And then number three, a lot of the so-called the verified citizen journalists are bots and are anonymous Or are bad actors that are actively pursuing for their own purposes. And that is, of course, the antithesis of what information, political information is necessary I deeply worry that we are where almost everyone I know, educated people in the United States that voted for Trump and voted for Harris believe things, believe about the political system I mean, the number of people that believe that large numbers which has been, you know, and you're talking about less than non-citizens that are on the rolls. It is not an issue. And yet you wouldn't know that because he actively has worked as strongly as he can. And I think that's a horrible thing. And I have seen that, I know a lot of Democrats that believed, a lot of Harris supporters that believed that Trump actually called to be in front of a firing squad. And if you had watched that was taken out of context -- you know, he was not saying that. He was saying that she's a neocon who supports wars, like in Iraq, and that how would she feel if it was her that was facing the firing, as opposed to the people the soldiers they're sending off to die? Something I've heard many Democrats far left and far right, historically say. So that environment, the fact that information is being used and that is what matters to you, is one of the most damaging things It is an unsustainable trajectory. We will not maintain our democracy I get things wrong all the time. You know, I'll make an analytic call. And I thought Trump But back in 2016, I thought And I had reasons to believe that. And I was wrong. And I came out and explained I get things wrong all the time, It's not in service of a political agenda. I work my ass off, as do all the analysts at Eurasia Group, to try to help people what is happening in the world. And, you know, not just from or an American or a Canadian And I travel all over the world and talk to people to try to help inform that. That is a tiny, tiny, tiny fraction of the information today politically, and particularly today politically, in the two-year run-up to a 10-billion-dollar And that is no way to run And all the people out there that are saying that they and they don't believe in their elites, they don't believe their Congress, their executive, even their business leaders, they don't believe in them, that's why they're saying that. Is because they're existing that they can no longer That's not a sustainable place to be. HW: It seems like a deeply You floated something yesterday and thought was really interesting. It was that potentially Musk Have you thought any more about that? Do you think that might happen? And what does that mean IB: So first of all, I have a hard time as president, be able to continue Now you know, unprecedented And Trump has said that, you know, commit a crime. So, I mean, in principle, that means that rule of law, The Supreme Court has punted on that So, you know, we'll see where that goes. We're going to be But certainly I could easily imagine ... First of all, I believe that Musk's is probably the smartest that I have seen made by a billionaire, by an oligarch in the United I've never seen one that I think than what Elon just did. Remember, this was a Biden supporter and he turned off from Biden when Biden decided not to invite him Because, you know, Tesla, even though isn't a union shop, and Biden decided he was going as opposed to lean into ensuring that the US has the best possible Elon took exception to that, And the rest, as we say, is history. Big own goal by the president. And I hope he's reflecting for him to do. Leaving that aside, I think that Elon is now to help formulate what the values of the United States are, and to distribute those with his hundreds of millions of followers and from the president And there are ways that that could be There are ways that those could be used And again, I promise, if Elon does things you'll be the first to hear it from me. So, for example, I was in China recently. I met with the leadership and I met with Wang Yi many others. And Elon Musk had recently been to China, and he travels there frequently. And they all wanted to know from me, while Elon is presenting himself as the guy that can help ensure that US-China relations if Trump becomes president. Is that true? Is he the guy? And of course, Elon has very, developing artificial intelligence Tesla on the ground manufacturing China is very important for Elon. And certainly, Elon would not want there to be And I think that he's going to have a lot especially because Trump in his first term. He had a tariff policy on China. But the CHIPS Act and the export that was all done under Biden. And so, Elon, to the extent it's going to be technology policy. He's going to have, I think, to be able to help determine in those key technology and also what kind of regulations, subsidies, stimulus will be enacted by a Trump administration and of course, for Elon's own companies, which I expect he'll benefit Now the question will be, is Elon going to be able to facilitate a more functional relationship in advanced technologies? And the answer to that may well be yes. And if Elon helps avoid a cold war I will absolutely say that. Now we know that Trump on wanting to enact much stronger tariffs well before he got involved in politics. He's thought the tariffs were, you know, a critical component of US economic Trump's &quot;America First&quot; means more jobs in the United States. It means, you know, bringing back, and instead using the power of the dollar and of the size of the American market and the strength of industrial policy to nearshore with the Americans. And Lighthizer in particular, who I expect will run trade has said he wants to see 60 percent Well, I mean, is Elon going help facilitate a deal on that with a China that is facing very serious And the answer to that is untested. That's a very interesting proposition that the Chinese are hoping And he has said, Now if it turns out this guy is absolutely golden He could become the most powerful If he is not able to do that, then he will be in a personal position the Chinese president and I would not want That strikes me as a challenging for someone who does So that's going to be an incredibly I mean, we're going to see this play out. Again, we have a lot of pieces around the world. This is only one, Europe, the Middle East. But this is one that's really, HW: Super interesting that will be arguing constructively OK, so let's talk about foreign policy. Let's get into it. Zelenskyy obviously reached out that he won the election and was very complimentary to him. So what is going to happen What are you seeing there? IB: And how could Zelensky not, Helen? HW: Totally. IB: You know, he is a master communicator. He's been out there marketing himself Trump has even called him, like, doing the best sales job And on the one hand, that's critical because Trump thinks that the US On the other hand, because Trump sees himself So, I mean, you know, as my mom would say, And she used to always say that I saw a flash of my mom I think that the fact that Zelenskyy said, &quot;Congratulations, great win.&quot; You know, &quot;We had in the United States in September, That is not likely to be reciprocated the president-elect. I suspect that he wants to end the war. He has said he will end it in 24 hours. Now Trump does exaggerate. It might not be 24, There could be bathroom breaks in there. But he has repeatedly said, Don't even need to be president, What does that mean? Well, it means he wants He really does. And to be fair, I know a lot of people running the Biden administration, because they think and it's going to get harder But you've got to convince Now what I expect Trump will do will be call Zelenskyy, &quot;You've got to freeze no more fighting. That means Russia, you basically are occupying but you don't get to keep bombing Ukraine, you've got to take it. But you don't have to worry And then we'll sit down on what that's going And if you don't accept that, and Russia, I'm putting That is the opening gambit mano a mano, to end the war. So, Helen, there's a couple of very One is, is Zelenskyy prepared Can he get to a limited ceasefire, Under a Biden administration, His position is much worse We will see how he responds. The consequences would be but he could say no. Politically, it's very hard You know, he could lose power if he does. He will certainly undermine his position that had been bravely fighting, supporting those The Russians, you know, much easier for them If the Ukrainians say yes, you know, I've been speaking I've also heard from others that have said, well, Putin unless there were other things can't join NATO, all of that. Would Trump put any of that on offer? Would he be capable of putting given where the Europeans are? How does Putin react? If Putin says no, That's an interesting question. But Helen, the most important question is that the Europeans are not likely And if they are consulted by Trump, he certainly doesn't worry about coordinating a united policy before he contacts the Russians. Biden wouldn't even talk to Putin, and he wouldn't consider until the Ukrainians That is absolutely not So what we have to look at here is whether the Europeans confronted with a Trump that most of them Will Europe be stronger together, facing not only Trump giving and talking directly with Putin, but also doing things tariffs against the Europeans? I mean, we already know is more inclined to work with Trump. He's made the Mar-a-Lago Well, what about Giorgia Meloni, ideologically oriented to Trump, but has been very anti-Russian and has a lot of popularity Might she shift away in support of a Trump policy? We don't know. What about Germany? They're about to have new elections. What's a new German chancellor? We don't even know who that person is. We don't know how well the far right how much more aligned So one of the most important questions do the Europeans hang together with a much tougher set of relations or do they fragment with a meaningful flipping on Russia and saying, &quot;We don't care about Ukraine anymore&quot;? And if the latter happens, what happens to the front-line that see Russia as an existential threat? Poland, the Baltic states, I mean, these are questions in very short order, but right now we are completely These are unanswered questions right now, And all of the European leaders they are mightily concerned This is priority number one for them. HW: Alright, so we are more in the Middle East Obviously there's a lot going on there. We have talked before that Netanyahu would be holding out was hoping for that to happen. It has happened. So what do you think happens IB: Yeah, I thought that he was going to agree to a ceasefire where Biden would be seen as the broker, he had no interest in that. He wanted Trump. By the way, the Israeli people want Trump. There was a "Jerusalem Post" I think it was over 60 percent of Israelis and 12 percent said they want Harris. That's the biggest gap And it's because Trump, he did the Abraham Accords. He recognized the Golan Heights, He moved the US embassy to Jerusalem after many presidents promised to do it, Trump actually did it. So, I mean, Trump's bona fides even stronger than the pro-Zionist Biden, is a really big deal. Remember, Trump's first trip as president No American presidents do that. He went to Saudi Arabia, So I'm not surprised that the Israelis are very, very comfortable here. I think that the question, first of all, I still think there is room for Biden with the Israelis and Hezbollah. They are close. If you made me bet right now, within two weeks, maybe three, in other words, in the lame duck, I think that there will be a settlement They'll stop the fighting. The Israelis, and particularly are not looking to destroy Hezbollah They are looking to push Hezbollah back, get the Israelis that have been evacuated back to their schools, and then stop the fighting. Netanyahu understands that would cause a lot more damage that he doesn't necessarily want He's also done a lot to destroy and degrade their military So that is a narrow win that I think can be taken off the table Gaza is very different. I don't see any change I think the humanitarian crisis for the Palestinians living in Gaza if you even believe that it can, it will, and especially as UNRWA, which is the United Nations agency that actually is responsible and for bringing humanitarian aid in, has been just voted by a large majority They will no longer work with it. So, I mean, really anything that looked to build infrastructure has either been bombed away or is being unwound. And so I think this is even I don't see any move towards a two-state solution, towards independent governance towards anything that would Iran is the big question. So Trump has criticized Biden for constraining the Israelis in their response to the Iranian strikes of 180 ballistic missiles against Israel. Didn't kill any Israelis, And they did actually strike And Jared Kushner that he's circulated around on how this is a unique to rid themselves once and for all. So unlike Biden, who has worked to prevent the Israelis from striking Iranian energy it appears that Trump is goading them Now there's a very big question. Is he getting them to do it And then they end all of that and Trump can say, or would he rather wait so he can coordinate militarily, provide the intelligence, all the rest, between the United States and Israel to together &quot;handle&quot; the Iranian threat? But I do believe the likelihood of an expanded military confrontation is relatively high. Now remember, when Trump was president, he ordered the assassination Qasem Soleimani, and the Iranian response And there were those, like the head who at the time were saying that Trump wanted to go than he ended up actually doing. So I mean, Trump, I think, that the Iranians are a paper tiger and that this is a great and or the United States That's a very interesting point. Also, let's keep in mind who have been involved like China, like Russia, but unlike Russia, who wanted Trump, the Iranians want Harris. And the Iranians have tried and Mike Pompeo and others involved something that I'm honestly very surprised in the US media. So I think for many reasons, Trump and a Trump administration would feel like it is time to hit and show them that you don't mess So yeah, again, I think And from a global perspective, that would lead to much higher oil prices, at least for a period of time, because the Iranian capacity and prevent a lot of oil is significant. HW: So you talked about Milley, Who do you see as making up Who do you think We know a lot of people have said What are you hearing IB: Well, certainly not Milley, since he's recently said So I think that's probably table stakes I don't think he wants one either. The funny thing is that were in the previous now consider Trump to be an enemy I mean that is -- One of the interesting things will be to what extent Trump decides Will he launch You know, might they be more likely Will Trump-influenced media I mean, those are all and we don't know the answer to it. In many ways, I think that Trump people that he thought were loyal and then turned against him, more than against leaders But, you know, again, That is not in any way borne out in fact. But in terms of people I do think that they're going They are going to look for people but they will not go for independents that Trump doesn't have control over, even though their Republican They did a lot of that So, you know, you had Rex Tillerson who Trump had never met before &quot;This guy is not aligned with any He's CEO of ExxonMobil.&quot; And Trump says, &quot;Yeah, but look at him. He looks like a Secretary of State.&quot; That is not what we will see I think that loyalty He will want people that will not in three and six month's time, in a year's time, in a future election. There are some people that I continue So people that were heavily that were seen to facilitate Trump Howard Lutnick, who originally said he just wants to help Trump. But now that he's spent a lot of time "I really do want a job, Well, I think he has a good chance I think Linda McMahon, same, from the World Wrestling Very close to Trump, very good friends. For a long time now she wants Good chance she would get that job. I think that on State, Bill Hagerty, the senator, steady, capable pair of hands. Certainly interested in that job, But frankly, lots of people, I think Ric Grenell, the former before that, ambassador well-known on social media and on Fox. A little more incendiary, more like, willing to be More of a populist, Trump likes him a lot. He really would like He'll certainly be interviewed I think there are others, you know, member of Congress, potentially for Secretary of Defense. Pompeo, Mike Pompeo does not look He took a long time before he was And I think the loyalty Hasn't gotten as much access as a lot of other people have. Some of the key questions with the so-called power ministries, the Department of Justice, Will they be politicized? Will they be weaponized? I do think it's very hard to imagine who is very conservative, very smart, but not a Trump loyalist. At the end of the day, someone vote and act according as opposed to Trump's all the time. I think that is not acceptable in a second Trump term, in the same way that Mike Pence it was JD Vance. And a lot of people say, oh, JD is like, really powerful and he's going to run the shadow cabinet, and he's going to be in charge No he's not. Trump will not tolerate someone I think there will be And when he has priorities, And I think there will be lots that will fight and compete over areas that Trump doesn't really care and then we'll see that play out. So in that regard, it is likely than the first Trump administration. HW: This is the Trump show. So just to wrap things up, I guess a very simple which is, how are you feeling IB: I think that the United States continues to be the most powerful It has the reserve currency, it has the most powerful global military, it's producing the most energy, it dominates the field which is the most important set that humans have ever been able So I mean, there's a reason why people on the US dollar in this environment But the global order There is an absence of global leadership, and that absence will be felt in a Trump, America First You know, a lot of allies around the world are allies but also because they perceive And those values include commitment and the promotion of democracy Commitment to a multilateral architecture where norms and values Collective security among allies and to the extent possible globally. Free trade and market access through multilateral agreements and higher standard over time. I think that what we have just seen is that the American people and that the American president-elect So US allies around the world have to recognize that they still may have with the United States, but they no longer have Biden, to the extent that he had it was really about autocracies the bad guys versus the good guys. Trump completely rejects that. Trump's view is, &quot;I don't care what kind of a political I want to know, can I do a deal with you? And if you're Putin or Kim Jong Un, or if you're Trudeau or Claudia Sheinbaum, if I can do a deal with you, And by the way, I'm going where I have a lot more power. I'm not going to do it where a bunch of you think and force me into constraints.&quot; So I think that we're in an environment where our challenges where our ability as human beings are increasingly systemic and structural. And yet the availability of global but is decisively rejected that have most upheld it for good and for bad, and by its president-elect. So that's probably the thing and that I think will cause volatility and danger in the coming years. HW: Ian, it is always Sobering but fascinating. Thank you so much for your time IB: My pleasure, Helen.