Antarctica it is like that, from one moment to the next the weather changes and you have to adjust to what happens. Any change in temperature, in the rest of the world, a degree more or a degree less means putting on a sweatshirt or going out in a t-shirt. In Antarctica, a degree more or a degree less indicates that there is ice or that there is no ice. Today we are going to embark on an adventure to Antarctica to discover this uninhabitable territory and understand why we could not live without it. The trip begins in Argentina, but much further south. Cataloged as the city at the end of the world, Ushuaia is the last bit of land that we are going to set foot on before embarking on this adventure to the ends of the earth. - I don't know, I'm excited, I'm nervous. But things are just beginning. The trip consists of two days of navigation, passing through one of the seas considered the most dangerous in the world, the Drake Passage. The boat goes up and down, up and down and you want it to stop, but it won't stop. Our companion on this expedition will be the Ocean Victory, it is a pioneering ecology ship specially prepared for trips to the poles. And when we least wanted to agree, we are already on the boat. -Well, we are already reaching the rooms here. The suitcase, they already brought us everything. - My suitcase, Gaston's. Wow! Look, on top of that we have the balcony here next door. And the funny thing is, look, here there is a kind of dryer, because it seems that the last trip they took was quite hectic in the Drake passage. So from the start it seems to me that it's scaring us. Well, this is our next home for the next 10 days, so we couldn't be happier. Let's see what's going on around this boat that seems small, but is quite big and try the bed obviously. Ira, a Spanish filmmaker who will be accompanying us, also joined this trip . - Ready, for the adventure! I love it, I love these trips where there are photographers, there are creators and we are going to do epic things, that's the best. Wah, we're not going anymore! We are about to say goodbye The last goodbye to the city to civilization In 10 days we are going to see each other again Bye, bye, Ushuaia Now we are going to Antarctica Now, we already left, goodbye We are leaving now look, yesterday I couldn't sleep good because I was very excited about what was going to happen today. But hey, let's make a dream come true. I can't believe we're doing this. How crazy! The day has arrived, I have faith that it will be excellent. And it's crazy because people who are already used to watching travel videos on this channel and have seen me traveling for a long time, really people who know me know that one of my biggest dreams has always been to come to Antarctica. What's more, I have a paper here where it says one of my short-term dreams in the next 5 years and it was to come here. So it really is a dream that I am fulfilling personally. Come on, seriously, look at our passage through the Beagle Channel. The sunset is beautiful, both Argentina and Chile views. How beautiful, how incredible. It doesn't feel so good to me when I see that everything is attached with a strap. Well, we just took the pill because in a few hours we entered Drake Passage and the truth is that I'm starting to feel a little dizzy, a little with a strange sensation, my body can already tell that it's going through something. Anyway, everything is super calm, but I feel strange. If the body already knows, like you do move very fast, then something is already noticeable, something strange that I can't explain. Drake Passage Well, good morning. We have just woken up on our first day through Drake Passage, which although it may not seem to you to be moving, I feel it quite a bit. You can't see it around me, but I feel it. I think the closest sensation that I can explain this feeling is as if it were a roller coaster, like it goes up and down and the body feels that. We've already taken the pill, we're already kind of tired, I think it would be like the side effect. Today is going to be a whole day of navigation, you're going to see different types of talks, instructions, because we're going to Antarctica , I mean, it's not We are going anywhere, we are going to Antarctica and it is a very sensitive ecosystem. They don't know how complicated it is to walk here sometimes. You have to be careful. - How are you walking? - A little difficult and even more so with this dream. What you are going to realize is that on every corner there are like cardboard bags for people who vomit, I already saw several fall, and they said that it is quite calm now, I can't imagine if it is calm now, what it would be like when it is strong. Well, now what we have to do is how to clean all the little things that we are going to take out, because it is a very delicate ecosystem, so we cannot bring in bacteria, viruses, little things that we obviously bring, all of this has to be super clean hats, cameras, everything, everything that we are going to take outside. But before arriving you have to know some very interesting information. Antarctica is the fourth largest continent in the world, surpassing Oceania and Europe. Being so low, Antarctica can be in complete darkness for a month or complete light as it is now in summer. And for that reason you need a little help to sleep. The truth is that I feel terrible and I need to get there, see you tomorrow. Land in sight Good morning. Well, today's weather dawned exactly the same as yesterday, that is, the boat moves quite a bit, but it's not a tragedy either , it can be resisted, it can be endured. The boat goes up and down, up and down and you want it to stop, but it won't stop. The interesting thing is that they told us that today starting at three in the afternoon we are already entering Antarctica, at least we are going to be able to see the first glaciers, so that excites me a lot and already makes me really want to start the day full. We are arriving, we are arriving. - The life of what? - It is very difficult for the filmmaker, because they have to have energy when no one has energy. And I just want to sleep and I can't because I'm the filmmaker. I don't know if it was impatience or nervousness that we are about to arrive, but I couldn't stop looking at the sea. We took advantage of this sailing time to share with the experts on board and have them tell us what could await us on this expedition. I think we have land in sight. When out of nowhere the cloudy sky cleared in the early morning, I knew that this was our welcome to Antarctica. We are already in Antarctica, I can't believe it. Four in the morning I got up, and we looked outside, everything was absolutely white, you could see the white mountains, the icebergs passing by the sides. This is crazy, it's like you wake up in another world. And the temperature is also noticeable because they have already dropped a few degrees compared to yesterday. I am not cold, I am a girl of ice, of darkness. The truth is that wherever you look, it is spectacular. There is no view that disappoints. Quite a blast, really. Look at that, look at that. Wow! What's there? It is so beautiful! - Literally out here. - From the room we have it here. Wow, the best view. We're going to the Mudroom to change because we already went outside. So it will be our first contact with Antarctica. We are ready! We already put on our boots, the grim reaper. We're ready to go. Antarctica is the coldest and driest continent on planet Earth. which is also covered by 95% ice. Well, we just set foot on Antarctica. There are a lot of penguins, there is a lot of life. You have to be very careful, be quite respectful of nature and simply admire it. The penguins here are quite curious, they want to see who we are, what we do. That's why they get quite close, but a distance of 5 meters must be respected. I'm going to cry. It was nothing to live there, to walk beautifully. It's crazy. Look, look over there. Those stones they have there are basically to build their nests. In other words, they carry pebbles in their mouths, which will lead to their members. We are watching a live penguin fight . What regret! He ran away! They are fighting because basically if one of them steals one of the stones, the other will go look for it and take it quite personally. If you can see, there are some small paths that are not created by humans, but by penguins. Those are the rows, the corridors where they pass, all the penguin colonies when they pass from one to another and you can see how they go down and so on. There we continue climbing. We are climbing a small mountain. We have a view Wow! incredible. - Come on? - Come on! While we were dodging giant icebergs on our second day. We were able to come across fauna and some cabins with the Argentine flag. Right there I asked myself, Who owns Antarctica? Antarctica is the only continent that does not have a native population and is also the only continent that does not belong directly to any country, but is regulated by an international treaty. Where 12 countries agreed, they somehow left their own and national interests in the background to associate in this international framework that prioritizes peace and international scientific cooperation regarding Antarctica. Well, we arrived at Cuverville Island. This has one of the largest penguin colonies in all of Antarctica. And now what we are going to do is go up this hill so we can see all the colonies above. Hit it with a few more meters and we're already at the top. From here you can see a spectacular view. What you see is all red there, it's not dirt, it's penguin manure and it smells just like it looks. Antarctica works as the great regulator of the climate of planet Earth that you and I can go out in the street in short sleeve t-shirts, we can thank Antarctica for this, since it is covered in ice, it works as a great reflector of the light of the sun and returns it to the atmosphere. This is called the Albedo effect, through which we can cool the Earth's temperature a little more and inhabit it at these 25 or 30 degrees that we have today in the tropical areas. In addition, Antarctica is very interesting because of what happens below what we see. Antarctica is surrounded by the circumpolar current, which functions as a conveyor belt for nutrients along the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans. So basically Antarctica fulfills the function of being the heart of the ocean. It pumps nutrients and we could say that its veins and arteries are the oceans and currents. White paradise We woke up to the sound of ice breaking with our ship. Waking up looking out the window in this place is difficult to assimilate. But the calm and splendor of the moment inspires us to enjoy it in silence. Look, is it true that we have to go through there? The reason is that I don't know how you are going to get through that small gap there, I don't know how many meters it will be, but it assumes that we are going in that direction. They said it was going to be complicated but that they were going to try anyway, so... Nothing, I'm a spectator. Just a spectator. Something I hadn't told you about is that I'm trying a new camera that just came out from Sony, it's the A7C2. Which is basically like a body similar to the A7 IV, which takes very good photos and very good video. And on this trip I brought it to test it because it is very compact, it is very small, it is perfect to take it anywhere. It has a new feature, for example that it recognizes the eyes of birds, of animals. then I can have much better focus control. At this moment you can see some icebergs in the background, already quite far away, so I'm going to arrive with the 70-200 and I'm going to leave you some photos of what I could have been taking here. Well, I was here, normally, I'm observing here in front that there is like a colony of penguins and there is a bird that seems to want to steal the eggs. He stayed there waiting for the perfect moment to attack. I grab it there. Although the skua was able to steal the egg, this is not the biggest threat to the penguins, as is global warming. This past season, we have seen how out of 5 monitored emperor penguin colonies, 4 lost 100% of their chicks because the ice melted before they could generate their waterproof feathers. By leaps and bounds we can see the changes that the climate in Antarctica is having. And also, as it is covered with ice, but not with a thin layer of ice like an uncleaned freezer, but with glaciers that are 4 kilometers thick. All this contribution of water to our oceans would increase sea level and therefore endanger all coastal communities, which in the world in which we live are the vast majority, since we depend on water sources. Life in Antarctica Good morning people, now we are in the zodiac to see whales and behind us are the whales, you have to see this. There is a humpback whale, but very close to us. Usually there is always a mother and daughter and now we saw only one. - Or were there two? - Two There are two, there are two, there are two. A few meters from our sighting, there was a temporary Argentine base that we did not hesitate to go down. This Brown base is one of the Argentine bases that were established before the signing of the Antarctic treaty and was occupied permanently, in 1984 the base's crew was ordered to stay for another year. Because they couldn't come look for them. And that winter, the base doctor went crazy and set it on fire. The doctor ended up in prison spending his years, instead of on the base. And they never rebuilt the base again. Currently, the Argentine navy is not located in this place, it is used more for scientific purposes. Apparently they arrive in January and stay for a short time. As you can see, the bases are separated from each other. There is the main base and then there are some secondary ones. Why do they do this? Because in the event of fires, something catches fire, something happens, it has a second basis. I mean, I'm still amazed by the scenario that people have. Imagine waking up here and seeing this. And what will it be like in winter? Wow! I'm also fascinated to see how the penguins took over the whole place. They literally made it their home. What are you saying? Will that be the bathroom? Well, people, the time has come, the time has come, so we came to Antarctica. We are going to do what is known as the Polar Plunge. What's that? We are going to get into minus zero degree water. - 0.5oC - In other words, that is freezing. - Yes - It's just not frozen because it's salt water. - Are you going to jump? - I don't know. Guys, I'm from Colombia. I mean, I don't have snow, I don't have... That's so cold! I don't know! Look how I am! - Let everything be taken out... Before we jump into the water, let's warm up a little - That's it. -We're. The soul of the cold! Oh my God! No! Let's go! Go Go! 1, 2, 3! - I can not speak! Let's go! I think he was waiting for this moment. So, here we go. Let's go! Cold water is needed to raise the adrenaline. Saying Antarctica sounds so far away for us that it is difficult to take into account that the impact of our actions can worsen or reverse the transformation that such a virgin place is undergoing today. But coming here and seeing how fragile the ecosystem is that practically makes life on Earth possible generates more awareness of the situation that exists today and that is clearly a reality. But on this trip I also learned that if you want you can help reverse it, speaking and raising awareness in our community so that what we do above does not affect what is below. I thought the most complicated thing was going to be getting to Antarctica. When the hardest thing is actually to leave her. I will be eternally grateful for the experience I had in this place. Until next time.