Hey everybody. Don Georgevich here. Have you ever received a job offer and then I not negotiate? are like, Hey Don. I got a job offer. Should I negotiate it? And my response I don't know if you should negotiate or not. And that's what I'm going to teach you in or should you not? big one and I could spend hours teaching you But instead, I want to help you decide if And there's no one right way to negotiate; is about giving more money. It's not. Negotiating is making sure that you are getting That could be money, that could be benefits, it could be anything. So, it depends on what's most important to So, the first thing you need to ask yourself Are they giving me what I asked for? thousand, a car and an office and three weeks And they gave you; the office, the car, the So, if you try to negotiate an offer where might come across as a little bit greedy. But let's say they only offered you $70 thousand and they still gave you the car and they gave So, now you have to ask yourself, Should $10 thousand or should I try to get closer for? That depends. Are you happy with the offer? Do you feel comfortable with the offer? Did they tell you that we're not able to give So, you have to weigh everything out. You have to decide if they're giving you is And if you feel that it's unfair or maybe else, then maybe it's time to negotiate. And that's where you go in and you try to need. Notice I said need and not want. I mean, because we all want more. I always one more. Anytime I go in for a job interview and I than what they're giving me. Do I need more? Probably not; what they're giving me is fair. So, in most cases, there's nothing wrong with But you have to ask yourself, Are they are, then you should probably just accept going to work for them. If you muddy the waters and you counter an them and it's market value, you could be doing And it is possible they could withdraw the The best way to decide if you should negotiate you getting everything you need? Did they give me what I need? Did they give me the benefits that I need? Did they give me the salary that I needed? What's important to you isn't necessarily Some people want more money, some people want it just depends. So, you have to ask yourself these questions. What's important to me? What do I need? And the last one is, Am I willing to walk for? So, let's say, for example, they're the office, they're giving you the car, they But they're not budging on the money. They're going to stay there and get the 70 Are you willing to walk away from that deal Maybe you are, maybe you're not; I don't know. But you have to ask yourself that question. And when you put yourself in the position gives you tremendous leverage and strength That means, If I don't get what I want, else. If you're just desperate and you don't want job, you can still try to negotiate; maybe of 70. You just push them say, Hey, can you get they do. It's a possibility; maybe they'll say, Yes But when you're negotiating, you need to have So, if you ask them for more money and they up; already prepared that you want to ask Like, Okay, you won't give me more money, then? keep saying, No, no, no; we can't do that, in six months; after you get to try for six would you consider giving me the full 80 thousand Now, this kind of takes the risk factor out out for six months, see how you do, evaluate they'll commit to their deal and they'll give So, that's one little trick that you can do accept the offer and then go ahead and do and then he can get that extra money. That's one way you can do it. But your best strategy, before you commit Like, if you say this, what could they possibly And you need to map out what you're going from them, No, we can't do this Yes, So you need to think about this in advance. If you don't, you're going to blow the negotiation or you're going to look greedy or something. So, plan out your negotiation strategy in What are all the possibilities? What can they say? If I ask for more money, what would they counter And if they countered with a certain number, Ill say I can't do it and Ill walk away. You have to map out the strategy. And more of anything; when you negotiate, Never negotiate in e-mail; that puts you at Because if you're just type in and say, I'm can just reply back and say, No. And you don't get to see their expressions that no really sounds like. So, it's very important that you only negotiate what's on their face, you can hear how they they can read your body language. Maybe they'll see or hear that you are not they better come up to that number or you're It's why it's so important you negotiate on So, from the top; ask yourself, are the giving If they are, you probably don't need to negotiate fair offer. If you're not getting everything you need are and then go in and ask for them; it's And if they're not giving you everything you things; just so you can get a closer, total and want to come and work there. First, decide if you need to negotiate. If they're giving you everything you asked If you're not getting everything you asked you want to aim for. If it's more money, more benefits, more vacation; that. Have your first here, if they don't give you have something lined up that you're going So, you have different layers set aside; the want, the third thing. So, if you don't get one, go for two, if you something. And you get nothing; if they give absolutely or you walk away; its up to you. I can't tell you if this offer is right for Only you can do that. That's all I have for you today, my friend. Good luck on your next interview. We'll see you next time. If you're ready to ace your next interview, You can't just show up for a job interview You have to give yourself an advantage. So, if you'd like to learn more from me than copy of The Complete Interview Answer Guide the right way. Inside, you're getting like 20 years of interviewing And I'll teach you what you need to say to So, if it's been a while since your last job don't spend countless hours figuring out this Instead, let me take you by the hand and show When you order your copy from jobinterviewtools.com, job seekers all over the world and you're a million people get hired for their number You'll also get direct e-mail access where take on your situation, so you'll never be And finally, if you found this video helpful, subscribe to my channel, so you get notifications And by subscribing, you support me, my message So, I'd really appreciate it. Make sure you hit Subscribe.