NARRATOR: Previously -I am a choreographer. I am looking for dancers. Come and work as my assistant. See if you can cut it in a -Guys, how you doing? I'm Myles. SAMMY: Myles. -It was brilliant. -You know, she's right. You were brilliant. -You felt the need to push -I've been pushing because I've been -You have to talk to them. -No, I have to rehearse. If they're splitting I may as well make Mom? Paige and I really need to NARRATOR: Christian's never -Sammy, a man crush isn't -What if it's more than that? -This has to stay in the vault. You're dancing Clara. THEME SONG: Take a breath. Close your eyes. Take a leap of faith tonight, tonight, tonight. This is my chance. This is my chance, my Whoa-oh, whoa, whoa-oh. -&quot;The Nutcracker&quot; And it's more than You must take the Transport them TARA (VOICEOVER): I didn't see the ocean As soon as we pulled up to the and into the waves. I thought I knew stop to listen to any warnings. MISS RAINE: Act Two, Snowflakes Boys, battle -Dude, we're going every day of the holidays. -Sweet. -Christian's gonna teach -Oh, rock on. -Katrina. Katrina! See me later. I have plans for you. TARA (VOICEOVER): It for the rip to I was in way over my head, -Good start, Tara. Good start. Keep warm until the Abigail. You'll be understudying Clara. You should be very It was technically -Thank you. -No, thank you. -Who are you understudying? -No one. -Oh, sorry. Just assumed they might -I got Clara. -Well done. -Oh, Ethan, nice My assistants usually OK, starting with the Clara, to the center, please. GIRL: Tara Webster? She's only a first year. -Congratulations. But don't hold back -Ethan, could I have your Macchiato, double shot. Easy on the foam. Snowflakes, first -Soldiers attack. OK, with music. Bring some energy to it, guys. Nice and sharp. Good. Keep going. Nice, clean hits here, guys. Clean. OK, sharp turns. Finish. Remember, this is just You actually need OK. First positions. This time, work as a team. -Each of these tutus needs -Oh, always happy to I was thinking next I might try set design. -Productions for I doubt you'll be -One rehearsal, and I -Drowning. -There's just so much -Mm. -Sammy, wait up! Hey, how's life -I haven't made a total -It's only lunch. -Thanks. See you, guys. -Hey, uh, my parole officer need to sign these in order for -Oh, my dad. -Do you think he'll be cool? -Cool and Dr. fit in the same sentence. But yeah, I'm sure he'll sign. -Cool. -So I'm sewing about a million And I have no idea what I -For the first time get a mate, who's a guy friend, And then I-- I get-- -Struggling for -I'm trying to say feelings, -Right. Ugly word. Let's call them muffins. And I'm glad we're finally -OK, so you know how I get -Christian. Let's call him Mouse Ears. -Right, Mouse Ears. You know, before I started I thought I knew And now I can't stop thinking -A Labrador. -What? -Friendly, cuddly, -You're right. so glad we're talking to this. -No, no, no. Com on. I just think you need to focus OK? Don't agonize over until it follows you home -Yeah? Well, I have a better plan. Avoid Mouse Ears Every last crumb. [sigh] -Homework? -Sort of. Don't. -Pros and cons. Should I tell ME Who's ME? -No one. Cons. One, probably hates Labrador. Two, I'll be thrown into Three, Jews can't -Should I ask? -Please don't. -Hey, what you did your dad say -Um, he-- he hasn't He's been quite busy with work. But I'm on it, so yeah. -And you should She might like muffins. -I doubt it. -I call and call, and I've had rehearsals. I'm understudying Clara, and -That's great, Abigail. Your mom rang. She told me what's Having your parents separate for anyone. -Look, Adam, I'm not sitting And this has nothing So I don't really see how this -Sometimes when students see for them to attend can blame themselves when thing -Look, can we skip Mom left Dad behind that she could Now they're separating It all seems pretty We done? I've got rehearsals. [phone ringing] -Save me. I am drowning in a sea of tulle. MYLES (ON PHONE): Oh. Well hello, gorgeous. How's the weather down there? -Myles. Hi, um, better than But I wouldn't know. I haven't been outside all day. MYLES (ON PHONE): Well, go -Sure. If you want to spend call talking about the weather. And hey, then we can I have to go. There's someone at the door. -Oh, should I be jealous? -I don't know. He's pretty hot. ETHAN: OK, remember Maintain your focus. Maintain your spot. And-- -You're expecting Clara's on stage the whole time. I'm not ready. SEBASTIAN: You cast if you weren't ready, Tara. You've had a long day. Rest up for tomorrow. Can I steal you for Assistant choreographer is to wrap your head around. -Well, Tara was uncertain I have an extremely experienced and you decide to give -I thought it would -You argued for Tara and I saw enough potential But she's struggling. You need to remain professional. Is that understood? -Yes, sir. -OK, the path to happiness -That's my problem. I don't remember my dreams. -I do. -Let's hear it. -OK. -All right, go. -Fly to Darwin. Hire a Kombi. Drive around all-- -Drive? You're 16. -It's a dream, OK? Just go with it. so I drive around the stopping at every single at every single music festival. -It's nice. -OK, what's yours say? --[laugh] What's the difference gum? One's artificially and the other's just bubble gum. -It's a bit cynical, isn't it? -Everyone I respect another manufactured pop star. And they're right. -OK, so cut the strings. Write something that's for you. -All right, boss. -[laugh] [nutcracker music playing] -Stop, stop. [music stops] -Sammy, you're meant -Yeah, I-- I thought it'd be, we created-- -Yeah, let's just stay with the -Yep. Yep. PATRICK: All right. Let's pick it up on [nutcracker music playing] SEBASTIAN: Stop the music. Prompt side, Tara. Prompt side. Again, please. Cue the music. [nutcracker music playing] -What's my cue? -That was it. SEBASTIAN: Stop the music. You still have the We don't have time for this. What's the problem? -Um, I-- I think I We have to move on. Get the DVD and make sure you Pick it up with the Snowflakes. Coda, thank you. -Is it just me, or this SEBASTIAN: Cue the music. And-- ABIGAIL: [gasp] (MIMICKING) [laughter] -Wait. I missed my cue. I can't do the steps. Ethan, help me! -You should've gotten Clara. -Or you. Or Suni. We all know why she got it. It helps when the assistant around your little finger, and But this is a And thanks to one to look like a primary-school -Abigail, you were well But Clara's about heart. And you can't fake that. -[scoff] -So you'd better hope Because if it's you will see how empty [music playing] -I can see you. You're not invisible. -Oh, hey. -You're avoiding me. -No, I'm not. -Look, I get why. It's fine. -Look-- -Your dad won't sign the forms. They're respectable people. They shouldn't have to look -Yeah, but mate, I'm-- -It's not your fault. You tried. -[giggling] -Huh? You're lucky you got this far. -You're lucky. -I let Mouse Ears think my because my muffins and I'm afraid it -OK, that is low. You're making Christian enough for your family. Sammy. -I just-- I need some space, OK? I just need some to get my head back to normal. -So you're gonna let your best all summer because you can't -What do you want me to do, Kat? Should I get a t-shit that says Have you seen my roommate?&quot; -You said the G word. -Well, I can't pretend it's -I think it's a little bit whether you are or you aren't. What you do need the problem at hand-- Christian. He has done nothing can't make him -Hey. -Do you think I'm empty? -Never. -Then why'd you I'm fine with it. I'm just curious. -I-- [sigh] I guess it -[crying] Sorry. It's just family Ah! -What? -Sorry, I have to run. -That's your dad's signature. -I can explain. -Don't bother. -Christian, I just feel You know, we've been living in and-- -And yet I'm not good enough -That's-- that's not what it is. CHRISTIAN: OK. What is it? -I'm getting these muffins. Is it OK if I use code words, to say. I'm afraid they mean And you're Mouse Ears. I think I like you. No, that's-- that's not true. [sigh] I know I like you. [nutcracker music playing] -Good enough, Tara. I need more extension, You need to be carrying [sigh] Stop the music, stop. [music stops] -You're gonna keep going until From the start, please. -Oh, um, my knee -How badly? -I think I twisted it -Maybe you're right. Maybe you're not Abigail, you take over Tara's please. -I know your knee's fine. Tell him you can do it. SEBASTIAN: From the Places, please. [nutcracker music playing] Good, Abigail. -At Darwin. -The van, a map, You're right. I need to write some songs And I just need to work -Yeah, but you totally -Well, I was kind of See, that's yours. Come with me. -I can't. -Why not? Just think about it. Just make sure you because I don't want -Road trip. -Mhm. -Every single beach. -Every music festival. Just you and me. -What is wrong with you? -I don't know. I didn't mean for it to happen. It just came from nowhere. CHRISTIAN: Who do Why didn't you trust me? Sammy, I robbed a server. That is something to be This, how you're feeling, isn't. -But it's not whether It's-- it's about you. If we're friends, I can't-- around you. [sniff] So I should move out. Maybe next year-- -No. Everyone in my life has either Now you're trying I mean, what do you What do you want me to do. -I don't know! [music playing] -You're not ditching me because -OK. TARA (VOICEOVER): The thing is that there's a really going to sink. ETHAN: How's the knee? -You shouldn't have fought -Yeah, I should have. TARA (VOICEOVER): But if someone might be there to help -You kept it! -Pretty used to You're the right You have to fight for it. [theme music]