- Today, I'm gonna show you how coffee can be with a method called To do that, I've come just south of Vancouver, to show you ran the factory of this place, Swiss Water Decaffeinated Coffee, the company behind the process. Before we dive in though, there's a few things to talk about. Now, firstly, there are other companies that have their own to decaffeinate coffee, but Swiss Water is the one you see most commonly in specialty coffee, which is why we wanted to come here. And if you are using water, you do face a little bit of a challenge. You see, caffeine is but so is all the other that makes up flavor. So you've got a challenge, how do you get the caffeine And how different companies solve for that is what sets them apart and kind of differentiates them. Secondly, Swiss Water is a smaller plant than some of the other ones we've visited. I say smaller, it's still an enormous space, but it's also a publicly traded company, and that means there are some restrictions on what they can show us and therefore what we can show you. Don't worry though, there still will be plenty of detail. We'll get right into but just from time to we've reached the limits of Thirdly, I think it's noteworthy that this is one of a series of videos looking at three different processes, but this is the only process where it's a kind of Speaking of which, you might wonder, why is a company in Well, the process was invented This company brought it over and commercialized it in the 1980s, they became organically and have expanded into this new facility they moved into in 2020. Let's go inside. Raw coffee will arrive You can see individual and when it's time it will which is the dump station. Here, bags are brought up and fed into this grate here, which will begin to move into the first phase, removing any kind of dust or anything like that from the coffee. What's interesting to me is that they run two additional phases before the process starts. Firstly, they run the coffee Coffee beans can vary and so knowing whether the is uniform or a mixture of sizes is useful information for them After that, the coffee is polished. This means that a layer of silverskin is removed from the raw coffee, which they prefer to do now because it makes the Then the coffee goes to be hydrated. The coffee needs to be at in order to be effectively decaffeinated, and here they don't just use water, but water with a mixture of coffee's typical solubles in it, something more akin to which I will tell you about later. They take the moisture until the coffee is 50% moisture. Now it's ready to be decaffeinated, and this is where the secret sauce of Swiss Water Process comes in. If you put raw coffee in water, the water would pull out the caffeine, but it would also pull out a lot of the other soluble Essentially, you might with water alone, but what you'd be left with afterwards wouldn't taste of all that So Swiss Water created what they call Green This is an extract full of made from an initial batch of raw coffee. The GCE is then decaffeinated that has active carbon pull Now the GCE is an extract that's got everything except caffeine. You only really need to make the GCE once and you can refresh it during I like the analogy they used of it being like a sourdough starter that you just need to and it'll keep going and going. When you put a fresh batch and soak it in GCE and heat it up too, only the caffeine will because everything else If you remember your biology or chemistry and the idea of osmosis, you'll get that there's to move anything but the During the process, the GCE is circulated through the tanks, being moved away as it reaches higher and and it stops being an effective solvent. It's then taken away and passed through that to be both decaffeinated and also cleaned and then returned to the tank. Their formulation of carbon is specifically designed to trap caffeine, while interestingly, other manufacturers use that is specifically designed Now, we can't tell you exactly how much coffee Swiss Water decaffeinate every day or every year, but we can tell you it is a good bit less than some of the other facilities So this is an extraction tank where the decaffeination happens. I can't tell you how big it is, I can't tell you how many they've got, but this is where it's happening. Once the caffeine is bound the only way to reclaim it would be to use a chemical solvent like ethyl acetate or methylene chloride. While these solvents are they go against the ethos of Swiss Water. As such, the active carbon which burns away the caffeine, which means that the active carbon can be used again and again. Now, this has nothing to do I just wanted to show it to you 'cause it turns out that moving hot, wet, decaffeinated well it's hard to do, and this, this is the solution. It's just like a giant, jiggling spiral, just gently vibrating the coffee along, and I love it. So after decaffeination, It'll enter here into The whole thing's vibrating to move the coffee through the system. It has three stages. The first one next to me flashes The second stage brings That final stage will cool it down. While many decaffeination facilities will try and move the coffee Swiss Water have a different approach. The coffee goes into resting before packaging and shipping. From their research and experience, they've found that a resting stage helps stabilize the coffee and make it more for its onward shipping journey, or for its storage if it isn't Now I'm gonna take this opportunity to sneak away just for which has a great view over the facility. Mostly I wanted to just say thank you to my Patreon supporters. They have played a massive role in making projects like this possible. Initially my Patreon let me do honest, kind of unbiased gear reviews. It still does, but now it lets me take on these much more ambitious, much more complex projects, and I am incredibly grateful. They're an amazing and if you're interested there's a link in the For now though, I just wanna say again, thank you, thank you, lovely patrons. Now, after drying, the to make sure that it and there are, of course, industry-standard testing protocols to go through to do that. You'll take a small and you'll extract it. Then you'll take that It's a high-performance and that will tell you remains in the decaffeinated coffee, and they're what's producing that kind of click-clack, clockwork noise you hear in the room right now. The coffee, of course, to make sure that it's It's also worth noting the does look a little bit It's a deeper, darker color But while we're in this room, there's one more cool and that's over here. It's this. Now, this is their own custom-built setup, and you see two of those high-performance liquid They're actually measuring at two different points in the process, and they send that information so that the operators and make decisions about the to make sure everything goes as it should. This is that control room, but this is one of those places where we just can't show nothing on what's going But trust me, I've had a look, it's very cool. Once the coffee's been rested and it's passed all quality control, it will come to a station Now, most of the coffee into these 60-kilo jute bags because that's what most - I love a robot. Though they also have the facilities here to bag up into the big kind The trucks delivering throughout the day are often coming from a sister company to Swiss Water that just kind of warehouses coffee. Being here, it seemed worth talking about two different types of coffee that Swiss Water are processing. Firstly, the kind of most obvious type is coffee owned by a roaster. They'll have sourced a specific lot and sent it to Swiss Swiss Water are kind toll decaffeinating. But Swiss Water also have a buying arm that are going out and buying and hold and sell in smaller quantities. You see, if you wanna send your own coffee for decaffeination, the minimum batch size is or 9,000 pounds in the old money, and for many specialty roasters, that's just too much coffee. And so being able to buy smaller amounts is actually really useful And actually, only about 25% of the coffee that Swiss Water decaffeinate is on behalf of other roasters. Most of it is coffee that they've bought. Now, the end product They'll also send it to for customers to kind of draw down from. They just showed me this room and I wanna show it to This is the room where they're making custom-printed jute bags. So this thing behind me is where they would print onto the bags, like a giant T-shirt printing machine, and then it's fed into this thing here, which is kind of like a dryer, and then a dried bag with a custom print just kind of flops out of the end. I just thought it was really cool. And that is how you using the Swiss Water Process. And for us, this has been the third of a series of videos looking at three different processes, and if you haven't seen do check those videos out. They're linked in the This has been a big decaf project for us, and to be honest, it's been amazing to compare and contrast the different approaches and there's one part left, to compare and contrast that those decaffeinations I cannot wait for that. But for now, I wanna know, do you have questions for us? Have we left some stone unturned in the world of decaf at this point? Do you still have questions Let us know down in the comments below and we'll do our best to answer them. For now though, I'll say thank I hope you have a great day.