Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of It's springtime in Italy, and while it's a little early it's a perfect time Thanks for joining us. Connoisseurs of Italy find the quintessential charms in its characteristic Built on hilltops in ancient and medieval times, today, their lofty perches seem only to protect them We'll drive through the Tuscan connecting all admire a ceiling not by Michelangelo, eat rustic bruschetta, visit a vineyard that goes all the way back all while exploring a string that somehow manage the flood of the 21st century. So many European travel dreams And in Italy, the regions are home all within easy striking In this episode, we visit Cortona, Many of this region's hill towns well before ancient Rome. Others date to the fall of Rome. When Rome fell, People naturally grabbed to escape that characterized Over time, and eventually functioned In their glory days, they proudly charted generally free of popes or emperors. Then, the bubonic plague That, combined with by the regional bully, turned many bustling cities Ironically, the bad news mothballed these towns, leaving them and a tourism-based Siena maintains much of Its sprawling main square recall the days Assisi -- with its walls, was home to St. Francis. Its massive basilica remains for countless pilgrims today. Volterra was centuries before Christ. Within its wall, the town's rustic center offers And San Marino -- is unique in that it's still While novel today, tiny two-bit dukedoms like this Medieval Italy -- before the rise was a collection of independent, little many of them no more than While each of those hill towns the explorer who gets can still discover hill towns [ Bell ringing ] A good example is Perched on a pinnacle the traffic-free village Italy's classic hill town. Entering the town, Passing under you enter another world. Every lane tells a story. On the main square, where first, an Etruscan temple, and then later, a Roman temple, Ancient pillars stand like giants' bar stools of the latest place of worship For me, exploring a town is a cultural scavenger hunt. There are countless towns with similar subtle charms. A fancy wooden door This was the facade which fell into the valley riding a chunk of the town's Pondering the view, you're reminded that, this town will succumb Civita is adapting As its permanent it's becoming a weekend The families that stay To enrich your experience, poke around, talk to people. Woman: &quot;Buon giorno. Piccolo, Come, Rick, The olive mill Maurizio's is now the centerpiece and he's happy to tell me -All the olives come When they have about they put here the olive, they start the press for about two hours When the paste is ready, they put the paste and when you have about you are ready And then, you can make You put the stick here and you make For about two hours. -Right. -You press and you wait. You have a good and you're ready A good bruschetta is simple -- bread toasted over the coals, tomatoes, salt, and oil. Enjoying a rustic bruschetta to a rustic village Orvieto, sits majestically high on a big chunk of tufo -- a soft and easy-to-cut A handy funicular shuttles visitors and big free park-and-ride lot up to the town. More and more European towns are dealing with their traffic by making life frustrating for anyone who insists on Public transit is designed to reward those From the top, a bus connects and drops people Pedestrian-friendly lanes Inviting shops show off Orvieto's famous The cathedral -- or &quot;duomo,&quot; gets my vote This gleaming mass is a circa-1330 class back when no one dared Things start with Creation. Eve is tempted by Satan and so on, Inside, the striped nave That's because the architect wider at the back Windows of thin-sliced alabaster bathe the interior Adjacent the altar, the Chapel of St. Brizio must-see artistic sight. It features Luca Signorelli's The vivid scenes depict events but they also reflect the turbulent political of Italy in the late 1400s. The nearby city of Florence the austere and charismatic His ultraconservative teachings bringing tension to the church. In the &quot;Sermon a crowd gathers around a man It's the Antichrist, who comes posing as Jesus This befuddled Antichrist but the Devil is on hand His words sow wickedness from a corrupt woman to evil figures running rampant, to mass executions. Then, on Judgment Day, trumpeting angels and skeletons of the dead climb dreamily to be clothed in new bodies. Across the chapel, the saved enjoying a holy string quartet. Facing them, the damned experience Devils torment sinners while winged demons control A demon turns to tell exactly what Signorelli's ability through human actions rather than symbols, inspired his younger who meticulously studied Orvieto, with its natural was the Pope's place of refuge He wanted to be sure he had so he built St. Patrick's Well, 175 feet deep, is designed The two spiral stairways allow an efficient intriguing now, Imagine if donkeys and people, had to go up and down Digging this Even today, when faced with &quot;It's like digging While the town is busy Orvieto is quiet after dark. The back streets feel oblivious to the crush Evocative lanes seem to keep the mystery Locals are out with an after dinner stroll. I find restaurateurs are happy by taking my after-dinner glass to enjoy the magic The countryside is velvety green in the spring. Fertile fields are set off and cyprus tree-lined Before moving on we're stopping by to sample the most famous the Orvieto Classico wine. The Bottai family thirsty and prospective -So this is our farm, that belongs to our family and of our feats, coming from -I can imagine. -A good area because of just in front of the beautiful town And if you like, I can take you -I would like that. -Yes, very fertile. So this is our soil, a volcanic soil, on which our vines grow and produce So this is That would be ripe It starts now to grow, and we'll pick it -And in how many years until that is drunk -We'll drink this wine and we'll go on drinking -So how long have people been -People have been since Twenty centuries. -And the family house nearly as rich as the vineyard. Cecilia: You know, Rick, The very central block was a control tower Then, when the tower the monks Premostratensi they renovated it, And my family, in fact, bought this property and they re-renovated according to the style And so the frescos they are dated 1800-something. -So this is all Romantic -Yeah, absolutely. This is the piano room, and my great-grandmother And this is a piano that -Franz Liszt -Franz Liszt played -I've got to try it. -Please. -My pleasure [ Playing classical music ] [ clapping ] It's not Franz Liszt, [ Laughs ] Come on, Rick, I take you the secret cellar. The little door, where the Etruscans And this is and was started by the Etruscans. -So this is all dug out -Yes, and this is perfect and the Etruscan people And &quot;tufo&quot; has to age the wines in terms And modern winemakers are trying to duplicate and this bottle of wine -More than 30? -This is absolutely I've been bringing to the home of since their parents When I see the new generation and Cecilia pouring I feel the pride in sharing the fruit of with a visitor from so far away. With a few bottles of we're ready Crossing from Umbria our next stop is Cortona. Cortona has a history to Etruscan times. It grew to its present size between the 13th when it was a colorful It was conquered by the regional powerhouse, and eventually absorbed When Florence its captains ruled the city Back then, like today, and every six months or so, Florence would have to send in When the new captain arrived, by putting into the building's wall. These date from around 1600 and were once The medallions, were made of sandstone While Cortona is extremely its gritty My friend and fellow whose family goes back is joining us. -Many people from U.S., they know Cortona &quot;Under the Tuscan Sun,&quot; but actually, for us, It does feel different that we have people living That romantic view is about people from France, staying in Cortona. It was the grand tour. -So this dreamy idea it's really 200 years old? Created by the French -By the French and by It's a romantic view So this is what I mean as a romantic view This terrace is made time of Napoleon, for enjoy the view -They made it -Yeah. Where you see the lake here was the border You know Charlemagne? And there was So the Umbrians, they were until the 1800s. But all over Italy Every hill, every valley and so we have The memorial bust the brilliant revolutionary and hero in the struggle enjoys this same view. This is a reminder that uniting the many cultures was the main challenge the fathers of modern Italy Via Nazionale, while only named to celebrate Italian unity, has been Cortona's main drag -So this is the &quot;corso.&quot; -So people are walking, -Yeah, because it's easy, By the way, the real name but we call this road It means &quot;flat wrinkle.&quot; -You saw the other alleys, -So this is really -It's the only flat road And sooner or later, end up on the main square The mayor flies three flags -- Europe, Italy, and Peace. Tuscany is famously For a more contemplative peace, head for one of Tuscany's The Benedictine Abbey sits remote, yet bold. While tranquil today, you can imagine the power must have wielded The fine 500-year-old frescoes show scenes from the life of the founder of the order, Benedict established the first monastic movement By filling the political vacuum left by the demise he planted the seeds of Europe. For that, today Benedict the patron saint of Europe. Visitors attending find the monastery with the monks worshipping in Latin, with Gregorian chants. This timeless music to the vibrant cultural Our next stop is named Gimignano, San Gimignano, stands like a medieval mirage About midway between San Gimignano was en route to Rome. Its walls were built Its mighty gates regulated Through the Middle Ages, a steady stream of stoked the town's economy. This was a pilgrim shelter, The Maltese cross indicates the building was constructed perhaps the medieval equivalent Today, and it can be really crowded. The locals may seem fixated and much of is actually faux medieval -- reconstructed with a flair in the 19th-century But San Gimignano's and visually so beautiful, it remains a good stop. Piazza della Cisterna is named for the cistern A clever system of pipes drained rainwater into the cistern built This has been the town center and it's still San Gimignano's claim is its striking towers. Of the original sixty or so, Before there were rich people fortified with towers like these. They provided a handy refuge when ruffians were sacking the town. Prickly skylines were the norm In the 14th century, San Gimignano's good times About 13,000 people lived In 1348, cutting its population A crushed and demoralized fell under the realm To make matters worse, the vital trade route And Florence required that most of the towers The town never recovered and poverty left it stuck That explains San Gimignano's and its prosperity, today. The hill towns offer a rich assortment From dramatic settings to exquisite architecture, and from the rustic traditions to its hospitality, this region has all the elements that make travel to Europe I hope you've enjoyed our visit to some of Italy's Join us next time for more I'm Rick Steves. Until then, Not by Donatello, but by -- [ laughs ] In 1348, a plague decimated cutting its population by 2/3. That's really bad. A plague decimated wiping out about 2/3