- If someone goes no contact on you, the things you do next are very important in understanding how you can or completely let it go, and allow yourself to be not tuning to other people's energy in order to need validation or approval. And in this video, I'm gonna show you exactly how to do that, and exactly why this will change your life more than anything else Now, no contact is, when you're maybe even in a and then maybe things start to pull away. Maybe for a while, things are going okay, you're texting each other back and forth, there's a certain type of connection, but then what happens is the energy starts to be pulled away, and then like that sometimes, there is no contact moving forward. This person may not respond to voicemails, not text back at all, not show up at the same It's like the energy was there, and then all of a sudden, Now, with this energy, what happens is many that somebody else And then what happens is and they try to get the energy back. They try to do, and they something I'm doing is wrong. Maybe there's even And if I do something a then this person will actually come back, and everything will be just Now, if that's the strategy, I promise you what will end up happening, you'll end up pushing them away even more, because when somebody wants space, and when somebody goes no contact, what that means is they do want space. It means that they are calling, and they are asking for some, that things that have been for different reasons, sometimes. On one hand, maybe they're Maybe the intimacy is scary to them. On the other hand, it could that was being projected and they just want space. They started to feel too, like there wasn't enough space for them just to be themselves. Or they started to feel like they weren't being their so that may have scared them as well. So there's two sides of that. I think it could be sometimes people that just don't wanna become emotionally available or connected, or sometimes it's just people, and they aren't ready for that, and sometimes maybe the energy that was being projected at them was just a little bit too Now, the key to this is understanding that the meaning you give to why they pulled away is gonna determine the kind And what I'd like to is that all because they pulled away does not mean that there's It does not mean that The story you're telling a lot of times, too, may be either outdated, or a story I know for myself, I've where I would feel like and then I would internalize this to mean okay, there's I'm not doing something good enough. And then there was like this block, and there was also this story that this is supposed to work and it's creating all this And the thing is, is when we are energetically or we are, we have a certain heavy we're projecting them energy, So one of the best most magnetic things you could possibly do in this circumstance is to actually pull your energy If they go no contact, Do not try to get them to come around. Don't think there's and if you did something than they would stick around. Pull your energy back, Focus on what this means for you. You don't have to give this a meaning that says there's something wrong with me. The thing that I realized is when I was attracting is because there was a story that I had that that's the way it works. When I was attracting, and in a space to where to let go of the old story, it was because I was then becoming aware that the old story was a since I was a kid. And in many ways, the same in dating was actually more when I was a kid. Because what happens is when we're kids, there's familiar energy that is around. And what we do is even as adults, we try to recreate that energy. We attract people into our lives to recreate that same energy, because in a weird way, it feels familiar, and familiar feels safe. So I'd ask you this. If somebody goes no contact on you, did mom or dad ever go no contact on you? Did they just immediately to where then it just wasn't there? And when that happened, if did you start to wire in a meaning that says maybe there's Maybe I'm not good enough. If I could just prove it to this person, then maybe they would invest And what we're really doing is we're avoiding the emotion of shame. The emotion of shame is the emotion of there's something broken. There's something wrong with me. I don't feel like I'm good enough. And that energy, if we don't feel it, and let it be there, and acknowledge it, and become aware of In many ways, for a long time, I was what's called the people pleaser. I would try to be a certain way to gain other people's And what that would end and the people I was dating, would be like, oh this guy And it would also cause me to say, okay, if these people there must be something wrong with me. Maybe I can fix it. Trying to fix the outside I believe that the no contact thing is a powerful reminder for us that we're craving in somebody else. If somebody else goes no that it may be an opportunity to look at some level and to realize that the validation, the approval that you're you could start to feel within yourself. You can realize that maybe inside of you that feels not seen, not heard when you were a kid. And what you could then do is realize that a lot of times, when somebody goes no contact, there's most likely, most likely what is happening is your own energy has That's a form of an abandonment. You may have, feels but normally for that to you are already abandoning yourself. Maybe you were even abandoning yourself when you chose the person, because there was something, maybe they weren't emotionally available. Maybe they weren't as into And becoming aware of that is key, because then you can realize, wait, I've been abandoning myself this dynamic work. I'm gonna now pull in my and I'm gonna put it more inside myself. And for myself, when it the main key that is when I stopped abandoning myself. I started living according I stopped living according to putting on a pedestal what other people think and above that, I put my own integrity, my own authenticity, my own vulnerability. And when it comes to no if you feel like there's there's probably a level of shame. And from that level of shame, the key, the thing that changes everything is when you start to Vulnerable means you show your heart. Vulnerable means you go into the wound, and you allow it to be there. You show the real you. Now, normally people pleasing, we're trying to do everything And what ends up happening is we're avoiding believing and there's nothing wrong with you. If your mom or your dad when you were a kid, if their energy was contagious, If their energy was conditional, then probably what happened is you didn't get the something happened, you They cut it off cold turkey. And then there's this belief, Love is conditional, there's And then you might have and tried manipulating people's perceptions of you, and it just became so but I'm telling you now, the key to this whole entire process is to actually pull your energy back, and to stop abandoning yourself. To start living according the values that I most encourage are vulnerability and authenticity. And when you live by you start living according It is magnetic energy. For a long time, my people I'd be afraid to show that I was interested in them, sexually, not just as friends, and that had me hold back, and guess what? It would depolarize relationships. I wasn't in my true masculine energy. And then it was an energy Eventually, I realized to express the real you. It takes vulnerability to to show people, and even for me to show interest, there was a possibility there And that was something I said, you know what? I'm gonna go into this, I realized a lot of this stuff, there was an experience in the where I then decided, oh, Remember when I was like 12 years old, I was at a park and recs place, and it was like a summer school thing. And there was this dance that you had to be like 12 And I go to this dance, and one of the teachers to dance with me. 'Cause I thought she was She laughed, and passed me and she was dancing with some 18 year old. And in that moment, I thought, oh, it's not safe for me to It's not safe for me because I could get rejected. And I internalized that rejection, and saw, oh maybe I'm not good enough, something wrong with me. Not knowing at all that maybe there's a six to It was in my little 12 year I was like, there's I must not be good enough. And then from that point going I'm not going to express myself. I'm not gonna express myself in that way, 'cause I could get rejected, I'm gonna be nice. I'm gonna be a friend, but guess what? The sexual polarity will be all messed up. So what I had to eventually do is to realize that the degree to which I'm going to attract someone that is in their feminine energy is the degree to which I'm It's the same thing for you if you desire a masculine it'll require you to be embodied in the opposite of that And if you've been abandoning yourself, you've probably been screwing Giving up that natural core of yourself to be a certain way to get your needs met. And one of the most magnetic things you can possibly do is to release the energy of codependency, the energy of neediness, and you are activating your heart center. You're activating presence, whether it's feminine or masculine energy, presence is one of the you could possibly have energetically. So pull your energy back, Now, something that we have started, and something that I'm today is the first day that the Magnetic Mastery This is a community of people where we're all focused on one outcome, becoming the most magnetic from the inside out. Every single week, I'm gonna Every single week, there's gonna so that we can hold ourselves accountable. There's gonna be thousands of people all over the world in this community, and we're all gonna be of becoming the most magnetic Being in a community is one I've realized in my life, Now until Friday, you can join the Magnetic become a part of this high vibe tribe, and we can all focus on this one outcome, so that we can attract the and really becoming the most from the inside out. So if you wanna join, or go to www.join.magneticmastery.com. Just click the link below, And I will see you on the inside. And other than that, if you want a video that will show you why when you let go, your and the five secrets to letting go, then you could go and click It's one of my most powerful videos. In this video, I want to share with you five secrets to letting go that will make you more attractive, and that will completely And when you start applying because you start realizing and you start letting go of what you.