Um here i am My parents lied He took me home. Who are you Yanyan, I am your father's good friend. You can call me uncle You just follow me from now on But I'm growing up I found that I liked him On my 18th birthday The first time I confessed to him My wish is to be with Pei Muchuan forever Happy Birthday Yanyan Wow, so beautiful Can I have another gift? What Pei Muchuan I like you What are you kidding, Yanyan? I'm your uncle. You are only 18 Do you know what like is? Don't say this again. Today, nothing happened. I won't give up Even though he rejected me But I didn't give up I confess my love to him every birthday. Happy Birthday Yanyan Make a wish now This year's wish I still hope to be with the novel forever When you were drunk as a child, I left it to you to take care of. Uncle Master, what are you doing? Do you know that I am your uncle? There is no blood relationship between us Why not? I'm grown up now I know clearly what kinship is. What is love Some love can't happen It is not allowed to happen I can never be with you. Get out of here Get out Until the eve of my 22nd birthday He brought his girlfriend back. grandfather Have you considered going abroad to live with me? My uncle knitted a scarf for you. Come in He is Sultan We're getting engaged soon. You can call him aunt from now on. You are Chaoyan, right? This kind of thing in the future I'll do it. Don't do this meaningless thing anymore. Over Young and ignorant Will still miss I've done meaningless things since then. The little tree Woman, you specially found someone to deceive me You want me to give up my love for you, right? None of this has anything to do with you I just fell in love with him Zhao Yan, I came here to tell you Su Tan will be the mistress of Pei's family in the future I hope you can respect him. Do you love him that much? Mu Chen Why haven't you come back yet? I've been waiting for you in bed for a long time Wei Yuchuan I will I won't like you anymore uncle I've thought it through I am willing to leave Pei's family Go abroad and live with you Really? Great! I have already arranged a visa for you. Tomorrow you go to the Exit-Entry Administration to get your visa Taking advantage of these few days You can spend more time with your uncle. He has nurtured you. You must thank him very much. Um Yanyan Where are you going? I see the weather outside is about to change Otherwise I'll take you there Aren't you going on a date today? What This crystal bracelet Is this the photo you spent 20 million on last night? Is it for Xiao Shen? This bracelet is actually mine. Muchuan How do you know I like this bracelet? This is what you gave me, right? Yanyan, are you getting ready to go out? I just happened to be going on a date with Mu Shao Let us give you a ride Thank you, Auntie. Choose to forget My makeup is ruined in spring The lipstick is in the storage compartment on your left. Please help me get it. Helped him once Yanyan I remember you didn't have a boyfriend. Where are you going today? I counted it. Anyway, my affairs are not important to Xiaoshuai. He'll find out I'm cheating sooner or later. Um I'm just looking for a friend Yanyan, you are 21 years old too I can have a boyfriend now. If you can't find the right one I can also introduce you to someone Your aunt won't ignore you. Mu Chuan, am I right? Um OK Thank you, Master. By the way, Muchuan I just remembered that I left something at home. Might need to go back and get it. I just don't know if it will delay Yanyan's time. grandfather This is not far from the management area. You get off and walk back. I'll take your aunt back to see your father. Uncle Xiao In your heart All my things Nothing compares to what Su Tan said You are Zhou Yi Are you going to settle abroad? I remember The last time I saw you was at your parents' funeral You're only that old. I didn't expect that ten years have passed. You've grown so big. Oh, that's right. Your moving abroad Does your uncle agree? He will agree We are not blood related I've grown up too Sooner or later we have to separate Too Hey, although your uncle has no blood relationship with you But he does to you That's really speechless. I remember that he had just taken you to Pei's house. He was afraid that you wouldn't be used to Aunt Pei's cooking skills. I came all the way here to ask you. What do you like to eat? Hey, he said He wants to learn to do it himself I will remember my uncle's kindness in my heart I will repay him For disappearing The best reward is to leave Small Tree Zhang Yan, where are you going? You and Xiaoshu are getting married. It's not good for me, an outsider, to live here Zhang Yan Don't say that. Although you were adopted by Muchuan But as long as you call him uncle We are a family now. There's nothing wrong with living together. What if I give birth to a child? I'd like to trouble you to take care of me. No need, Xiao Shen I have decided Move out Okay, let me help you clean it up. I didn't expect it Mu Chuan used to like wearing light-colored clothes. What You see, I like him in dark clothes. Since you've been with me He wanted me to I'm happy to change into dark colors. Look at this photo. How happy he is smiling. This is a photo of you when you were a child So cute Don't touch his photo frame. Musa How did you hurt your hand? I just accidentally fell Photos of Zhao Yan My hand was cut by the glass on the upper frame Just Zhao Yan said This is the only photo of him and his parents. I'm so sorry for him. Just a photo It's gone. Your watch is important I'm going to reply now Shen Zhaoyan, you can't beat me Uncle You already love him to this extent. Step Muchuan try this egg custard I made this especially for you Yanyan Your uncle called me today. I called you but no one answered Give him a reply when you have time. I see When did you contact your uncle? Is there something he wants to talk to you about? Last time he asked me to send him some Photos of my parents in the past Muchuan, look at you Just talking Uncle Yeah, I have a lot in my room. Useless words I want to get rid of it What a pity it is to throw away those paintings Mu Chuan, didn't you say you would hold an art exhibition for me? You just happen to be here, let's do it together with Zhang Yan Um Zhao Yan I didn't expect that my paintings would have so many There is only one painting left to show you. Zhang Yanben Your uncle also said Put your painting in the corner. I think this You're the one who stayed here anyway. The last piece of work How can it be thrown in the corner like garbage? I advised Mu Chan I said put your painting Placed next to my last masterpiece What do you want to say? Everyone, what about now? We are about to reveal the finale of this exhibition One is from the famous young painter Su Cai One is from the beginning of my painting career Rookie Sim So Yeon Please enjoy Oh my god, these two paintings How can they be exactly the same? This is obviously my work. How can they be exactly the same? The final works of these two painters are exactly the same Someone must have plagiarized. The plagiarist is the long-established Su Tan One is the little-known painter Shen Zhaoyan If plagiarism is true That must be Shen Zhaoyan plagiarizing Su Tan's work. I don't have this, this is my original work Your original work Do you know who is in this portrait? I dare say it's your work This portrait depicts the third master of the Pei family. I heard that he and Su Tan are about to get married. That's why it was made into a portrait and exhibited Little girl, you've hit a wall by plagiarizing. Or do you want to have something to do with Master Pei? I didn't plagiarize This is my original work Pei Muchuan is my novel Zhang Yan I need an explanation Why are your paintings exactly the same as mine? I didn't expect Zhang Yan I'm kind enough to help you organize an exhibition You actually plagiarized my work How could you do such a thing? If your uncle knew this How should I explain to him? You mean I plagiarized you? The facts are here. Don't you want to admit it yet? Zhao Yan, please apologize quickly Tell everyone You are just anxious I did something like plagiarism. You are young No one will blame you Shen Zhaoyan, even if Master Pei is your uncle You can't plagiarize so blatantly. Besides Su Tan will still be your aunt in the future. I didn't plagiarize I have proof that this is my original work. There is a word &quot;Shen&quot; in the lower right corner of the painting. Hey, look, look The lower right corner of the painting It seems that there really is a word Shen. Is it Su Fan who plagiarized? Shen Zhaoyan, I am doing this for your uncle's sake. Just to give you some face If you continue to slander me Don't blame me You're welcome. I have the manuscript of this painting. This painting is the work of me, Su Tan This is obviously my manuscript. Why is it in your hands? Of course That manuscript was given to me by your uncle himself. Of course That manuscript was given to me by your uncle himself. Your love for him Makes him sick Stop pestering him. impossible He can't do this to me. If you don't believe me, go ask him yourself. I won't tell you any more. I still have to prepare for my date with him tonight. Oh my god, now that the Third Master is here Is he here to pick up Su Teng? Lu Chuan, why are you here? I didn't say it all You don't need to pick me up. Hey God. They stand together They are a match made in heaven. Uncle, tell everyone. I didn't plagiarize This is my original work Stop making trouble This picture was drawn by your aunt. It has nothing to do with you. Even the novel said he plagiarized What else is there to say? What a pity, you're ruining your own future. Pei Muchuan Did you give my manuscript to Su Tan? yes Why This picture could be anyone. But it can't be you But you clearly know that he stabbed me to death I gave him my manuscript. Everyone will think I'm plagiarizing. I will be despised by the whole world Su Tan has been addicted for a long time He cannot create his entire career on his own. You're just starting out. I won't draw anymore. Yanyan I will support you forever Higurashi River You clearly said Whatever happens You will firmly choose to stand by my side Uncle Lovesickness but Sadness Xiao Shu I am Yanyan It's Shen Zhaoyan Not Su Cai You got the wrong person. Xiao Shu Hurt me The curve of the palm Although the traffic It was you who took me to your room yesterday. no It's you, Shen Zhaoye I told you many times Don't think of me like this anymore. Otherwise, get out of Pei's house. I see Xiao Shu Can you spare some time to celebrate my birthday with me tomorrow? What else do you want to do? I told you many times Nothing is impossible Stop asking too much of me. No, I won't confess to you again. I will return it to you on time tomorrow Don't let me down again. Xiao Shu Don't worry I won't bother you anymore. Don't worry, Xiaoshu I won't bother you anymore. Hey uncle Grandpa, your voice Are you crying? Is someone bullying you? You tell your uncle Uncle will decide for you No uncle No one bullies me. That's good, Grandpa. When will you come to Australia? Uncle has cleaned up the house for you. Flight tickets for the day after tomorrow I'm here for my 22nd birthday Okay, then uncle will wait for you. Say goodbye to Mu Chuan. Happy Birthday Yanyan Yeah, I know. I want to say my last birthday I want to say goodbye to you. Know me, donkey You should be very happy. Xiao Shu is Chaoyang Mushuang He is taking a shower. What can I do for you? He's not available to answer the phone. When will Xiaoshu finish washing? I can wait for him Shen Zhaoyan Haven't you realized my feelings for your uncle yet? I told you he was taking a shower. I'll tell you the truth We are both in the hotel now. What are we going to do next? I don't need to tell you He and I are getting engaged. Are you still going to post it so shamelessly? sorry I see I won't bother you anymore. hapiness Happy birthday to you I love you Happy birthday I hope every birthday in the future Every ranch can go with me I don't care about my age Assure you I will be absent from your birthday every year from now on Then you have to keep your word. Heard You made a mistake I hope Xiaoshu will live a peaceful and happy life. No more worries If love Forgot Miss, you carry so many things. Where is this going? You're out of the country, when will you come back? I'm looking at you Throw away a lot of things Xiaoshu, I give up Wish you happiness Not coming back ah Not coming back Mu Chuan, you woke up I asked the hotel to make you a hangover soup Did you touch my phone? What are you talking about? I asked you if you touched my phone Shen Zhaoyan called me last night. I see you are unconscious. I'll pick it up for you. What did you tell him? I told him you were drunk. I couldn't go back last night Otherwise, what else can I say? Mu Chuan, I am your fiancee. How could you do this to me? Fiancee, have I told you many times? As long as you Play the role of my fiancee well I can give you everything you want Otherwise, I may change people at any time. The user you dialed cannot be reached Uncle, when you see this letter I'm gone I am grateful to you Adopted me when my parents died Raised me up There is 3 million in this card This is all the expenses I spent after I came to Pei's house. I'm really sorry The trouble I caused you when I confessed my feelings to you The days ahead I hope you can be happy and safe. Who allowed you to go? Send someone to the airport to intercept You must find Shen Zhaoying for me The user you are calling is temporarily unavailable Mr. Xing Zhao, you have really become very capable. How dare you run away from home? Where are the people? We looked around but couldn't find the lady. And we have just I have contacted all of the lady's relatives and friends. They all said they didn't see the lady. Nonsense, I'll find it myself grandfather uncle Are you tired? Tired of working hard, quietly waiting for me for so long What's the hard work? Thinking that our family can finally be reunited I'm so happy, let's go. Is the phone broken? Then I'll buy you a new one. But what about your cell phone number? Well I have cancelled my mobile number. Changed to a new environment I also want to say goodbye to those old people good Get in the car first Wang Ma Where are the things in Yanyan's room? All taken away The lady didn't take anything with her when she left. But before She took some things out one after another. Probably thrown away. Throw away all But some valuable things. The girls are all sold online at low prices. I also heard Miss say The old house should also be sold. Okay Shen Zhaoyan Are you trying to draw a line between you and me? You've never paid me back in your entire life. Where did you throw all the stuff? It looks like the trash can at the door. grandfather Who said Said Hey Grandpa My uncle made a swing exactly like the one you have. Do you like it? The little tree is nice I want to be with the little tree forever Happy Birthday Grandpa Wow, so beautiful Can I want you again? What Pei Muchuan I like you Grandpa, are you kidding me? I'm your uncle. You are only 18 Do you know what like is? Don't say this again. Today, nothing happened. The teacher will make you a scarf I don't want the starry sky at night I have already had a destiny of working tirelessly I don't want to hear I didn't realize Then we embrace each other in the north It's our empty hands like pride hand null I blew past the distance you blew past Have you seen the same wind? Obviously I care about Zhao Li Why do you have to hurt her? I just want to stop her from thinking about me. But I can't destroy him. How do you know that this must be for his own good? Maybe this will destroy him. Besides, what if I leave you someday? Won't He will never leave me. I will support him forever Muchuan Listen to my advice Don't do things that you will regret It's too late when everything is irreversible. Young Master, I watched you and Miss grow up. I know what you two are thinking. Don't pay attention to the outside world Do what you should do Love the ones you should love Don't leave regrets for each other Mr. Pei found out that the lady is in my hands quick Book me a flight to Australia as soon as possible Mushan, where are you going? It's none of your business Muchuan, I'm not feeling well Please accompany me Feeling unwell It's not like he's dead. Are you going to look for Shen Zhaoyan? Tomorrow is our engagement ceremony. You can't go 4 Don't forget I wanted to force Yanyan away I let you stir up my fiancee It's just a deal between us. Even if it's a deal between us What about you and Shen Zhaoyan? She is your niece. If you ruin our marriage for her Aren't you afraid of being questioned by your uncle and aunt? If you want to file a complaint, go ahead. I tell you I've already forced Huo Yanyan away once. This time I will never let go and walk away Is Director Tiemuchuan so important to you? Mr. Pei has found out the news about the lady. After he arrived in Australia Enrolled in the jewelry design department of Xi'an University Jewelry Design Didn't Yanyan learn painting before? Mr. Pei, let's go find the lady. drive Do you know I heard there is a rich man Donated a teaching building to our school A full 1 billion 1 billion who? It is said that the richest man in China is named Pei I searched online This Mr. Pei is not only rich This appearance is outstanding. I heard This girl that Mr. Pei loves is in our school And he came all the way to invest in our school Just to get this woman back. Oh my god, such a rich, handsome and affectionate man This is really rare these days. No matter how sentimental the boss is, it has nothing to do with you. Wei Xiaocao naturally only has our Zhaoyan in his heart Of course, I am not moved by other people's love Oh, Soyeon. I heard you are also from Yuncheng Do you know who is the girl Mr. Pei likes? I don't know What brand You are so beautiful I almost thought that girl was you Xiao Yan Don't talk nonsense. I heard that the cafeteria has your favorite dishes today Let's go eat Cry with you grandfather Yanyan Can we chat? There's nothing to talk about between us. Yanyan, I was wrong. I'm sorry Until you leave me I just realized how much I can't live without you Yanyan Come home with me, okay? Xiao Su I've made it very clear in my mind. I won't go back again I'm doing well here You are also engaged I was ignorant of the past. Just let it go Mr. Zhao, the man just now was him. It's my uncle. But the way he looks at you The way he looks at his niece is not at all like in a novel. I was adopted by him before. There is no blood relationship between us I liked him But he refused What But that was all in the past Now we all have our own lives Zhao Yan Let the past be the past Mr. Pei The location of the teaching building donated last time has been selected Do you want to go and check it out? No need to hear Your school The annual jewelry design competition will be held soon Sponsor found Mr. Pei means Pei can fully sponsor But I have a request I hope I can present the award to Guan Yu in person. pleasure This this Why Yaslan The annual Jewelry Century Competition is about to begin The theme of this time is Morning and Evening It's a love theme Zhao Yan, let's go together Well, I just transferred to the jewelry industry not long ago. Teacher Zhang Yan said that you are very talented. Let's try it together. Just accumulate experience Who knows? Can you really win an award? Okay, I'll go with you. I declare Winner of the Chao Chao Mu Mu Jewelry Design Competition yes Shen Zhaoyan from the Jewelry Design Department No.1 Scholar You are the champion I know you're awesome. under Please invite Shen Zhuangyuan to come to the stage to give his acceptance speech Mr. Shen, please introduce your design concept. The necklace I designed is called Forbidden Love The crabapple tree in the shape of pear blossoms is entwined on vines Mutual support But survive independently Symbolizes my independent view of love Shen's design concept is indeed very brilliant Next, we have our special guest Mr. Pei of Pei Group Awarding the prize to Shen Zhuangyan Silver Swallow Congratulations Sorry, thank you for trusting me. But I can't accept this award today. Because this work is incomplete Broken necklace This is the final ending of a forbidden love I'm going to tell all the girls If a love is destined to be unrequited It's better to give up early. hypocritical Are you still blaming me? I told you that this matter is over. You don't need to do these meaningless things anymore I admit that I support you and you need to see the general. Sponsor this competition All for thought Please you to gain your energy But you won the championship on your own. I didn't do anything Don't Muchen Sometimes I really can't tell which words are true Which statement is false? Yanyan You believe me I lied to you before because I had no choice I swear what I say now is true From now on I will never lie to you again Forget it, if you said these things to me before I will definitely be very happy But now he is not the same as before. Xu Zhaoyan Someone is looking for you downstairs Classmate, please tell him for me I said I didn't want to see him again. Let him not wait any longer. He is still waiting for you. You really don't go to see him. If he wants to wait, let him wait. Tian Ye, have you forgiven me? Xiaoshu, you don't owe me anything, do you? You go back Don't come to me again. Walk Where is Miss Zhang going so late? A few friends to accompany me Get out of here! You dare to hit me Guys, hold him down. Today, I will make you feel good enough Uncle Don't be afraid I am here Where the hell did this bastard come from? What's it to you if I sleep with a chick? you You stay at home. Protect yourself I'll deal with them. Brothers, give me Be careful, Xiaoshuo Yingying Yingying How does it feel? Does your head still hurt? Thank you for saving me today. You saved me You risked everything to block that barrier for me Does it prove that you still have me in your heart? I'll block that for you. Just because you are my uncle Because you once protected me Yanyan Now that I have returned to the Song family Stop calling me uncle. I don't like to hear No need, I'll do it myself. You are injured let me My hand is injured too. Let me see. No need, uncle I really don't need to bother you. Just ask my uncle to come and help me. I told you not to call me uncle anymore If not uncle, what to call him? Call my name Pei Muchuan Grandpa doesn't want to be your partner anymore. But now I just want to be your niece Uncle Qiu You told me We can only be uncle and nephew. Muchuan When will you come back to get engaged to me? Cancellation of engagement party Don't call me anymore. Muchuan Is Xiao Tan that bastard Pei Muchuan? Bring me the phone so I can argue with him Pei Muchuan Are you with that little bitch? I tell you I'm here for a day There's absolutely no chance of you and him Get back to me right now I marry you Dad, I've already backed off once. This time I won't leave Yanyan alone again grandfather Uncle, please go back first. The Sultan is still waiting for your engagement. Yanyan Su Tan is just a marriage partner arranged by my family. I won't marry him. The car will never leave you behind. Will you come home with me? Xiao Shu Thank you so much for saving me today But it's impossible between us Shhh Impossible Why not? We have no blood relationship. I'm only 10 years older than you These are what you said Have you forgotten? Of course I remember When I was young, I said I liked you But I just rely on you Mistaken for love Some love can't happen Not allowed These are what you said too Have you forgotten? So you won't accept anything from me The two of us are destined to be two parallel lines Can only extend alone There is no way to reach the other party's track Enough Shen Zhangyu I don't believe you don't like me at all Yanyan I know I rejected you before. I've done so many things that I'm sorry for. But I really love you As long as you forgive me I will listen to whatever you say from now on, okay? Xiao Shu I'm tired I'm really tired I heard you guys were arguing. What's going on? No, I'm just a little tired, uncle. Please ask my uncle to leave first. I won't wear it anymore since Yanyan wants to rest. Just go back first it's all over grandfather Tell the truth to uncle Between you and your uncle Is there any affection beyond that between uncle and nephew? No He and I are like uncle and niece. Grandpa, I heard your conversation just now. My uncle doesn't mean to blame you. Is it that guy Pei Muchuan? Force me to go and settle accounts with him now Uncle is none of his business. It's my problem When I was young I told him I liked him But he keeps rejecting me. Until he brought his girlfriend home I realized that there could only be family love between us Then you now Hey uncle, don't worry. I only have affection for him now. I won't have any other thoughts. Uncle, don't worry. I only have affection for him now. I won't have any other thoughts. roll Hello You're such a rebel How many times have I called you? You just received it now What's up Do you remember that today is your engagement day? You dare to advise Xi on such an important matter? Are you worthy of private conversation? This marriage is just a formality. Whether or not to tie a knot is important Engagement Cancelled I won't get married. How old are you? Still taking marriage as a joke Are you talking to Shen Chaoyan? And you are disregarding human ethics. Are you interested in Chen Chaoyan? And you are a pervert I just want to be with Yanyan What's wrong with me? She is your friend's daughter. She is your niece. You two being together is inhumane. Do you know As long as I can be with her I don't care about anything You don't care what others say Doesn't Shen Chaoren care? Those rumors One day I will He was defeated At that time, do you still dare to say that you don't care? of after Take me away You are together only If you force Destroyed him This wedding This was originally a play to represent my grandfather. But now I regret it Jinyan Xiao Shu You are drunk I'm fine, I just miss you. Jinyan Let's meet tomorrow. There are some things I want to tell you in person good Kurokawa Yanyan No time to see you Tell me what you want to say Where is Guangbai brother Yanyan? Yanyan is not available to see you Tell me what you want to say There are some things I want to say to Yanyan in person You tell me You don't want to say it? Still dare not say I heard from Yanyan that yesterday was your engagement day Why didn't you go back? The engagement is cancelled You ask Yanyan The cancellation of the engagement has nothing to do with Yanyan Su Tan and I have no feelings for each other Who do you have feelings for? Yanyan? Pei Muchuan The reason why I entrusted Yanyan to you before Because I believe in you. I believe you can take good care of her. I believe you can be like the elders. Take good care of him. But what is the fact? Not only did you not do it Instead, you developed a sense of ethics towards him. Moral Emotions But Yanyan and I have no blood relationship. No blood relationship, okay? Hey Muchuan Don't forget that you are 10 years older than him You are his elder. You watched him grow up. Did You Know Once your thoughts are exposed to others What are the consequences? I don't care anymore If I hadn't grown up holding your hand If it weren't for being good friends with his parents Can we be together? What about age? What's the difference of 10 years? He has long been integrated into my blood. Blank space without him I don't know what the meaning of my life is He has already integrated In my blood Blank brother no He doesn't know what the meaning of my life is But when you accuse him yourself That painting that poured all my emotions into It started from the moment of plagiarism. You lose all qualifications. Uncle, let's go. good That's all I have to say You're on your own. Uncle I wish you a safe journey Uncle I wish you a safe journey Lord, you are back. The material lady She said it was your wife Then Ask someone to put all her things in the young lady's room We can't stop it. She dared to enter grandpa's room Do you think your life is not long enough? Gu Sheng, you are back! You hurt me Who banned you? Come and throw them out with all your belongings. yes I am your fiancee Why can't I be here? Shen Zhaoyan is just your adopted daughter Or I have dirty thoughts about this little woman. You kick me out now Just let everyone know I have unethical thoughts about you, my adopted daughter. You're looking for death You dare to do it Don't dare let me say Who asked you to work for the Su family? But no one dares to believe you I just feel This is your malicious rumor. Of course I know that you, Master Pei, have this ability. But I have evidence. The night you went to Chen Zhaoyang's room Holding his hand and pretending not to know Just call my name You are so pathetic. What do you want to do? I want to marry you Otherwise, I will guarantee all my videos and photos Will be sent to everyone By then, Chen Zhaoyuan will be ruined. By then Shen Zhaoyan will be ruined What if you are exposed? I will take care of everything. You can't threaten me No one cares about right or wrong Everyone will only say that Shen Zhaoyan is shameless Seduced my own surgery Throw him out. Who dares to let him in again? All dismissed yes Pei Muchuan Pei Muchuan You can't do this to me. It's a pleasure to cooperate with Mr. Zhang We believe in our strength This must be a perfect collaboration. Thank you Mr. Zhang for your trust Their company was just acquired Just signed a contract with us He is the vice president of their entertainment company. I hope the management won't make things too difficult for me this time. Don't worry, it's the instructor who introduced you. No one should cooperate with the designer Just received the news Already signed This is the company's key project Don't go on a business trip Mr. Pei tonight Mr. Zhang from Canxing specially held a dinner for Ella Welcome Do you think you'll participate? I have a meeting tonight, please help me cancel the dinner. I don't know whether it is right or wrong to return to China this time. Chao Yan Mr. Zhang from Canxing hosted a dinner party tonight. Welcome you Oh, and there is also the Pei Group that acquired their company. We will also send someone here Pei Group right Pei's is also a leading large company in the country. The jewelry industry, which has only been launched in the past two years Who was sent by Pei Group? Come to a banquet like this It should be the person in charge of the jewelry business of Pei Group. Vice President Zhao Ye What's wrong? Are you feeling unwell? Um fine What am I worried about? He is so busy How could I have time to attend this kind of welcoming banquet? You guys are finally here Ella is the star of the night. Come on, come on Let me introduce you to everyone This is the person we are collaborating with this time. Well-known designer Ella Everyone applauds Shen Zhaoyan Please take care of me in the future. all she gives Your Zhao Yan has returned from abroad. He is the person that Cai Qing is working with this time. Designer Ella Mr. Zhou, Mr. Zhang haven't seen you for a long time Zhou Rui is our designer Ella And his partner Mr. Wei Hello Mr. Zhou Oh, Ella. Miss, you are really young and promising. good Excuse me, everyone. Talk about something in the company I'll take care of it. Mr. Zhao, I'll be back later. If you have any questions, please call me Okay, you go first. I don't know what my dad thinks. I had to come to this little wedding banquet. What to see Shen Zhaoyan Zhao Yan, why are you here? Xiaoyan How come you are here? Didn't you go abroad? Come back to talk about this job Work Cuixing is a subsidiary of Pei You work at Pei's No, Cui Xing and I are just partners. Can't stay long That's a shame. Your uncle and I will be getting married soon. I want you to see it with your own eyes. There's nothing to regret. I wish you a happy marriage in advance. Forever together Director Shen I don't care whether what you said just now was sincere or false I hope you can stay away from Muchuan Never show up Don't worry, Xiao Shen Pei Muchuan is just a small part of me. I don't mean to ruin your relationship. I also hope you don't take your failed relationship It's all my fault Shi Zhaoyan, you dare to laugh at me Xiao Shu Are you okay? I'm fine Mu Chuan, why are you here? I didn't mean it. Zhao Yan, I'm sorry. I will never forgive you I hope you won't appear in front of me again. Zhao Yan You came here especially for him. Why don't you go find him? He doesn't want to see me I don't want to cause him any more trouble. Help! Miss you Pizza please come closer so come sing Help! Woo Uncle, please save me Shen Zhangyan Without my permission You can't die Shen Zhangyan No Death Zhou Ye, don't go there. Mr. Pei will take good care of you Don't be afraid, I won't do anything to you. I just want to wipe the moisture off you No need, I'll do it myself You must follow my identity. I just want Just keep our normal numerical relationship After all, isn't this what you asked for? Mr. Pei and Ms. Shen This is the clothes you want. Change your clothes. Don't get addicted Thank you, uncle What's their relationship? Just now, President Pei jumped into the water to save him. Look, he's still wearing Mr. Pei's clothes. Doesn't Mr. Pei have a fiancee? Zhao Yan, are you okay? Oh, it's all my fault. I shouldn't have walked away. I'm fine, don't worry. You are Zhao Yan Novel Thank You for Saving Zhao Yan Saving him is what we should do. What to keep Thank you, I wanted to say Not now Uncle, please respect yourself. Strict My uncle takes care of his affairs I'll just ask his mother to do it. It's not appropriate for you as an uncle to do this. Besides, I have been recruiting strictly abroad. Since entering the industry, Al Designed hundreds of jewelry pieces The most classic one is The Love of Competition designed by Al in college Symbolizes a love that cannot be achieved Love that ended without a result and regret What happened to Zhao Yan? It is reported that Shen Zhaoyan plagiarized Su Pan's works Shen Zhaoyan and Pei Muchuan have an affair Provoking controversy Peng Zhu suppressed the public opinion on the Internet for ten minutes All rumor mongers Public Opinion Law Yes, yes I'm not What famous designer What forbidden love It turns out that he has a secret relationship with his uncle. It's the Emerald Star As a first-tier jewelry brand in China How can I work with such a designer? Hmm, maybe these jewelry pieces are not his. After all, he has a history of plagiarism. Don't be afraid of others, I'm here First of all, I would like to explain to you Between me and Ms. Ella There is no fact that he seduced me About this intimate photo in your hands I forced him to do it. Secondly Regarding the online rumors that Ella is a plagiarist This is pure fiction Whether it was that painting many years ago Or every piece of work he created after becoming a designer? He completed it independently. The real plagiarist is not known I have sent you the evidence. If there is anyone else present Making false accusations against Ms. Shen Zhaoyan Our Pei Group's legal team will accompany you to the end. I have already copied that painting. Put his and Shen Zhaoyan's words together tomorrow. I want Shen Zhaoyan to become a plagiarist despised by everyone Oh my god, if the recording released by Master Pei is true Then the real plagiarist back then wasn't Su Tan Isn't Su Tan the fiancee of Mr. Pei San? I warned you If you dare to touch Chaoyun I will never let go You protect him like this. I don't even want to live anymore Chaoyun is my bottom line Shen Zhaoyan You are really good at it. These two are all fascinated by you. Let your uncle abandon his disgusting morals for you He from beginning to end All of them put me As a tool to help you forget your thoughts It's you who destroyed me. From the day he brought you home I've decided not to bother him anymore. I just treat him as my little one. The one who destroyed you It's you Miss Su You are involved in the network The act of spreading rumors about others Please cooperate with the investigation Come with us take away You two adulterers I beg you I beg you Strong and motivated I'm sorry, Grandpa. It's because of me that you've gone through all this. It's all over What's the point of saying it now? Grandpa, I don't want to be your uncle anymore. Let's start over, shall we? Uncle, what are you saying? Aren't you doing a good job as my uncle? I asked you to wait for my wedding with Zhao Yang. It's not certain who will drink at whose wedding You all let go Don't let go