Boss, bring me a bowl of rice noodles. The rice noodles are here. Good job. Put down the fish in your fish bowl and spare your life. I said that the golden carp given by the 100-year-old man is to treat people's illnesses. How can I give it to you? You have a taste of the power of the Yangtze River Iron Network Gang. My good senior brother Tulu, what kind of wild monk from the temple dares to interfere with the affairs of the Iron Network Gang? I'm sorry, the eldest brother is the younger brother, isn't it? I'm sorry, whoever calls you a brother will have to live today. Tear your brothers apart, stop bullying a young monk and using hidden weapons. Don't worry about ruining the reputation of the Iron Network Gang. Take down this old man and this young monk. Cousin, hurry up, cousin, hurry up, drive, hurry up. Cousin , hurry up, my master is here. The two heroes of the bell and sword are here. Shui Lubo has caught the golden carp. No young master. The centenarian master gave a golden carp as a gift. I met these gangsters and nearly killed the old man. Look, cousin. This is the scorpion tail dart that seals the throat at the sight of blood. It's very powerful. Who is so vicious? The bell and sword duo have gained a lot of fame in the past few years. But everyone knows how powerful my Yangtze River Iron Network gang is. Your old slave dares not to buy me. I'm afraid it's not that easy, so it's up to you. You know that this scorpion tail dart is rotten to the heart and bones, but you still hurt people. Are you trying to kill people? You are too cruel. Dare to order God to spare you. If you do it again next time, I'm afraid it's not that easy. Don't blame me for being ruthless when I meet you. Today I am going to show off my awesomeness to my cousin. I will beat him to death for daring to laugh at my senior brother. Senior brother, come and see what you are doing. Miss, I forgot to tell you that it was this little master who saved me. Save my life. Thank you little master for saving the lives of my family. I don't know what the little master's Dharma name is. I'm just an ordinary little monk with no Dharma name. This ingot of gold is a token of my gratitude. I asked the little master to buy the sesame oil in front of the Bodhisattva's throne. You're welcome, little master. I have such strong hands. May I ask your surnames? Since you are in the martial arts world, you must know the nicknames of the two heroes of the bell and sword. I just heard the black-faced man say that you two are the two heroes of the bell and sword. But I I don't know the names of these two distinguished people. My name is Shui Sheng, he is my cousin, and his name is cousin Wang Xiao. He is a good member of the Blood Blade Sect , and he is a member of the Blood Sword Sect. If you are kind to our old family, get out of here. I am not me. Really not, I, don't come here, little pervert, don't come near me, what are you talking about? I really am not you, listen to me, you still dare to go forward, why do you hit me, I will beat you to death, little pervert, I will beat you to death. Why are you beating people for no reason ? Why are you all wronging me? Why are you all harming me? Why, I provoke who I offend whom, okay, can't I die? Brother Ding, I can't die. Brother Ding's funeral is unfinished. Brother Ding, mine. My luck is really bad. Brother Ding, don't worry, I won't die. Waiter , is there anything delicious? Yes, bring it up to me quickly. Please take a seat. Come on, guest, wine and food. Cousin, Hurry, drive, cousin, waiter , please bring me another plate of beef and a few bowls of rice, so that I can exchange them for some silver coins. Hurry up , get out of the way of my cousin right away. Where can he go? Cousin, Let's go that way , that way, okay, let's go, waiter, where is my food? Why take a picture? Bring the food up to me quickly. Little master, the good deeds you have done have violated our master. Please come and don't rape or kill. Miss Guan's thief is here. Catch him. I'm not. I'm not. Last night, a vicious thief from Xue Dao Lian raped a young lady from Guan's family. If the Xue Dao Clan is not destroyed, the common people will never have a peaceful day. Cousin, let's see. Go to the Bell and Sword Dual Heroes, have mercy on me. I told you that I'm not from the Blood Knife Sect. You don't believe what I'm saying. I'm telling you that I'm not a flower-picking thief. Where did I come from? I'm a flower-picking thief. Have mercy on me, please listen to me. Cousin, Hurry up, little thief, your crime of raping and killing Miss Guan is unforgivable. Watch the sword, my cousin, hurry up, old thief, I have fought with you for a beautiful cousin, my disciple, hurry up, okay, cousin, let go, Evil monk, let me go quickly, old evil thief, let me go, let me go, let me go, old evil thief, what are you yelling about? Shut up. You are very handsome, ancestor, I am very blessed. What are you doing? My son was kidnapped by the Blood Knife Sect. It's my uncle. Hurry up and release your white doves. I've asked three uncles to come to the rescue. It's my uncle. I've made an appointment with a dozen martial arts masters. They are all waiting outside the door. Okay, you go first, you and I. Uncle Hua will arrive immediately. Di San, the fourth generation head of the Blood Knife Sect and the sixth generation disciple of the Blood Knife Patriarch, is here. My cousin, this beautiful girl, has become my disciple's eighteenth concubine. If you want to come over for the wedding banquet, come over and kill me. The evil thief with the bloody sword, to eliminate harm to my cousin in the martial arts world, go and kill that little thief, I am not my cousin, a good boy, let's see if your sword is faster or mine. Up and down, flowers, flow, water, daddy is here. Luo Hua Liu Shui I'll beat you up like a fallen old evil thief. Your death has come. My dear disciple, hurry up and prepare your horses. We have to spend less time with my cousin. I'll stop his retreat. Hurry up. If it's too late, we won't be able to escape. Disciple, hurry up and drive away. Cousin master Grandpa, who is Luo Hua Liu Shui? I heard your master Bao Xiang said that besides Ding Dian, the most powerful people in the martial arts world of the Central Plains are the Southern Four Strangers. What are the four northern monsters called Feng Hu Yun Long? The martial arts called Luohua Liushui is not much better, but listening to the echoes of the four of them, it seems that they have some skills. The names of these four people are Lu Tianshu Hua Tiegan, Liu Chengfeng, and Shui Dai. Together they are called Luohua Liushui. Their martial arts are not there. If four people join forces under me, what kind of person are you, the handsome young man who wields the sword? He has a bad temper. Which one of the four of Luohualiushui is your father? Grandpa Shizu. Her name is Shui Sheng. I think the one with the surname Shui is her father. Come on, little pervert, are you worthy of mentioning my father's name? What's the big deal about your father? He shouted so loudly that no one was seen. This shows that he is a drunkard. If you have the ability, don't run away. Old pervert, tell me what is the most precious thing about a woman. I I don't know what you are going to do, what are you doing? Let me tell you that the most precious thing about a woman is her face. This girl is quite stubborn. I just need to slash your face seven times horizontally and eight times vertically. This move is called horizontal seven and vertical eight. You tell me whether you are beautiful or not. I ask you, who is your father, if you don't tell me, I'll chop you up with a knife. If you have the ability, you'll kill me. What's the use of keeping you? You're fine. You're a lucky little pervert, I, don't tell me, don't tell me. If I come down with the second sword again, if you have the guts, you can kill me. Come on, it's not that easy. My grandson, how good are these two swordsmanship? It's really amazing. Do you want to learn from me? I'm so good. Of course it would be a good thing if I learn the sword skills. If I meet this girl's cousin in the future, I will teach him a lesson. Besides, if I learn the sword skills well, I won't lose your prestige. It's so shameless. Okay, Grandpa will teach you a move of splitting paper and peeling rot. This is a unique move that no one in the world can master. Bragging, if you say I am bragging, I will try what you want to do . Don't move. Watch out. Grandpa, your martial arts is too great. This swordsmanship is so good. Grandpa, your martial arts is simply too powerful. It is unparalleled. I will be satisfied if I have mastered one-tenth of your skills. It's so despicable and disgusting that she called you despicable. You have good qualifications. As long as you are willing to work hard, you can definitely learn this Kung Fu. Come and try it. This little monk doesn't know how. How can you let him try it randomly? If you do n't practice Kung Fu, you won't succeed once and twice. If you don't succeed, try it ten times. Eight times, Master Grandpa is right. Don't move and chop me to death. I don't want to be insulted by you. Try it boldly. Grandpa Master, what should I do with this sword? How to use the right strength? The waist is strong and the shoulders are connected. The shoulders are connected to the arms. There must be no strength, and the wrist must be weak. When the knife grazed her face, it must be like this. No strength is better than strength, and weakness is better than strength. It's a pity that I was framed, my sepa bone was pierced, and I can't use any strength anymore. What are you laughing at, my disciple and grandson? You are blind. I was so lustful, I didn't care about my body , so I missed it. Was it me? I didn't bring it in honestly. I have harmed so many other girls. Did I suffer from the burden of women? I am the little [ __ ] from Wanjia who caused me so much misery. One day, I will seek revenge on her. You did what you did. Thanks to your worries, you still said that others have implicated you. The shameless people in the world, led by your little thief, are so brave. My disciple and grandson took off her clothes for me and gave them to her. Let's see if she still dares to curse. You dare, but I dare not. Come on, Master, Grandpa, do you think I can still practice martial arts with this piece of trash? Is there any possibility that I can practice martial arts even if my hands and feet are cut off? My Blood Knife Sect's kung fu is really, yes, that's great. They are here, mount the horse, cousin, drive cousin, cousin drive, cousin, cousin, save me, cousin, cousin drive, cousin, cousin. Brother, cousin, cousin, save me, evil thief, put down my cousin, save me, cousin, save me, Luo, Hua, Liu, Shuijia, Dad, come and save me, all four of them are here at Sheng'er Uncle Lu, Uncle Liu, as long as you put down Miss Shui, we can let you go. Dad, come and save me. Luo, Hua, Liu, evil thief of water, put my daughter down quickly. Disciple and grandson, run, drive, drive , run. , Don't worry about me, run quickly, Dad, be careful, Dad, Old Master Bu Shui, two people from the Blood Knife Sect have already fallen in love with your son-in- law. The evil thief Bu Shui, the fourth-generation leader is your son-in-law, and the sixth-generation disciple is also your son-in-law. The father-in- law is chasing his son-in-law, drooling all over him. Wake up quickly, wake up, someone is coming, someone is coming, Master Grandpa, then we can go out. The snow peaks are full of old ice and snow. It's easy to get in, it's hard to get out. Who's coming? You Lie down and don't say anything. The enemy is very strong in martial arts. Who is better than Brother Ding? Uncle Liu, be careful. Uncle Liu, Uncle Hua , where are you going? Uncle Hua, be careful. There are wolves. Hurry up, Uncle Hua, hurry up, Master Grandpa, you have to be careful. Why do I expect the bad guys to kill the good guys? Third brother, your second brother, I can't do it anymore. Third brother, you'll be fine. I'll give you gold. Second brother of Chuangyao, don't forget to repay my third brother for me. Uncle Liu sees that the internal strength of the sword is quite good. Evil thief, he's risking his life to pay attention to your grandfather. It's a pity that you're not that girl with the surname of Shui. It's a pity that you are chasing after me so closely. I'm not interested in a bad old man like you. Miss Shui, go away quickly and go to your uncle. You have to be careful of the little villain. Don't pretend there. Let me kill you first to avenge my uncle Liu. Don't come here. Come here again, I'm out. I'm telling you, I'm really out. I'm out. I'm out. You might as well be reincarnated as a beast and forget it . It's not good that I'm out. Your niece is going to be a widow. That's great, Uncle Lu. Come on, come on Brother Lu, this evil thief killed Brother Liu Sandi, let's avenge him. It's so shameless. If you want to tire me to death, I'm going to tire you to death. Your good disciple, grandson, hold on to that little girl named Shui. Otherwise, we will See the King of Hell, hurry up and save Sheng'er. That evil thief wants to take Sheng'er as a hostage. Hurry up and chase that girl named Shui. Grandpa Master, why did she let her escape over there? Why didn't you catch her? Grandpa Master, I Besides, I can't beat her, so I let her run away. She's a useless thing. Didn't I reattach the leg for you? You can't even catch a little girl. I'll take care of you for Baoxiang. Master, grandpa, daddy. , save me, Sheng'er daddy, Sheng'er daddy, Sheng'er daddy, it's not that easy for Sheng'er to escape from my grasp, just accept your fate, Sheng'er, daddy, Sheng'er daddy, don't move, don't come over anymore, daddy is here to save you. If she makes any move, I'll kill her. Okay, very good, throw away the weapons, Uncle Hua, Uncle Lu, don't worry about me. Kill this damn evil thief. Avenge me, Uncle Liu. Come on, take revenge. Come on, come on. I want to avenge the third brother . The second brother must not be reckless. How did the third brother die? This evil thief designed the third brother to be killed. Dad, I beg you, please kill me. Dad, Sheng'er, daddy, I'm sorry for you. , Sheng'er, fourth brother Sheng'er, don't take any chances. Fourth brother Sheng'er, Sheng'er is not dead. Second brother, what should I do if you have the guts to come down and fight to the death? Dad, you evil thief, you three old bastards, if you have the ability, come down and let me go. If you resist the enemy outside, you will be the first to enjoy the blessings. Brother, don't fall for the evil thieves' tricks. Let me go. You let me go. Let me go. Revenge me. Don't touch me . Let me go. If you have the ability, come down. I'm waiting for you , little evil thief, you lied to me. It turned out that you didn't take off your pants. Why should I take them off? Let me go, let me go. Shut up. Master Grandpa, don't stand there. Go into the cave and take a rest. Rest. As long as the Blood Knife Ancestor leaves this big rock, we can continue to chase him. My good disciple, grandson, knows how to be filial to your master and grandpa. I can't rest. As soon as I rest, the three old guys above will ask us to go see the King of Hell. Let me go, let me go, damn bald ass, what are you going to do? What are you going to do, little evil thief? Don't touch me, don't touch me. Who touches you? You think you are a fairy, a beauty, you are ugly, you are talking about me. You are an ugly monster, you are an ugly monster, you three old bastards, if you have the guts, come down and fight with Grandpa for three hundred rounds. Grandpa, I am waiting for you to show your respect. Let's bury the third brother's body first. You three old bastards, they What the hell are you doing, old bastard? My little wife and I are getting married soon. Do n't you want to have a wedding drink? Master, Grandpa, those three people will leave. You asked well. I thought so at first. Think about it. Why is it impossible? The boy is so simple and still doesn't understand that the beautiful girl is still in our hands. Besides, those who claim to be chivalrous are too stupid to not avenge their brothers . I think they are nothing more than such a good disciple, you are such a good disciple. I love hearing this from you. It's quite interesting. Uncle Lu, come on, Snow Dragon, let's go. What's going on? I think the ancestor of the Blood Knife and your uncle must be fighting under the snow. Fighting under the snow. Can you see the opponent clearly? He must be invisible. You can only fight by feeling. Hurry up. Second brother here, be careful not to hurt the elder brother by mistake. If this continues, who is Brother Lu's opponent? Second brother, if you don't If you get in, you won't be able to see anything. This won't work. I think your Uncle Lu, I'm afraid you should shut up. Why should the crow's mouth say that Uncle Lu was defeated? I think it must be your unlucky master who died. I will tell you that the Blood Knife ancestor lives in Xueshan must be very familiar with how to fight in the snow, but speaking from experience, your uncle Lu is already at a disadvantage. If you talk nonsense again, I will call my father and kill you. I tell you, your father is so far away from you, even if he comes. I have already killed you, shout, big brother, big brother, uncle Lu, big brother, big brother, you lost your life for your brother, the hero is not far away, brother, I must avenge you, big brother, big brother, your flowers are dripping with tears, your nose is running, and there are two cowards who died, give me back, big brother My fate, fourth brother, you can't see anything under the snow. If you jump down carelessly, you will definitely fall into his plot. After a while, the evil thief will definitely come up for air. When the time comes, the two of us will join forces to attack him and tear out his heart to pay homage to the two of us. Brother's heroic spirit, brother Fuji, follow the direction in which the evil thief is escaping. Let's wait and see. Good evil thief, where is my daughter? Your daughter followed me, but I have never regretted it. Evil thief, tell me where my daughter is. It's up to you. For the sake of my father-in-law, if you are willing to let me live, I will tell you. Otherwise, you can stab me with four hundred swords. I will not say that I will kill you today even if I don't want my daughter , to avenge my sworn brother, etc. , since the father-in-law is unkind, don't blame the son-in-law for being unjust. How about neglecting his company? His inner strength has been exhausted. This is called the evil thief who commits any injustice and will be killed. Please hand over my daughter as soon as possible. The fourth brother's father, evil thief, you You are too sinister. Come here and fight for another 300 rounds. Didn't you hear me? Come here, Uncle Hua, and fight with him. I have seventy-two clever tricks. I only used three of them today to kill you, the three old men in Jiangnan. There are still sixty-nine things to use on you. Sixty-nine things, Brother Hua, don't be afraid. If you don't run away, if you don't move, you are waiting for me to summon those sixty-nine unspeakable poisonous plans. Who is brave enough to admire Brother Hua? After fighting with him, the old thief has exhausted all his energy. Now it is easy to kill him. This little old man is really shrewd and saw my flaw. Something is very wrong. Yes, I have exhausted all my inner strength. Let's get there. The one who won't go to fight for three hundred rounds on the cliff is the turtle bastard. Farewell, second brother, second brother, don't you avenge Brother Lu, Brother Liu, Third Brother and the others? Come on, fight, let 's fight, fight, dad, let me go, evil Thief, please let go of my grandpa, grandpa Sheng'er. Sheng'er, you said my anger is exhausted . I'll let you see if my anger is exhausted or not. Don't bully Miss Shui. Don't worry about Grandpa Master. It will hurt her life. My good disciple, grandson, take a good look at this girl. She is Brother Hua. Quickly kill this shameless villain. Come on, daddy, see that my energy has been exhausted. If there is no second brother Hua, do it quickly. I'm sorry. I'm afraid he is deliberately showing weakness to trick me. Brother Hua, didn't you see it clearly just now? This evil thief is so scheming. He has killed three of our brothers. I can't help it. You call me three times. Good grandpa, father, whose surname is Shui, would rather die than surrender. Let me kill you. I won't let you die happily. I will cut off your arms inch by inch and peel off your flesh piece by piece. If you call me good grandpa three times and ask me for mercy, I won't kill you. I'll be your mother's dream daddy . I'll cook your daughter to see if you can call me good grandpa. Your master, grandpa, and daddy, this surnamed Hua, will immediately kneel down to me and beg for mercy. I will spare his life and let him go to the world. Propaganda: Miss Shui, how did you strip me naked ? Hua Tiegan, if you want to surrender, I can spare your life and blood. The ancestor never killed anyone who surrendered in his life. Seriously, don't worry. Don't be afraid. If you surrender, I will spare you. Life will never cut you, just don't worry, Uncle Hua, don't listen to him, Uncle Hua, he is lying to you, dad, wake up dad , wake up dad, wake up dad, you're awake, too Okay, a man can bend and stretch. Who doesn't want to live and fight? It's not shameful to surrender. What do you think? This matter is as simple as loosening your hands and throwing down the short gun. I will never hurt your life. No, Uncle Hua, don't throw away the short gun. Second brother. Very good, you are very obedient. This short gun is good. I want to see it clearly. Take three steps back. Second brother, okay, you are very obedient. I will spare you and not kill you. Please be patient. Okay. Take three steps back. Two. Brother, look, you can knock him down even with your bare hands. Didn't you see? Then come over here. I 'm not Hua. Since you surrendered, I should kneel down and kowtow. From now on, we will be a family. Go back and live a comfortable life. Kneel down. It 's so easy. Just bend your legs and kneel down. Little Master, please do something good and kill me. Dad , Dad, you can't die . You can't abandon Sheng'er. Dad, you can't die. Sheng'er, I'm really worse off than dead, don't you see? No, dad asked me to die with you, dad, little master, little master, you are so kind and merciful that you are going to kill me. Why can I ask that old thief for mercy? How can I watch my daughter being insulted by him? Little Master, I scolded you loudly and if you kill me, the old thief will not blame you. Little thief, if you don't look back, you will still imitate the old thief with the bloody knife. In the future, you will definitely not be able to die well. You will not be able to die well. You will not be able to die well. You will not be able to die well. You will not be able to die well. Senior Shui, my father is a bastard. If you don't do it, I will beat you to death. I will beat you to death. Avenge my father and beat you to death. You avenge my father, beat you to death. Beat you to avenge my father. Beat you to death. You avenge my father. Beat you to death. Let me go. Beat you to death. Let go. Let go. It was your father who begged me to kill him. Why are you beating my little bastard? It turns out that you are a good disciple and grandson. I am a little tired now. You should take good care of this girl and don't let her get mad. She is also yours. You can treat her how you like. Grandpa, you can do whatever you want. Old thief, you said that my internal strength is exhausted, so how can I control her? The old senior's magical skills are very inferior, ordinary people are like frogs in the well, and only then do they believe other people's lies. The old senior's deep internal power cannot be described as unparalleled in the world. It is indeed true. This is unprecedented. Disciple, please kill this man quickly. This man is too evil to be kept. You promised to spare my life and not to kill those who surrendered. Why didn't you show your loyalty? In the eyes of our Blood Knife Sect disciples, when did you ever show your loyalty? You kowtow to me and beg for mercy because you are my good disciple. Grandson, hurry up and smash his dog's head with a stick. This man is still alive and his acupuncture points are unblocked. But it's terrible. He has been subdued by Grandpa Master. Let me see if you can kill him. It's no different. This little master is right. I've given you uniforms and you wo n't have any intention of resisting. Why do you need to kill me? Uncle Hua, you are also a well-known figure in the martial arts world. How can you be so shameless? These two masters are highly skilled in martial arts. We can't defeat them, so why not surrender and follow them, obey them? Shameless and good disciple, grandson, kill him quickly, little master, your master is fierce and vicious. He has lost his true energy at this time, and he can't move. That's why I asked you to kill him. Oh my god, if he regains his inner strength and pursues you for killing Shui Dai by mistake, he will come to kill you soon. You might as well strike first to avoid future troubles. He is not my master because he saved my life, so I can't kill him. He is not you. Master, then take action quickly. The villains of the Blood Knife Sect are vicious, cruel and merciless. Do you still want to live? If you don't want to live, you should think about the people of the world. Kill the leader of the thieves. I tell you, stop nagging. If you keep nagging me, I will kill you, niece Shui. Don't sleep. Look, your father is alive. He is alive. Dad, you are awake. Just now, which acupuncture point the evil thief tapped on you actually doesn't matter. He has no strength anymore. I will teach you how to inhale and relieve the acupuncture points. I feel like I can't move my left shoulder as soon as it is numb. That is the Dabao point. This is very easy. You take a breath and focus on the Dantian, and slowly draw it out. Use this breath to hit the big acupuncture point under your left armpit and then you can avenge your father's murder. Okay, that's it . I'll try to sit up slowly and don't be anxious . The current acupuncture point has just been released and you can continue to use it. My method of impacting the acupuncture points is good. Just continue to use this method to impact the acupoints. You first try to stand up. You must obey my orders in every move you make now. You must not wrong the order, otherwise it will be difficult to avenge a big revenge. Step 1 You first pick up the scimitar from the ground. The second step is to kill the little evil thief first. Quick, chop it quickly. Kill the little evil thief first. If the old evil thief can't move yet, kill the young evil thief first. If you kill the old evil thief first, The little evil thief will fight with you. Stop killing people. Let me get rid of the traitor first, and then kill the enemy. Sister Shui, now is the best opportunity to strike. Pick up the blood knife quickly and kill the two evil thieves. Quickly chop. Ah, avenging your father is not possible here. The two of them are hugging each other now and I can't separate them. You are so confused. I asked you to kill both of them. How can that be done? He did these two people to save me. They are all evil thieves and you want to help them do evil. You are a hero. Then why did n't you just fight to the death with this evil thieves? You have the ability. You can kill your niece yourself. When you come back, Uncle Hua is confused. I asked you to kill both of them for your father. Revenge for the death of this bloody knife ancestor in your hands. If word spreads around the world, you will become a hero among women. Stop talking about it. Just cut two knives gently on my back, be careful not to hurt my disciple and grandson. Just do as I say. Where do you cut? My knife is very sharp. You just need to slowly lower the knife and gently cut his legs. How about the lonely smoke in the desert and the long river. The setting sun is round.