Hi! I can tell by the comments on my laser videos Especially for lasers and for good reason. Look at these two for example. One is an LED lamp advertised The other is a laser advertised Say what now? Isn't a watt a watt or what? Well, in this video I will explain the differences and show why a 5W laser is a completely This video will feature my strongest laser ever. At this power level, you need to wear laser Be prepared for random laser-induced fires. And use ventilation to vent the nasty chemicals First off, in physics a watt is always a watt. It is a unit of power. A quantity for the rate of energy transfer. So why is a half watt laser high-risk and exciting to me - - while a 5 watt LED lamp is eye-safe and mundane? The confusion is caused by the fact For the LED lamp the listed wattage This lamp uses 5.7 watts of electrical power to generate light. Easy to measure with a power meter. 5.6 watts - close enough. Its amount of light output is similar incandescent lamp that uses All of this is hopefully common knowledge. It just doesn't apply to lasers. For lasers, it is usually the -output- A measure of the power of the light coming from the laser. Not how much electricity it uses to generate the light. However - to add to the confusion - it is now common for laser Let me demonstrate using this laser engraver/cutter. On the label it says maximum luminous power 5500 mW. Strictly speaking it should say max Anyway, 5500 milliwatts is equal to 5.5 watts. Let's test on my laser power meter how strong it really is. First I set the laser power meter to match the laser's For aiming the laser, I used the focus This will turn the laser on at only 3% of max power. Making it much safer to set up. It will also give us the first indication Ooohkay. The power meter measures max 66.6 mW. That's disturbing. I mean, if this is 3% of max power, That's a lot - but less than half of the advertised output. I will go straight to the full power test. Are you ready for it? Holy hallelujah. Don't go into this light! It stabilizes at 5.7 watts. Above all specifications - and my expectations. Ignore the max reading of 16 watts. That's a bug in the laser power meter. 5700 mW from a single laser diode. Not only is this the strongest diode It is almost four times as strong as second place! Or well over a thousand times more than the limit All right, back to the difference. For the LED, the wattage is electrical power input. For the laser, it is optical power output. The laser does have an electrical power input too. Around 20 watts. While the LED also has an optical power output. Warm white LEDs are not This one probably has an optical Now hold on. 1.2 watts would still be a lot from a laser. So there must be more to it than just power? And there is. Let's look at the surface power density - measured in The LED lamp emits its light from a large surface. The area is around 94 square centimeters on this one. At an output of 1.2 optical watts, that equals an average At just 5 cm distance, the light is diffused all around the lamp. Spread out to a spherical area So at a short distance, the average power density No need for safety glasses Now, how about the laser? It emits light in a narrow beam - not 360 degrees all around. The beam from a blue laser diode With 5.7 optical watts crammed into Over 700 000 watts per square meter. Truly impressive. But it gets better. At 5 cm distance, the beam At the focal point, the average MILLION watts per square meter. Uhm?!? It's hard to grasp or explain how much that is. So let me just show in a music montage what this kind of power density will do... THIS is the crazy difference between With a 5 watt laser you can engrave on rock! Try that with a 5 watt LED lamp. However - despite its inferior power - After a short message, I will demonstrate it. Thanks to all my generous patrons! Your help with getting the makes videos like this one possible. If you want to help me keep going with the videos too you can sign up on Patreon. Link in the description. Thank you! The LED lamp does have an The by humans perceived power of light. If we look at the spectrum of light coming from the LED lamp A whole rainbow of colors. The lamp contains blue LEDs that are coated with a phosphor This is clearly a warm white LED since the majority of the light is coming from the phosphor All of this light output combined They are kind enough to write it right on the box. 470 lumens is enough to light a small room. Not brightly, but cozily. The laser has more optical power output How many lumens does it have? I will use the method We know it is emitting 5.7 watts Well, it should be a very narrow spectrum Let's check it in the low-powered focus mode. That looks about right. 449 nm at low-power. At full power, it will likely heat up Let's round it to 450 nm. At this wavelength and power, it all adds Significantly lower than the LED lamp. Simply because our eyes are not To our eyes, the perceived power Even though in reality Yet another reason to wear laser safety goggles. If you want to light a room The LED lamp is still the better If you want to engrave or even cut stuff More info on this model All right, we know now that a '5 watt It is important to know if the wattage input or output the colors of the light and especially: the power density. These details make a crazy difference. Click like if you enjoyed the video enough to watch this far. Oh, and if you want to send me something The Danish postal service decided that the facility Who wants a P.O. Box for only letters? So I changed facility. You can always find my latest address and e-mail Thanks for watching. Bye for now.