Sherlock: Feral left. Weaken right jaw. That elbow coming in is very weak. You can't elbow like this. Your elbow have to be locked. My name is Master Wong. My name's Miriam Nakamoto. I'm an eight-time Muay My name is Uriah Hall. Shifu Yanzi. Thekla Hutyrova. I'm Zak Song. Today, we're going to be looking at mixed-martial-arts scenes. Muay Thai scenes. Nunchuck scenes. Kung fu movies. Spear and staff fight. Wing Chun movie, and That's a good move. That definitely knocks somebody out. Now, on to the Wing Chun side, you punch like this, So you can punch like this, or you can punch straight like this. But that one there, you see him using more traditional kung fu. So stand up and turn at that punch, create a lot of power. Wing Chun is specifically It's a very close-quarter-combat use. This movement here is a very Wing Chun using that as well, upper elbow. But this one here, you see attacking the solar plexus. This one is perfect to be used. You see a lot of this Elbow using for close quarter, because a lot of time elbow's The most strongest structure in the body is elbow, head, knee. This is the heavy movement there that you got to be able to defend thing. A lot of time when you're doing Wing Chun, you do fight three or four people. Move hand here, fast hand here. Like Bruce Lee when you see them. Is it Wing Chun? It's the element of it. The element, you are But for me to use it, I, instead of hitting, we're using a chop to the throat, because in real life, that If you're using Wing Chun he wouldn't be jumping around a lot. So everything is wider. You know, when it traditional, body wider, movement wider. So it's more for power use. Wing Chun more closer. Like, you see they don't move very much, just stay in a area. So on the bus here, in a Wing Chun size, that's what Wing Chun designed for. It designed for close-quarter combat. So mixture. Little bit of Wing Chun, a lot of them is traditional martial art. For realism, I think I give them 5. Because you can't use it like that, the way he use it on Donnie Yen playing this Yip Man is a real person. Teaching Bruce Lee. Bruce Lee's master. If 10 karate guy up one Wing Chun guy, I think 10 karate person eat Chews them up and spit them out. Karate people train very different. Karate using long distance. Kicking, punching long range. Wing Chun use close range. When you get inside the karate person cannot use a weapon. It been limit down. But if they in the range, the karate person can use a long range, like leg kicking, to In Wing Chun side, you don't really do a lot of high kick up above the waist. But in this scenario, he You use it if your leg is good enough. Not all the time you need but in combat like this, it's good to kick below As you can see, some of the grab, control, then kick, They try to break the person's That's what Wing Chun Why does he come down? He controls them a little bit more closer where he is to attack, because he don't want They sit there watching him instead. Why them people standing If I'm in real life, my I don't stand there, &quot;Hold No. I won't give him a chance to elbow my friend to the back. But this is a movie. Classic Wing Chun. Grab them, control them, Soon as shield them, somebody come along, you move them other side. You move them where you want them. And then you can deal That kind of 1,000 while for you to keep bombarding him, it's good for movie. Reality terms, no. Chasing after him, you While we doing this kind of movement, your body not grounded enough, You're not standing up. You're moving forward. All he need to do, the karate guy, kick up at his butt, and he fall over. It have to be grounded and controlled, because when you're high, they're low. When they're low, they got more strength. Now, sometimes you ask yourself do 1,000 punch somebody's face, is it overdoing it? Yes, it's overdoing it. I think the biggest myth movies show about Wing Chun on the fighting side, they portray that Wing Chun need to do 1,000 different moves In real life, should be one hit, one kill. For the movie side, it's good. In real life, it not that great. So I'd just say around about 7 out of 10. Sherlock: First, distract target. Then block his blind jab. I like this kind of movie, because all the time Using your mind to thought because mind tell your body what to do. Sherlock: Counter with Attacking at the temple is a very good, classic Wing Chun straight But attacking temple, to be able to hit because it's small. If he move like this, it miss. Really attacking right along Sherlock: Discombobulate. Attacking into the ear hole. Classic. Make you [makes dizzy sound]. So that's why he do this way. Boom! So he can't hear anything anymore. For me to use this movement, I would, boom! Straight chop to the neck, cutting the blood supply to your brain. You're out, finished. Sherlock: Wild haymaker. The way he do it, it look weaker, because you don't see But you're using your body. That's called a tan sao. You're moving to using that, While you're diverting the movement with the hand out of the way, your body structure diverting the force. So the heavy coming in, you You go like this, that Sherlock: And body shot. Move like this, straight Wing Chun using that, yes, but you don't move the way they move, more like classic boxing. The Wing Chun more like and come up using chum kiu. That's for the second the chum kiu, using a lot of punching. You attack a lot of organ, rib cage, here, throat area. So that's a very classic movement. Sherlock: Feral left. That movement there, the hand coming in, little bit weak. If you are up like this, if it drop, that will Yes, that might land to your elbow, but you got to make sure the wing block. The block on the hand need to be able to cover your otherwise, Sherlock Holmes Sherlock: Weaken right jaw. That elbow coming in is very weak. You can't elbow like this. This won't get any power. Doesn't matter how good you are. Your elbow have to be locked. Body in line, whole body turn, lock. So that way you can control it more. Whole body movement. Sherlock: Heel kick to diaphragm. This part here, heel kick coming in, classic Wing Chun. They're using the heel because the idea is long solid. Like the punch, solid. For me to use this kind of I wouldn't want to use any heel kick. You have to be able to move right into reach to kick the heel kick, because your whole leg got to be able to kick like that. It's hard to use. Reality, it's the point kick coming in. Directly, your toe onto the solar plexus, that will do the same damage, even worse. For Robert Downey Jr., he's been training on Is he able to execute the moment well? Now, if I say not good, and if I say good, then I lie to myself. I say average. Out of 10, I think I'll give this about 4. Now, this is very, very classic Wing Chun. You see Michelle Yeoh. Compared to Hollywood stuff, You don't see she move a lot. So the classic Wing Chun is you don't move around a lot. You're using your hand, defending your vision of 300 degree. So, this whole thing here, as a fun thing, as he moving, they don't want And why is it talking about bean curd? Bean curd is very soft. That show how elegant the Wing Chun is. Because this is about a woman. That's why she called Wing Chun. Yim Wing Chun, she developed It doesn't matter how strong you are. She can use her relaxed and movement to defend the big and strong opponent. This is very classic there, elbow. And all this movement here, this go into wooden dummy. When you're watching a wooden dummy, you're using a lot of this hand here, elbow coming in, arm, turn, all this elbow stuff is all attack. So the body attack, elbow, elbow, elbow, attacking, elbow defending all this. Michelle Yeoh is very good at I will give this one 8 out of 10. Hi, my name is Uriah and my background is boxing, kickboxing, Kyokushinkai karate. I know wrestling and jujitsu. Today we're going to be looking at mixed-martial-arts He's throwing wild That's not really a smart thing to do. It leaves yourself open. Of course, the big guy If I'm fighting someone movement is always going to be important, because for them to chase me, it's going to take them I recommend speed on a Any type of straight because strait technique is than round technique. Body shots will slow anybody down. I think of it like a tree. If I can chop him down at the root, then I can finish him up top. Commentator: He's fallen With the guillotine that I know, you can either get him in here, sometimes you can get the and just kind of use your hips. It's more of a hip position. He had him against the octagon, so it's kind of hard to get your hips up as someone's pressing into you. So it leaves you to So that looks like a He's way too small to pull off that move. If someone has your neck here, that's the natural defense, So naturally what you to let the person roll underneath you, but it's hard to pick the person up. So, the ground stuff looks pretty good. A little dramatic. If he's turning around he's stepping around like that. That's too much space. That person could just Because in grappling, you You know, there's no, none of this. The thing that I notice a or martial arts films, they want that big dramatic effect. &quot;Oh, my God, this is happening!&quot; So, that's a really good knee bar. I mean, it's very deep. He's got both legs around. He's got the person's That's perfect. It's dramatic how he's putting his hands all the way behind him. That's just taking way too much energy. All you gotta do is just close your hand and press your hip forward. I would definitely give I think it's a great and a great story as well. I really love Jean-Claude Van Damme. He's definitely one of to inspire me to kick. Because, I've knocked out guys with spinning kicks. I've learned other cool kicks. When I was 12, this was life. Round kick's one of my favorite kicks. That was pretty accurate. There are so many ways to do round kicks. If you're using the shin part of your leg, I would recommend it or hit him in the body. You can hit him in the face H--- no, this will never work. Nobody should ever stand there and get kicked with the same kick. Put your hands up, champ! In a real fight, I would definitely be throwing a lot of low kicks. As a fighter, I think more like a sniper. I'm the guy that waits, and and I take it. And I'm I contribute that to my karate background, because in karate, we and kick apples off each other's heads. So that's the type of and it helped me throughout Jean-Claude Van Damme is the only dude that punches and flex. &quot;Ah!&quot; And you just looking at the muscle. You're not even looking at the move! That's where I got that kick from. The spinning hook kick. So many ways to do this kick. What Jean-Claude Van is an extension of his leg. The further that leg is out, the more whip it's going to have, the stronger it's going to be. When I did this kick to on &quot;The Ultimate Fighter,&quot; So I spun, but instead of extending Now, that was because of the distance, because if he's close and I extend my leg, it's going to create that off balance. But in that split of a second, you have to recognize that distance. Oh! Pew! I've been attempting that kick for years. Still haven't gotten it. You gotta be able to have because what happened is you're using the other leg as momentum to generate that power. Not as realistic as it seemed, because it's so much Takes time to throw it, and in that time, that person could have a &quot;I'm outta here.&quot; A lot of people don't train You know, it's that soft meat, your calf, or even right below your ankle. It's like hitting with a bat. So I absolutely think leg A great movie, but it's not even close. So I'ma give it a 5. Sorry, bro. Still love you. As you see, Keanu is just evading, and that's one of the key things too. If someone's either sporadic or wild or they're just throwing, I was taught a long time ago, you can never fight with rage. It just blinds you. I've done it once in my and I can say that plays a part in her just attack, attack, attack. There's the opening. And he blocked and defended it. He grabbed ahold of her It's genius, where someone you just use their momentum to throw them. Yeah, he's holding her back, but she could've easily She has her legs. She There is no pause in a I wouldn't be like, &quot;You OK?&quot; You know, you grab it, you break. But other than that, you know, Credit to Keanu for I would give it a 10 out of 10. Hi, my name's Miriam Nakamoto. I'm an eight-time Muay and I've been doing it Today we're going to be from movies and TV, His teep is beautiful. The teep is a foot jab. You can see it starts from his back leg, comes up his body, and goes, pat, right out through the lead leg. That would be the position you'd be in in a Muay Thai fight. But, yeah, a teep is coming in on you and A high kick to the head looks cool, and if you have a nice head But for me, I prefer to kick to the body. With the head kick, if you to somebody's skull, yes, it hurts them, but, yes, it hurts you too. And I'm not trying to be with a messed-up foot for For Muay Thai, I've Because he was really, It's never that low. I guess that's Boran. And so they do more of that, The logic in Muay Thai as you're getting kicked and as you want access to your kicks, the lower you are, the to get your leg up there. But if you're already standing taller, you can just rotate your If you can catch their chin, I've had a lot of knee surgeries. Probably not in the cards But what I find is awesome about knees is when you're lighting somebody it actually takes the fight out of them, kind of tenderizes the meat. And his form is perfect in his knees. By rotating the femur in, then and your foot goes kind of outward. Then you point your toes, and it creates a much more lancing effect. And you can also get more which keeps you further away from danger as you're implementing damage. So, those punches were terrible, I did one stunt scene, and I was like, &quot;Oh, this is not even real at all.&quot; For a film, you'd want so you can really see it and sell it. But when you're actually fighting, you want to just keep Don't want to lift your elbow. Just want to rotate, just disguise it. Because the more you have a tell, the more your opponent sees it and they can prepare for that. That is accurate, the knee shield, keeping somebody off you. That is definitely a I firmly believe he can jump up there and put both his knees like that. But, yeah, that's not That's too much of a gamble. I mean, you're spending You could stay on the ground and slam an elbow into their face. And they bow. Yeah, that's accurate too. Always bow to an opponent, I have to rate it high, So I have to say 9 out of 10. Her form is great on those elbows. So, elbows is the shortest-range weapon of a Muay Thai fight. There's a up elbow, and then there's round elbows. And then there's a Tomahawk elbow, and then there's spike elbows too. So what she's doing in this In a Muay Thai fight, I would not elbow anywhere but the head. Because if you're elbowing somewhere else, that means your head is down, where there's a lot of danger. So that was very, very, very realistic. That, no. That's not Muay Thai. What Muay Thai is, is and then you add not only punches, but you add in kicks. And not only kicks, you can also elbow, knee, and standing grappling. That kick is awesome. The spinning kick looked You wouldn't see that very Usually you just see round you see the low kick, where it comes up here Well, I'll say 8 out of 10, just 'cause that whole jumping and flinging yourself down is like, no, that's not gonna happen. But everything else looked great. Yes, foot stomp. Heck yeah, The kick, not as much. I don't know why you would be kicking in that really small space. There's a lot better things you could use. I would do punches, elbows, and knees, because those are the And then the push kick would be good too, because they're in front of you. You wouldn't really do because you have to go out and around. Like, yeah, no, you want He actually blocked a kick Don't do that at home, folks. Hand or forearm against shin, like, look at this, who wins? You can get your arm broken, Well, I like that he keeps That would be definitely I mean, the hands are kind Yeah, you don't wanna be ... that's not good. If somebody's striking at you, you just need your hands up. I would give it a 6, if you have a hallway in your house and you're going to My name is Shifu Yanzi. Since 1983, I went to Shaolin Temple, so now I'm the 34th-generation Shaolin kung fu warrior, disciple. My Shaolin experience Today I will break down He come here and try to fly-jump at him, then he straightaway know, he He just lies down on the floor. He give you one throw and give For martial artists, useful is beautiful. Useless? You know, or fancy? No, I don't think it's beautiful. Kung fu kicks, you know, We have deng tui. We have chuai tui, or bian tui. And also we have backspin, high kick. Sweep kicks have front Also flying kicks, flying knees. So all the different types Punch is the same as well. Punch, they have some Chinese-named one, also, they use, like, a boxing one. One is a straight punch. And also you have a hook punch. And also they have a uppercut. In kung fu, they're just called a zhi quan, bai quan, gou quan. Also they have, another different one is like a backspin. So, when you're fighting then you backspin, kick, punch. You do that one, you backspin. Also they use here to fight. Here fight. We call it bian quan. It's like a snap. Like I used one rope. Just snap like this. This punch is very powerful. Now, this called chuai tui, side kick. Chuai tui is very famous Also it's Bruce Lee, I think This side kick has a lot of power. He learned from the Wing Chun. That's really representative And he gave the Chinese name about this, called gou lou shou. They directly push you, and then the hands come back. Then, because you push to me, then I come to fight you. It's like a crash. That's why, in the film, If you have the backflip as a skill you practiced, then you can. He's trying to tell the what kind of technique you use. You can see they grab In that time, you could do I think it is possible. For the easy way, if he grab on my leg and so, I can punch you in a way where I just quickly push you on the In reality, this probably Bruce Lee film, you can many millions of people [yelling] I watched this film, and For me, I think real fighting What happens someone face to So, it's simple, you you just give him punch or give him kick. You don't make some pose This is just for film, for show. That pose, you know, Wong Fei Hung, you know, Jet Li films, they made this pose. That pose I recognize straightaway, I see it's a Wong Fei Hung Jet Li pose. And the other one, it's like, it can be the crane or be Yeah, they do have... look like they mixed many styles, even they doing [demonstrates] you know. And this, Shaolin have this, also Baji have this kind because it's really powerful. They also have Bruce Lee styles. But it really don't You know, Bruce Lee movement I heard that he doing this for training, so for six months, to get the acting like this is quite good. You can see the energy is there. If they really put time to training, you know, real kung fu, they Chinese kung fu film, some incredible result, to, people can see the kung fu, how good. For example, they flying, then the wooden floor have big dent. So, you don't need to see Just that one you can already tell that guy is very good at kung fu. Kung fu fighting is not like that. At least, you know, they cut a five. Jackie Chan, the style is different. It's like for a street fight. For one fight, many people. He's very, very good action kung fu films. It's quite real. It's For example, like, here they because he can use chairs, especially one person fight many people. And also he's very flexible as well. He fight on the left a guy, on the right a guy come in. You can see he knows. So he go there, quickly sort it out. Then he have to go there. He don't care about that guy. In reality, if you really meet and put your life in danger, and you have experience to fight and you cannot run away, you have to. So then it's different story. Jackie Chan, the styles, You know, you can see Someplace they cannot run, you know, there's a big window or, whatever, big fence you cannot climb, then they have to fight. In Shaolin, we are also training sometimes one fighter, two; one fighter, three; one fighter, five. In reality, if they holding something, they don't all come together. They come too close, they I think this kick is acting. But if they really have Because you can see they're holding the clothing hanging bar, and they're kicking like this. In reality, we see many people like this. We punch, and when you do Do one kick, it's same. That can happen. If you're really powerful, Normally, you know, the opponent, they help each other. For example, when Jackie other guy, the two legs, Clench more harder, so to If, reality, if he want, he also can. In reality, if I hold your leg like this, then imagine your leg loose or not, I just use this pick up, so I can swing you as well. I think his point is quite high for me. I think even, like, eight or nine. Hi, my name is Thekla Hutyrova. I am a stuntwoman and and I've been doing in general for about 18 years. Today, we'll be looking at It's very traditional nunchuck style. Has a lot of the which is super cool and more old school. The longer chain ones The longer the chain, the This is about the length, I think, that they were in that last clip. 'Cause the ones I compete so you can do more Not only did he hold it normal grip, which is your thumb facing but whenever he switched his hand, he had them backwards a few times. You don't see that often. It's a style. I think you have your regular standard grip, and then you have ice pick, So I guess that'd be like which is cool. This is the normal grip, but it's neat to see it this way, 'cause obviously it works the same way, but it's just cool. You don't have to start under the armpit. I think that's another They usually spin it, and then shoot it back out again. And I think maybe that's as opposed to being loaded here, right? You're here, and then everyone's like, &quot;Oh, there's no way,&quot; and then shoop! Traditional weapons especially This was just for smacking grain out of hay and wheat and stuff. And then someone's like, I wonder what it'll do to someone's face.&quot; I can't rate Bruce Lee! 10! Yes, concealed-carry nunchucks! So cool. I've been known to just keep 'cause I forgot that they're there, so they are very concealable. Whew! That's dope. I love that he used it to take on a bunch of 'cause I feel like that's just 'cause if you spin people aren't going to want to attack you. I think that is a really If he had a stick, someone might grab it, disarm him, or, you know. It's an easier thing to But when it's a nunchuck, it's terrifying. It's scary for the person wielding it, much less the one in front. Those swords are made really well, because they're layered I think it would have to for that to actually happen, seeing as how these aren't very sharp. But it's Donnie Yen, so, If they wanted to swarm him, they could've beaten him. But I think it's a really the efficiency and the So, I don't know, 9. All right. Ooh, pass Again, with this, you see a not so much fancy stuff when you're actually which, again, it's the diagonal strikes, the sideways ones, upwards. Hitting the guy out of the air was probably the least practical thing. I still liked Donnie Yen's version better, with everyone attacking this was a little more choreographed, where, like, all the bad guys come in at their designated time, which is plausible, of course, but I think if you're a mob trying to end up hurting someone, you just go like, &quot;One, Finishes them off of a kick. He used a lot more martial arts kicks and other movement as opposed to just swinging because obviously someone should have some It made it feel more realistic The strikes were awesome. But then there were a few of like when he wrapped the guy's arm, which I feel like took a little longer than it probably practically would. Like, if someone's punching, you don't really have all It's plausible, of course. While it still felt very it was lot more believable where there were just Would really suck to get cracked Obviously, a sharp weapon is if you're actually wanting But I do think, if you they end up being like a stick. I used to think that they're because I thought they'd bounce back. But, again, if you don't hit it just whips by a little bit, and then you have a lot Maybe not the easiest thing but I do think they could if you know how to use them right. Maybe, like, a 7. That would suck! I feel like the physics of but it's a cool move, you know? I liked the Bruce Lee character dodging. He's very skilled to dodge but I liked him going, stepping off line, and punching the guy and which is what you want to do with disarming a weapon of any sort, right? You want to kind of get in past it and get past that end There was one bit where he hits the pipe and then hits the guy's hand, which is really a cool take on it, because hitting fingers would suck. Whereas you're not out of someone's hand. Important muscles for using nunchucks, one of the main ones for the more intricate movements, and then obviously your arm and your back, and power comes from your hips. Range of motion is very important, arguably more important than muscle mass. This one's tough, 'cause I liked this one. It showed a variety of styles, but if we have to rate it on practicality, 7 or something. Hello everyone, I'm Zak Song. I'm a professional kung I have been training and Today we're gonna look at a That's very good Spear is one of the challenging weapon. It's like a dragon. Dragon is flexible, soft, and at the same time, with power as well. If I'm holding a spear, I And then I come back, So that's why the flexibility So if the spear is not flexible, will be not that easy to bounce back. If you are very good with kung fu, you can do like this, no problem at all. I'm holding a spear. This is go like, which is block. Someone trying to stab me with the sword, I block, I take control, and then I stab. In the situation you don't If someone uses sword, the circle, still do the same, but bigger. Then block and then You can move around. For the martial art, for kung Even in the real situation That's no problem. Any kind of weapon, you break The spear we use, even the wooden one, they made by white wax But like a plant, you have to water it, it will become dry out which means there's no juice left inside. It will be very difficult to bounce. You wanna bounce back, so you Use too much power, it &quot;Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon,&quot; 10. This staff is different from normal staff. Normal staff, it just The staff should be like, with your own height See this staff is longer, If I hold it like a normal staff I can swap the staff easily, But the long weapon is very difficult. If you swap back, it's gonna be challenge. Long weapon is a big challenge. You can see the moves, he You can see, he sweeps the legs. That's very good choreography. Also the style is very flexible. He uses the flexibility to bounce back to hit another opponent. He does this, the circle like spear. He can make some spear moves as well. It's like you combine everything together. Two versus one is very common, so we do this kind of training. Once you're good at one And then you can one versus If you good at it you can do like that. That's no problem. The move's very realistic, Long weapon is a big challenge. If this person get into you have to think about it If I hold it like a normal staff I can swap the staff easily, But the long weapon is very difficult. You have maybe, hold the thing, then trying to push this person back. Every weapon, there's a break point. Break point means the Normally on the top, or in the end. Sometimes you use the middle. Energy point, you can see with the top of his staff, So the people, they which means trying to the energy point. It isn't realistic in the they want to make it look cool to have the exaggerate the moves. They do have some pressure points. He use this energy to bounce back to hit. If you hit here with the power, you do get someone knocked over. And you just knock over. Give this move a 10 as well. That's wonderful. Jet Li uses a lot of moves. The block, that's a Block, control, and step. If I'm hold a spear, I I watch carefully the opponent. If he make a strike, a sword coming, not here yet, you can block. And then you do the next, you react to it, you do the next move. If you're good at that, you can use that. Talk about the flips, with the energy, it's not Unless you do more, over and over, over, of course you get tired. For some people they They do one, they'll be like exhausted. I love all of his moves he's very flow. That's wushu, he trained wushu as well. You can see wushu is and also break points, and fast as well. And in kung fu we see not just physical, it's the spirit as well. In kung fu we say, &quot;Together, coming together as one.&quot; You hold your staff, or you hold a spear. Together, the movement That's very good, very good. So the Mandarin for The red thing is, think That one is for traditionally, do a circle to confuse someone. If I do like this, even do faster, you probably get confused, You don't know. I try to confuse you and be So that's like a normal spear height, but it is longer than the staff. But in real situation that is possible. If some people use the staff they are the same. If you use too much You can do like that if you hit very hard. Our rating for this will be 10. See, Jet Li's moves is