Today's episode of Veronica Explains is brought Corporate greed. It's the greediest! [chiptune and guitars intro] Greetings and welcome to another thrilling I'm Veronica! And today I'd like to talk a bit about Red driven distros. There's been some... news lately, and I'm space, but you've been asking me about the break mid-project, bust out the YouTuber lighting, If you're interested in following along with be posting updates to channel members on Patreon, Channel members are basically footing the you for your support. By now, you've probably heard about what's they've decided to restrict access to the or RHEL for short. You used to be able to freely download the a curious domain choice which I'll get to in a little But now, despite the fact that Red Hat has has moved to a &quot;source available&quot; model where order to download the source. This restriction of the source code is, frankly, But what's worse is that it jeopardizes the See, RHEL is upstream for a few distros, but AlmaLinux, and Oracle Linux. These distros have repackaged the freely available can use. And while &quot;the code is still available&quot; behind same as a typical &quot;open source&quot; model, because that republishing the code in your own open One might question Red Hat's previous wisdom place, and, you know, that might be fair. I'm not a business economist... I'm just a nerd out here making YouTube videos. But here's the thing- Red Hat built themselves They actively told us in the community that these other distributions to build on and And now, in an IBM-esque move which surely open source Enterprise Linux apart. This feels so malevolent I'm going to have mode&quot;. [Witch-like cackles] Remember earlier when I talked about the curious Well, if you're new to this space, you might &quot;RHEL-clone&quot; that Red Hat embraced, extended, In fact, they extinguished it mid-cycle. They've moved their &quot;community&quot; focus to the best marketing efforts, is far from a drop-in Per Red Hat's own documentation, CentOS Stream unusable as a true CentOS replacement. It always felt like the continued use of the scar against the goodwill of the open source years, unaware of how this saga would unfold. If not for Rocky Linux and AlmaLinux stepping customers back in the CentOS 8 days. It was a nightmare for many sysadmins, and To make matters worse, a few days after the doubled down in a blog post essentially saying are moochers stealing code off of Red Hat's to keep open source. To put it mildly, Red Hat: this isn't a good I mean, it's not like you're struggling to Thanks to Red Hat's frustrating decision here, in legal grey areas, or completely rebuild It looks like at least Rocky has figured out by the time this video goes live others might Either way, it's a mess. And now, I'm over it. Thanks to this, I no longer have confidence hold up. I wish their developers well, and I hope Red with the open source community again. But I just can't keep recommending their products over the last few years. So I've already migrated most of my development Why Debian? Well, I'll talk about that in a bit. As a background- I'm a system administrator and a few modern web-based applications. I also use Linux everyday in running my business, editing videos for this channel. In the past, I've used a melange of Ubuntu, CentOS, Rocky, and Alma. My desktop computers have been running Pop!_OS videos talking about my Linux history, going Now, I've migrated most of my Ubuntu and Enterprise Some of my Enterprise Linux legacy application and I'm performing some legacy code modifications smoothly. Where customers have an active Red Hat subscription, But everyone else in my stable is getting requires something RHEL or SUSE compatible. For those, I'll be evaluating what's best So what do I like about Debian? It's best to talk about Debian in two contexts- On a server, Debian is a slow distribution. And slow in this case is a great thing. Debian on a server isn't quite &quot;set it and Package stability and availability are top futz with things like PPAs. On a desktop, Debian is still a slow distribution. And that can be a problem, particularly if the distro. [ominous organ music] But Flatpak is getting really good, and is up to date. I've been using the Flatpak versions of LibreOffice, that's creating this video right now. It's fine. In the past, I've personally recommended against to install, between a challenging-to-navigate drivers. But they've fixed so many of those issues away with the driver distinction dilemma. And unlike Ubuntu, Debian isn't run by a for-profit is run as a non-profit for all of us. After the hell of the last couple of weeks in the Enterprise air. I'm not saying I *think* Ubuntu's going to I *know* they are. And that's understandable. Any company with shareholders and a profit It's the nature of the beast, and a problem Debian isn't developed with a profit motive. It's not developed in secret by some company. It's an open process. Now that doesn't mean it's free from corporate Corporations drive Linux development at pretty community-driven distros aren't immune to But there's a difference between Debian - a work together to build something, and Red company has final say on what ships and what I've gotten more corporate-cynical as I've and in my mind at least, I'm more at ease Arch, who aren't driven by a single company Speaking of companies, I need to talk about I've talked about Pop!_OS before on this channel, and how and putting out great Linux hardware. And none of that has changed. In fact, my biggest gripe about Pop!_OS development on Reddit, a website I've never really understood It's... not a major deal for me though, and generally I like what I don't have anything bad to say about them, or about Pop!_OS. And if you enjoy using their stuff, that's fantastic. Right now, System76 feels like good stewards Regardless, they are a for-profit hardware If they spun off Pop!_OS into a community-driven and guide development, I don't think I'd be But after the boat-rocking we've experienced distros, I'm feeling like it's the best thing alternatives, and Debian right now is fitting I've switched my main editing machine to Debian I'm testing Sway, though, and I like what You can expect more to come on that in the future. Speaking of the channel, don't expect much I'm still going to be testing on a variety I'm going to cover events happening in all exciting to me. You can bet that I'm going to have a copy to be testing against Alma, Rocky, and Fedora. Those are all fine distros, even if I'm not recommending You shouldn't take my word as the final word Read about this stuff. Spin up virtual machines. You don't have to listen to the algorithm-driven I prefer a community-driven distro, and that's It might not work for you, and your systems. And that's just fine. I'm sure this isn't the end of this story. And despite everything that's happened in world, I'm still feeling optimistic about Because Linux is awesome! And so are you. [child shouting] &quot;1, 2, 3, 4!&quot; [punk outro plays] [more cackling] &quot;Oh, that's silly&quot; This basement floor is wide open. Just like Debian's development process! [Andross cackling]