(electronic whirring) - [Instructor] Hey there guys, Paul here from theengineeringmindset.com. In this video we're going circuits. We'll cover voltage, current, resistance, and power consumption, as and a chance for you to test When we connect components we can connect them either or we can combine these to We're going to start with the series type, which is the most basic. We will cover the other do check those out, links down below. So if we place two components or with some wires in between, in series, the electrons only so they would all flow through By the way in these which is from negative to positive. You might be used to seeing which is from positive to negative. Electron flow is what's Conventional was the original theory but it's still taught because Just be aware of the two, Resistance in series circuits. Each component will have the resistance opposes We measure resistance in a unit of ohms. In series circuits, we for the circuit by simply adding together all resistances. We label each resistor with a capital R, and number them R1, R2, R3, et cetera. The total resistance is and a subscript T, which or the total resistance. To calculate the total is super easy. You simply add together the resistor. Let's say we have a circuit that's our R1, and this so what is our total resistance? Well that's easy, the total if we then add in the second resistor, R2, with five ohms of the total resistance is now 15 ohms. That's because 10 ohms plus five ohms. If we added another five ohm resistor, then the total resistance is now 20 ohms, in reality the wires too but this is very small, you depending on how accurate Current in series. Current is the flow of which flows through a pipe, the more electrons are flowing. We measure current in the unit of Amperes, but engineers tend to Now we have covered current in detail in our previous video, do check We measure current by placing for the electrons to flow through. This is like a water meter, must pass through it for us to measure it. We can connect a to also read the current. The multimeter must be for us to take a reading, will flow through this. The meter will add some but it's such a small just ignore this. If you don't have a multimeter yet then I highly recommend you for troubleshooting and also I'll leave some links down and from where. We can calculate the total by dividing the voltage by the resistance. So if we connect a 10 ohm nine volts divided by 10 If we added another five that gives us 15 ohms of resistance, so nine volts divided by and if we added another five ohm resistor that gives us 20 ohms of resistance, so nine volts divided by So we can see that as we add the current reduces, so and that means we can do less work. We can visualize that by connecting an LED with a resistor into a circuit. The higher the resistance, We can also use resistors in the circuit. If I use a 100 ohm resistor the current will be around and that will be too much If I use a 450 ohm resistor 0.02 amps or 20 milliamps, If I use a 900 ohm resistor, or 10 milliamp, and the In a series circuit the the entire circuit, that's very important so do remember that. If we place the meter the same reading. That's because there is only one path for the electrons to flow, and in the same direction, so It doesn't matter where we the resistor, even if we swap the current will be the same Voltage in series. Remember voltage is the It's like pressure in a the more water can flow, the more electrons can flow. We can see that by varying as illustrated here. The lamp increases in brightness When we measure voltage, or potential difference If we read across a 1.5 volt battery, we get a reading of 1.5 volts. But if we try to measure the same side we wouldn't read any voltage, we can only measure the If we place a nine volt we apply nine volts to the circuit, we can increase this by wiring So if we place two nine in series, then we get 18 volts. Three nine volt batteries Let's take a nine volt battery, and add an R1 resistor of If we use a multimeter to we get a voltage reading of nine volts. If we add another 10 ohm resistor, we get a reading of nine volts but we get a reading of 4.5 either of the resistors individually. So the resistors are dividing the voltage. If we replace the R2 resistor the total voltage would and that's what we see if we measure across the two resistors. But if we measure across we see a voltage of six across the five ohm We'll look at why that is just shortly. If we added another into the circuit, we again of nine volts across the three resistors. Across the R1 10 ohm Across the R2 five ohm And across the last R3 see 2.25 volts. We can combine these at different parts of the circuit, for example if we measure we see 4.5 volts. If we measure from the we get 6.75 volts, because So unlike current where it's the same throughout the circuit, the throughout a series circuit. This shows us the voltage so the resistor creates a voltage drop, that's the purpose of the or the pressure. What's happening is the resistor path for the electrons to flow through, and as they flow through with other electrons. This collision will convert the same amount of electrons the resistor, they will just as there's been a voltage drop. We can calculate the voltage individually, by multiplying in the circuit, by the Remember in a series circuit, anywhere in the circuit. The total voltage drop the individual voltage drops combined. The first circuit there was the circuit had a current of 0.9 amps, so 0.9 amps multiplied by The voltage drop across nine volts, and that's the The second circuit had the 10 together, so the first resistor multiplied by 10 ohms, The second resistor was five ohms, and the current was the same, so 0.6 amps multiplied by five ohms, The total voltage drop plus three volts which The third circuit has a 10 ohm the circuit had a current of multiplied by 10 ohms, R2 and R3 will be 0.45 amps which gives us 2.25 volts on each. The total voltage drop which is 4.5 plus 2.25, plus 2.25. Power consumption in series circuits. How do we measure power Well we can use the following equations. We can either use power, which is watts, equals voltage squared, or we can use power equals You might be wondering how Well as the resistor is the electrons are losing some energy, where is this energy going. Well the electrical energy and if we look at some resistors camera we can see the So the power consumption being dissipated from the circuit. So in this circuit the the battery's providing nine volts, the current is 0.9 amps, and the circuit consumes 8.1 watts of power, Using method one, nine volts squared or nine multiplied by nine is 81, divided by 10 ohms, is 8.1 watts. Alternatively, nine volts equals 8.1 watts. In the circuit with a 10 ohms the total resistance were 15 ohms, and the current was 0.6 is 81 divided by 15 ohms is 5.4 watts, or nine volts multiplied by In the circuit with a 10 ohm the total circuit resistance was 20 ohms, and the current was 0.45 amps. So nine volts squared is gives us 4.05 watts, or alternatively, we could use nine volts which equals 4.05 watts. Okay so now it's time for So this LED can't exceed a or 20 milliamps, otherwise So if we connected it to these resistors and a nine volt battery, what in the circuit be, I will leave a link in the video description Okay guys that's it for this video, but to continue your one of the videos on screen for the next lesson. Don't forget to follow Instagram, LinkedIn, and