GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): has been around for over 45 And it asks the flesh and blood in the remote past. I'm in the mountains of at Eric von Daniken's And everywhere you look, you of stupas, pyramids, ancient strange carvings, and other that suggests that not only in the universe, but that part of mankind's history of years. But what does it all mean? What are they trying to tell us? I'm curious to know be some kind of alien code. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): I explore the world that and speculation, the What we've been taught is not the whole picture, but are one step closer From the time when I I've dedicated my life that extraterrestrials visited GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): of the world, investigating looking for evidence of And what I've found at nearly the modern ones like involve stories of coming down from the sky. Now, although I'm convinced really did come here I still can't figure out to deny it. They claim that there is no But to them I say, Because while the proof it may very well When I was in Malta recently, of the cyclops, I made a of Archaeology in Valletta. There I encountered compelling coming to Earth Here, hidden away are mysterious elongated in an underground temple Saflieni. The skulls hadn't been on years, so I was incredibly to examine them up close. I mean, this is wild. So these belong to So we're speaking Mm-hmm. They were found 100 years ago. Looking at the difference it seems as if it's So as you can see there's no sign of Mm-hmm. Completely fused. That's very interesting. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS of the human skull by what are called sutures. The sagittal suture connects of the cranium and is open when around the age of 35. But the skull I'm appear to have a This is incredible. This one in particular, Which is quite unusual. So. Mm-hmm. And I know there's quite In fact, we've been of keeping them the remains, the evidence. Yeah. Why? Why are these not on display? Unfortunately, they They were discovered This is the first thing GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): is really bizarre. And even more bizarre is that I was in Peru with David and I were invited to at the Perakis History Museum And they were some of the laid my eyes on. Yeah, yeah. Wow, that's weird. You can see some sutures but there's none in the front. It doesn't have the side It's-- this is strange. I've heard from a doctor. He said that over the years, if There's not even a I mean, there's nothing GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): in Malta, the skulls here have testing, although it was was analyzed and The results showed it to be of I thought was quite strange. I mean, how did the northern to South America before mainstream historians even possible? And why did they have What if, David, we are looking Seriously. It's the first time that I've with so many. This is very, very bizarre. It's really hard to that these skulls may alien human hybrids GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): to notice these things, of the sagittal suture? And why have we not wondered why been found in Germany, Egypt, the United States? I believe I received during my recent visit in southern Portugal. While looking for evidence in the town of Silves, took me to the Lagos Museum. He wanted to show egg that had been found on the Wow. This is it. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS I noticed was the because it instantly known as a cosmic a motif that can be throughout the world. How old do you We're talking of something And this thing up resemble the rod, which a symbol of power Moses had a rod. And in Mesopotamia, the rod of the power of the gods. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): of human life emerging can be found in many In China, for example, to be the first living being He was said to have been born and broke in half to create The Dogan of Western Africa say hatched from cosmic eggs. When they descended they made such a deafening tremble. And in the ancient it was said that a golden winged was hatched from a was the source of the universe. It reminds me of what might Which is very interesting, what the ancient that a long time ago advanced that there was potential and with a target and theirs, essentially we GIORGIO TSOUKALOS beginning to wonder if of our ancestors knew we would as flesh and blood until we first began to study and discover that there Perhaps what we have here is the alien code. This is great. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS that I saw in Portugal got me that have been found around on them. And perhaps none have about our history 80 miles northwest of lies the small It was here in 1961 that a were unearthed in etched with mysterious interacting with what seemed to looking through telescopes, Now, while it is true have been exposed as forgeries, have been found and some researchers be more than 2,000 years old. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): southeast of where the in the Precious Metals Bolivia is the Thought to be over the Fuente Magna Bowl was by a local farmer in the 1950s. It features hundreds that are strangely similar by the ancient Sumerians. But what is a bowl featuring than 8,000 miles from Sumeria? Or as we know it today, Iraq. My good friend and fellow David Childress has on the Fuente Magna Bowl. So when I met with I asked him what he thought That bowl has two forms Sumerian hieroglyphs It's been authenticated by and all that mainstream do at this point is ignore it. It's not something they because it would completely of the water. But here's the said that this was authenticated What makes a Bolivian less mainstream than archaeologists? In my opinion, nothing. So why aren't they confirmed It would change history. The Fuente Magna Bowl that the Sumerian Anunnaki GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): being discovered near to the theories Sitchin and his proposal that with a highly advanced as the Anunnaki. History has to be rewritten. Eventually, they'll have GIORGIO TSOUKALOS that a bowl was found in Bolivia as cuneiform carved into it. I mean, this is some of there is for the ancient And what's even where it was found, on the just a few short miles from known as Puma Punku. Today, most archaeologists part of an ancient but they're baffled by the edged stone blocks They're also puzzled by an of structure did these So check it out. Here are the awesome, Whenever I see them, and that you get at Puma Punku. I'm at a loss for is something that can't be found GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): believe that these H by hand, with primitive Because the one thing that with this particular no binding agent was ever used. These pieces are so perfect interlockingly in such a way with which to bind or hundreds of pieces. But what's so very interesting are part of a larger picture, they form a solid wall. Which is very incredible. If another block or this was placed on these are features that makes seamlessly. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): is that even to this day, no one were meant to form. Was it really a temple, as Or is it possible of an extraterrestrial These look like technical almost industrial construction. I've got a little paper that I've just unfurled And they actually go GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): remain scattered across They taunt us, demanding like a giant puzzle that needs When I take into account of Puma Punku and the Fuente that something But are these incredible meant to be proof that guiding us and Or are they all part of some that mankind has been to figure out? I think further answers other megalithic structures. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): investigating the I climbed to the highest to visit ancient a mysterious giant stone wall. Mainstream archaeologists have are part of the ruins was constructed by King And while I don't I'm convinced that the condition When King Thiras arrived here, And they were built of megalithic / builders were given engineering GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): seem precisely placed. Some are even positioned in patterns. It reminds me of a type of to the legendary giant Now, I'm not really so sure here, but could the have actually been Machines that may have to the early humans who During a trip to Malta, I a professor of Archaeology He took me to the a massive megalithic structure Do you think this structure astronomical in of the constellations? GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): More and more even mainstream are discovering evidence that built ancient structures of the movements of But why? In Malta, I also met with has a replica of the that I had seen firsthand at the He believes that this tablet and proves that the numerous date back much further than suggests, to a time when alongside humans. You see the symbols or called? Sure. But it is an old script. And the meaning, the is a pre-Sanskrit language. And in my opinion, all have spoken one language It was discovered even in the United the same language and had been discovered Schildmann in the year 1997. And from this time, we from this ancient civilization. And this is mentioned here that more member. Planet X. Planet X. That's correct. But this Planet X is mentioned GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): of the ancient astronaut proposed that extraterrestrials undiscovered planet called According to his theory, a in our solar system suffered with Planet X that and formed the asteroid belt and Jupiter. And on these islands, these were not temples at all but And they had a and they were quite big. Laboratories for There is some evidence what they make genetic So we are the result by extraterrestrials. Yes. I mean, that is the basic theory. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS was fascinating to hear that the megalithic could have been laboratories I mean, this is I'm convinced that these large used because they would last And why? Because our visitors we would be able to And once that day came, we to solving the alien code. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): evidence for the can be found in Nazca, Peru, of ancient geoglyphs carved Archaeologists believe that sometime between But for some reason, the ancient on such a large scale be appreciated from above. I recently flew over with fellow ancient astronaut And I'm still blown away by this in this remote and GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): about the Nazca lines is that Instead, it's like can be found here on Earth-- birds, fish, plants, and that can't be found in But even more surprising among these glyphs like a man in a space suit. So I keep wondering, to the Annunaki. Right. And this is a big It's like a beacon. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): appears to be or perhaps waving to and inviting them to land here. But why would people ago create these glyphs that above the Earth. Curiously, there are throughout the ancient to be seen from the sky. There's a serpent mound in the Atacama Giant in Now, in my opinion, I think that inspired to do this by but that those visitors of humans to And possibly by looking we will uncover some and our future. But what is it that we're And could extraterrestrials today in the form Now, some crop been exposed as man-made hoaxes, and appeared so suddenly to defy explanation. There is one in particular that than all the rest, and it was Incredibly, the appears on a rock that was years later. So this is the trail I was on. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): in the desert just 11 miles from Robert Ridge discovered what Rock. This small triangular-shaped in color and has a circular that isn't etched into the rock, Investigative journalist was one of the first to So I visited her at to see what she had discovered. At first I thought, could And we can do a comparison so that you can see Now, on the left is the and its pattern. And on the right is in [inaudible] 120 feet long. And when you take each item, they're exactly identical. Wow. So you clearly think that the In this one had a pilot and a passenger over the field and And they flew back have been more than a half Now, the fact that we have of what appears to be brings to mind a concept from as the Vedas. And that is, as above, so below. In other words, what is connected directly to what GIORGIO TSOUKALOS or what created the crop in England in 1996? And why is the same design Now, although the Roswell Rock after the crop circle, I'm because for the design means that the rock around And if it was would be perfectly smooth Could the crop circle matches the design be a sign that not only but that whoever is leaving further clues In my opinion, this goes And when I look at all I have to say I think I'm specific pattern emerging. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS of my investigations, I've many ancient cultures of celestial beings visiting in Sumeria, the and the South American but I also noticed that unexplained designs etched into at some of these After studying many as well as the layout of I was struck by how often I saw over and over. Stone circles have been France, Syria, Saudi And above Sacsayhuaman, in lies a ceremonial site in the But how come circles are so prominent in found all over the globe? Is it possible that these or perhaps even signals GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): yet, this has me thinking of which was described by the as a highly advanced made up of concentric circles. When I was on the Greek investigating the legend of Jonathan Bright shared another GIORGIO TSOUKALOS is in the Golan Heights And according to a group of so-called and mated with local women. This is exactly the same story Atlantis, where Poseidon That's very interesting. And you know, the legends with this place up here are significant, something, sacred happened up here And they weren't as we think of angels today. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): to discover that at Mount said to have come down to old monument that seems for the description of Atlantis. And this specific pattern appears over and over You see it, for example, at Goseck Circle in Germany, in Wyoming, and even But what does it all mean? What are the ancients When I was in Nazca with fellow David Childress, we encountered that I'm convinced was the Sun-star and Cross glyph. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS by David's suggestion that the a mandala. A mandala is the spiritual in both Hinduism and Buddhism. It is also said to represent But what is a symbol that's doing here in Peru? Today, for the first inside some of the lines, It's this giant geometry It's baffling. You can't figure If you've been to India you can instantly recognize GIORGIO TSOUKALOS between this geoglyph at is really incredible. Maybe if I can decipher the and Cross glyph, I will begin I'm really starting to think gyph at Nazca could hold these circular-shaped structures over the world. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): and Cross glyph definitely a symbol used to represent And I want to compare notes Erich von Daniken. What do you say about Because there are some that the realm of the gods something spiritual or ethereal. It was real. We have so many for example, the so-called Or we have things like heaven. Abraham, for example, Or Arjuna in the Indian Enoch was taken to heaven. Change the word of &quot;heaven,&quot; put and you change the complete In this case of the definitely extraterrestrial. Told to the humans, They knew in the future You know, it almost seems as that we are now, slowly that our past is completely are saying. There is some type I am absolutely sure these left the planet with nothing, goodbye.&quot; They left something, And this is the future of our GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): I found another to be made with the In 1972, British set out to diagram New described in both and the Book of Revelation. By carefully examining of New Jerusalem Michell created a a series of concentric a square and two This design, like the mandala, to the Sun-Star and Cross glyph. I refuse to accept that There must be a message In Geneva, have built the largest and most the Large Hadron Collider. It is designed to smash at speeds of nearly 670 and thus duplicate what were the conditions that Once again, the bears an interesting of the circular patterns throughout the world. Is it possible that with the Collider, we are fulfilling a set out for us long ago? GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: I'm that the questions we're asking were intentionally planted and they were meant to not by early man at the point in our to ask these questions. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS needed to study biology is such a thing as DNA. We needed to understand and structural engineering. We needed to understand and develop the means of and from up in space. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: I'm convinced with our extraterrestrial But before that happens, there of the puzzle I need to find. Only then will we what I call the alien code. So it's time for me to and head out in and discover that there Perhaps what we have here is the alien code. All that mainstream do at this point is ignore it. Because it would completely of the water. Or are they all part of some that mankind has been to figure out? I think further answers other megalithic structures. The sites we call were not temples at Laboratories for what? Genetic experiments. I'm convinced that these large used because they would last And why? Because our visitors we would be able to And once that day came, we to solving the alien code. I keep wondering if I really do think something over the field and And they flew back have been more than a half Now, the fact that we have of what appears to be brings to mind a concept from as the Vedas. And that is, as above, so below. In other words, what is connected directly to what GIORGIO TSOUKALOS or what created the crop in England in 1996? And why is the same design Now, although the Roswell Rock after the crop circle, I'm because for the design means that the rock around And if it was would be perfectly smooth Could the crop circle matches the design be a sign that not only but that whoever is leaving further clues In my opinion, this goes And when I look at all I have to say I think I'm specific pattern emerging. The legends that are up here are very interesting, sacred happened up here