- If you've built a product but you don't have that predictable where you put in a if you don't have predictable revenues, if you don't have predictable growth, then you need a go-to-market plan. In this episode, I'm gonna that you absolutely need to follow to build your go-to-market plan. And when you implement these steps, you will be able to accelerate your path to that next stage of growth. Intro. What's up everybody? Welcome to Unstoppable. I'm TK and on this channel grow your SaaS businesses faster with an unstoppable strategy. Now if you're new to I drop an episode every single Sunday with actionable strategies on how to grow your SaaS business faster. So if you're new, be sure and that bell icon, you'll get notified every with the TK energy. Now, if you're already if you're part of this channel, if you're part of my SaaS my people, welcome back. It's really awesome to see you over here. Truth be told, I've done this video every single year since I've since I've been running my SaaS go-to-market coaching program. And every year, based on of actually being a CEO of a which was backed by in recent Horowitz and then selling that to Marketo where I joined the executive team, where I became as VP of strategy, I ran alliances, I ran Europe, I ran a NZ and doing go to market functions there. And over the last four years, helping over 250 SaaS founders build their Go-to-market plans, based on all those pieces I bring you this episode every single year completely refreshed on the six steps to actually build your go-to-market plan. And I'll be honest, when I thought I knew what it entailed to build a go-to-market plan. It wasn't until I worked with some of the smartest go-to-market leaders, smartest marketers, smartest that I truly understand the nuances of properly so that you can actually get that's scalable growth. So in this episode, I'm the six steps. If you're excited to dig go ahead and smash that like button for the YouTube algorithm. It just loves it when you do that, so we put a lot of love in these videos and let's dig right into it. Step number one in the six steps to building your go-to-market plan is to actually define your market. Now, let's be clear. You woke up one morning and you decided to start You decided to build a product because you understood a certain problem. You've actually built those features and now you've actually got revenues. The big thing to really figure out is, okay, what market am I really playing in? Maybe you've built a CRM tool, maybe you've built an email tool, maybe you've built an AI tool. What's important to understand is exactly what market you're playing in. This doesn't have to get fancy. The best way to really define the market you are going after is to define what is the urgent and important problem that you're solving. When you actually force hey, this is the urgent that we're solving and these are the kind you essentially are defining a market. If it's a very mature market, it usually has a three like CRM, customer that's your target market. But if it's a brand new space, if it's a new market, if if it's a unique group of people, it may not have a four letter acronym or a three letter acronym, but there still needs to of what the market it is And that's essentially the chess board, this playing field that you are in, that's this bounding box right over here. A lot of times folks start with a product, they get some revenues with but they fail to really define what is the market we're playing in. And that's really the first step of really defining a go-to market plan 'cause all these other Once you have actually and define what is the that your product solves, the next step you really Why is a way of actually stress testing, why this is truly a Specifically the way I like to define why is to actually explain and important problem exist. The reality is no one really wakes up I want more software. There's some problem that there's a certain result Defining that why and defining and why this market The best way to actually do is to find macro trends. Macro trends are essentially I forgot that O there. An example of a macro trend will fail despite funding, within three years of actually starting. That's a macro trend that impacts SaaS founders That's a macro trend and I actually wake up every What you wanna do is find a macro trend that truly articulates the problem, the transformation or the opportunity that your product solves. This is the best way to justify And really stress test 'cause if you can't find and chances are you don't quite have an urgent and important problem. And I always do this because it really helps us validate exactly what's if it's a real market. But also more importantly, when you start to say the macro trend to your ideal customers, immediately they start to understand the value of your product. So it's one cool way to actually break through Once you have the second you understand why this market exists, why it's an urgent important problem. Then the third piece comes in. The third piece is Now, if this is essentially in SaaS, in software in this industry, there's always way to So specifically you could be you could be going after the mid-market, medium-sized companies, or you could be going large size companies. You could even break that There could be the little enterprise, there could be the upper mid market, there could be the lower mid market. But you get the point. There are different ways this large market that you And this is super important exactly how you're going to be taking your product into the market. And the more specific that you get, the better off your go-to because you can really cater The biggest thing that comes into play between these different parts So for example, if you the lower end of the market, chances are you're gonna have On the other hand, if you're selling to large they're gonna have a very You're gonna have to convince on why they should use your product before you even get it into the door. So there's essentially a from simple all the way to complex. And based on that, just the more complex your product is, the more complex the salespeople are, the more it's gonna cost therefore, the more you're Whereas the simpler the product, the smaller the company, well, in that case, you're a lot less. Figuring out exactly where you're going to position how you're going to actually is the next step in the process. So as you start to understand, this is how it kind of breaks down between the small to true mid-market companies, I can start to understand, that these lower end the companies follow, there's a more complex one you can start to determine exactly where you're going to play. This is super important because it helps you really determine do I need to hire salespeople? Do I put a star trial? Do I put talk to sales? How exactly do I engage with these buyers as they come into discovering my product? And that's the third step in the process. I have steps number four, five, and six. This is where it really gets fun and these things start to get mobilized. But before I go into four, five, and six, lemme just pause here for a second. I started see the power in this. I've done this over and over I've coached SaaS founders over 250 of them over the last four years since I've started this And I followed these steps over and over. And every single time I meet a founder, I'm working with a founder, they're like, no, I thought I had to go-to market plan, but now that I'm going I'm following these steps, I really understand the So if you're starting to can I just get yes in the comments below and also smash a like button It just loves it when you do that. Also, if you have questions if you have applied these steps and gotten some aha moments, We love hearing from you. Alright, now let's go to step number four because this is where this stuff really starts to come together. As you start to think about this bounding box of your market, as you start to think about what is the urgent important problem, as you start to think about, One thing that really determines a lot of decisions you're making, this is where a lot of strategic Maybe you're talking to your co-founder, you're choosing between some of these. One of the things you really wanna look at is your competition. At this point in the SaaS industry, there's a SaaS for pretty much anything. And if you're starting a SaaS business, if you're scaling a SaaS Sometimes the competition Sometimes the competition is apathy, but more often than not, the competition is a well-established or another SaaS company. So what you wanna do is take a moment and really look in the market I'm going after? Who else is solving this problem? And often you'll find in different parts of the market. There may be an enterprise competitor for A CRM like Salesforce, but there may not be a true, low end completely free CRM provider. Maybe there is, for your specific industry So you can start to understand the difference segments of the market and you really wanna map out exactly where the competition is. This does two things. One, it helps you understand There may be segments in the market where there's unmet needs, meaning there's customers with but there's no real software That's what we call white space. And in that kind of scenario, you can just focus on that white and your messaging, which we'll and really differentiate yourself. In other cases, you may there are other players in the market, but we have this one feature that is 10 times better than So you can choose to In that kind of scenario, you wanna be very, very that you are competing with them and talk about how you compared to the competition. This is super powerful. There's other ways to compete as well. So for example, you could but you can decide, you know what? We're gonna go for an even we're gonna charge that much more, but because we're charging that much more, we're going to give white glove service compared to the competitors in the market. So that's one way to The key here in your go to market plan is to understand the competition. Figure out if you're going or you're gonna compete directly and really being intentional about how you're gonna communicate, how you differentiate in the market. A lot of times founders and trust me, I've done this too. I'm afraid to find out because my baby will look ugly. But the sooner you the sooner you can bake it and say, here's how and here's where we're gonna play, which is a critical component Once you have the competition defined, then comes the fun part. The fifth step in the process is to build out your messaging. Messaging sounds kind of but really it breaks down to a few things. It's your value proposition. The value prop is one to two what the problem is you solve and why they should go with you and why they should do it now. if you can explain that really succinctly and you will win against the competition in your target market. When you open up a website, what is the first piece When you send a cold all these pieces that you or for sales, stems off of your messaging. This is why we'll get into This is why all these pieces come before because if you do these pieces, then by the time you're running that ad or doing that blog post or doing any sort of it's built off of a And the key part of that is to So value proposition is one. The other one that really comes in is what we call your strategic narrative. A strategic narrative is a clear way to really you're bringing to your It's an all-encompassing message that you can put in front of what is it that you do? What's the macro trend that's happening? Why you're different? Why you can serve them? And why they should go with That's a strategic narrative. This is super important to define at this part of your go-to-market plan because if you do that, by the time you actually your messaging will be widely different compared to the competition So that's step number five. Once you've done step number This is where you actually and this is essentially your execution. This is where marketing and sales really happens for your go to market. This is where you take the messaging and you bring it to your target market, to your ideal customers Now, you could be doing so you could be posting on social media, you could be running ads, you You'll take the messaging so that your ideal customers discover it. You could also be doing where you are sending cold emails or DMs and actually engaging Or you could be doing with channels, you could partner with other companies that are already selling to your customers and mobilizing the messaging through them, mobilizing the strategic Either way, by the time you will have created which is your true go-to-market plan, and then it gets into the execution. So this way you're actually You know exactly what the market is, what problem you're solving, why you're better than the rest, and you know how to which is why step six The most important part of step six is as you start to get going, you really wanna figure So a big part of this is and actually keep The more you iterate on these steps based on the data that you collect, the better and better it gets So let's recap over here. Here are the six steps to based on my 15 plus years of experience and helping over 250 SaaS founders implement these six steps. Number one, figure out the bounding box that you're playing in. What is the urgent and important problem that you're solving for and what is the target Number two, why is this an actual urgent and important problem? What is happening in What is the big macro that makes it where they need Number three, what is the positioning? Given the market, what segment of the market How do you actually wanna differentiate? How do you wanna sell your product? And then number four, figure and figure out if your or if you need to tweak it, or more importantly, how how are you gonna differentiate Number five, take all these pieces and codify it into your value proposition and you strategic narrative And then number six, run your sales and marketing where you're bringing that messaging to your market on a consistent basis so that you can generate pipeline, get into customer And as you're doing this, and that way you'll be able and accelerate your path to So now you know the six steps to building Now what you may not know is, TK, how do I really figure out if I'm solving an urgent how do I communicate that or how do I find the right macro trends that'll really, really speak to customers? How do I position my product given the opportunities Do I do enterprise? Do I do mid-market? Do I do the SMB? Do I do product-led? Do I do sales-led or some sort of hybrid? You may be thinking about and how do I really before they demo my product? How do I really differentiate You may be wondering, okay, but how do I actually Or what does a strategic How do I turn that into something that I can actually promote online or even use as part of my sales deck? Or you may be wondering, TK, how do I actually and mobilize all this? These are questions that come up all the time with SaaS founders that have revenues, that have a product, they know their customers love them, but are now looking to scale predictably, and this is why I created my SaaS go-to-market coaching program. Inside of this program, we go The first one is we build out Your ideal customer profile helps us really codify what segment of and what you're solving for. Once you have that, then we that's your manifesto. Your manifesto is the strategic narrative, it's your value prop, it's your and I teach you how to create this. Once you have those two pieces, you essentially have your and then we go into the third pillar, that's your broadway show. Your broadway show is a and marketing activities that you use to bring that manifesto to You're generating pipeline, you're converting them to revenue, you're collecting the data and you're iterating and scaling. It is an incredible program. I've worked with incredible We've shared success stories. If you'd like to work with me directly to actually build implement these six steps and scale your SaaS business, just go to tkkader.com/gtm. tkkader.com/gtm Once you go on that page, all Now, the better the fit, which is why if you'd just fill out the little On the call, we'll review where what your goals are. If it's a fit, we'll get started working So just go to tkkader.com/gtm Now, if you got values from this video, and if you're still watching which is incredible, please smash that like button It just loves it when you do that. Also, I drop an episode like this with actionable strategies that'll help grow your So be sure to hit that subscribe so you'll get notified every If you have a fellow founder, if you're part of a Slack with other SaaS founders that could get value from this video, please share this with them. We want to help as many build incredible software companies. And lastly, remember, everyone needs a strategy for When you are with us, yours I'm TK, and I'll see or inside the SaaS Go-to Take care everybody.