let's just put it out there Chanukah is not the Jewish Christmas yeah they're both holidays that occur in the wintertime and sometimes even on the same day - one on December 25th and one on Kislev 25. You know Kislev! They both bring more light into homes during a time of darkness, and for a lot of people they both involve present giving. What is Chanukah? So if you're asking this question, know that you're in great company - this is the very same question the rabbis asked each other when they developed the holiday. They discussed, Iis the essence of Chanukah about a little bit of oil that lasted eight days, or about a military victory of the few over the many, or some combination of both? Though many Jewish holidays find their roots in the Torah, Chanukah finds its source in the book of Maccabees and while it can appear to be all about playing dreidel and lighting the menorah technically called the Chanukiah, it is also a &quot;miraculously&quot; meaningful eight days for the Jewish people. You may remember the old story? Something about finding a container of oil in the Second Temple in Jerusalem that burned for eight days beyond its one day capacity? Great you've got one of the foundational Chanukah stories down. The other story is about the Maccabees who risked their lives for religious freedom against bullying government a culture of assimilation when the mainstream culture not only forced Jewish practice underground but also literally destroyed the center of Jewish life - the Temple. Judah the macabee, along with his family stood up against the opposition and ignited a revolution. Whichever foundational story resonates it's about rising to the occasion sometimes oil outlasts itself and sometimes people outdo themselves. While exchanging presents has become mainstream in Chanukah celebrations, for many the rituals and how tos of Hanukkah center around cultivating &quot;presence.&quot; The word Chanukah means dedication. When the Temple was nearly destroyed and Jewish life almost destroyed with it a small group gathered in strong force to rededicate their temple, so Hanukkah is a time to ask, what do I want to rededicate myself to? A cause, a practice a habit? if this sounds too serious breathe easy - remember we're gathered around lighting the menorah spinning dreidels and eating latkes. Lighting a menorah maybe the only Jewish thing that some do all year and even that can be a heroic act as it celebrates the freedom to be Jewish in a majority non Jewish culture You do it by gathering around and lighting one candle for each night so that on the second night there are two candles and the third night three and you get it. You light them from new candle to old, from left to right with the blessing of course as shown on screen its central purpose is to publicize the miracles of the holiday - the light that lasted beyond expectation and the few who went up against the many... plus it identifies a Jewish home. The ritual of lighting is an invitation to bring more light into our lives and to emanate a nice warm glow during the darkest time of year. And Chanukah's not complete without a taste of some oily foods - remember the oil story from like a minute ago? the most common are latkes in America and in Israel sufganiyot, or jelly doughnuts. Hanukkah - great for the soul not so much for the diet. While you're enjoying these foods you can &quot;chew&quot; on the story of the miracles however you define that. Imagine that each person has a little container of oil a personal 'pach shemen' containing energy for their well-being you might feel like you have just barely enough to get through the day sometimes. What would it take that to be able to refill and refuel beyond what is expected? Chag urim sameach. Happy holiday of lights Happy Hanukkah