(contemplative electronic music) - What is nothing? It's an extremely, extremely because if you think about it there always seems to be something there. (droning electronic music) Things appear almost Even just trying to seems like an impossible task. But this is more than just I have here a box. What would happen if I were to remove everything I possibly All the air, dust, every last single atom until there was no thing left. What then exists inside Is it really nothing? You might wonder why this matters. Well, emptiness is what makes Even the atoms that make up our bodies and the physical world around us comprised mostly of empty space. This film tells the story of what is known as the void or the vacuum, emptiness, or simply nothing. It's about reality at of human perception. A place where the deepest mysteries of the universe may be held. (upbeat electronic music) This film reveals how, humans have transcended and found ways to understand at the smallest scale. Today we believe the void It might even explain why we exist at all. And that's because, to the entire universe appeared out of nothing. (droning electronic music) For over 1,000 years our was defined by one man, the To Aristotle the concept of nothingness was deeply disturbing. It seemed to present all sorts He came to believe that against the creation of true nothingness. As he put it &quot;Nature abhors a vacuum.&quot; These words stuck for because after Aristotle to make empty space It seemed nature was indeed to stop them. The whole mystery of nothingness is contained inside this Let me demonstrate. If I suck out the air more air immediately rushes in to fill the space left behind. And even more weirdly, if I block off the bottom the walls of the straw It's as though the universe won't allow me to make nothingness. And it gets even weirder. If I take a sip of my drink, and pinch off the top, then it seems nature's that even the law of gravity is suspended. So it's not hard to that it was impossible to But there's a very simple explanation for why a straw behaves like this. A reason that would to the people who worked it out. By the 17th century some strange in nature's abhorrence of empty space. And it was beginning to of tricking nothingness into existence. The man who would finally do what Aristotle thought impossible was an Italian Jesuit called Torricelli's experiment create and capture empty space for long enough to begin to study it. - This is how the experiment went. With a tube filled with really strongly clamped over the end, the tube was then turned upside down, and then placed into the bath of mercury. And at this point, the and you can now see it dropping down. And then it stops. - So I guess the important thing is that that isn't trapped air. - We started with a tube And all we did was we let it drain out. - But it doesn't drain out completely. It reaches a level and stops. Torricelli's experiment had not only created an airless space, it had also shown that the The reason my straw crumples is because of the pressure of But Torricelli's apparatus by using the extreme weight of mercury and a rigid glass tube. The level of mercury in his tube was a measure of the - The level is, of course, of the mercury on the one hand, and the weight of the air And so the two balance out like scales. They'd found a way to And Torricelli wrote this (speaking in foreign language) &quot;We live at the bottom Suddenly, the air really was a substance. - But I guess the real what's inside here? Could this really be nothingness? - Indeed. - [Jim] In revealing and that it's pushing filling any space it can, Torricelli had managed A type of nothingness Over a thousand years of thinking about the way nature worked - Medieval philosophy much reasonably enough, that there's no such thing And yet here is a pretty simple device, a long, thin, glass tube which is able to produce, says thus showing that Aristotle How can you show that centuries are wrong just by doing a trick? That didn't seem right at all. - But Torricelli was right. And it would fall to philosopher to develop and refine his work. As Pascal began investigating he discovered even more In Paris, he carried a mercury tube to the top of a huge tower and recorded the mercury than it had been on the ground. It seemed the pressure of the Pascal's experiments would that the Earth is that rapidly thins out the higher you go. Eventually, becoming the Torricelli and Pascal had begun nothing is everywhere. Our earth is merely a tiny speck of dust floating through a vast inhospitable void. Nature doesn't abhor a vacuum, a vacuum is nature's default state. So what was this vast, empty space? Now it was possible to make it on Earth, scientists became deeply curious. What exactly were the After Torricelli and Pascal's experiments many scientists became the properties of the vacuum. And they found some very odd things. For instance, placing a ringing bell You couldn't hear it from the outside because having removed all the air there was no medium to Most intriguingly, although you could still see it. This means light must be But how could it do this? For those scientists with the vacuum there was the vacuum wasn't empty after all. The fact that they could see inside it meant that there still had to Just as air carries sound waves, they believed there had to be medium carrying the light waves. And whatever it was, it to get rid of. (bells chiming) The nothingness that had been glimpsed by Torricelli and Pascal now A mysterious substance which And if this substance existed it meant that it also existed out there. It appeared once again that nothingness could not exist in nature. Everything in the universe within an invisible medium, luminiferous aether. - It was clear for many that light was a kind of wave. But if light is a kind of wave, what is a wave in? Sound waves are waves in air, light waves are waves in, what came to be called the luminiferous aether, that fills all space. If there's a fluid that fills nowhere is empty because So at the very moment when it that, sure there can be empty space, it's obvious that there isn't. And there's this stuff called - The problem was, that to be so subtle and so intangible that it eluded all attempts to measure it. It wouldn't be until the that experiments would be built that were sensitive enough The experiments would take and Albert Michelson, the would go on to become America's From a young age Michelson the particularly difficult He'd earned his reputation by making extremely precise measurements Having completed his work on light, Michelson traveled to Europe and spent some time amongst some of the best scientists in the world. And it was there that he became fascinated with the topic that the mysterious luminiferous aether. One idea in particular it had be proposed that the speed of light accurately enough that it might just be the properties of the ether. And this is how, if there was an ether, then we should be able to detect its presence. It would be like sticking of a moving car, you feel the rush of wind as the car travels through the air. Michelson realized that if this picture of the ether was true, then two light beams should travel at different speeds on Earth depending on the through this ethereal wind. The difficulty was actually It seemed like an almost impossible task. The problem is this: the speed of light is over Now that's pretty nifty. In comparison, the Earth So the difference in speeds would be tiny. Something like one part The precision needed to get was way beyond anything was possible at the time. But not so the headstrong Michelson. He began to work his He started to develop techniques that he believed would the secrets of the ether. From 1881, Michelson and tweaking and refining his apparatus, but it wouldn't be until 1887, at the Case School of Applied that Michelson would sensitive enough to give There he joined forces Edward Morley, to conduct one of the most notorious The original apparatus was set and then suspended in a bath of mercury to remove any vibrations that It was incredibly high tech and very expensive. Think of it as an 1880s version of the Large Hadron Collider. Okay, so here's how it works. Light is emitted from this source. (light buzzing) In the middle is something which divides the light up into two parts. Over here are two mirrors, which reflect the light where they recombine The light is sent down to this detector. Now, because of the wave-like you see a very specific pattern here. Basically, if the light just traveled at the same speed along the two paths, then you see a bright spot So here's the really clever part, Michelson and Morley reasoned was moving through a stationary ether the experiment should behave Let's look at what happens of an ether. (bright piano music) The light leaves the Now, here's the key: The light that travels against covers this journey in a different time to the light traveling across the ether. This means that when the they now interfere with each other. This interference means that the image will have a dark spot at its center. See this and you know that with a stationary medium through Now, of course, I can't be sure exactly what was going through the as they began their experiment. But it's a safe bet that at the time, they were convinced So, they've been sure that traveling at different speeds as it moved in different directions. But it didn't. No matter how they rotated the apparatus, they always found light Michelson and Morley had and accurate result. But the idea of the luminiferous that they believed simply that So what is going on? Why didn't Michelson reveal the result they were expecting? How could light always be Well the answer was simple, the ether doesn't exist. No matter what light is it doesn't need to be mysterious stuff that purveyed the vacuum. So how does light move Well, by the end of the 19th century, light was known to be, in fact, a combination of fluctuating But it would take the to reveal that this picture of He showed that it had the weird property of being able to propagate So the message from the failure of Michelson and Morley's there is no ether. Maybe the vacuum is really empty. If only it were that simple. Almost as soon as Michelson by accident, that you scientist began to discover some very weird properties of nature. In the 100 years that followed Michelson and Morley's experiments, physics and our has been totally transformed. (machines roaring) But what drove this huge shift wasn't simply scientific curiosity. But the fact that in the late 19th century the vacuum and its many applications had become big business. Industry was finding to make money out of nothing. Understanding and harnessing the vacuum turned out to lead to a that we just take for granted to today. Everything from the light were only made possible within them small volumes of vacuum. The filaments inside a light because it's contained within a vacuum. Expose it to air, and it will As cities around the the demand for light bulbs grew massively. The engineers became ever more efficient vacuums. This technology would give rise Everything from the valves in to the television. But all the technological innovations that came from harnessing the vacuum would pale in its significance when compared to what about the fundamental nature of reality. Because vacuum technology and more efficient, scientists all over the world could use it as a tool for research. In empty space nature's could now be studied the contaminate filled This revolutionized physics. Because of the vacuum X-rays The following year, the for the first time. And in 1909, Ernest to help reveal the strange These discoveries were all feeding into a radically new picture at its smallest and It was a theory that quantum mechanics. And the sub-microscopic world it describes behaves very differently This is a world where it seems impossible to (balls cracking) This is the classical world. Action and reaction. Cause and effect. It's sensible, certain and knowable. But the quantum world soon revealed itself to be very different. There was one discovery that and it's know as Heisenberg's - In everyday life we How can we be sure that or that way? Well it turns out that intermittency and uncertainty. The world of quantum physics, is a world of uncertainty. It's a world where you can never be sure of what's going to happen. Not because your measurements simply because at a very fundamental level nature itself is based on uncertainty. - Okay, I'd like to try of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. I'm going to use a non Now we have to be careful here, it is just an analogy so we I have here two identical memory sticks. On the first one is a It's a picture of me We can see it's very detailed, in fact, I can zoom in, even quite closely onto the pool ball. You see even at this magnification I can still see the precise position, I can see the edges of But what I don't know is or what's going to happen next. Now, on this second memory It's a very different kind of file. It's a movie. The important thing to note, is that the file is the same size as the high resolution image. Now have a look at this. Now we can see the It's the same scene but you But if I zoom in on some detail, very quickly the balls So for the same amount of information, although I've gained knowledge about how the balls are moving, I've lost information about So the more I know the less I know about how it's moving. In the quantum world I know both these quantities exactly. Unfortunately there's no way around this. Heisenberg showed in his mathematics that this is an inescapable at this scale. Okay, so, what has all got to do with nothing? Well, you see Heisenberg's can be expressed in a different way, in terms of balance between energy and time. Now, this is going to but it's very important, so You see, if I were to of empty space inside this box, know how much energy it But if I were able to slow time down things would start to get very strange. Okay, so we're now looking that has been stretched out. Heisenberg's uncertainty that because I'm looking at I've lost precise information about the exact energy in the box. If I could examine an even and an even smaller volume inside the box, then Heisenberg's equation suggests something truly bizarre could happen. I will be so uncertain there is in that part of the box that there's a chance it to create particles provided, that somehow they Heisenberg's uncertainty that in truly tiny amounts time and space something could come from nothing. But then what? If particles could pop into existence where do they go? Why don't we see these particles - The vacuum, contrary to what one normally is alive. It's alive with what physicist In the vacuum little packets very, very quickly. And this is perfectly allowed It's all allowed that it has a name, it's called Heisenberg's which tells us that you could as long as you pay it back quickly enough. - The vacuum is alive. Bizarre, though, these ideas seem, they are, I promise you, To see how this can be, takes us to one of the most in the whole history of physics. Behind me is Bishop Road And almost a hundred by two students who were One of them, Archibald Leach, would go on to conquer Hollywood, becoming better known as Cary Grant. The other, was a quiet, two years younger than the greatest scientist The theoretically physicist, Paul Dirac. - Even by the standards of Dirac was a very queer bird. He was not someone you go for a beer with. Intensely focused, man of extremely few words, very, very little empathy, and someone of rectilinear thought. - These personality traits But they often resulted in difficult or awkward social Even in casual conversations, Dirac would never speak unnecessarily. He'd often leave these long while he worked out the way of expressing himself. Friends jokingly coined the the smallest number of in one hour while still It's a sort of unit of shyness. Dirac's unusual personality had its roots in a difficult and troubled childhood. But from a young age he'd In particular, he and technical drawing. - This was something that In math classes he was looking he was looking at similar in his technical drawing class. It's very, very, very he looked at physics later on, because Dirac always stressed that he was preeminently a visualizer. He was someone who had a He was not interested, per Rather he wanted to have a visual sense of what was going on in the mathematics. - Dirac continued his visual training during a degree in engineering before going to Cambridge It will be here that Dirac the deepest mysteries of vacuum and uncover what was really But his insight sprang from a seemingly unrelated difficulty. By 1928, physics was the two most important how the universe works, One the one hand, you had Einstein's special encapsulated in the famous It was a beautiful, that describes the behavior of things close to the speed of light. On the other hand, you had Planck's discovery of the quantum and the revolution that followed describing the bizarre rules The problems arose when where things were small enough for quantum effects to be felt but traveling fast enough to be important. Specifically, there were huge problems trying to describe the electron, a tiny particle whizzing If both these theories were true, then they should be to give a mathematical But what if this couldn't be done? What if quantum physics couldn't be married? This would mean one or other of these two cornerstones A way had to be found for the two theories to be married together. And it would be Dirac Dirac's unification was a special theory and the rules of the quantum world would rank as one of the accomplishments of the 20th century. And it would lead, inadvertently, of nothing. To get a non mathematical and how he did it, I've come to the cinema to see one of Dirac's favorite Understanding why it appealed to him helps give us an insight to solve this great problem. - If you look at 2001 it it was a demonstration that you could make a really good movie script without words but with the power of visual imagery. Now, that in some ways, to Dirac's theoretical physics. Because for him, what was central, were the mathematical equations. And moreover, he had a visual sense of what those equations meant. - The abstract images of because they captivated his And it was this highly developed and unusual way of thinking, that would enable him in 1928 to visualize a unique way of describing the electron. It was a description that Einstein's special theory of relativity and the weird world of quantum mechanics. (upbeat classical music) Today it's known simply It may look like a small but to a mathematician this equation is profoundly beautiful. A complex and symmetrical expressed with stunning clarity. This is the commemorative Paul Dirac's primary school, and on it his famous equation. Within these few symbols about the universe. But don't be deceived by Think of this equation as the tip of a giant mathematical iceberg. Each of these terms relate to entire branches of mathematics and the particular Beneath this equation that have been developed and honed by many, many other great individuals. - If you think of a poem, you can think of it as kind of language. The way you compress brief area on the page. Dirac was producing equations that had that kind of concision. And you could then unpack them, just as you re-read a Shakespeare sonnet and see more and more in it, more and more elegance, same with the Dirac equation. You find an equation there and you can keep finding things that were not obvious on first reading. In fact, Dirac actually once said that the equation was smarter than he was because it actually gave more stuff out than he put into it. - There was one particularly odd thing that the equation seemed something that would redefine the concept of empty space forever. In his description of the electron, Dirac had been forced to use represented by the symbol gamma in order to make special relativity and quantum mechanics fit together. But the need for four To Dirac and other physicists in the 1920s the first two were quite recognizable, they described the behavior of an electron as it had been observed in a laboratory. But the second two were very strange. They seemed to be saying type of electron that could exist, one that had never been seen before. So this is the normal and here, scaled up many, many of the type contained within that make up this table, that make up me, and everything else in the universe. Now Dirac realized that these mysterious new elements in his equation predicted the existence of a strange In some ways, just like the electron, and yet at the same time, Dirac gradually became convinced that the new parts of his equation were describing something that could be thought In many ways, it was like the having opposite properties, And in principle, an anti-electron could form part of anti-atom. And many anti-atoms could fit together to make an antimatter But the weirdness didn't end there. Dirac realized that if ever met each other, they would instantly annihilate, turning all their mass into energy, disappearing completely. Here, finally, was the answer Heisenberg's uncertainty that matter could pop into existence for incredibly short periods of time. Now Dirac had provided the mechanism by which matter could be and just as quickly disappear again. So let's take another look at our box. Whenever a particle so simultaneously does it anti-particle. Although this sounds completely ridiculous let me assure you that it is true. So whenever you try to from empty space, it's still always awash Within nothingness a dynamic dance as pairs of borrow energy from the before annihilating and (particles whizzing) - Dirac's theory of the electron gives us a completely new Before you could think about the vacuum as just empty space, so to speak. Relativity had said so the picture was of But when you bring relativity then you have for certain this notion of electron and anti-electron pairs just appearing out of the vacuum. So you can think of these pairs just sprouting all over So the vacuum goes from being absolutely teaming with - Dirac's ideas about and developed into what is known today as quantum field theory. And these strange, fleeting became known as virtual particles. (light piano music) So it seems nothingness is in fact a seething mass of virtual particles appearing and disappearing in the blink of an eye. I've come to Imperial College London to see the effects of these Thanks to brilliant experiments called Willis Lamb, we now that there is activity But in order to glimpse it, you have to peer deep Amazingly, Lamb found an So what did Lamb do? Well, his experiment of the atom. Within atoms electrons have in the way they orbit around the nucleus. His experiment showed that if the vacuum really was full of these then these would cause to wobble ever so slightly. Think of it as an analogy: and so the electron is and hitting some turbulence forcing it to move up to a So this is how the experiment works. Contained within this vacuum chamber are a small number of atoms. While Lamb used microwaves in this version the team at to probe the electrons. Now, if you think this just remember how small we're trying to make here. This apparatus has to be sensitive enough to pick up minute changes in the behavior of something that is Imagine we could scale up that's being measured to That would mean that this would scale up to being The vacuum chamber would be the size of the entire solar system. It would take light about 40 days just to travel from the So what is going on in there? Okay, so let me first fire up the laser in the experiment behind me. Now, what this monitor will show us is exactly what's going on down at the minutest scale. Now look at this peak disappear. It may not look very exciting but it's telling us because this is measuring the amount that the electron is being wobbled about by the vacuum itself. If the vacuum were truly empty We'd just get the flat line. What this is telling us is that however hard we we can from space, we can Everywhere in the universe that has a deep, mysterious energy. But it doesn't end there. When using mathematics laid out by Heisenberg, Dirac, and others, you could calculate the amount that the electron should be effected. When you run the real, the answer you get matches the theory to one part in a million. The theory of quantum and powerful description of But there's a much more dramatic way in which we can see the effects of these quantum fluctuations. And that's because they're Today, our best theories tell us that as the universe it expanded very rapidly, and this means that the should have contributed to of the entire cosmos. When our universe first it was many times smaller And down at this size it's governed, not by the classical but by the weird rules This is, to me, one of the most profound and beautiful ideas in That it's quantum reality that has shaped the structure of the Our universe is just the quantum world inflated many, many times. Nothing really has shaped everything. And what's more, we now have a way to see this. (space humming) This is a picture of the first light that was released after the big bang. Think of it as a baby photo of everything. This incredible picture was taken by the WMAP space mission team. - This is like taking at 12 hours after conception, compared to taking a picture of a person who's six years old. It's in the same perspective. At 12 hours you may have two cells. This is very, very early in the universe, and yet we're seeing what's the blueprint, for how the - [Jim] With the help of the WMAP space mission this image of the embryonic And when they did, tiny were revealed. It soon became apparent that the tiny differences in temperature are in fact the scars left by the quantum vacuum on our universe. (universe exploding) These irregularities, created in the first moments of existence by the teaming quantum vacuum, meant that the matter of the universe didn't spread out completely evenly. (space booming) Rather, it formed vast into the galaxies and clusters of galaxies that make up the universe today. - The application of quantum to the universe as a It really changed our entire perception of the evolution of the universe. Because in terms of the quantum physics provides a natural mechanism to seed the early universe that would later grow to make galaxies. The thought is really overwhelming. The idea that an object like the Milky Way, began as what we call the an object of sub-microscopic scale. It really is mind boggling. - [Jim] It now appears the place we once thought has actually shaped - What happens is, something a tiny quantum mechanic Or become the cluster of galaxies, 'cause there's very many So it answers one of Why are there hundred billion Well, in a drop of water there's many more than a hundred million In an atom there that many, the vacuum has all this - The teaming, seething activity and the quantum fluctuations within it, were the seeds. Seeds that grew into the This idea gives rise to Today our best theories about the cosmos tell us that at the beginning of time the universe sprang from the vacuum creating, not only vast amounts of matter, but also the strange stuff that antimatter. But the universe we see Nearly all of the antimatter (matter booming) - According to current theory, the big bang produced equal but as the universe cooled down, matter and antimatter but not quite. For every billion particles one was left behind. The matter and antimatter Gave rise to the heat of the in the form of the microwave The little particles that were left behind for every billion annihilated stars, planets and people. - So we're simply the debris of matter and antimatter The leftovers of an All these insights have arisen from simply trying to understand What we once thought of as the void, now seems to hold within it the deepest mysterious In the 400 years or so began exploring vacuums here on Earth, we've begun to understand the worlds at the very And in doing so we've about reality itself. There's a profound connection between the nothingness from which we originated and the infinite in which we're engulfed. (intense electronic music)