If you ever wonder how some people can listen to know how to play it on the piano. You've you my method of &quot;Playing By Ear&quot;. And I'm also so that even after this video you can work on that want to develop well when you want to play by ear talk about relative pitch for a second. This note are you able to whether you want to sort what does D sound like? If I give you So C was... Now if you pitched D at ... D of or you sang it out then, you are [Music] if I ask you to sing out what E gonna give you C. I'm gonna give you D. pitch for E is... So you had C, you had I think you see where I'm going with this. you to use these notes sort of as anchor to try to in your head pitch or hear what skip F now. Let's jump to G. If I give you E is a sound. Let's skip F. What if I ask What does G sound like? Some of you can do this think a little bit. I recommend beginners, just of sing up the scale. So... And if I need G, all I So the correct answer for G is... So this skill that you're working on right now, for the next note. This is called relative it is also in terms of &quot;INTERVALS'. So this is an interval of a third. An interval of a Now that we have some idea of how to use relative a real song. In today's video I've picked a know. It's called &quot;Twinkle Twinkle Little You know. We know the song is So first step is we remove the lyrics I can tell immediately that the first aren't they? So, we figured out Now I've been doing this for a while. So note is but for many beginners it might be know that the next note you need is... Why that the note we have is... and the next pitch we So that's a total of 5 steps. And if it was 5 Let's keep going. So, so far we have... The next one is... I don't but the note is going another ... You can hear from ... this now, So playing by ear is all about listening whether it steps or skips. So give it a try! You to the piano and try to figure out what the Let's see if we can figure out the rest. Now the F F E E D D C G G F F E E D. Same thing G F F E E of the start. If you listen to this... [Music] So out the melody that is usually played by the right the song. Basic steps are: listen out for if the use your relative pitch, and to maybe even sing up how much of a step it is. After you've figured left hand which traditionally would normally play background or support or the chords that accompany (one being easiest and 10 being hardest) I would are by ear would be, let's say, a difficulty or 2 because it does take some time to kind of play. But I also wouldn't say it's like a 7 or 8 keep practicing this skill every day. Now the left harder. On the same scale I would rate the left left hand chords or accompaniment that you need to will assume some basic music theory knowledge it in the world and the key of C major we have a So we have chord 1, chord 2, chord 3, chord 4, You can also call them C Major, D Minor, E minor, chords 1, 4 and 5, 1 and then chord 4 and chord scales. And chords 2, 3 and 6, these are the have a darker quality. They're not as happy and the diminished chord. Just for our simple Twinkle use only chords 1, 4 and 5. Or they're also called the first chord will be chord 1. So we already So if I just play the chord 1, let's say just Starting to sound pretty good. So within just have one C Major chord for the really boring. Listen to option 1 and option 2 and now option 2... I'm hoping that you picked option the more harmonically correct answer. This part here where when the right hand went Major chord, sounded just a little bit off. to make it sound a little bit more appealing. What I tried to do today is to go to the F And back to 1. So you might like to try this, want to try to match chords that go along you pick chords? How do you pick chords that tip I have for you is to select chords that at a specific point. So for example, how We knew at this point I needed another so then I think about oh what chords in the notes A? There are a total of 3 options. Okay, that's one option. Another option is F-A-C. This one has A2 A-C-E, which is chord 6. So let's Okay, let's try option 2. Let's try the last one. So just based on my ear and my experience, I that scenario. Chord 4 and back to 1. So in need to use relative pitch to figure out what And then you will also need some chord or out what chords match best with the right hand recognizing the spaces and steps between notes, needing to read sheet music. So for example, let's say I want to play. let's say the Star So you could see here... We did that interval C D E F G. Because I practice playing by ear bunch of other songs, I'm sort of, so aware and that's a 5th. I can also go. oh wait. in the Star So as you play by ear more and more, and you starts to see all these different patterns stuff that you do are all transferable to to the Twinkle Twinkle. Why don't you go ahead and hands - right hand and also the left hand. want you to work on as well. I've given you the too. Please let me know in the comments or any of these three other nursery rhymes. for more free piano tips and tutorials.