(somber music) - Hi, friends. I hope you're having My name is Bailey Sarian, and I'd like to welcome you to my study, or, you know, just my Hi. This is a chance to tell and to share the history of stuff we honestly would never think about. I just need you to sit back, relax, and we're gonna talk about Okay. So maybe you can tell I'm getting married. It's my wedding day. Aren't you excited for me? Great. Okay, so the other day, let's say a month ago. So about a month ago, I went to a wedding. I love weddings, especially if Okay. They're fun. But you know one of those You're hanging out in And the cake comes out &quot;Yeah, cake.&quot; And it's cake time, right? So the bride and the groom, they stand up to go to The groom grabs the slice, the cake, picks it up, smashes it into the wife's face. It's like why? She just spent a bunch and her hair and her But that's fine. It's not my wedding day. I mean, today it is, but you know. And then after that, the bride takes his seat on a chair while the groom climbs under her dress to get the garter with his teeth. And I'm sitting next to grandma, like, &quot;Grandma, covering your eyes. Oh my God. What the hell is happening here, grandma?&quot; And honestly, when you think about it, it's like weddings are awkward, and it just kind of seems like a series of unfortunate events almost as a viewer. Cringe around every corner. The cake being smashed, it's just weird. Oh, and then if there's I'm sorry. I know you guys put a that's different, that's a choice. I shouldn't hate on that. Okay, hold on. Cringe around every corner. The money being spent on the lights, the garter, the tuxedos, all of it, right? It's just such a performance for who? For everyone else it seems. So naturally, I'm like, there has to be a reason as to why we're doing all this weird stuff, right? The whole wedding dress, What the hell is it all about? I wanna know. I open up my laptop, get to Googling, and Google never disappoints. Okay? Because everything about Ugh. When I tell you about where all of this you're gonna be like, &quot;Oh God.&quot; Yeah. You see, almost every that we know today comes that probably should have disappeared. But America, we took it, we ran And that's cool, but you're not gonna look sorry to ruin... I'm not ruining it. I'm just sprinkling in I do need to add a disclaimer too. I should add a disclaimer to all of my &quot;Dark History&quot; because a lot of what I'm history tends to focus on So because of how it's been recorded, we don't know a ton or how they viewed and practiced marriage. I wish we did, but that's No, literally, that's what Yeah, did you know that? Jokes on us 'cause I didn't know that, and I Googled it, and I Yep. So this is very one-sided You get it. Let's get into marriage. Yeah, my favorite. The year is 1200 BCE and we Did I say that right? I think I did. We're gonna be talking Yeah, this is when I had like a flashback because I was like, sixth grade history?&quot; Yeah, I remember. It was all about the Babylonians. And then just one day, it You just never hear of them ever again. They like, yeah, you get it. But they actually had views on marriage. You see, the Babylonians who was a very super influential person and everybody looked up to him. Okay, this guy, Hammurabi, a code of conduct for the Babylonians. Essentially, they were rules There were different for property, ownership, and The Hammurabi code had 282 rules that were carved into stone. It reminded me... Don't come for me, but it just reminded me of like the 10 Commandments but there was no burning bush. There's one rule that I'm that actually came from Yeah, let me tell you. It's the eye for an eye rule. You know eye for an eye? if you don't know what when Jasmine went to steal fruit, and then the fruit owner was like, &quot;Hey, you can't steal that.&quot; And then he grabs her hand and he's about to chop her hand off, and then Aladdin came, saved the day. And she was like, &quot;Oh my god, I love him.&quot; It just restored balance in community. I took from you, so therefore Hammurabi's code. But this is about weddings, Sorry. I should start another into Aladdin, part one, two, and three, and the television program. That would be fun. But another big part of Hammurabi's code had a bunch of rules Now the year 2350 BC was in history. Yep, way to go, Babylonian, or starting history. Yeah. And this was the first where marriage had rules and essentially a contract was involved. An important part of that contract was the fact that the as strictly for procreation. Had nothing to do about love, nothing about being cute, no dress, no party, nothing. They believed that women to have babies and babies Thank you. Which speaking of periods, once they hit puberty, that's when they were considered a woman, and they were ready to be married off. So usually, these women, were 11 and 12 years old, so just real young, The Babylonians had a very They would gather all who were ready to be married off. So a bunch of 11 and 12 year olds. They're like, &quot;Cometh So they go inside this temple, okay? And they have a little stage where they would bring All the men would gather around and have an auction essentially. Yeah. The host of the auction would be like, &quot;This is Bertha, she's a Virgo. She gets kinda crazy. She likes long walks on the beach. She hates to be thrown Go ahead, Bertha, take a lap.&quot; (Bailey applauds) See that back end, Bertha. And then the wealthy and the on the most beautiful women first. Beautiful, you get it, it's subjective. Okay, great, really. Babylon tens, the hotties, obviously, they went real quick, okay? Now I'm not being mean because this is literally what they did. But for example, the less attractive women who maybe were not selling as quickly, they would throw in a little cash bonus. Like, &quot;Hey, this is Olga, okay? She's beautiful if you squint. if you squint your eyes, she's real cute. And if you take her, you She gets even more So hey, you may have but you got some money too. I mean, that's cool, I guess. I don't know, I'm trying Once you bid on your woman and won her, now you were engaged to be wed. The Babylonians took One of the first things was that the man would give It was kind of like a security deposit. Now this gift was usually money, but it could be anything of value, so livestock, property, sandals. I'm not sure. But let's say a guy got cold feet, and he was like, &quot;You know what, I actually wanna get He would lose whatever plus he would lose the money That's like if someone breaks and they're like, &quot;Sorry, same thing. There was no return policy. Not 100% sure how the ceremony went down, but what we do know is that the next step for the happy couple would be to sign a marriage which then would make it official. Mm. Now once the partnership the groom would pull the wedding like pull it down, and literally shout to the Just make a loud announcement. You know how today we lift the Well, back then, the Babylonians, they put that down over the bride, and this let people know, hey, this woman, she's not available. Don't be looking at her, nope. She's not on the market. Which that had me thinking, the veil kinda makes more sense The whole unveiling thing... We'll get into that, whatever. So now it's time to have a little feast. Kind of like what we do everyone would get together, And once the celebration was over, the newly wed couple would head on over to the father-in-law's house where it was expected for the newly weds to partake in some sexual relations. And the girl was expected to get pregnant on the wedding night. That was the only reason they were getting married to procreate like I said. Now she didn't get pregnant. Luckily, the Babylonians, oh, they actually did have Yeah, you see, if you didn't get pregnant, you could take in your wife and be like, &quot;She broky, no worky. I want a refund. No babies come out. I don't know.&quot; And if the man decided to return the wife, he would get his money back, and they would act like On the other hand, for the woman, because she didn't get pregnant and now she has one she was considered damaged goods, and it would bring shame That's what we do best, ladies, bring in shame to the family. Cool. Now, on the other hand, let's say a man gets married and his wife doesn't get but he's like, &quot;I got a total babe. I don't wanna return her. Maybe she makes some great And he's like, &quot;I don't wanna return her. I wanna keep her. I like that flatbread.&quot; So naturally he wants to keep but he needs a baby. So what does he do? Well, lucky for him, Babylonian men were allowed to have many side pieces or mistresses essentially living in their house Having a mistress was expensive. I mean, you had to feed take 'em on walks, water Just a lot of work. And these guys were essentially like Babylonian sugar daddies. Now it wasn't so that the husband could have sex for fun It was strictly because he needed a child or he wouldn't be seen as So if a mistress got the baby was then taken from and they would pretend not the mistress's baby, proving to the community It sounds exactly like &quot;Handmaid's Tale&quot; Have you guys watched that show? I don't know why you guys like it so much. It's pretty fucked up. You kept telling me to And then I couldn't sleep, and I was getting all depressed, and I spiraled and I was like, &quot;Why am I watching this? Are you guys okay?&quot; Anyways, it was like that, just like that. Now it was rare, but there were wives who maybe decided to fuck around. And if the wife was caught cheating, ooh, she was in trouble. Because in Hammurabi's code, it's said that the cheating they would have to be then thrown into the river nearby where they were left to drown. The end. Now the man on the other lots of mistresses, blah, Same shit, different era. Fun fact though, lots of said that if you disobeyed, you would get thrown in the river. I guess it was just like a catchall Throw 'em in the river, Barbara. 'Cause it happens a The river, people get thrown in there. What was that about? We'll have to do a &quot;Dark History&quot; of being thrown in the river. In Babylonia around this time, but it did happen sometimes. You see, if you were lower class and you couldn't afford to get a mistress, there was always the option for divorce, but that would also bring a So just shame, shame, And that's like a big deal, shame. Shame. Okay, great. Now this may seem a little cray, right? Marrying young, wife auctions, mistresses, throwing women into the river, but you have to remember and nobody really questioned it. I mean, honestly, a round of for being the first. They invented divorce, They invented marriage, marriage contract. They invented the idea Did they? No. But they invented divorce so that's pretty cool. So next time you are getting a divorce or you're at the altar saying your I dos, make sure to give a big for inventing that thing you're doing. Thanks, Babylonians. Hiring is challenging, especially right now when you Luckily, there's one place you can go where hiring is simple, fast, and smart, a place where growing businesses connect to qualified candidates. That place is ZipRecruiter does the work for you. I mean, how can you not love that? ZipRecruiter uses its powerful technology to find and match the right And if you own a business, to find the right person for your company. You can easily review these and invite your top choices to apply. ZipRecruiter is so effective that four out of five employers get a quality candidate Yeah, no wonder ZipRecruiter hiring site based on as of January 1st, 2022. And right now, to try my listeners can go to That's ziprecruiter.com/darkhistory, D-A-R-K H-I-S-T-O-R-Y, ziprecruiter.com/darkhistory. ZipRecruiter, the smartest way to hire. So now we're in the year 1100 BC. And once again, we're in fricking Greece. We always end up here with Yeah, well, once again, they're having a little bit more fun 'cause that's what the Greeks do. They're free spirits, and you just couldn't If we learned anything they were living, laughing, I mean, even on ships. I'm looking at you, Caligula. Anyways. So the Greeks also viewed but now it was also a way to social climb. Yeah. So your marriage would who wanted to marry his daughter off into a family of wealth and status because it would make and that's honestly what it was all about. Your father would go around town like, &quot;Oh, my daughter's gonna marry and just humble brats everywhere.&quot; And it would raise his status. Now, once again, women were once they hit puberty, so usually between the ages of 11 and 14. Now it's kind of funny. This was kind of funny. It made me giggle a little because men were not between the ages of 14 to 25. Not allowed to get married because the Greeks believed during the timeframe of their life. Look, that's what they said, not me. Don't come for me, but I can get behind that. So most of these potential husbands were much, much older So again, the father of a young daughter could walk over to Leonardo's olive farm. He sees that this man has a lot of land. It's just rows and rows of trees. Now this is a very wealthy family. They've got that olive oil money. And he says, &quot;Your son Not dumb anymore? Well, I have a daughter. She's a just shy of 13 Big day.&quot; Anyway, so the fathers would Let's say Athena and Alexander. Athena would be sent to the temple with all of her childhood stuff, and this is when she would before going through with the marriage. Now this was a very In my opinion, it kinda was getting rid of her previous life and starting a new one with her husband. I'm sure they didn't really but she probably had a Next up, some couples would get rings. Oh yeah, some people had They were gold, and sometimes they would even get personalized engravings on them. It would be the husband and the wife engraved on the ring. I would highly suggest just because they're actually stunning. They went off, all the way off. And fun fact, the tradition of wearing the wedding ring on your now that ties back all They believed that called the vein of love. And this vein went from your heart all the way to your ring They believed putting was symbolic of love. But also, by constricting the Greeks believed you would stay loyal to the person you were married to. It was kind of cute. I think it's cute. I was like, &quot;Aw. Aw.&quot; And then it turns out that connects to your heart. But like don't tell them that. Don't ruin it for them. They loved it, and I love that for them. Cute. So over in the town, just a was Sparta. Things were a bit different over there. Not so much of a party. Their whole lives revolved around war. So marriage just kind of but their wedding rituals Spartan bride would be between and would prepare her for her big day by shaving her head and dressing up in her future husband's clothes. Yeah, I don't know. I couldn't really find like as to why they did, and the husband's clothes, but there's some theories out there that it could be a way for the woman to shed her previous life by removing her hair. And by dressing up as her husband, she's now showing everybody that she's a reflection of him and no longer her own individual self. that's a theory. I don't know if there's truth in there. It sounded legit. That's why I'm bringing it up. But use your imagination. I don't know. So after the ceremony, the couple would do this weird thing, it was like a seven where the wife, she would still wearing the husband's clothes, and she'd wait in this dark Okay. They're like, &quot;We'll be back.&quot; So then the door would open. (mimics creaking door) And then the husband would Room is pitch black. And he would chase her around the room so he could ritualistically capture her. I don't know. Then they would have sexual relations. Yeah, I don't know. Again, I don't know what that was about, but it sounds kinda hot. I don't know. So after the couple was married, usually, the men were always gone, involved again in some kind of war. Now this would leave She was considered the if the husband was not around, which compared to the others, this was a kind of risky move for them, putting women in charge, but she was. And she would manage the property and she would manage any of the laborers who worked and maintained the land. A lot of those workers and she was in charge. I mean the Spartan women were given a lot more power compared to but they're way more strict. It's such a... I don't know what that's called, but it makes sense. This was the first time where we see a wife holding authority over her husband's household and land. You go girl, work that pussy out, girl. Spartan husbands could until they were done with which would usually be which is kinda nice though. You don't need 'em around. Until then, they would So usually in the middle of the night, the men who were away at war, they would sneak away and they would break into their own house to have sex with their wife. Cheating was still a no-no for the women. And if wives did cheat, ooh, it was very serious and a very not the women, the men. But the Spartan husbands, they could do whatever which leads to the term soulmates. Again, love this, comes from the Greeks. Well, their thought process here was you married for the but the one that you actually Aw, isn't that special? I thought that was so special. So you could have a the best of both worlds. And a lot of these affairs Oh yeah. If you're a man who loves another man, that's your soulmate, right? Now let's say you're a lady You love an RB sandwich. So you get to talking and you're like, &quot;Hey, girl, where you can go and just There's no men around.&quot; And you're like, &quot;What? No, what is that?&quot; Well, there was this island Yeah, no, literally, where all the best lesbians could go and find their own version of a soulmate. Yeah, they got their own island. The Greeks seemed to be free but marriage was still like mainly again for procreation, Love was for soulmates, which again is kind of romantic, but... I don't know. But we can thank the One, they brought us Two, they also brought the wedding ring. Special, we love that. Thanks, Greeks. Well, I can talk about but now we are going to move forward to see how the Romans viewed marriage. And let me tell you, the to the idea of marriage They like to ruin everything. Before my week starts, I on my Sunday night to review to make sure I have everything This has helped me a lot because taking this extra I'm setting my team and And if you run your own online business, the best time to prepare for growth is before the opportunity arrives. Especially with the holidays approaching, you don't wanna wait until to find the right shipping solution. That's why you should I know so many of my listeners which can require wearing from marketing to customer I mean, you do it all. And now is the time of year when online orders start to ramp up. So it's important getting ready for a busy shipping season ahead of time to make it a lot less stressful and hopefully a lot less I know that feeling of being unprepared. (laughs) Yeah. I know that feeling of being Been there, done that. And it can feel like you can Right? It's so stressful. You can't even enjoy your day. You don't need to be doing that. 'Cause whether you're ShipStation makes ship happen. ShipStation integrates including Amazon, Etsy, Bay, Shopify. The list goes on. So they make it easy to from one simple dashboard. You can also save time with and automated shipping and easily compare carriers' to get the most out of every send. Join over 130 companies who have grown their e-commerce 98% of companies that use become customers for life, like DailyLook, Wolfgang Puck Home, and Passion Ship more and grow more with ShipStation. Go to shipstation.com today and sign up with promo code DARKHISTORY for a free 60-day trial. Start today and get set up before the biggest shipping That's two months free. Visit shipstation.com. Click the microphone at the top and type in code DARKHISTORY. Now let's get back to you today's story. And we're back. Okay, so let's say you're Similar to the Greeks, mainly as a business transaction because back then in 509 BCE... I'm sure you can imagine 509 BCE. Use your imagination. Anyways, back then it was all about status and procreation took a backseat. Babies were definitely still important, but people were mainly focused on money because to them money meant power. Money was everything. And in ancient Rome, just once a girl hit puberty, The father would arrange and usually he would try and find a suitor who had a bunch of land to his name or came from a wealthy family. So the father would pick who he felt was the best for his daughter, but most of all was look super good and super rich. Now why would the father Well, 'cause he's considered who made all of the decisions, even right down to their children. Plus on top of that, the that women had weak judgment. We do. We're so helpless and stupid. Usually the father would be worried that she'd marry some loser and he didn't want that. He wanted land. He wanted money. Not love. Most Roman men would get because just like the Greeks, they believed that men mentally are just not ready before then. Once a fine man was found, daddy And sometimes the woman, or would have to travel pretty far to get to her husband's house. And she would have to So dowry is like... Essentially, she would be carrying a box of all of her valuables and bring to her husband. It's like showing up, into this whole marriage thing. I've got rings. I've got paper. I've got a collage with stones and stuff. Here's what I go. Marry me.&quot; So the bride, she would have to travel with her box of valuables and with a group of women who we would call today bridesmaids. Oh yes. Now this part was really The Roman women had Now they were important because, one, you needed at least 10 people in order for it to count. And then two, your bridesmaids, they were essentially your bodyguards. Yeah. You're probably thinking, &quot;What?&quot; Yeah, bridesmaids were their bodyguards. Buff up, ladies, 'cause Now back then it was for men to see a beautiful woman just walking around, And then they're like, &quot;Ooh, she's hot.&quot; And they'd go up to her, snatch okay, carry her out, keep her somewhere hidden out of sight until her family stop looking for her, or until she got pregnant, Obviously, not ideal. So once the bride to be had their job was to protect the bride, have her back to prevent any So leading up to the wedding day, the bridesmaid and the bride, they would all dress the And they did this to make and take the real bride If they're all dressed the same, the kidnapper's gonna be like, &quot;What? I don't know which one to take. They all look the same. I'm bamboozled.&quot; And he would just give up because, again, you know men aren't smart until about 25, 30, according to them. Are you imagining it? Great. It's your wedding day. Congratulations. Now, to get to the altar, your dad has to walk you down It's a transaction of property after all. Sound familiar, dad walking Mm-hm. a couple of other fun that were invented by the Romans, the kiss. Back then, Romans often So how they would seal the (lips smacking) Great. They're like, &quot;Do you &quot;No. Do you know what that says?&quot; &quot;No. Let's just make out.&quot; And so you know outside the church when people throw confetti or whatever at the bride and groom, They would throw rice at the new bride and groom as they made their way to the after party. Could you imagine getting thrown out your face? My God. (screams) Nuts flying at our face outta nowhere. So after all of that, the bride would have a big, old dinner together. After that, dessert. Oh yeah. So the Romans would celebrate Yum. Right? Can't be mad, love cake. But it's not the cake we know today. It was more like basic So the newlyweds would The groom would lift and then smash it over Oh yeah. And not like in a nice way. It was pretty hardcore. And this symbolized Yeah. She's like, all right, you probably could have Well, hopefully, the cake would break and crumble all over the floor, and that's when the whole and pick the crumbs off of the floor, and they would eat together. And it was seen as like a celebration of him trying to knock out his wife with a big, old, crusty ass cake. Yeah. After that, they were married, and it was time for the honeymoon. Now this is where we think During their honeymoon, have sex, and try to get You better get pregnant. Which, again, kinda You get drunk and some of you have sex I say some because I and you just go to bed. But when all this bliss of the realities of the And that's when the man develops an itch he just needs to scratch. In the Roman era, there sex worker, non-sex worker, That's it, one or the other. Which one are you? So how could you tell who was Well, by the toga they were wearing. You know those sheet things Yeah, that. Now the sex workers were sheer tunics that were short, sometimes very colorful. And they would wear a lot and were a little bit with their hairstyles. They looked like they So these men would see as the ones that they Wives, they had to have 'cause that was your job. And then the sex workers that they could have fun with. So again, kinda like having It's the same thing. The Romans, they also which is super interesting. In summary, it was Okay. And the nice thing her, the little shift was if you were a woman and your husband was abusive, you actually had an option to get out. You could get a divorce. This is the first time a Now divorce was way more acceptable here. Of course frowned upon. You'd be shamed. No one would wanna look But I mean it's something, at least they could get out, right? Still sucks, but it's a step. Traces of Roman traditions have gone on to inspire a bunch of wedding I mean bridesmaids, father walking the kissing at the altar honeymoons. Yeah. And if a woman was ever feeling unsafe, she had the option to get a divorce. So yeah, thanks, Romans. You did something. Oh, and couples counseling, I didn't mention couples Do you ever feel overwhelmed by the amount of choices Whether you're shopping there's just so many options. It's hard to know what's best for you. when It comes to finding skincare products that actually work, don't even get me started, because that's a whole nother story. Okay, it's so overwhelming. I have been having these So naturally, I go online. I'm like trying to find but there are just so many They all make these big promises that they're gonna cure your acne. Everybody has different recommendations. I mean, how are you supposed I know. finding skincare products that actually work for you is complicated, and that's why I'm always excited to partner with a Apostrophe, If you don't know, Apostrophe that connects you with their to get customized acne Through Apostrophe, you can get access to oral and topical medications that use clinically-proven ingredients to help clear acne. All you have to do is simply fill out an online consultation and medical history, then snap a few selfies, and a board-certified dermatologist will create your first Apostrophe offers access to from hormonal acne to facial acne, and even bacne, chestne, and buttne. They treat breakouts from head to toe, and there's nothing to be Yeah, don't worry about it. Geez. It's okay. Some of us have acne, it's okay. It's okay. That's why we have Apostrophe. Whether your skincare goals reducing dark spots, or Apostrophe has real dermatologists that can tailor a skincare regimen just for you and your skin. I've been using them for over a year now, and I love it. The entire process is so convenient and all my oral and topical medications, skincare medications, they So I don't even have to... I don't have to remember. I don't have to schedule anything. I don't have to be like, &quot;Oh, I gotta get there before they close,&quot; the pharmacy and whatnot. It's great. I love it. I really, really like Apostrophe. That's why I partner with Anywho, we have a special Get your first visit for only $5 at apostrophe.com/dark history When you use the code DARKHISTORY. that's a savings of $15. Now this code is only And to get started, just go and click begin visit. Then use our code DARKHISTORY at signup, and you'll get your Thank you, Apostrophe, for Now let's get back to today's story. So now we jump to Europe Now this would be considered and the Renaissance. This is the time when religion starts to dictate people's Unlike the previous sex was seen as something very shameful, not to be celebrated or even Okay? No. They even had rules about with your partner. For example, you were not because that's the Lord's day. Jesus is watching. And they would low key This was my favorite 'cause I think we should continue this one on. Rumors would spread around in town. Oh Alexander, over there, he must have been conceived on a Sunday. So, previously, daddy would pick out who you were going to marry to keep your status and money or whatever. And even though, some cultures A lot of the times, oddly enough, it was the landlord or landowners who would decide who you got to marry. This is because the landlord... Could you imagine, first of all, if your landlord decided Let me think about that for a minute. Yeah, that wouldn't be good. That would actually really suck. Anyways, so this is because the and controlled the people So when approaching the idea of marriage, the landlord is like, &quot;Hmm, is really good at mowing the lawn and Sandra's really good at picking weeds. They should get married. They could have some kids. They can make my lawn So it's like, how is Which is really like what How is it going to So for commoners, a wedding within a church or a priest And it's funny because at the church doors, just They referred to it as getting married on the church's porch, which sounds so ugly But then I Googled it, and it's actually really cute. It looks like a cute little entry way, kind of like a gazebo for God. It has three walls with an arched doorway, windows, and brick, exposed brick. We love that, don't we, We love that. And that's where they would get married in the civil entry way. Cute. Once married, their first meal together is a large feast for the And after that, the bridal procession led the wife to her new home. So once they got home, they And deflowering took place in the bedroom. One of the most important things to them was guaranteeing that you were marrying a woman who was a virgin. Okay? That was very important. And they believed that that meant 100% you were once you had sex. Okay. So they had to make sure that this man did indeed marry a virgin, which you're probably thinking like, &quot;Well, how the hell would they know?&quot; Well, I've got an answer. Look, this was like an actual job position available at this time, where after the deflowering happened, someone would go in into the room. You just had sex. Go in, pick up the sheets, Blood on the sheets, virgin. No blood, she's a liar. Parents, usually, they wanted proof that the couple had sexual And if the sheet wasn't enough proof, well, guests had the into their bedroom to watch them do it. So just dinner and a show. Just to make sure that they're having sex, they watch. this is really weird. This is really gross because the wedding guest, one of them would leave the bedroom after everybody was watching One would take the bride's garter or a different piece of underwear, and this would be evidence So you know that awkward when it's time for the garter toss, and the groom does that thing, first of all, in the in front of all of us. We're all just watching and then the groom disappears And you're like, &quot;He's going Oh my God.&quot; And then he always pops out and everyone's like, &quot;Yay!&quot; Everyone's all excited Flicks it into the audience. The crowd goes wild. Whoa! Anywho, this is literally where because it's the man essentially have done the deed, have done the nasty, have had sexual relations. Us, the wedding party, Hey, you watched, you're a witness. Just like a tamed down version obviously. But back then, you would watch. I wonder if the room smelled. It was probably really small, Hygiene, not that important back then. There's a wedding party, Small bedroom, 10 to 12 people. If you're having sex, no one has showered. Had to be a little stinky in there. I'm just... Let me know your thoughts. Was it stinky? Let me know. So in the 1600s, during the Renaissance, people got married for power. An example of this was the Medici family. Oh yeah, they had a net amounts to over $130 billion. They were celebrities. I mean, people thought of them as the Kardashians of their time. Now these people, this family, they threw the most expensive, money on money, on money, Okay? They took weddings to the next level. These people threw some epic affairs. They had parades. They had floats, fireworks. They had a 56-course meal. Yeah, I don't know. Where are they eating? I was thinking of as when but if you add a wedding 'cause this is the Again, everyone's probably stinky. That's all I can think about. And what are you eating? 56 courses, what is that? What are they eating? I had a lot of questions. I wish I could go back in time and attend one of these weddings. But anyways, people considered the family, the Medici family, their weddings were I mean everyone in town participated. So before we move forward, let's recap. The Babylonians and their Hammurabi code created the first ancient They made the whole thing The Greeks gave us the The Romans gave us pretty They created what became the reception with tons of food, bridesmaid, the wedding cake, smashing the cake in the face, you know what I'm saying. The Middle Ages brought and of course the garter And then the Renaissance period showed us you don't have to have You can go off. Yeah, have an elephant. Have a whole carnival, you're getting married. And what did America do for marriage? We found a way to make Woohoo! America, we're really good at that. We always find a way to and found a way to turn the into a billion-dollar industry that just keeps making And for some reason, we just go with it. If you've been following me for a while, it's no secret that I have Facts, I was blonde for... I was blonde for a while, and then I went back to dark, and I went blonde again. And now I'm like, &quot;I kinda but I'm not gonna do it.&quot; I've kept my natural because I'm really working on improving the overall look and health of my hair, but I also don't want a super With OUAI's new Scalp Serum I now have a super to help promote the and healthier hair. Every day, I have my morning start off my day on the right foot. After I wake up, I make my coffee. I read for about an hour. I'm not lying. Yes, I do. And then I hop in the shower. And when I get out, that's I start with the OUAI Scalp Serum. That can be used on wet or dry hair. The scalp serum contains such as hyaluronic acid and adaptogens to help promote hydration It smells so good with notes of ginger, basil, and green fig. And then I take out the OUAI It's vegan, has zero flavor, so you don't have to worry but this supports thicker and fuller hair with pea shoot extract and biotin while helping to reduce the appearance of shedding and support hair strength. Grow all the way with and Thick and Full Supplements. Go to the way theouai T-H-E-O-U-A-I .com and use code DARKHISTORY to get 15% off your entire purchase. That's 15% off your entire order at theouai T-H-E-O-U-A-I Now let's get back to the story. So here in America, I mean, we feel like we have to do like the diamond engagement ring. So rare, so valuable. Diamonds are forever Wrong. That's what they made us believe. With every kiss begins with Kay. Not sponsored. Diamonds are actually super common and not as rare as we've Okay, look, this is factual information I am sharing with you. Diamonds are pretty cheap to make. They're cheap. They're not that great, and they're not that rare. And I'm about to shit all over it. So what happened? Well, there's a little has nothing to do with alcohol, but they control like 90% which meant that they for however much they wanted. They convinced the world that diamonds were the only Now it was the perfect or at least that's what Before De Beers was around, something like 5% of with a diamond ring. Now by the late 1960s, it was over half. That's a big jump. Right? We don't do math here, but 5% to half. Whoa. So what changed? Well, De Beers, that company, they launched an ad campaign that diamonds are forever. And not only that, they're But according to De Beers, the more love you have That's what they were selling us. And we fell for it, damn it. As much as I wanna go a little bit further into De Beers, let's leave De Beers here because I think I'm gonna dig into them for a future episode about advertising, but you can't have a marriage episode without at least mentioning Double Ds, baby. So diamonds, not that rare. Honestly, not that expensive. We're being ripped off. Okay? Great. I'm not judging. You could still love diamonds. I'm just letting you know Great. Now the second thing America a crisp white wedding dress. Now I always thought it a woman being pure and clean. I mean, that's true when it comes to the religious side of things. But once again, for the most part, it doesn't even come from that. The idea of a white wedding dress actually comes from Queen Victoria. Yeah. So during her reign in the 1800s, she was beloved by her people and was also known as She wore a white dress at her wedding to Prince Albert in 1840. And you guys, it was the ultimate flex. Before this wedding, wedding dresses weren't any particular color or style. It was just whatever nice Now the white dress was because it was not easy to clean clothes. I mean, to this day, white is a bitch. I never wear it because within I spill something on it. Hard to clean. I have a Clorox Bleach Pen. That thing doesn't work, you liars. Y'all say it work. It doesn't work. Anyways. Back in the olden days, if you messed up your white dress, your only option was So by Queen Victoria wearing a white dress that was clearly thousands of dollars, she was kinda telling to the people like, &quot;Yeah, I'm only gonna wear it once. So what? I'm rich, you poor losers. Get on my level.&quot; As this trend evolved, America did its thing and was like, yeah, we wear white because pure like toilet paper, clouds, snow. It all makes sense. So once you had the and you got the white dress, you now gotta plan the big day. Now, way back in the olden days, you could just decide one or your dad would be like, &quot;Hey, you're getting married today.&quot; And that's it, it was done. Eat some bread, have some get chased around a dark room. You're married, simple. But today, you've got seating florals, catering, DJs. And also, you have to you feel required to give to people for coming to your wedding. It's just a lot. And that is all by design. Oh yes. Because in 1934, a magazine &quot;So You're Going to be Married: Now at this point in our &quot;Dark we shouldn't be surprised to find out that this bridal magazine was created by some old white because, sure, that makes sense. And in that magazine, women start seeing, for the first time, things considered must-haves for your perfect dream wedding day. As in you must have this or for having ugly centerpiece, And just a little while America introduces to us this thing called the American dream, which is essentially the wife, the kids, the dog. But in order to achieve this, step one, you gotta get married. So in 1950, marketing geared creates this outline as to kind of essentially creating People are starting to realize how much money can be made from weddings. Hotels start building event spaces specifically for these types of parties. Cakes are getting bigger and Women are feeling pressured amazing wedding because she had a chocolate That dumb bitch. But what all this was really the illusion that they too could be a rich princess even if she went into And going into debt for your Things just keep adding People thought they needed more and more to have that perfect American wedding. The average cost for a wedding which is a big number to begin with. Because according to the 2019 census, the average American income was $31,000. Oh, and we can't forget to Wake up at 9:00 AM, go to the pool party, seven Bloody Marys later, maybe you're at chapel saying The sweaty Elvis impersonator is like, &quot;Kiss your bride,&quot; or whatever. And you're like, &quot;Okay.&quot; I'm sure it happens to a Was it just me? Bryce, if you're watching, hey. Anyways, what Vegas did was onto the institution of marriage and just cheapened, It's honestly like the It's the purest option, really. It comes down to you, the person you love, and a witness who may or You don't need to impress a damn soul. It's nice. It's simple. And you'd think that's what isn't it? I don't know. Well, of course, nobody cares about that because this is America and Today, the wedding industry So nobody wants your ass to They're gonna keep pumping us And this got me thinking, is this why we kind of look &quot;That's so cheap&quot;? We used to. I feel like it's kind of turning, but... Because we've been told in order to keep us spending our money. It was just a thought. We've all been brainwashed. I mean, you best believe, if that ever happens, I'm Okay? So after my wedding, we should definitely look I'm just kidding. I'm not getting married. But if I did, I would wanna So I get it. I don't know why it's in us Right? God damn it. We fall for everything. Can't we have anything, without being ripped My God. Anyways. Well, everyone, thank you I wanna know what you learned. Let me know. Remember, don't be afraid to ask questions to get the whole story I'd love to hear your So make sure to use the #darkhistory so I can follow along. Also, join me over on my YouTuber where could watch these after the podcast airs. And while you're there, don't forget to catch I hope you have a wonderful day today. You make good choices. I'll be talking to you next week. Goodbye. &quot;Dark History&quot; is an Audioboom original. This podcast is executive Kimberly Jacobs, Dunia Kevin Grosch and Claire writers, Katie Burris, Allyson Philobos, Joey Scavuzzo, and me, Bailey Sarian. Shot and edited by Tafadzwa Nemarundwe. Research provided by Regina Special thanks to our And I'm your host, Bailey Sarian. Thank you, all. Thank you. I'm here all day. Goodbye. (somber music) (somber music continues)