Go with me to Matthew chapter 14 and this is four gospels. You probably have heard it in the it yourself and so, we're going to look at this of our house and how it applies to the role you When Jesus heard it, He departed from there by the multitudes heard it, they followed Him on He saw a great multitude. I want you to notice Jesus sees multitudes. He sees nations, He God is not trying to just build a religion. He loves every human being and every human being image and likeness and He loves everyone. grandma Maria. Everybody say Hi to Grandma She has 16 children, one husband and I have to and imagine my grandma's 16 children vacations though. So I'm just saying imagine this was not possible and imagine my grandma On the way back from the vacation, they realized Lost them somewhere on the rest area. Imagine my deal, we still got 10 here. Good success rate 5 out of 15, I mean still good Now, it's funny but no parent will ever Why? Because you don't do math on kids, every lose one kid out of 15, what you would do is you Your schedule will be thrown out of the way, out Why? Because I mean we even do that with wallets. over look for a wallet right. We do that with car to notice that when God looks at the Tri-Cities, math, oh 10% goes to church, hallelujah, we're even if one person does not know Him, one person and go for the one. So God loves you so much to be with God, please understand, He doesn't percentages. He loves every single human being Every human being that is far from God I know we have advancement in technology, I know advancement, our phones are smarter, our cars are Sin did not change to becoming less sinful. The have not stopped tormenting people. Sickness people. Addiction still destroys people whether sin is still the same. Demons are still the same Jesus Christ and therefore when God looks at our when He's looking at you right now, and hundreds compassion because He's a father. What you call trans people, oh they don't love God people. rebels, they're heathens, they're deconstructed. When you're a parent, you don't label kids. You and I want us today to not have a view of a our city and not to think like disciples that the Jesus why? Because that's exactly why the father their child and look for one. That's exactly that's exactly what you would do when you The Shepherd leaves the 99 and goes for one. The says, He had compassion on the multitudes and then your doctor, medication, they all have their Only Jesus. What you heard today, He can deliver computer that tries to control your urges but You can go to a psychiatrist to help Jesus can help you to find forgiveness in today and the world can help you to manage I want to challenge you today to let you know in technology, advancement in medicine and that how amazing that the stuff we have in our is incredible. None of it have come closer one There's only one name that can do that and that a smartphone and still be in need of Jesus Christ. and I want you to notice this that Jesus heals the and He sees the multitudes. There's one more thing He can't feed the multitudes without them and so If we go to verse 15, we're going to Verse 15 says, When it was evening, that His disciples came to Him, saying, "This is a Send the multitudes away, that they may go into Jesus, we tired. Jesus, it's been enough and we can't do anything more, Let's wait for the new building. So I want to We have to be very careful that we don't by postponing Revival until we move into we don't allow new people to come to know Jesus building to be finished. From now until next year we can see thousands of new people being healed oh I'm gonna hold on with healing. I'm gonna hold you guys finish building. And many times, we have with disciples because I would be like saying because we don't want to do like a fourth doing one more is just exhausting. Jesus also checked out Pasco High district and they're we went to Kennewick High School District but you church and all of this stuff so there's just people away from our church for the next two years doesn't think like that. We have to understand Mediocrity. We love convenience. A guy was fishing he put it back into the lake. A guy next to him Why do you do that? So he came up to him you're fishing but you're throwing all the He says, oh it's a very simple problem. So he's like if the fish doesn't fit the frying guy's like well have you ever thought about buying expensive and that's how many of us are. We simply Why? Because we have a small frying pan. Now, in a small frying pan, we have a small facility facility, the problem is with our mindset and taking notes, write a few things down, one of Compassion will take you out of convenience and Anybody who's ever done parenting you know one You can't raise children in convenience. because you cannot have compassion if you're when we want to fulfill the calling of God we must understand there's going to be a cost and cross and many of us are like man, I'll die for Because Jesus isn't asking you to be nailed to endure a little bit of inconvenience and ah we're gonna miss our bedtime and that means five more hours and we really want to go home. to have my mom cook my food. I really don't want it's a little bit of inconvenience that I have to be addicted to convenience. Convenience is not rob you from your calling. You cannot fulfill your compassion and be addicted to convenience. You because the first thing the love of God will do in I don't want to park at The Seventh-Day We don't want to have another service in a gym. the guy on the screen. Convenience problem. It's a person who watched the video last week about a gay man, going to church, watched the video and reached out to me personally and got divorced A video If our ministry touches the world through video, but see for a lot of us, it's not that God can't a limited mentality but this limited mentality conform to my convenience. Jesus please reduce Jesus come on, You got to consider my feelings. What would happen if Jesus would have What would happen if instead of becoming an embryo, growing in the womb of Mary, being the God who made feet learns to walk. The and do all of this stuff. What would happen The cross, that's not convenient. I am so glad He And therefore today if I have to embrace a little dying world which means if I need to come in a later, if I need to give all my resources, compassion cannot live in the heart addicted to addicted to convenience. I have to be in love with stretch my heart and even if I don't care about Jesus pours out the love of the Father into of souls and I begin to think of the price I can stretch my heart and so I can see revival Can somebody say, Amen. Not to the part that I'm preaching to myself but to Convenience says, ''There are many obstacles.&quot; This is an opportunity. There is a loss. There on our way but Church there's also a greater young people being raised and us, in a year darkness to light, going from sickness to healing, Pastors who left ministry, people who their faith again because we refuse to be addicted of this exists this that what the church is, the to the world. Because if the church is about me, is about His vision then I have to be willing if up His compassion for the world. So while we are we have no choice and we feel obligated to Jesus days to reach more people for Him. The other part wrong so I'm just gonna say what if the fourth What if before we move into a new building, we What if when we move into the Kennewick Richland campus and Kennewick. See the devil showed up at the Grammys Woke garbage showed up at our movie theaters so next month. It's almost like God is saying, God faceless nameless, I'm gonna raise young people. in this day and age, they will make a difference. around the United States but our church, I'm not is a hunger for the move of the Holy Spirit, for with discipleship that's around the world. what if all this is a setup for launching a Bible their homes like in the Bible for revival where be streamed to a gymnasium somewhere in Richland home in Toronto, somebody's home in Texas and then become campuses. We were given prophetic words will be started like popcorn. We laughed at did when Angel of God or the Lord says, you will And God made her seed laughter. Isaac means in the laughter word this was impossible but it preparing and maybe we wouldn't think of these a problem, He allows the problem that comes in to explore something that is innovative, I can do a miracle with that. You thought this You thought this was a limitation but actually always wanted to do. I wanted you to get to your five loaves and two fish to multiply My power, My Amen. And so what begins to happen then is it and Jesus says verse 16. "They do not need An one of those mornings this is the verse that where I felt the Lord say, I'm not concerned I will give the funds for the building but that They do not need to go away meaning, we can't I'm going to say, you guys can go to hell God doesn't want us to think like that. They You find an answer. So God throws the challenge It's time for it's an invitation. God is saying we what can we do. So there are three things I want mentioned this, alluded to this earlier is that to do a miracle and God can do this miracle if you're here today and you have limitation, you this, not enough of this, not connected, not money, I wasn't born in the right tracks, whatever our Sanctuary is too small. Nobody's renting, when we were in Colombia kind of calling Pasco churches, seven-day adventist churches as well everything and then I remember, me and Ilya looked it fits 200 people, why don't we use it. I two fish was ideal but it was enough for Jesus say okay what if this limitation is actually the What if your personal limitation right now, what excuse why nothing can happen in your life, can't do it. This is not enough to meet the need. in the hands of My master. What could He do with Eat and I'll be hungry again in two hours But what could Jesus do with it? And the Bible says this, we have here only five Again it's not enough for us but it's enough in why in two weeks from now, the first Monday and fast as a church. Why? Because every territory This is God's work. Jesus wants to Notice this about these buildings if God could use He can use this auditorium, He can use us, want you to notice is verse 18. Very short So the first thing I mention is that our a miracle. The second thing that I want to mention surrender does. Stressing over the fact that that God didn't give you enough, comparing your doesn't produce miracles, but you know what produces miracles not It a 100% is not enough but God isn't looking for your natural and God never compares your natural enough if you surrender it to Me. The little The little time that you have, the little talents you give it to Me then I will do the rest. Now, Jesus did not tell the boy because in John chapter and two fish, it wasn't the disciples. Jesus did with five loaves and two fish. Jesus told and He's the one that did the miracle. Something the local church, people that are giving the local and talents, it's important that you realize you you're pleasing God. Let me say that again, God. If you miss the God component in serving You bring it to God first. When it was into the building. Come on, we When we show up here and we serve on the when the worship team serves very early, we foremost doing it for God. So when people will it doesn't throw us off, we will continue to do Now, if you're doing it only so that serve people and they will take a bite out of you will get discouraged. You say look at these hurt, that's it, I'm deconstructing. I'm walking accept me. The church did not provide a place me well, other people didn't treat me well and the component that it goes to Jesus first. Jesus does and then you give it to the people. I've been in and I can tell you one thing and you guys can a long time, the church is full of imperfect immature people and one of them is you. One of Church is full of people just like your family. one. Imagine your crazy family multiplied by a people. Now, they look all nice on Instagram that's why some of you are afraid to go to a And some of you, you're afraid to go to a else is crazy because if you're crazy, they're But see what keeps you grounded in the church loaves and two fish, not to Peter, not to John, not to the crowd but you bring it to Jesus Lord, I'm preaching to please you. Lord I'm I'm emptying my bank account to please you for doing this for you. Use me for the people Lord but dying on the cross, may I remind you in the Garden to get beaten. Father, could we make this goal say that you know why? Because He didn't want to I don't believe that He did just because He did it because He really wanted to honor and challenge you sometimes, ministry will get you don't want to do it, where your motivation fizzles the motive that fuels motivation is wrong. What to touch the world. All of that is great until great until the very people you're trying to and honor and the devil fills your mind with know you're not even doing anything worthwhile. but see if you keep going back on your knee and will but Lord is that what You want me to do if I will gladly deny myself and I will walk after So this vision that Jesus has, we have to look at we bring it first to the Lord. You bring your to the church but you didn't bring it to God. you and he did notice you. It's just there's but I want him to notice it. No you don't. Because and He will break it and He will sanctify it then now it will begin to do miracles, Amen. The last thing I want you to notice is gives back the disciples and I want you the multitude to sit down on the grass, He took He blessed and broke the loaves and gave it multitudes and they all ate and were filled and that remained. Now, those who have eaten were and the last thing that I want to share with what we have, He will multiply what When Jesus blessed the five loaves and two broke them. They only multiplied when You can be gifted and anointed and you can be until you serve, give, exercise. For example, all under deep layer of tons of other substance You don't come to God and say Lord, give me exercise the muscles that you have and they when you receive the baptism of the Holy gifts you don't even know you have. They're just They're buried under the layer, I don't have made like this. I'm just you know just my body if you're only seeing cheetos and you don't see Same thing with spiritual. Exactly same thing exactly the same thing, ah just God didn't give be that. But in reality all of that is just bunch if you are speaking in other tongues, if you already have so much more in you than you come and say Lord, give me more because it's it's like same thing as you saying okay I'm gonna I will watch fitness videos. Therefore I'm going So you watch the first day, you watch 20 by yourself. The second day, you're depressed Because you don't become fit by watching You don't become powerful when God breaks the five you five, you gave me ten but because you broke it. Yes but multiplication does not happen when I it, you can multiply it by releasing it but if one. If you store that in your savings account, account but if you begin to give away, you will People sometimes ask well how do I you have to start with little. If the little Do you know how much help we need in who may be like oh but I'm too anointed for but Pastor you don't understand, I have a gift, in the traffic. No no no, I need something bigger guide people in the lobby. No I need something for a dark place to shine in, you are looking Light does not need well-lit stage. Light lights is an answer to somebody. You need to find a need believe out of their innermost will flow rivers to have an outlet not just to have an inflow. Many God. Jesus broke it multiplied blessed it and give water has to come out but I want you to notice you notice rocks are stubborn. A rock comes into door my size I'm not getting out. That's how so only do this in the church and that's it I only this gift. I cannot do anything else really like See the Bible says what will flow out It's fluid. You don't have to open that means that we have to be flexible to serve thankfully they kicked me out. But I wasn't part of my gift until I've tried other things. People sometimes say how studying more and preaching more. When I most people don't realize I preached at like yeah but I want to preach three times a Homeless shelter does. Parks don't have signs says we do is again we're like rocks, stiff, if you allows that. No no just give what you have, where begin to multiply and then God will begin to open give you His grace and so instead of coming to you simply say is there a need I can serve in. I'm not here to use the church to build my name. build the church Jesus died for. Come on somebody. the anointing will increase if you will begin to Israel with our team and we went to a dead sea and Sea, I would encourage you at least one time in your bathtub and pretty much it could be a Dead wide. Its shoreline is 1300 feet below sea level. Salt content is 10 times saltier Now, Dead Sea is so salty that only bacteria earth. You can float but nothing can grow Why? It looks beautiful. On the outside, it looks no fruitfulness in it. Now, River Jordan flows There's another sea in Israel. It's called the Sea of Galilee is different. The Sea of Galilee is miles wide. It's the largest freshwater lake. into the Sea of Galilee and it flows out. Jordan One has so much salt, everything dies and see some we're so salty only bacteria lives in us and one serving, we're not giving. Statistics says that 20 Only twenty percent of the church is responsible So that tells us church I want to invite you today but be something that grows life. Begin serve. Don't preoccupy yourself, what gift we have too many people trying to discover their selfishness and build the kingdom of God. Your started at 13, I wasn't looking for my gift. I help. It started with folding chairs and setting that's what the need was. It was later on that people spoke into it. Don't start right away with of you may be starting with the place but I don't do something that you don't like and put a smile things you will do not because you like it but Every husband knows that, every wife knows that need not for the passion and then you will find something that you're super passionate about. I want you to prayerfully consider those of you you just not connected really anywhere and of forgot about them or maybe you feel like you don't Do you want to make some Put those excuses aside and humble yourself once a month. You know what, I'm gonna go I'll warn people in a small group, crazy might become a better Christian. The world will become you here today and you always talked yourself out I have so much debt and have so much stuff and God the little that you have, watch You know last year before our generosity Paul we're meeting and Paul presented how much little heart attack and then we looked at how for the building which was 137,000 dollars because I knew that you know we have a problem. So what can we do 3.5 million and we barely, we're to go into this hyper mode of fundraising. I was like God, people have given all they could. And after I finish complaining, felt a what do you have? I said God, You have a problem God and we don't talk about me, it's not enough. He says, yeah it's not enough to obey Me and I can do something. I said, God I have, it still won't solve the problem and God and I remember when I presented to my wife and I was and then I let it kind of marinate because to people and stuff and then few months later, know what, I think we have to take our five it's not enough. She says but we have to do our will see as we give our best, we believe for a nothing short will do. Interestingly, that Sunday, and gave what we had. Now, it didn't seem fair it we prepared for it for ourselves, we didn't plan that little lunch leaving our hands, it did feel somebody else gives exactly the same amount. amount and in two and a half months, we raised God started to move upon people. Right here, donated an LED screen outside. People who and including Tri-Cities could don't even go to My company will take care of painting, you this is it started a domino effect. I'm not an obedience with what you have to God. See God is for your obedience. God is responsible to responsible to do a miracle of obedience. When I give you the little. I'm not gonna stress out. gonna live this year in anxiety. I will give you I will give you what I have and I will trust is a word for somebody. I will give for what I need. I will give you my marriage. I will give you my broken past God is gonna do it for HungryGen and God is going do it for you for those of you watching us on live is the year where we take limits off of God. This of heaven. This is the year that we're gonna see see marriages being restored and addictions being name. Barren wombs will be opened, blind eyes God will take limits off of our church, where He's the God of miracles. Somebody shout, Amen. And say Lord help me to be obedient, whatever specialty, obedience is mine. Come on just tell maybe you're believing for deliverance, maybe you're believing for a husband or a wife, say this is not possible. There is no way this promise Him to be obedient. Just tell Miracles is Your job, obedience is mine. will love. I will forgive. I will give. Promise Him you're obedience right now, promise to do, He will turn water into wine. He will turn He will take those cancer cells and turn it into do but God says can you give me the loaves, I will Could you give Me the little bit of faith that into My hands, I will do a miracle. But I ask you Hey! Thanks for watching this video. If you to you, would you help us and hit thumbs discover this video. It costs you nothing but as well as if you're not subscribed to our so that you can be reminded each time that we part of this community. If you're interested in our conferences, deliverance and so many information and as always, remember, 'Better