Have missed I do not know love you Captain, what are you doing? Over the past few years, I have seen a lot clearly outside. Only when you are really down and out can you see the people around you clearly. What do you not understand Isn't Jingzhou Group going to cooperate with us? I'm going to wear this suit and see the facts. Right I got it. Hand, Chairman. Are you going to pretend to be a migrant worker to inspect Jingzhou Group? That's right. Only in this way can we really see who we are around. I'll leave my car to you I walked past I'll call you anytime if something happens. clear I see one ah, isn't this millet You, what are you doing in this dress? Kiki, it's Lee I came to the Golden State Group to talk to them about cooperation. Can't you dress like this to talk about cooperation with Jingzhou Group? Then you go OK, I'll go in first We'll contact you later. Uh-huh. I will wait here today I 'd like to see how he got kicked out. Hello. I don't say, you stink I unfair What kind of car did you steal? He broke down. What did you pay? Excuse me, is Mr. Li there? Hey. I said, why are you dressing like this to provoke Mr. Li? Oh. I'm your classmate Li I'm fine today. Come and see him. You are so not bashful to find me, Mr. Li Yi. Wait I'll call him, then please I'm waiting here Oh, by the way, everything we have here is very expensive. You don't touch It's broken You can't afford to pay It's good to lead this project. Miss Li, you sent it Almost came in. No, there's a migrant worker outside looking for you. I don't know if it is true that it is your classmate. What does Huang Mingfeng look like? Dirty clothes It is estimated that you are here to borrow money. Li is only a smart person. I guess so. Let's go and have a look. The third party is quite comfortable and costs a lot of money, isn't it You give me up Hey. Mr. Li, long time no see I get up This is the sofa I imported from abroad. Is it made for you? Yiyi, go get me a chair, okay Mr. Li's chair is here. Come and sit here. I got two yo Old schoolmate, why are you sitting on the floor Come on, I'll help you I'm sorry. This hand slipped, ha ha ha It's okay. Hey. I said millet is so many years missing Why are you mixed up like this? Look at my big company. This is outside Don't you ever say it's my classmate I'm ashamed It seems that you don't welcome me here You're definitely not welcome Migrant workers like you come to us Mr. Li must have come to borrow money I wonder if there's been some misunderstanding between us. Today, the chairman of Tiansheng Group will come to our company's market, do you know I know. You go over there and tidy up If we talk about it alone, we'll have it. Aren't you afraid that the chairman you call me? You fucking took me to pretend I dare to fight. I didn't want to rebel, did I I'll make you pay for what you did today. Stop right there. Did I let you go You're finished. Today I'll leave you with nothing. Hey! Secretary Chen You will come to Jingzhou Group immediately. Withdrawal of all cooperation with my old classmate Li I want to leave him with nothing Give it back to me, right This is just a little lesson for you If you do this again Don't blame me for being unkind to you It's really too much Who the fuck do you think you are Also Secretary I bah That's fucking funny. OK, wait a minute, you will know that you are wrong. Why don't you accept If you don't agree, hit me. We had a classmate, and you did this to me. I didn't fucking tell you Don't say you are my classmate I'm ashamed Lao tze also don't have so much time to talk to you Get the hell out of here How do you 30 years Hedong, 30 years Hexi We'll see, I bah Whatever you get out of here I kind of got a good look Since then, I have no classmates like you. Wow. This car is so beautiful I wish I had one. Wow This is a Porsche. I can pretend You see, you see Alas Kiki, you're still here Millet You 've been kicked out, right I had a fight with Mr. Li I can't believe he did this to me. Look at what you're wearing. If you look at me again, the peaches are all open, huh Are you sure this luxury car is in the car, of course Hi, Min. Do you especially regret not hanging out with me? It's a pity No chance now seven seven I didn't know you were like that. Don't pretend anymore What qualifications do you have to say me Seven seven you enough, don't pretend Do you think this Porsche is really yours? You are really funny It's not my fault, is it yours Coincidentally, this car is really mine. Well said Do you know what kind of car this is? You are really shameless You said this car is your car keys My secretary has the car keys. That's what you do. Also the secretary Cut Hey. Mr. Li, this car looks familiar. It seems to be the car of Mr. Li of Tiancheng Group. Said Li You, Mr. Li, welcome you to visit our company. Really put me as chairman Then I'll take a plan Uh-huh. I am Mi Zong Mi Zong Secretary Chen, you're here Come here, come here, oh oh Secretary Chen, why haven't you come to me yet You're our chairman Found me. He let him in. Can't find it Old Qin, something happened Let's go to Miko and have a look. I don't know what happened to X. You're a dead man I tell you, rice can be eaten indiscriminately. This can't be nonsense Say you have your share of speaking You really think you're the chairman That's right, I'm the chairman of Born Group. You have a lot of nerve. Even we, Mr. Mi, dare you to pretend to be Mr. Li How dare he impersonate me You know what to do Don't worry, I'm the total contractor. Our classmates a Even you dare to pretend to be Mr. Li You're disgracing me, okay? Don't blame me for not giving you a chance Clean my shoes and I'll let you go. What if I don't wipe Then don't blame me. You're welcome. Today, even if the King of Heaven comes, I can't save you. Fuck. This is the end of impersonating me Today you have completely pissed me off Hey! Comrade Hey! Godsend I order you to appear in the good chairman of Jingzhou Group in five minutes. I'll be right over This is still shaking people I asked you to call me the tenth anniversary Don't you know how many pounds you have in your fucking heart? What to pack with me How can we have a classmate like you? It's really embarrassing for us, Mr. Li. If it weren't for the sake of classmates, you would have today. Bah, I mean you gave me everything I have now You 've been here for three years without a damn point. Who gave you the job? And who gave you the investment company Don't you know these How can you be so clear Chief Li Don't listen to him Aren't you afraid he's lying to you? A look at her dress is fake It's ridiculous that I impersonate you When my secretary arrives You will know who is true and who is false You also the secretary I think it's a workmate at the construction site Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha You say he's the chairman Then tell him to take out the car keys If he can't get it out, he's a fake. Chief Li Why don't you take out your car keys and show him Let him take it orally Mr. Li, is this Porsche's car key seen by a country bumpkin like him? I don't think you can bring it out. Good. I'll convince you Here. This is the Porsche key. Why do you have my car keys? This is my car car keys Of course, I have this You always get him To what extent can we cooperate? It depends on your performance today. Good Yu Zong, how do you think I'll clean him up You go get me a bottle of water Chief Li Our cooperation depends on my fucking pretending. We really rice is always here Today I will let you clean It's me Ha ha, and me Stop it. What are you people capable of bullying a woman? I mean, where the fuck did you come from? I told you to mind your own business Your tone is not small Do you know who this is This is the chairman of our Tiancheng Group. Yo-ho Who played it really well Who gave you the fucking courage? Is it Liang Jingru Hum You were blinded by a car. Don't you know who is real and who is fake? You still dare to sow discord here Team Leader Sorry we're late I am a fake chairman. Bring him back to me Well, the chairman is you Why not pretend What are you running You 've made me miserable You Tell me what happened. Why do you have my car keys? It's just a lighter Peng Chang, you said you wanted There are some things you can't pack if you want. Yi always blames me You see, our cooperation is still cooperation. You're crazy. Quickly disappear from my eyes How much do you not understand Get out of here, Liang. Let's go. Team leader, the project over there in the new district. It's okay, how do you walk Not long eyes How to talk. Ah Liang Brother, are you all right? Can I still deliver this takeout? It seems that it can only be delayed. Brother, where did you deliver this takeout? This takeaway is delivered to the branch of Tiancheng Group. Oh. Just in time, I'll go there too. I'll deliver this takeout for you. Ah, this is not good Liang sent his little brother to the hospital. This is not good It's okay. Do you still trust me? Not a director You're going to deliver Recently heard a little wind There's a problem at the branch. Just to check it out Brother, do you think you can lend me your take-out clothes? Today, I'm going to have a delivery man make an unannounced visit to the branch. It's not Dong Dong. Give me your car keys I'll take your car You guys go quickly Wait for my call anytime Hey! Hey! Dude, somebody move the car My daughter-in-law is about to give birth, hello Time to sell. I'm playing mahjong. Hello, hello Why are you doing this? Honey, are you okay? Hold on, hold on. Why hasn't this stone man come yet? Wife If you hold on one more minute, the car will be here soon. Ah ah ah Wife Hold on ah ah ah ah ah UNO China's strong My insistence, go Chinese style Hey. Brother, don't worry You pacify your wife first I'll call you Thank you Hey! Excuse me, are you the owner of fish C72548 Your car has been scratched, please come down and have a look. Don't tease me Who dares to sue him at this stop again? I don't believe it, do I? Do not believe you listen Hey, what are you doing My car got scratched. I don't say so, can you come down Move the car quickly. There are pregnant women in the car. In a hurry God-sent, so it's you Move the car quickly My daughter-in-law is about to give birth I know it's your car I did the crossword on purpose, hey I won't move, hey I said we're all colleagues Why are you doing this? Now that you know we're colleagues What do you think when you report to the leader? It's about to give birth, isn't it? I think I can top another one. Husband I can't do it anymore You hurry up and hurt Gold, please I'm begging you Please move the car quickly. My wife is really going to have a baby. Hum I said, why are you so excited? It is not certain whether the child is yours or not. It's about to give birth, isn't it? Then lift the car inside I 've never seen a baby in a car. Ha ha ha ha ha I said, why are you so impersonal? I warn you one last time, move the car This is between us What's it got to do with you Give less to the personnel Hmph, Hakuko I am wrong about my career at work. How much you shout Still shouting, I really can't help it I can't get a taxi here. You said how you can move the car Know wrong, that's easy to do Lao tze give me the position of head of your personnel department. And kneel down and call me ye, has rolled back Husband Don't kneel I can hold on for a while Are you fucking expensive not expensive I can go now God-given devil Little brother, don't kneel. Men have the dignity of men. The waist is straight, standing here with a name like this. You should treat him with different means and give it to me. Say it. What are you going to do, move your stupid car? Your mother give me a good talk, what do you want to beat me We are not at the same level. I'm too lazy to talk nonsense with you My bracelet is worth 50000 now. Take it. Move your car quickly You can withdraw 50000 yuan and move a car. I will give you this face today Beauty, thank you for today. Thank you so much It's okay. Go to the hospital. It's important to go to the hospital. Go quickly. Okay Ah, no. How can a delivery man have a bracelet with tens of thousands of dollars? Sleeping trough, it can't be fake Shit, I was cheated. Hey. Stop fucking you, hey Fuck me. You're a fucking delivery guy You fool me with a fake necklace You're fucking dying. With your knowledge, you are not ashamed to come out and run away from society. It is not shameful to throw away. You give me a fucking mouth shut You stinky delivery boy Don't take delivery here with bad breath. What's wrong with my delivery? Eat your rice It's fucking bad luck to say, I have a bad day today. Uncle I have work to do today I have no time to accompanyYou're slow Get out of my sight I can walk But please park your car properly. Don't get in the way again for a while. What's it got to do with you Ah. I stop my car wherever I like. Pineapple, right? Repair Hey. What the fuck do you mean, you Hurry down What the fuck do you mean? Move the car. I can park my car wherever I want. Isn't that what you just taught me Hum Are you fucking today? Are you fucking trying to get me in trouble today? Pineapple, right? Pineapple can also There are many ways of governance. I have 100 more than one employee. I order your takeout every day Assign you to send one and give you a bad review. Then see what you do I hold 11. Good. I'll give you another chance to organize your language. Can you move this car? Then I also solemnly tell you, can't live I said you fucking don't give face shameless, know who Lao tze is You dare to talk to me like that, who Deputy Chief Manager of Personnel Department of Tiancheng Group Branch You said you were from Tiancheng Group. That's right. It seems that this expedition is really a goal. I am also from Tiansheng Group. What the fuck are you doing? Do you think we are born to collect garbage? You can fucking get in here. You 'd better be polite when you say something. Lao tze this temper is not polite A man of your mind I wonder, how did you get into the company Don't make you look like a fucking big shot. Don't you fucking just a delivery guy Ah. I'll ask you one last time. This car can't be moved. Oh. I see you're a woman's sake I don't agree with you I'm in a hurry to get to work If I come back from work You're still here I'll give you a fuck I didn't think there was such a person in the branch. Let's see how I can clean you up later. Mama of, how can this smelly delivery man not starve me to death Beauty, is this the takeout you ordered Hey, what do you eat How long have you been in the supermarket? Excuse me. Something happened to the takeaway boy. I brought it for you on my way This is the takeout you ordered. What happened Was he killed by a car? I 've been hungry for so long. Shut up when this man talks. How do I speak to you Ah. What are you? Don't you also a fucking delivery man What's wrong with my delivery? Please speak with respect. And as the front desk of the company Represent the image of the company This is how visitors are treated. Fuck you. You You what you What the hell are you Son also taught me a lesson from the bottom of society. He came to me to force Lai Lai I think you just owe it to clean up I dare to hit you, hit you what's the matter Rubbish like you, I can fight if I want. Today, I will not only beat you, but also complain about you. If you don't give me an explanation What are you staring at me here? I'm very excited to see you now. Get out of here I asked you to roll You give me let go Hey! You gave me some strength, didn't you? You stinky delivery boy You get your ass back here What can you do? Xiaoyu, don't pull me I had to teach him a lesson today. All day long said outsiders, fucking force ye you What are you mad at here? Didn't I order a takeout today? It took so fucking half a day to deliver it to me. He's not happy after I 've said a few words to him. Also taught me a lesson She is a thing Let me remind you again I brought you this takeout on my way. I don't need you to thank But please speak with a little respect, eh You smelly delivery man, you still come with me, right Ah. All right, all right, Yiyi, don't be angry. It's no big deal Besides, this delivery guy is not easy either. Let's all understand, why should I understand him He's not happy. I'm not happy. I spent money to order a takeout It's all cold. Can I eat it when I send it? Yiyi, look, it's still hot Don't embarrass others Aunt Wang, I advise you not to pretend to be a bad person for me here. I'm telling you, I 've long since disliked you. Less nosy here Can eat you eat ah you Do you like to eat or not? I'll take it out and feed it to the dog. What are you talking about, you smelly delivery boy? How dare you talk to me like that, you piece of crap from the bottom of society. Are you insulting me? Don't take it one by one. I think you look like garbage. You hit me, you dare to hit me, hit you what's the matter People like you who have no quality and no education. I really don't know who recruited you into the company. Is it blind? You pissed me off Get out of my way, my lord. You elbow out of the dog thing again dare to talk nonsense Why did I fire you? You go, sister. You are just a front desk of the company What qualifications do you have to fire him None of your business You smelly delivery man, I'll tell you it's not over today. Smelly delivery, didn't you say I can eat takeout? Come on, you eat You eat, you eat You gave me to eat How about the smelly delivery Is it delicious? Ah. Dare to mess with me, you are still a little young Yiyi, have you gone too far Why do you bully people You shut up With what I'll let you know later What makes me Mom, you're done. I have to fire you today. Just wait Sister, are you all right It's okay, sister, you go quickly Her boyfriend is a company person Is a deputy director Also an unreasonable person. When he comes, he'll have to bully you again. What will you do when I leave? What can be done It's a big deal. I 've had enough. Although the treatment here is good, other aspects are a mess. Well, what exactly is going on Uh-huh. It seems that the branch has a lot of problems. I'll settle it with him tomorrow. Sister, what do you think Let's go. Otherwise, where will you go when you get back? Honey, did you see It's Wang Ying and the smelly delivery guy They bully me and beat me You see my face hurts, don't you Dear. Are you okay? Let me see It's a gift. It's you, the smelly delivery man. You're so fucking haunting Dear, you know Why don't you know this smelly delivery guy But very arrogant It's still blocking my car. I was thinking of smashing his car for a while, oh So, um... Smelly delivery, Lao tze will pick you up later Your Highness, don't you want to work? If you don't want to do it, pack my things right now. Bring me the supervisor Here's the thing You shut up Did I ask you something I asked if you didn't want to do it, so you shut up As a company executive, this is how you use the rights the company gives you. Come here without asking. Don't understand what's going on Let this bastard, you bastard, bully employees. Who gave you the guts, right? You stinky delivery boy, you can fucking talk. I bullied him I told him to fuck off What the fuck do you care You ah How old are you talking? Get the fuck out of my way It's good for you to say less You don't smelly delivery jobs one by one, regardless of high or low. How about you saying I'm really a delivery guy What qualifications do you have to look down on me Yo You gave me a shout You have a fucking temper I said you were a delivery thief and looked down on you. What's the matter The gas of the protective clothing, the gas of the protective clothing also has to be held for me. Baby This smelly delivery man, we'll clean him up later. Hey. You said this internet addiction, how do you want to solve it Leave it to you Okay, dear wilderness How to say again We are at least colleagues, one What's your family situation? I also understand I think this job is very important to you You should have seen what happened today. Want to continue to work here is not can not Didn't you say this takeout can be eaten? So now you pick it up and eat it As long as you eat we put Hey. This can come here is ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha you You guys, you fucking don't give me reason Pick it up and eat it. I'm busy here Aren't you still meddling That's the price you pay for meddling If you want to continue working here, pick it up and eat it quickly. Look at you, don't you hear Don't look at us so aggrieved If you listen today, you can say anything. If you don't obey today, pack up your things and get the hell out of here. Let's go. I don't want to be a leader with women's clothing for a long time. You can fucking say it. I don't want to do it anymore, do I Now pack your things and get out of here. Sister, are you all right? Honey, good fight Why would you hit someone? Do you really think you can cover the sky here? I really don't know how you got to the top like this. I guess you should be the one to pack up and fuck off. You shut up too The smelly delivery man has endured you for half a day. You okay? It's okay. Also on what basis I still need to hit people With what? super delivery I tell you, I can't cover the sky with one hand here. But it's enough for me to clean up you two stinky fish and rotten shrimps. That's enough, right? I tell you, I may not be able to do anything else. But get you out of this company, I can still do it. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, are you telling jokes to me? Ah. I really gave you a whole smile. You told me to fuck off Who the fuck do you think you are? Who I am Then I'll tell you right now I am the chairman of the daily group Chairperson Oh, you really scared me to death. Just like you, it's always long. Who believes it? I don't believe it, do I? You go and call Li Bing I want to see him now, Libing Who is Li Bin I'm a fucking American soldier. Honey, I won't Our general manager seems to call your brother Well, Mr. Li Just like you You still call me Li, give you jump over You really think of yourself as chairman Let you go, waste what words Mom is arrogant. The pig's nose is stuck in the green onion, and the man is left behind. Just like you Also want to see our general manager also don't go out to piss Take a good look at what you are. Show me some respect when you speak. If you have to see him tonight, tell him if you dare to see him. But come on, little mother also don't pretend with me here Get the hell out of here Don't let me see you again Otherwise, don't blame me for being unkind to you. Tell you to get out, don't you hear me Roll. Fuck off. Get out of here. Don't let me die, watch you All right, dear. You go in It's simply too much. I didn't expect the quality of the branch executives to be so low. Okay, I'm good Sister rest assured Today, your work will not lose your grievances. I must get it back for you Sister, don't you really want to believe me Hey! Chairman Liang, now go and inform Li Bin Tell him I'm going to inspect the branch later. Okay, okay, okay. I'll buy it right away That's right. You arrange for someone to investigate the deputy director of the personnel department of the branch. Section Chief Wang Monitor How's your private investigation going? How simply disappointed I just got kicked out of my father-in-law's room. All right, let's do this first. You should come here now. Thank you friend Sister, wait for me here and I'll go up again. Good elder sister, you still have to go up It's okay. I can't believe I can't clean them up today. This smelly delivery man, I think he is delusional. Also married The chairman of the board is that I look at him, but he is mentally ill. Dear, you also don't angry It's not worth getting angry for a little guy Baby I think he is a self-made if I side with sh I say a through call Child Why did you come in again Get the hell out of here Get out Why should I get out My formula I want to come I don't think you know a fucking retard. Let me remind you again Show me some respect when you speak. I respect your uncle, you should get out of here Run what Is there any excellence? Brother Zhu Listen to me, day four What are you doing? You're worried about taking a nap. You're sorry, fourth brother is like this Come here to steal takeout and make trouble. How do I order gifts for takeout? horizontal trough Blue is not your Ye Qiu. You also work here. Brother and sister More than just knowing my ex-girlfriend It's fucking exciting. What's wrong with Magnolia? I also delivered takeout This is a good day, ha ha Get your hands off me Don't touch Q. I haven't seen anything else in the past few years. The temper is good It's none of your business whether I have the skills or not. Yes yes yes, none of my business Well, you said you were a professional To put it mildly, it's running errands for people. But actually. Is to give people thin, use good legs Ha ha ha ha ha ha, you laugh Why are you talking so mean now I have nothing to do, as if it has nothing to do with you Why don't I have nothing to do with me The way I see it now, I'm happy. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha There is a paragraph on the Internet, what do you say What yellow robe plus what, brother Qiu is like this It's a yellow robe plus body, and it's accompanied by big fish and big meat. Ah, yes, yes, yes This should be the person who said thisAh. I asked you something, don't fucking didn't hear Mr. Ye, you haven't changed at all. As always, dogs look down on people Wow You can so understand Hey, did you guys hear He scolded me Ha ha ha ha Brother Jiu, he is the rock in the pit Smelly and hard Is it? I, what the fuck are you? Look at what you're doing now. Who called you and talked to me like this? Hum Not convinced. I know I'm handsome Hans, you have no chance Kim is the man you'll never get I 've learned a lot today. If you are weak and skinless, you will die. A man is shameless and invincible. You're talking in your fucking head. Who said shameless Cho, why are you talking to us, Brother Qiu? Say who is your relative Is it really a belong or Du Jun But now think back I'm glad I dumped you. Otherwise, I will not be dragged to death, marriage ceremony Hum What you hate Am I not right Look at your hanging now. Do you know what I do in this company now Ah. Manager, manager is what position do you understand A master bedroom thinks you're amazing, don't you? I think being a manager is a human being, right Your one-for-two position is worthless in front of me. As long as I say a word, I can tell you to get out of this company at any time. Ouch, lying in the trough If you have two peanuts, you won't get drunk like this. Also let me do I think you got your fucking head caught in the door. Wait for regret, hee What the fuck, don't let me say That's just a little education for you Then I review the layoffs You see how much quality I have It's simply too much. Too much, this is too much It's too much. It's too much. Ha ha You scum, you shut up Figure out your identity Like this kind of person I want to fight, want to scold scold What can you do to me? Ye Qiu You bastard, how dare you do this to me? Do you know who I am Today, you must pay the price. Cost, what cost? His mother should not be trying to correct me Look, we used to be together for the sake Uncle, I'll let you correct me once today. Is it not money? Lao Tzu has plenty Here's $200 with enough for you to make dozens of trips. It's really yellow Why didn't I find out before? You give me less fucking nonsense, why not enough I still have shit here. Now get out of here. Ye Qiu, that's enough for you. Do you think it's great to have money? Do you think you can do whatever you want if you have money? You're fucking right. Rich is great. Being rich means being able to do whatever you want I'm telling you There is nothing I can't solve with money. hate what Today I will teach you If you have money and power, you will be a big uncle wherever you go. A person like you who has no money or power has been bullied. That's just what his mother deserved. This society is so realistic Do you fucking understand? I 've learned a lot today. This is your life values What should be said is almost the same as what you said. Now you can fuck off Let me roll Don't say it's you Even if Li Bing comes here, he is not qualified. Chief Li I said you can fucking pretend Also, Mr. Li does not have this qualification Who do you think you are Monkey He just said he was the chairman of our group, oh. Chairman of the Group, do you believe it? I don't believe it Do you believe that? I don't believe it either Hum Do you think I believe it? Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha It's OK It doesn't matter whether you believe it or not. It doesn't mean anything. But I thought you guys remembered Today I will make you regret I want you to watch my business. Fuck off, we'll see. Yilan Are you fucking funny? Ah. Don't I know what you are? Bragging is not a reliable one. Do you know what group I am? Ah. As far as we are, this is only one of the branches of our group. A branch of this size Our group has many families. You said you were the chairman of our group. Do you think it's possible Don't you think it's funny Is it possible It's not ridiculous. It's not up to you Did you call Li Bing or not I said you're not fucking finished Is it not over Ylang, I'm going to ask you one last time Don't go yet Don't go your dear, why are you here The phone is not answering My cell phone is thirsty. What's the matter My brother called you and couldn't get through. He called me here. Lee called me My brother said that the chairman of the group would come down to inspect the work today. Let's hurry up and prepare for the group chairman's right What about Mr. Li Not in the office? My brother is not here But he said he 'd be back Come on, let's go in. Let's get ready. Let's go. Oh, right. Now get out of here I don't have time to travel with you Dear, who is the takeaway in this village? You don't know, you have a good look again Hao Hao, who am I to be Isn't this the poor wretch you discarded years ago It's only been a few years, and it's getting pitiful. Does this deliver takeout I'm a delivery man. What's the matter? What is it? What else is there to be ashamed Dear. I really don't understand, what kind of taste did you say you had? I can't believe you have a crush on him You see, he's like this Honey, wasn't that blind? But still listen to you, broke up with him Otherwise, I will not regret my death now. I won't be with you What kind of expression do you have What can you do like this? Do you know why he dumped you It's because you're poor and you're fucking useless. And I'm not the same Do you know who my brother is? Let's hear it Then I'll tell you My dear, his brother is the general manager of this company. It's because I'm with him I have now When I wanted to be with you I'm afraid I'm starving. Hum This is the first time I have seen someone who is so proud of eating a soft meal. You stinky delivery boy How do you talk to my boyfriend You are Li Bing's sister Today is also you can call What are you? How dare you hit me What's wrong with beating you I don't like your inferior cargo. A society at the bottom of the garbage Still yelling in front of me What the hell are you Son How dare you. Even if your brother in front of me Usually is also honest How dare you do this to me Hum What are you pretending? You are afraid of being beaten silly You shut up I remember what you did today. Also see clearly I will make you regret Let you lose everything, withdraw You make me do not regret Are you here to be funny? Ah. Do you know what position I hold in this company Manager of Finance Department I'm not afraid to tell you Sooner or later, this company will have I will slowly turn it into a shell company Dear. What? Ask me It turns out that you are all messing with the problem of dividing the formula. Hey. I say you come down and don't argue with him. Brother, your identity is different now. After your world will no longer have any intersection Besides, this is a horse, of course. Do you hear me? Get out of here We have a big man coming here today. To move here You can't afford to fucking Throw me out without begging me You heard what Qiu Ge said. Hurry up, don't make me do it. Hey, you got donkey hair in your fucking ears. Get out of here Team Leader Are you all right? It's okay. Chairman, I'm sorry. There was a traffic jam on the road and I was late. What the fuck are you doing? I said whose zipper didn't pull properly and showed you. Come to us to pretend to force Do you fucking owe to clean up Did you take a shit this morning? The mouth is so smelly I said shut the fuck up Do you bastards know who this is? Dare to be so presumptuous This is the chairman of our group Chairman, you're scaring me. You when I'm mentally retarded If he is chairman Then I am the chairman and his father. If you can't speak, shut your mouth, okay Liang contacted Li Bing and asked him what was going on. Why haven't you come for so long, director? Hello, Mr. Li The chairman asked me to ask you how long it will take to get there. Chairman Li Bin said that he will be there soon. I said, give me the full set of your acting. Is it acting and you will know when the leader comes? Uncle, I don't have time to spend with you. Hurry up and get out of here. You are really arrogant I'm telling you, you're done today How arrogant are you now What a mess you'll have later. I think you two are two fucking idiots. Chen Ce said, come We throw them out Good. What are you doing? Drag out and get the fuck out What do you want to do? Get out. I'll go, fuck What are you doing? Chief Li Li Ge, Li Zong Ge Chief Li You're back There you are. What about the chairman? Zhang Zong The chairman hasn't arrived yet. Scared me Not yet where delicious, you eat What's the matter with you Chief Li Just a delivery guy gave him a bad review When he was upset, he brought someone to make trouble. Right, right. The delivery guy is right, right, right, he's like a madman. This is not a mess The chairman is coming. Why would such a man let him in? Don't throw them out. Okay, hurry up I'll go in and have a look Li Bin Are you throwing me out? I said you smelly delivery man You shut up So you can shut up and get out of here. Chairman, when did you come Haven't been here long I 've been waiting for you for an hour, Mr. Li. He pulled across This is the chairman of our group The Mayor Cut Go over there and apologize to him. Come on. Not Dong Chang, I We were just joking with you Don't get me wrong We give us a joke Joking, that is really misunderstood you Chairman, I was wrong. I'm really wrong I'm sorry, I'm sorry you Don't you forgive us You come to me, I really didn't know you were the chairman of the board. Just give me one more chance You see I once got along for the sake Just forgive me this time Right, right. Will you forgive us? Yes, Chen Zhen did it wrong Shut up. Now I feel sick to say one more word to you. Wang Chang told you to shut up, didn't you hear No disease can give I'm really going to be a takeaway today. Have you thrown it out? No, no, no. Shut up Tell me who gave you the right Who gave you the courage to not come Don't understand what's going on If you don't ask, you'll throw people out. Am I asking you to start a rogue company? I'll ask you again and answer right away. I know it's wrong I really know wrong Wrong. At first, I thought you were just a man. Negligent management is why they are so lawless. I didn't know you were like that. Li Bin, you I'm really disappointed in you chairman, division commander I don't want to hear you explain Now for you how those scum scum got into the company And how to become the management of the talk Put me over here. Know what a dog is. What did you do today? Said you don't don't Is this how you usually manage the company? You have a good slap in the face. What did they do to me just now Oh. Don't say it. All the shares of the company went to the conference room for a meeting. I have something to announce Chief Liang, let's go first Who will inform the personnel to come to the meeting room Tell me, what's going on? I don't know what he really is. Am I asking you this I mean, what did you do I can't believe I don't do anything There are things At the most critical time, I made such a big mess of incidents, and things were revealed. You all wait for me to go to jail Wow, it's not that serious Just a woman I am 50 years old I want you to be as stupid as you Don't even know how to die Our mayor can develop into what he is now in just a few years. Do you think anyone can do it? Like today, she dressed as a takeaway Let you show your true colors one by one Playing with you is easier than walking the dog. Just now Ye Qiu accidentally said something We're hollowing out the company. Mr. Li, your mother's pig You are a pig You're trying to kill me It's a blessing, not a curse It's a curse, but I won't walk. I know everyone is making a scene. The chairman's all here Let me introduce you This is our group chairman Hu Lan Everybody do it Today, we are calling everyone here to announce one thing. The legal department of the group headquarters will set up an investigation team tomorrow. Lin Bing, general manager of the investigation branch, Ye Qiu, manager of the finance department Personnel Department Director Xing Tianci embezzled company public funds matters shut up No, this is not enough color There's also a quiet investigation. HQ will send someone over to take over their job. All three stopped. A Liang did not go to the monitoring room to retrieve today's front desk monitoring video. Collect all their criminal information and give it to the authorities. Actively cooperate with relevant departments in the investigation and evidence collection Good. You must pay for what you did today. I hope everyone can take it as a warning. Merchant