"Do not leave your 3D printer" unattended. Sure, have, you know, questionable cable management to baby-sit the machine the entire time? I don't particle emissions and printing smells are right next to you. So OctoPrint is actually a to remote-control a 3D printer from anywhere you Raspberry Pi is on. But you still have to actively house or you're going to lose the connection. So and it promises to solve both those problems. on your prints from anywhere around the world but it's also an AI that watches that webcam or actually halt the print if thinks there's how good an AI can be at detecting print failures And you know what's really useful for finding the And you don't even have to leave the house for Trade connects you to the top roasters coffee that suits your taste in 3 easy steps: where there are no wrong answers. I drink my but I do like some good aroma in there. Trade will 2 - Pick your coffees and how often you fresh from the roaster. Trade I know how long international shipping can take 3 - well, there is no 3. Enjoy your you liked about your coffees and you'll get new Try out Trade through the link in the description your first bag of coffee when you sign up. Thanks The Spaghetti Detective, is, thankfully, really "cloud" web service, which also does the AI one that the folks from the Spaghetti Detective want to. It's open-source software, after all. And basically just remote-controls OctoPrint itself, why reinvent the wheel and create a whole perfect solution available in the form of get a fully featured OctoPrint server that, of file management etc on your local network. OctoPrint running, you create an account on the into OctoPrint, and then you just copy-paste a that's it! If you want to start a print, you can "normal" way and the Spaghetti Detective will pick or, on the paid plans, you can also upload And after that, just choose if you want the print and whether it should pause or just alert So I guess we should briefly talk about the Spaghetti Detective is an open-source project, without spending a single penny. But that's maintaining that as well as making sure that's access it remotely. Also, apparently, the actual detection AI is a bit intense and too much for the up with consistently feeding data to the printer. the Spaghetti Detective offers a few different to more features as you go. There is a free and gives you a low-framerate webcam stream as your prints and intervening if you want it to. You giving feedback on your prints. The free tier lets much as you want, which I think is pretty awesome, there is a limit. Uploading or starting a print to the paid tiers, and those also include a a larger allowance of AI watch hours. being able to check in on your prints while you go out and being able to actually is already a huge deal, and you actually get that whether paying for them is worth it really So I've done some testing. I've actually combined review, so you're going to see that printer So for the print failure detection AI, it really and that's that it should correctly detect prints because if you have The Spaghetti Detective that would cause more harm than it solves also, it needs to be able to correctly identify no false negatives. And just to get my bearings, you also saw in the last video, this time scaled Artillery supply for their X1. And this one lit up highlights the areas that it thinks are failing, yes, the auto-generated supports by Slic3r are and those did topple over and cause some was correctly detected, but it also detected just glossy top surfaces that were actually too much and alert me one too many times than or even damage the printer by not intervening. at this point I'm thinking it's maybe a bit too it down a notch and just print Benchies. Like, it better know what a 3D Benchy should look like. and those correctly detected as being flawless. that actually had issues. For example, a Benchy so it's only getting 1/3rd of the filament And according to The Spaghetti Detective, I am surprised by how well this is coming out, but in the low-resolution webcam feed. Okay, so maybe so I added more lights, but that also didn't Detective, this is still a perfectly fine print. so I prepared a gcode that intentionally shifts a 5mm offset, which, actually, wasn't that much Detective also did not detect it; next 10mm, which also, nothing detected, so I upped that to 25mm, Benchy and throws it aboard, and, finally, that Now, of course, there are some technical is going to be able to recognize what's going on. and not this specific camera, this is a 1080p one it is a camera. It's only ever in one spot, it try to get the whole print bed into frame, details successful do become pretty small and hard to the print bed moves while the camera is grabbing want everything to be evenly lit, but not so So, muhc of my testing my focused on trying to rate by giving The Spaghetti Detective better camera is looking in, I mounted the camera any motion blur and I increased the resolution default 640x480 pixels to 1280x720 - aka. 720p. With my human eyes, I could see basically every the same feed The Spaghetti Detective is consider best-case scenarios, the AI was barely Now, that's not to say that it never works, it the Spaghetti Detective website does showcase a but it always seems to be at a point At that point, you're really just But what I've asked myself while using The was 100% accurate and reliable, what are you print is failing? You're not going to save the this time hopefully having fixed it's really just reacting to something that has printer every two hours or so through OctoPrint, getting to restart the print a bit faster Sure, it could be a nice, extra safety or simply don't want to check the print that has been for me so far, I really don't know if needs a lot of improvement and more training. Detective quite useful already - and you actually like I mentioned, being able to watch the print a livestream of your print to The Spaghetti and download a timelapse from the webcam's built into OctoPrint now, and lastly, they are which would allow you to securely access the full it's still in beta and managed to completely crash first time I tried it. So, maybe use that feature Now, for the paid options... well, there is all the features without any limits, and The Spaghetti Detective can detect the sort extra information is useful for you. I will Let me know in the comments below what you're not standing right next to it, I'd really like you liked the video, give it a thumbs up, if you you want to support the channel directly, you can Thanks again to Trade Coffee for already thank you all so much for watching, keep on