Transcriber: Yulia Kallistratova On the last evening there was a party in a tent with dancing, and music, and noise. So much noise that a lot of us so we could hear each other talk that we had not seen As I talked with my friends 80% of them were unhappy with their lives. &quot;I feel as though I've wasted my life, &quot;I don't know what my life is all about.&quot; I was privileged to go to Yale, and we were standing on a summer evening and the people that I was speaking with and financially well off, And they had the first house, and they had the first spouse, (Laughter) And 80% of them Who was happy, the 20%? Well, we had studied literature and we were the theater people, We had studied classes not because we thought they were going We still got jobs, we were living our lives expansively, with life's ups and downs, and we did not feel And as I spoke I discovered that each of them knew something about their life purpose because they knew five things: who they were, what they did, who they did it for, what those people wanted or needed, and what they got out of it, Does that sound hard? It's not, it's actually really simple. In fact it's so simple, that you can learn You're going to know your life Would you like to know your life purpose (Audience) Yes. Can you be a little bit louder? Because they are making and there is just a silly little microphone Would you like to know your life purpose (Audience) Yes! Thank you. Actually, it's not So, can I share something else with you? If you're like a lot of us, you have wondered and worried and there are books, and magazines, In fact, Amazon lists 151,928 books that refer to how you can learn (Laughter) Well, I know some people trying to learn their life purpose. Look, we can all agree that but if all you're doing (Laughter) So, let's figure out who you are, what you do, what those people want and need, Shall we do it? All right. Everybody, on the count of five, One, two, three, four, five: (Audience shouts) Fabulous. That was the first one, only four to go. That's who you are. (Laughter) Now, what do you do? What do you love to do? Do you love to write, cook, design, create iOS apps, write code, What do you love to do? And if there is a lot of things focus it down by asking what is the one thing that right now you feel supremely qualified Think about that in one word. Hold it. Don't release it yet. What do you do? One, two, three, four, five: (Audience shouts) Great. That's what you do. Now, think about who you do it for, be ready to say it on the count of five. Hold it, don't release it yet. One, two, three, four, five: (Audience murmurs) OK, who do you do it for, A little bit louder, please, Who do you do it for? Together: (Audience shouts) Thank you. That is the spirit What do all those people want or need? What do they want or need that you have, that they've come to you What do they want or need? Hold it, don't release it yet. And on the count of five: (Audience shouts) Fantastic. Now, this is the best one. How do they change? How do they change or transform On the count of five, how do they change or transform One, two, three, four, five: (Audience shouts) Terrific. Now we're going to put this Everyone together, who are you? (Audience responds) What do you do? (Audience responds) Who do you do it for? (Audience responds) What do they want or need? (Audience responds) How do they change as a result? (Audience responds) Fantastic. You have all just done something that people who went to Yale Congratulations. Give yourselves Now, why is that formulation so powerful? Because of all of those five things to know what your life purpose is, only two are about yourself. The other three of them who they are, what they want or need, and how they change as a result. That formulation forces you And all the happier people on that warm New Haven night they were outward facing, They knew very clearly whom they served, and how those people changed as a result. And you may have intuited this already that the most successful people on the people that they serve Happier people make it a point and do things that make them If you make other people happy, we will be taken care of, too. So since you all did so well, we have time (Laughter) One of the most difficult things that happens when you meet they ask you this question, &quot;So, what do you do?&quot; And, if you're like some of us, that's a really Particularly, if you're in these moments or you're feeling vulnerable, Or, what you seem to do or what you paid to do So, when people ask you and also, you've got &quot;Why is he asking me? It's that transactional thing if he should really (Laughter) Or, it's that other thing, because he's sure it's, &quot;Oh, really, (Laughter) Right? So, when somebody asks you you just say the very last thing how what you do changes So, for example, you might say, If your life purpose is: so they can fall asleep at night, Or you might say: &quot;I help people if your life purpose is: &quot;I design apparel for men and women so they can look and feel their best.&quot; Or you might say: &quot;I help people if your life purpose is: &quot;I train entrepreneurs and creative people so they can get And then, that little snippet that you just said becomes your personal elevator pitch. And it will always start a conversation because the person has to ask you a question, &quot;How do you give kids great dreams?&quot; &quot;How do you help people &quot;Can people really get And then you get to tell them, and you get to share your life purpose. And you get to share (Applause)