Ein wunderschoenen guten morgen! Daniele Corona. We are here in the beautiful castle Schloss Filseck in Wengen. We are in Baden Wurttemberg, Inside this castle you will find the restaurant since 2020 holds a Michelin star. We have lots of banquets, about 150 weddings per year, parties. In German we call our cooking is basically the culinary one feels that when miss the flavors because true find in Germany, and in fact I am born in Germany but my mother is Sicilian and my father is Sardinian. Today, together with we will talk about one of the most important In Germany the culture of wurstel is huge. It's practically like cold cuts in Italy, each region of wurstel, however, made in the same way, with pork, blanched, either For example, is also blanched but We have the Weisswurst, which after boiling it. ground a little larger and there are some spices inside, Today Riccardo and I present to you one of the throughout Germany: of Wurttemberg for Currywurst Oberlander is used, casing. This type of East Berlin after World War II casings. Basically the butcher dropped the filling, he dropped it directly into hot water in hot water. The American and ketchup or curry and there was a lady lady who had a made German wurstel and she had these scraps from the military. basically the and she gave it to the which she patented at the time is called XXX sauce. Of course we don't serve Currywurst all these years of Currywurst for wedding parties - Germany it is normal at midnight as in Italy with spaghetti garlic and oil - they eat Currywurst with a breadroll. We thought we'd play on this dish also to give a smile to our client. It took us almost a year to transform it that we can serve our customers. Now I'll take you and show you the most loved by the our version in the The Oberlander can be done in several ways: we prefer to cook our Oberlander on the charcoal this particular we really like. on the hot grill and not directly on the fire. The wurstel is turned every 2 minutes, the cooking time until inside it comes to the right temperature In the cooking time of our Oberlander, we take care We take a pot, we add a couple of cubes of butter and stew the onion brunoise. After about 3 minutes we add a spoonful of Indian point our secret element comes into play, which is also American: Coca-Cola. Coca-Cola is reduced to half to give the onion time to cook, to give it sweetness and a bit of a caramel flavour. point, we add a good quality ketchup. We get our curry sauce we add our Italian touch: Balsamic Vinegar of Modena PGI. Vinegar brings sauce and reduces a bit Coca-cola. Now Riccardo removes the wurstel from the grill and begins and begins plating our Currywurst. The wurstel is cut into thick slices we cover the wurstel completely with our curry we make a slightly more refined We add mayonnaise on top, fried onion to give the dish some crunchiness, and a sprinkling of Cayenne pepper. This is the Street Food dish par excellence, special Currywurst. Now I'll show you our version, with an Italian soul. We're now here in the kitchen Clearly, we're not using a wurstel, we decided on scampi, which which is what we like best among shellfish. And now we'll show we make with the carcasses of the scampi. with a base of vegetable oil This brown sugar enriches our base to recreate the sweetness that Coca-Cola We put the carcasses in the oven to toast and now we This is our alcoholic base, composed mostly What in the other single type of curry, we recreate it with three types: a curry characterized by the presence of a lot of this purplish color, and a red curry, color given above all by the presence of sumac. And we're adding Piennolo tomatoes and we also add a little tomato puree we made ourselves. We have to get it looks like ketchup, with lots of fresh tomatoes. The final flavor to this tomato sauce a couple of bay leaves We leave our sauce to boil on then it is important with the carcasses overnight in the sauce, this is the To obtain the same result with the crispy onion, Tropea and we fry it in a batter made with Weissbier, a famous German We're flouring the the batter sticks better. And then we fry it in oil at 180degC. Basically this is very fresh we have to clean it Let's detach the head. We're using the head and the claws for the sauce You can use scissors or press, so you can hear this noise. Be careful, as the carcasses And here you can push slowly, and if it goes well, even all the gut comes out. Cut these little pieces When we put it keep the shape, You can take a wooden so while it is grilling it remains nice and straight the same shape as a wurstel. A little bit of salt. It's important for it overcook it. It is very important, scampi is very delicate. Colonata lard, which we add to the scampi to remind of the pork fat that we have in the wurstel. Now we flambe it. Now we just need to plate our... wurstel - I'm joking, scampi. pull away the skewer and give it a cut that is Which also allows us to eat the - We are basically going to finish the dish with the curry we made before. mayonnaise, we use which also gives Another element of freshness that we're adding is a has been put enrich our Currywurst. And since we are Italian, we certainly don't use a cucumber, we use pickled And the crunchiness element is then brought by the fried Tropea onion. We give it a the Currywurst that we made a a mixture of three curries that we used to make the sauce. Let's finish our dish with some aged balsamic vinegar from a touch of Italian we're going to recall that typical then add elegance, finesse, This is our special scampi Currywurst. As a side to the Currywurst, there's this bread - it is a curries used in the accompany the dish and maybe mop up the plate later. It's good, we did well. Today we showed you a trip through German wurstel. I hope you liked it, as well as our Italian soul. I look forward the beautiful Schloss Filseck restaurant in Wengen. Aufwiedersehen