Today is an exciting day. So, Excel recently got a these are formulas just as easy and great as the So, functions that we can all easily use without for everyone. For example, with TEXTSPLIT you so no matter how many spaces you have in mid functions and that's not all. You get but before we jump in, remember for these functions to get rolled out to Office an update on availability. Now, I can't wait Let's start with the amazing TOCOL and TOROW functions. So here, I have names in multiple columns and I want to combine everything into TOCOL function. I'm just going to select my and I have everything spilled in a single column. you could get a unique list of values The TOROW function is very similar to this, rows. So, if I go with TOROW here, select my range, horizontally. Now, again you can put this in the need to specify that our values are in column. So, and we get a horizontal unique list. Next up, we list of full names and I want to split them into TEXTSPLIT and we have this amazing function which separate video on this, but here's the simplest your delimiter, basically based on what do you want going to put it in quotation marks and that's it! Check this out, I press Enter, I get Walter, Tobias Miller, split into three separate columns. Let's Now, we also get two other similar functions that and TEXTBEFORE. So, let's go with TEXTBEFORE, if what do I get? I get the first name, so by default, everything before the second space, you can go with this down. So, this is similar to the LEFT function allows you to define your delimiter. We also get and let's say after the first instance, we get to 2, it's everything after the second instance. Now, be dynamic or use the IFERROR function to avoid these allow you to append your data together. Here now these could be in separate sheets and I want to use VSTACK for vertical stacking. Array 1 is multiple arrays. I'm going to press Enter and I get If this was a table, I'm just going to press Ctrl + T, convert it to a table, and this was a table as well and I end up with a new name here. Check what What does each stack do? Well it does a similar So, I'm just going to press and let's do it right here. Start off with HSTACK, Array 2, Is this 1? close bracket, press Enter Next up, we have WRAPROWS and WRAPCOLS. So, I put these below one another. So, this should come I can easily do that with the new WRAPROWS it's this range and then the WRAPCOUNT, so Well after the third value here, so put a 3, wrapped properly. How does it look with wrap going to select our range and then decide the WRAPCOUNT my names are gonna end up in the same column like With these functions, you get to keep or drop So, here for example, let's say I just want to with the TAKE function, define my array, and for and I get the first three rows. If I want the last just wanna keep two columns? I'm going to add a 2 first two columns. This data isn't sorted, so let's three salaries. Well, that's not a problem because what I want to sort, I want to sort this based on I want it in descending order. I'm going to close the top three salaries. If I only want to keep What about DROP? Well, DROP works in a similar way I select my range here and say I want to drop I say minus 3, it's going to drop the last with other functions like we did with TAKE. So, we CHOOSECOLS, which is probably going to your array and then the columns that you want number. Let's say I want to keep column one and and salaries back. I'll put a 1 and a 3, Now, you can probably picture the potential of this, the salaries that are above a hundred thousand? So, for my range here, I'm going to get it filtered what I want included are salaries that are greater the FILTER function and press Enter, and I get Now, how does CHOOSEROWS work? Well, it works and then you get to define the rows that you want the fifth row, and the sixth row, close bracket the EXPAND function. With EXPAND, you get to expand your range and add additional columns or rows. So, for example here, I have department and name, I want to add an extra column for salary, and I want that populated with the word &quot;missing.&quot; So, I'm going to here. For rows, I want it to be as many rows as I columns, I want to add an extra column, I already I don't put anything for the &quot;pad_with&quot;, close the but with errors. I don't want errors, instead I in quotation marks for the last argument. When I add extra rows to this, so I have three currently, I get &quot;missing&quot; on the bottom here as well. In this Enter. Now, I'm sure this is going to come in handy inside other functions that work with arrays. So, we have. If I want to stack this on top of another to wrap this in the VSTACK function. That's my to another sheet, this is the TAKE sheet. I'm going I get my results organized in a nice way. That and I really want to know what your favorite I have to say for me, right now, my favorite one was it for today, thank you for watching