-So recently retired lieutenant, right? -How many years? I started January, '91 Okay, so today you're gonna bring us explain the current crime situation. Police perspective, what's going on? -So where we are right now and what we're looking at out here -Why'd you want to show this? 'Cause homeless What's the thing about this situation? -So right now our officers because we've got this migrant situation. -Okay. -All the migrants are literally living in the police stations They have full access to and they're setting up A homeless person, every single morning they're booted out. We'll let them in because In the morning they gotta go, and then maybe they'll come back at night. Migrants have full access, They actually send busses that'll pull up so that the migrants We're spending millions of dollars and I'm not saying we shouldn't. They're here trying to get a better life. I get all that, But look... What are we doing for them? We've got empty schools, How 'bout you set up a one stop shop they have counseling, -Sure, sure. -And allow both in there. So in Chicago are there a home for those people play by the rules Could they go into a home? There's shelters, they're all full. -They're full? -Our shelters are full up. [Peter] What'd you say [man 1] There's a lot of vets out here. It's like real old guys. [man 2] Plenty of Gulf War guys. -So in Chicago can you Will the city give you housing or no? -Nope. -If you're clean, off drugs-- -I don't do drugs, -Can you sleep at the police station? Tried to get some food, clothes, Right down the corner. -Okay, so how do you guys feel about that? -I just gave them the finger -I was living in Charlotte, by the time I got here he was dead So I payed for the funeral, and I was living in the house and after that went to go the house was padlocked. -A job interview? I'm a cook. So you have to have -In Chicago? -Yeah, you have to have one. I don't have one, So they gave me [John] How long you been out here? -Eight months. [John] So you were -Not over here in the winter, -That's another place where They'll get on the trains, and they'll ride from one end usually when they get to the end... -Ticket to a train the other direction. But then you gotta look at Going to school or whatever, People pissing, drinking, I got robbed on the train. That's why I don't' do it no more. -So there are all types of homeless? Like there are guys out -What I see is a lot of homeless people They'd rather do drugs They'll set up for soon as they money gone, -[John] Here's 20 bucks for you guys. [John] Thank you guys, all right. [John] At the end of the day this is not the answer They've even got CBS was trying to FOIA and the city's refusing 'cause they don't want to say Millions and millions of dollars. So it's frustrating. They should be able to take care of both. The amount of migrants, Let's just go crazy How many are coming into Texas every day? -Oh, those towns are getting hammered. It was all well and good because &quot;We're a welcoming city, sanctuary city.&quot; It was all good But as soon as they came it's like, &quot;They're using them as pawns.&quot; Because they want but they don't want to do -Now they have to deal with -The problem is, -I saw it in McAllen, Texas Homeless got kicked out There was a contract -100% Yep. [Peter] John, I appreciate really won't go on camera these days it's pretty much impossible. Sheriffs can speak but I don't think they have the -Right. -Thank you for that. -It's really hard to get access, -It's not the unions. -No, it's the department. It's department policy, and not allowed to talk about things -Why is that? -Police union would love -Okay, so I got that wrong. -It would be a free for all and the departments don't want or whatever, they want control, right? That comes from That's the mayor, the politicians. They don't want everybody They want to control Freedom of speech is intoxicating and shine a light on a lot of things. And that's even why I'm doing this today. I love this department, The officers that are out there and people need to know because of the way things are run and I think you just gotta Hopefully something It's a beautiful city that's unfortunately -Absolutely ruined? -We're gonna get into that today I don't see -It's being ruined from the inside, right? It's almost the infrastructure, Chicago's become with the crime That's putting a hit on our tourism. There's been a significant decline [Peter] This is a beautiful street. [John] Oh, this whole area, This is multi-million dollar -But look how well it's taken care of, -Streets are clean. Versus a lot of US cities, the Downtown -I gotta say. There's people that won't come here because of the issues People in other states -Yeah, but I would say come to Downtown Chicago. -There would be no reason not to. -It feels very safe walking around here. -Things could happen -Worst case scenario you could possibly end up in a mob, and it's going to be they might try to steal your purse. -I know that sounds terrible... -The odds are pretty small, -The odds are super small I think. [Peter] Homicides have been but if you look at numbers historically 1974: 970 homicides. 1992: 939. And then 2022: 695. So there were times it was even worse. -So it was bad in the '70s, right? Late '60s, you had Martin Luther King assassination, there was all kinds of things going on. My father came on the job right out of the academy into that went on here. But then slowly over time the different Mayor Daly in Particular, they realized we needed Because that's gonna have I mean these businesses... -Super high end. -And see this car here? -Scarecrow policing. That car is there, there's another -They just sit here with their lights on? He's not going anywhere, Got some cars that are patrolling. -There's a heavy presence down here. For the most part though, most criminals are, they figure out that because that's what they're told to do. They're told to sit there and be present. -Okay, so criminal steals something, what are these cop cars doing? They're gonna call it in and if there's any cars we'll go after it but they're not gonna leave their posts. -So it's good to have them here though. -I'm not saying it's bad, but you still have to have accountability, Perfect example, the first warm weekend teens came Downtown, took it over. They were jumping on busses, I think they made 12 arrests. To give you a comparison, and 1991 was the first time the Bulls won and all of a sudden That caught I remember that caught us off guard, 1992, it happened again, 986 arrests, and then 1993, 1200 arrests. We were locking people up. And what I was getting at earlier is when in the '70s that was holding people accountable, I think we got as low, if you look -Yep. And then it started to go up again. And when politics started to control everything from when we chased cars, whether we chased people on foot or not, promotions. We stopped promoting people and started promoting people experience be damned. We started moving people up wanted to move up all their friends So somebody would go from Sergeant So they don't get an opportunity so they don't have any experience -Lot of nepotism here? -Ton... It's friends and family. It's been for the last A lot of friends and family [John] I took the exam in the late '80s that took the exam with me. Just huge numbers, all taking it at And at that time it was still hard it was hard to get on People who wanted to be police officers as soon as they got called It was unheard of for anybody to resign but what has changed is from the Chicago Police Department. That's huge. That tells me right there that they're leaving Chicago law enforcement and they're lateral transfers. You've got all these that are now poaching them. They're coming, and picking them up, and offering reasons, and basically ''Hey, we got your back.'' ''We'll back you up.'' Which is all these officers want. They want to come out here and not have to worry because some boss is looking to doesn't want to lose the next election. -Okay, so a lot of police officers Fair to say? -I would say, yes, that's a given. -For sure they don't feel appreciated. -But additionally they don't feel like -The backing they need. -When an officer makes a mistake... And mistakes can happen -Any line of work, mistakes can happen. -Here, a mistake in law enforcement God forbid, right? But if the officer didn't have intent that was just absolutely egregious... Of course the bad ones, If someone does something -It is what it is. Sometimes mistakes happen You can't start sending these guys These politicians They're throwing the officer under the bus -Okay, why is that popular -Because society in general... There's always been this idea but at the end of the day I still think that's true, are supportive of police. But now it's become politically popular That, &quot;I'm the anti-police candidate.&quot; &quot;I'm the candidate that's gonna As if the officers are and beating people on a regular basis. That is absolutely not the case. -Right, and I'm sure these politicians -Oh, protection... -So I retired in November last year that's when I was able who could be criticized but one thing in particular, she took the security detail, so each mayor has When Mayor Daly was in he had -Just for him? -Some of it's for his family. -26 officers, Then Rahm Emmanual came in, She came in and she increased it to 115. She had 115 police officers to not only her mobile detail she'd have two officers she'd have two officers another two that would go in advance. But she also had a minimum, no less than Even if she was out of town. You would have two squad cars two squad cars behind her house, another car driving around you'd have a SWAT car, This one car could literally start a war would be parked parked at least She'd have a covert car that would follow I mean... -Was she under a lot of threat? -No more than any other politicians. I mean she wasn't... You're in the lime light, you're gonna but she took it to You had districts or people complaining about the CTAs They didn't have enough officers and she's got 115 officers [John] This is and these are all migrants, -[Peter] They live in-- -In the station? Wow. [John] Food is brought to them, they have more stuff I guarantee they didn't -How many police stations in Chicago. -Twenty-three. -Is it like this at many of them? -There's some that are worse than others. On average, they usually have -[John] I mean this is insane. -Look they're just kids, right? -I mean... -They're still people of course, and they doing what they can. -Someone's just spoke to us She doesn't want to be on camera -What she said is that there are to take them to but they migrate back here because they're better taken care of than they are at the shelter. So they want to be here. -From my understanding, they're legal Now that's gonna have to They're backed up -Right. -Most cases are not Right now it's roughly one in ten -Right, right. -They're economic migrants. Things are not easy in Venezuela, not easy in many places They all went through -I'm sure. -They payed the cartels a lot of money. -I don't know what it's like from Honduras -Right. -That's why they're not That's why they're at these So this is where and all that stuff every single night. -Tonight it comes in? If it's warm enough you might have but for the most part-- Oh, hey. They're gonna fill the lobby here. Some districts have a community room if there's overflow. See, what does this say? It's in Spanish so I'm not sure. Attention... It's probably telling them so they can clean and come back in here. -[Peter] Yeah, it's sad. -Saying it's dangerous. [Peter] So... [Peter] That price used to be -There's so many now -Maybe. [John] A train? [Peter] Okay, how do you say Texas, Arizona? -Texas. -McAllen? -So I don't know the words, [in broken Spanish] How did you decide -[Peter] Chill? [Peter] What happened? [John] So he fell off a bike I think. Jean Carlos. [John] Jean Carlos, Okay. [Peter] So if you're here that didn't want us there, you could tell. They were like, &quot;Don't film that.&quot; They're seeing this end of things, dealing with a crazy situation, -It's very human. If you're just standing here, right? -I feel the emotion talking to that guy. -I want them all to do well. -If you're on the border seeing how the system is broken -They're helping a lot of people too. -So it's very-- -You've got officers that they have at home, Officers are bringing food, They feel bad This shouldn't be a police matter. -They have enough going on right now. We had the bus that came in, but there was a three-year-old baby And you had several migrants There's illnesses that are We've had outbreaks... Hey. We've had outbreaks of lice. We've had chicken pox, measles, I mean everything that's gonna come that are put together that don't have access to and illnesses that and that puts the-- Look, you saw the officers. There's no barrier there, there's nothing. So in the morning -The officers are like, &quot;What the hell?&quot; Concerned are they gonna catch, -So we just had this officer come up to us -They're still canceling So he's 10, 15, 20 days in a row plus on top of that during he's working -He said firefighters, -It's been a recent Almost every other city agency, when they have a baby. Both husband or wife, it doesn't matter, Chicago Police doesn't have it he just gave it to the teacher's union. So the teachers now have it. For whatever reason And so here, the fact that he It's like, &quot;Why?&quot; Why do they have to fight for it? You just gave it away Why wouldn't you say, &quot;It makes sense, -To all city workers. Some say, &quot;How important is it really?' Well it's important enough You want to be home with your child and you see the new guy without batting an eye and he doesn't that sends a signal that maybe Maybe this guy isn't on our side. Maybe things didn't change Just gonna go through who talks a lot That's why it's frustrating for them. [John] So we're going to Oak Street There is supposed to be because I'm told that some of the migrants behind one of the restaurants over here. -Okay. So I didn't mean this to be -It seems to be turning into it. Law enforcement, this is one of -Right. -But we're gonna see and talk about different crime? -Yeah, yeah. I wanted to show this because this is Our officers are busy dealing with this We're already losing to retirement or resignations, and we're only hiring 200 to 300 a year. I think last year they were bragging but when you're losing 1,100 Adding to it, look, there's migrants doing prostitution -With no money. They don't know what do do, yes, if they go to the right places but eventually they're gonna and unfortunately they go -They're totally vulnerable. -Absolutely. -The pimps out there -&quot;I'll show you how to make quick money.&quot; Next thing you know... -Sure, there's some nice false promises. We'll get you an apartment, we'll get -Which if the city wants to be You now have people here Letting them sleep in the police stations [Peter] Okay, so you're saying some of the migrants are ending up in... -Some migrants are being recruited Some are being used to sell drugs. [Peter] That was a weird encounter, -Waiting for you to stop to see -Okay let's see these guys coming up. I'm gonna bring my mic down. -[Peter] What's going on, man? [unintelligible chatter] [John] Everything good? [Peter] What's your take on this, John? -I would say if we asked -We are in... -Too bad I had to pull -If we asked, we'd get something for sure. -There it is right there, that alley, [John] They're definitely working. -Yeah. Those are their pimps maybe -Who knows but... -You hate to label -They might not even have pimps, by some homeless guys just saying, &quot;Hey, you can make this.&quot; They might not be There might be -Yeah. -Some of that as well but it might be &quot;Hey, if you want to make some money, [construction noise] -[Peter] What's going on here? They do that to... I'll be honest, So they've got some of the bosses, to the public, &quot;Look, we're here in force, -[jet noise] For the air, water show. But that's what that is, -These guys are walking the streets? -They'll be out walking the streets, yeah. -So there's a lot of presence down here? -Yeah, I keep going back to If a mob comes down here, -When did that change? -Changed under Lightfoot and it changed Where foot chase policy was introduced where you need to have RAS we call it. That somebody is either are about to commit a crime, Running in itself is not a crime. So if you have a group of people that unless you know exactly which person and people start running everywhere, You can't... They're just running. And running is not-- -Okay, say someone breaks in here... -If there's one person, -You got 50 people, you see one -That's not how it would be. All 50 would... Break the window, run inside, Some might have merchandise, So to have officers pick one for a theft, their idea is to chase to try to catch They're all over the place. Instead what you do is go in, You got 'em, But they're not doing that. jazz [John] The city's really good at When you start getting into they're not so good at maintaining. If they're focusing all their resources If you get into the heart of And you know that's the frustrating thing. When you've got these politicians, some that hold office Yet the communities that they represent and their infrastructure is crap. How do they keep getting elected? They do nothing They'll talk a lot and complain a lot -So what's your answer to that? -How do they get elected. Because people don't vote. They have successfully stifled the vote. If that's the right word. They've got people so convinced Even if you have a close election By the next election they forget. &quot;Last one was close, -So recent mayoral election, -Recent mayoral election, and it was a hot election. It was really a transitional point which way we were gonna go, and you had two Both Democrats but the one was the other one was kind of teacher's union and a million people stayed home. We have over 1.5 million About 500,000 people came out, a million people decided that it wasn't So the, I'm gonna call him the Back in 2021 or maybe it was 2020, I don't remember the date she was standing up against So what she did is they modified our policies Customs and Border Protection or ICE. -Okay, so if it was a non-sanctuary city, law enforcement and law enforcement would give ICE would deport, -Right, right. With certain laws, It was dealing with the criminals, We're not just grabbing people &quot;Show me your papers, That's not what it was about at all. It was criminals. If you're committing a crime here why not turn them over to ICE? Do we really want If you're out here committing crimes And they took that away. So the Chicago Police Department is not allowed to work So this is Clinton and Grenshaw. There's a video out there and basically they whatever app it is they're using, and they start to show up, and then somebody sets off something -Right here, this 7-Eleven? -So how many teens are we talking? Hundreds. Basically causing chaos. Throwing stuff up in the air for no particular reason whatsoever. Just to do it because they could. Because of the last teen takeover they brought in a mobile police camera. So right now they're watching from and they can monitor everything So they can zoom in on us now What's are they up to now, right? -Yeah, but this isn't -You just go to another one over there. They're gonna go start somewhere else. The reason why all this stuff of lack of money all these issues and problems. But then he'll also say that are community crimes, maybe 5%. Somehow the other 95% are able to restrain themselves and not If you watch the video from here, and figure out what happened, they weren't stealing or because they wanted They were literally just coming here -Yeah. [Peter] Sir, the camera's not on you, -[man] They didn't even take value. They just destroyed it, and threw it everywhere. -Just to be destructive? -[John] Spraying everywhere. [man] Look at that beautiful view, [John] That's exactly what it is, right? [owner] But you know how the mayor's always That's good to reward them but you gotta help the kids that have We gotta show So they know that we do care. -I wish there was a program we could do. -It ain't like it used to be. Ain't' no more YMCA. [Peter] They don't have structure, [owner] That's what I was [Peter] What happened with the news teams? They gave me like 15, 20 minute interviews and all they took from me was mob action. Two seconds. -They didn't let you speak? -No they let me speak for 20 minutes. [John] Ended up on the editing room floor. -Channel 7, Channel 5... -[Peter] Can I put the camera on you? But they mayor's gotta do something That the parents aren't' there for them -We gotta go-- -Parents gotta step up -Yeah. A lot of people scared of asking for help, Ain't nothing wrong with help, -You think the parents -Yeah, parents should ask for help. -You're from the neighborhood? -How are things these days? -It's okay but like you say, worried about the mob thing. A lot of people scared, that's why Everybody wants to get a gun, Everybody just wants the city to be good, My grandmama told me Look at it right now. It's a good city, I'll tell everybody. Everybody, don't let -That's what I'm making. -And music videos and everything All you gotta do is ask for help, man. It's out here, there's a lot of people You pull the skin up off us, we ain't got It's just they need help, that's all. Guidance, no school, no basketball, You gotta get them something, you know? I grew up playing marbles, used to be These days they want to do other things, Attention, before I even come outside, I make sure I go to the park before I come outside. -Good for you. -[robotic voice] It's being recorded right now? -24 hours. -Okay. So sir, how long -Only a month. -I've been through hell. [all laughing] -It's a new one? It looks new. -It was corporately owned, -Where you from? You from Chicago? -I'm from South Side. But we have another store, My partner had no idea. He didn't grow up I can handle it but he's here [all laughing] -But I'm good, I love everyone, and everyone that walks through this door I'm a very polite person I'm always very polite. I just really think some of us -Do you feel like you're not being heard? He's saying that I didn't say that, the definition -Right. -I'm not calling them mobsters. -So there are a couple They did 20 minute interviews -What the mayor said at a press conference one of the reporters mentioned mob action there's a statute that's mob action that are basically committing crime. Whether destruction or whatever. The mayor stopped everybody &quot;You gotta be careful with your words, [owner] It was totally wrong -Right-- -Mob action doesn't mean mobsters. -Yeah, mob action does not -That's what I meant. -Right, and so the mayor I thought he was a teacher but somebody and mobsters, and Al Capone, -So you were put under the bus a bit? -A little bit they know I'm a good guy That's short, you just... Yeah, he a good guy. Come here all the time, Who don't want people standing You wouldn't want that, nobody other than that, The other big problem and I have to remove probably 20 to 30 'cause they're begging, people come up to me and say they don't want to come here They kick my sign, throw everything. They get into fits and rages. -That's a tough way -Yeah. [laughs] -[John] You're not 24 hours here then? Yeah, but they know when I'm here... -[Peter] Can we go in? They know it's party time. Yeah, it's not happening here. [Peter] You have to -Yeah, we have to fight -What were you saying about the difference -What I'm seeing is A lot of them are trying to get jobs. -The migrants? -Yeah, the migrants. -They're trying to get jobs, A lot of the guys that do construction, I can't say all of them but the ones -Migrants unfortunately so they have to work under the table. -Yeah, they're getting cash. So they have to do it sneakily because they have to be [John] Up on the West Side You could pull up to and there'd be 30 workers &quot;Hey, we're ready to work.&quot; So I imagine now -Yeah. Is that what they're starting to do? -More in the South Side. So then you got waiting jump in and go to work. -I get how it affects the city we don't do it but... I get how it's bad These homeless and that's the problem. You know, we can't have leeching and demanding stuff. I just had a guy this morning because he thinks I'm rich No, we can't. You know, owners of small businesses People don't realize that You know it's a grind. I'm here seven days a week. [John] Right. -I shouldn't be here seven days a week. Something goes wrong, that's a loss for me, you know? We just did the loss from the looting. It was almost $5,000. Damaged equipment, stolen stuff. [John] Right, and they'll say, but your deductible if you don't wanna file the claim -Just to pay for it, it goes up, yeah. I mean people don't understand the deals I mean it's 50/50, man. We're not getting 100% here. [John] Right. -We're not bankrolling, like people think [Peter] I've gotta say this probably [owner] They knocked aisles over. They destroyed the front end caps. -Were you here inside? -So what was that like? -Uh, it was hectic but they were little kids. -I wasn't really scared. -Honestly they looked like 10 to 18. 10-years-old, -Right. -There was a little kid crying, I was like, &quot;Hey buddy, -They left him, you know, I felt bad. So you're basically dealing with and people like you So the root cause is spending enough time with their kids, The government isn't stepping in and creating some -They have to be tougher. -Yeah, I'm carrying the weight You have to fight for everything in life but there's a good fight and a bad fight. The looting is a bad fight, you know? Good fight is earning it. I do a job on top of this. I'm a graphic designer. -No way. -You go home from this and-- -Wow. -So it's never ending hustle. You go home, edit, that takes hours So I understand it's a grind. -Yeah, and nothing's ever for sure. -I could lose my channel tomorrow, -Me and my guy had three We lost everything. This is my second time and coming from the ground up. [John] Gotcha. That's a shame, that's the little girl Yeah, that's horrible. So the wake is tonight, what funeral home? Oh, gotcha, okay. All right, man, thanks. So that was Alderman Sposato. Um... Just did a murder last week. A neighbor was in his house, little girl and he was complaining that middle of the day, The father saw it, tackled him, shot the offender and the father went to his little girl So the wake is tonight. -Oh my God. -It's horrible. I mean all the guy had to say is... The offender said, didn't realize what I was doing.&quot; -What's going to happen to him? -He's gonna get convicted of murder -How many years do you think? Shooting an eight-year-old. -Shooting an eight-year-old in the head, -That's life, right? -I'm sure he's not getting out anytime. I was scared you were gonna say -I'm like, &quot;Oh my God.&quot; Something like that, There's so many things [Peter sighs] It must be absolutely brutal. Being in law enforcement, go out and deal with society's problems. -So that's the thing about it is I mean I loved the job. I loved being a police officer. The ability to be able to and the camaraderie, and just and there's so much variety. It's not like you're going and you're doing A, B, C, -It's always something different. -It's exciting you're going from you're off and running, doing whatever you're doing Basically helping people In every aspect of it but at the same time Some stuff that really I mean we're still human beings and as much as officers that's why you end up with a high rate because actually But ultimately at the end of the day it's in our DNA, it's what we do. -Knowing what you know now, How policing is now, -So that's a probably not It's completely different now than it was. The ability to be able to help people I know that sounds weird. It's like, &quot;What do you mean Because look, there's no officers around here -In the '90s or 2000s you woulda-- Pulled up here with the paddy wagons, Woulda pulled up there locked up as many as we could. -So what would happen to the 11-year-old? The 11-year-old? That's looting at the 7-Eleven. -Brought him to the station -So there's accountability? -There's accountability, because we're gonna track 'em down. Trust me, I had it before and we're calling, and calling, and it's inconvenient for them. They... A lot of them but you force it. You make it happen and that's just what because they don't They don't want to get called out again. -So what happens now Now probably get dropped off at home That's it. There's no inconvenience to the family, Nobody's gonna have to go to court. There's gonna be [Peter] Do you have -Yes. -What do these people do in the winter? -A lot of them go to the trains all night to stay warm. Sadly, some of them will freeze to death. -You saw that in law enforcement? Now somebody donated these I guess these are... these orange ones -Somebody donated them. But obviously they're getting I don't know how well they're gonna be. Oh look, they even have an entrance. -But no one here can and ask to sleep for the night? -Not in the summer time but if it was freezing cold in the winter yeah, every police station, firehouse, get out of the cold to help them There's also organizations and see if they can get them to come in. Some don't want to come in. Like I said, there's mental issues, So yeah... but in the morning they're gonna be told to leave. They're not gonna get the same treatment -[Peter] What's this here? Where the kids that are -This whole building for the city? -How is in there? Have you been in there? -Sad seeing those kids in there? -There's so many kids that are either and not caring about them So they're just discarded And the gangs pick them up then. -Right, 'cause the gangs offer -Right, right, right. Like there's the kid, Adam Toledo. -Mm-hmm. -I don't know if you heard They're trying to fire the officer -Mm-hmm. -But that was the case where 23-year-old is on video Shot spotter goes off which alerts -Okay. -Officers respond there, the one stops and falls, the other partner continues on chasing He gets to a point in the alley, The kid turns and in a split second, the officer had to make a decision 'cause you see and the kid turns and brings his hands up. And what he did is in one motion but there is absolutely no way -Oh. The kid goes down and it's not like &quot;Oh look, I'm chasing All he knows is that he's chasing That he's responding to a shot spotter So he's not chasing a kid, he's chasing an individual or anything about him, But as soon as that one shot goes off, the officer immediately holsters Did everything he could to try and were able to relieve him And if you watch the video, you actually hear the officer, he's sighing, and he's walking around. Then you can see he goes and he shines his light on the fence and you see there's the gun And he's not jumping up and down, He just like... &quot;Huh.&quot; He knew he was right, and in a split second he's distraught -Yeah. -So what's happened to the officer? -So immediately put on They go through the process, the reviewed it Then the department decided for violating the foot pursuit policy. The officer didn't The gun didn't appear There's so many issues and problems that policy wasn't even The policy came into place after for suggestions So it's all BS, and it's all political, hang this officer out to dry. And what they put this officer through that this just spreads throughout Because it just shows that there's always a political agenda and this is no different. -So it makes the job extremely difficult. You have to make Like when you're in -And because of it and going to get hurt You have to be able to, to be able to make that decision and not have to worry that if this or the news or whatever Because that's gonna cause them or to relax and that's when [John] We're going into and just another example that we have going on in Chicago this is a McDonalds over here where and rival gang members saw him, and ended up killing -That' so sad. -This is the 11th District, Would be considered one of So homicides are not at the highest point, but this is what I heard shootings, gunshot wounds are way up. -Off the charts. -So what's going on? -Medical. -They're shooting legs, butts, but it's almost like -No. -No, nobody can shoot like that, -Okay. -That's like telling a police officer, &quot;Why didn't they shoot -Just bad shots? No, better medical. They're saving more lives. You shoot somebody, they've got the packs to be able to stop bleeding -So if we were back in 1970-- -What's that? They're finally, finally -If we were back in 1970-- -There would have been thousands? If you had the same amount you woulda had 2,000 murders a year. They're just better at saving people People are surviving -Oh, thanks for that. -That makes sense. -That's the big difference That's why the homicide rate I shouldn't say alone. You know, policing had a part of it is they save more people. [John] 1993, I just got off work and I got a page and the payphone So I went inside, I just got off work Well, while I was talking to him he told me there was two guys -See that sign that has graffiti on it? -So there was two guys in a car there. And they were drunk, and asked if I could just So they were right here. -Right here? Okay. And so at that time I was only Thought all I have to do and they'll go 'cause I'm police. And so I did that, went out there Now I'm in between two cars, right? I tap on the window, and I show my badge in the window So the guy looks at me, and I notice at the same time and they were trying to pop the ignition, But at that point the guy he was actually out on parole and didn't want to go back to jail We started struggling, the other guy came around, and then now I had The one offender kicked me in the face and had repeatedly and my head The impacts were so hard that I could The other guy started going for my gun. I had a five shot snub nose on. We started struggling for the gun. They were able to get my hand was stepping with his heel into my hand and I could literally feel and that was the worst feeling and I knew that The offender stood up over me One of the rounds And then he took off with the gun The other guy stuck around Officers arrived on scene They were able to catch The other one got away at the time. They rushed me to the hospital, I got 37 stitches in my lips. My jaw was dislocated I got a hairline fracture Um, I was messed up pretty good. The offender they caught on scene, He actually ended up and he was able to get himself uncuffed Jumped on a bus. He walked out of the station, He was gone, They caught him the next day he gave up the other offender -So you have to be a little bit crazy Like you have to be a little crazy say bye to your wife and kids, and know that you That sounds terrible. -Something to say to that, right? I noticed it actually when I retired. The day I retired I remember and that's where all the officers and they tell stories about you I remember looking over at my wife and that was the most calm pleasant look It was like the stress just washed away. And I realized in that moment that police officers, you wouldn't be able to do your job worried that today or today was the day We don't think. For us, we get to work, it's ball-busting, Now we're gonna go on the street and patrolling, talking to And then there's those oh sh*t moments and now you're immediately running through yards, or maybe there's a car chase, And then after it's all done and over with if everything goes well then it's a, &quot;Oh, that was awesome.&quot; The stories about that. But for our families, from the time They hear somebody... if an officer They're immediately trying Before when I came on, You know, there was pagers. But if they heard something trying to find out what happened, calling the station It's constant stress but for your parents, siblings. They're experiencing -They're not getting -No. In that risk is excitement, and you feel alive, and then -Yeah, you're not thinking about... We're not honing in on the risk. All their honing in is on the risk. Right? The family, With us the risk is All the other things are what and the risk just... I don't want to say it's not at the forefront of our minds. Because you wouldn't -That's why I think -That's why I say it's in our DNA. You think what we do is crazy, You're the one that's going and you're interviewing gang bangers and maybe talking to cartel You got no backup, you don't have You don't have... You have nothing. At least we've got a radio, At least we have the perception of safety. You're on a tightrope Be careful. So this is Superdawg. It's been around since the '50s Where the car pulls up Very popular place. [Peter] All right, -So just through the police department. When I was a cop I never had but when I ran for office he was -For office? What do you do? -Alderman of the 41st Ward. -Okay, okay. What's good here? -Everything's good here. If you want a cheeseburger, they got great hotdogs and fries. -What are you getting? -I'm not getting anything, something to drink, I let myself go. Why don't you give him with just the ketchup on it. Get the fries on it and everything, yeah. -That be all? -Anthony, you don't have to pay, c'mon. [clerk] Number 13, -Thank you. [Peter] Anthony, so you're one of -I am. I am the Alderman of the 41st Ward. Which is the farthest Northwest Side -So what's going on in Chicago An alderman's perspective, -We're all different, 50 of us. Every ward is a different animal. We're extremely lucky the way -Okay. It's a ward that is broken up of just an astronomical amount You've got police officers, The vast majority live in the Northwest Side here. Oh, interesting. -We have the least amount allocated to the Northwest Side. We're the 16th District. 16th District is the largest district and we have the least amount of crime because a lot of the police officers here help maintain the streets and protect it If you look at our wards right now of family that never My first house was four blocks and now I'm on my third house all within -Okay, so there's accountability. You see something happen you've known them forever, -Yeah, protect your neighbors, And a big thing too is we're based off our churches here too. We raise our kids. We put the time and effort raising them right, even if it's a broken household and making sure -No teen takeovers -You're not gonna see it, teens volunteering there if there's -Okay, now you're making it sound -It's the most amazing place. -Kids volunteering? -It is the most amazing place No one leaves the neighborhood. You'll end up buying a house &quot;I grew up, I'm moving away.&quot; What's a home cost around here, -So there's a humungous You can get a three bedroom home all the way up to $750,000. It depends on where it is. We have some McMansions -So 750, your getting a nice place? -You're getting a nice place, And we have a lot of three flats, that are owned they'll live in it and rent it out -So Chicago, really broken up -Yeah. -But from what I'm understanding you guys seem like another part of the city and you're living in two different worlds -It is like two different worlds. And you know it's unfortunate but I mean when people my father, my grandfather, you moved to the neighborhood, My father told me back in the day they all moved to where everyone spoke the same language. Polish-American did it too. Jewish, Irish, African-American, and those neighborhoods but you ended up being around... They say it's so segregated here, Chicago chose to segregate itself but they don't do it out of malice, you wanna be by your Italians, -Is it a cultural thing? -It's a very cultural thing, yeah. So you don't see anything wrong with it? The thing I see wrong with it is sometimes you're just overexploded nationality in a neighborhood And that's a tough go at times still to this day or move from a different country to here where they speak the language. -Where they feel comfortable. -You want to go with -It's natural human behavior. -So in the national news or on YouTube What would you say to that? -It is absolutely dangerous, -But you're saying here it's not. -Here it's not because but if you look in where they've demonized the police. You've got aldermen that are defund the police, trying to Trying their hardest to get You go in these other neighborhoods there's no policing there. It's so out of control right now Here, to date right now, As of right now we have 2,015 people 417 homicides. Where else in the world do you have that, There's nowhere. So it's the unfortunate thing about it. If you look at amount of people shot here, I think it's in the last five years. Where else in the world We have an extreme issue here with accountability For actually cracking down We've got these social that are saying they're There's a gun in every car. -So you want to get rid of guns, -I'm an advocate of the gun right now. -I'm an advocate of the gun that for John Q. Citizen or pays her taxes, -They're not safe. -They're absolutely not safe. -You're saying citizens -Yeah, I'm totally fine with citizens... What's it in Illinois, -Yes, you can concealed carry. And my thing is our citizens right now, and not... This neighborhood's seen carjackings too. You got people stealing -That's going crazy everywhere. -At an alarming rate and they've got We just had it two weeks ago. A guy upped a pistol on somebody So nobody's safe right here -So you're saying you're appalled -Yeah. -You're appalled by those numbers -What I would like is everybody and have the vetted information Where if you look at 99.9% not one of those guns have been-- You guys want this table here? Not one of those guns-- Not one of those guns have been No one's been certified. No one's carrying a concealed weapon card. These are offenders -So if you do away with guns, homes or cars but the criminals -Oh my God, at an alarming rate. An astronomical amount of guns out there. -Yeah, that's just common sense. -Criminals aren't gonna follow the law. Before we had concealed carry Chicago is one of the harshest in the entire country. We had the strictest laws -Which means what? -Which means that even when against illegal carrying of a firearm we couldn't keep up with the amount So there was nothing set in place. The concealed carry just came but the ability to It was illegal, period. It's considered blasphemy if you try to I used to actually get yelled at &quot;You're ruining a Chicago hotdog, you can't put ketchup So you got a... -I got a hamburger. -Can I put ketchup on this? -You can put ketchup -[Peter] John, what's going on here? He kind of became the district mascot. We rescued him about a year ago He already got his uniform dirty. He became like an emotional support dog They love him over there. He was abandoned a year ago We took him in and he needed a surgery. Got his surgery and now we take him and even the angriest just melts and smiles [Peter chuckles] -Superdawg burger. -Whooper cheesy. Since nineteen-something, right? [Anthony] 75 years this year. -Little cheese, ketchup. -[Anthony] Delicious, ain't it? -It's easy to eat. Nice soft bun. And ketchup on the burger -Not on the hotdog, I told you. They make an issue with that. [all chuckling] [Peter] I don't want to Solutions are basically I hear it strong parenting, good values. Is there anything else -No, it's not that simple. We're also gonna have to hit a point where that mask that's been put as they demonize them, they're doing wrong out there constantly, we have to get behind our police officers. If you let the cops to the best of their ability, being proactive police officers, they're gonna shut down crime Unfortunately where we're at right now you have officers forced to be reactive and nobody backs up the proactive officer. &quot;Why did you do that?&quot; It looked like suspicious activity. Well suspicious activity of what you do as a police officer. Now you're profiling so you're gonna What other option do these officers have? Not to sit back and hopefully or listen to their radio and react to it. When I got on and I know when John to get in that car The drugs, the guns, to find it. Now everybody's looking They got their phones on everything, we want them to make a mistake That's a tough pill to swallow So we gotta let the police That would be a huge difference. -Always gonna be bad policing like bad doctors, So the goal is weed out the bad ones, -Right? Vet them properly Don't just try to hire people 'cause Why not hire the people that want Whether they're female, go after the ones and train the heck out of them. Give them the opportunity but then back them up -What about pay? -I feel that our police officers but for how the difficult the job is they put into this, and how much overtime, they're nowhere near the amount. -Okay, what's a starting guy get paid -God, right now... I don't even know -Is it $60,000? -I think it's $60,500. Then you go into a five year step. [John] Five year step, -Yeah. [Peter] So $60,000, The wife would have to work -There's the vast majority works two, three jobs easily. -Police officer only works one job though? -[Anthony] No, absolutely not. There's lots that maybe were carpenters so they work their carpentry on the side. Some of them are real estate inspectors I was a lawyer, I did that on the side. Especially if you're trying because let's face it, the Chicago public school system That's a fact, look it up. It's not good. Nobody wants to send their kids to Now there are some public schools and they're hard to get into because you have to live near them or know the right person but they're gonna Private schools are expensive now, And there's no way you could do it If you want your wife... If you're in a family where you decide and take care of the kids they're doing court. They're trying to get and working whatever side job some just to make ends meet. [John] I believe in any LA, Chicago, New York, that any officer that they have some form of PTSD. The stuff that you're subjected to, the gruesome scenes, suicides, where the person was there for a month or the horrific things All that stuff builds up over time that while we don't we internalize it, right? You build a callous to it I think that the reason there's such is because of the PTSD. -It's not diagnosed. -It's very bad. We have a city of 12,000 police officers 5 councilors and I think They're trying to get up to 23. I mean that's nothing for what's needed and because they're so short-staffed when an officer kills himself or an officer gets killed Then the councilors and they disappear again. It's available to us but it's not where every district... I believe actually that officers to sit with a councilor for an hour at least have to sit in a room and I think it would be helpful. But there's so much red tape with that, Whether they would Things like this, all this stuff makes a difference. I know we're big city cops, Chicago. Supposed to be all tough and everything but you need this stuff [John] Let's go, slowpoke. [Peter] Keeping the streets safe. [dog panting] [John] That was a dilapidated old Looked like crap and I would pass it and I stopped to check it out because I never saw anybody in there that he would only sell newspapers -Right here? His name was Anthony. I got on social media The community came out big time I got an artist who was a police officer. Actually described what we wanted to do This was Anthony, -Okay. -And then on this side over here this is my other dog, Pedro. So Pedro made the news stand. And then this side here, I haven't gotten to it, I'm gonna have or something and let them So the goal was to get Anthony set up. We found out while we were and he was a vet. -Okay. We put together a GoFundMe. We were able to pay his rent and got him set up. And it came together really, really nice. It's gotten a little bit beat up, stain the side and fix it up. Somebody grafitti'd the door But the community came out. It was incredible from just The roofing company donated the roof. A spray foam insulation company I had a carpenter, Tony Gilatti, to fix it up. Like I said, the door got jacked up. -So one thing you were saying off-camera is spreading out Which is a bit unusual, right? -Yes. -We're in the Northwest Side Some joke and call it copland, this is where all and city workers basically. And what the issue with Chicago was is crime for the most part used to be predominantly... The higher crime areas There would be crime all over and there's probably on the Northwest Side is 30 square miles. -Okay. -That's huge. ...to try to police that you end up with a lack of manpower. With a lack of presence. -Right? -And the thing is there's no in a city this size might not work in Englewood. -Mm-hmm. -What might work in Englewood So in Englewood there's societal problems. There's a lot of different things Whether they're poor... There's a lot of things that you're not In a community like this where it's middle class, you don't have a lot of the problems This is where high visibility does work. Where if you see a squad car all the time that's gonna deter crime because is imported, it's driving in. So they can jump right up the expressway. Up there? Right on the other side of that and it curves around, and circles into So because of that if we had a bigger police presence here that's a deterrent for crime. But again, if you were to go to Englewood Unless you got an officer every 20 feet you're not gonna have the same impact You're gonna have to have So politicians have no problem to send them to those busier districts. -Oh, interesting. -And what they're doing is like when it was Jody Weis, He made the mistake of saying from the Northwest Side and everybody went nuts, Well what they figured out was and they just don't So these districts have -They just don't replace them. -We had almost 300 we're down to 170 in this district. -Almost half. There are days when they are because we don't have So we now have less officers -Criminals are onto this, right? -Oh yeah, they figure it out and they're stealing, doing robberies, They're doing all these things &quot;Hey, there's nobody stopping us, -Right. [John] This is the 16th District. [Peter] Full circle, -Yes. [John] Hey, Rich. So... [Peter] Wow. [migrants speaking Spanish] [John] He says talk to him. [Peter] This is wild, John, -This is what They were probably -So it's like a lot of these officers -100%. -Sometimes it gets so loud in here [children chattering] Yeah, it's... -[Peter] What's up you guys? [John] People bring stuff they set them up with food over here. Just when you think I'm just coming into things that... -It comes back down to, They have no plan, you know? This didn't start last week, this has [Peter] What do you got here, medicine? -Yeah, so see, she's sick. So... She's sick, they're sick, [Peter] Wow. So they got full food set up, -Yeah. -So why is this put on Isn't there a better place for this? -That's where it started So... [Peter] Hola... No? We're in the police station. -All the kids are sick. All the kids. Okay, they all want work. &quot;City of Chicago identification.&quot; So they give them full on IDs? [John] Okay, so Chicago is giving them... That's the first I've seen that. [John] That's just an identification card. -Okay, so they get IDs but can't work? -Not unless they get -That's crazy they can't work. -This is insanity. -There's appears to be -Just hang out here for a month? -Well here, so... When there was a big push they got one of the local city colleges and moved hundreds to the city college. That was only during summer, pulled them all back out and right back [Peter] So this is the one officer here. Unfortunately he can't speak on camera manning this station right now. [children playing] Just met this nice lady She doesn't want to be on camera but you wanted to say something. [woman] Yes. I wanted to speak out about the people I think that it's a kind and generous but I also think that they're putting because of, again, there is lice and I had to step out. I can't be in there or any kind of virus that they might have. As a citizen I don't think that's fair to get services -They can make a separate area for them. -But they shouldn't for whatever is in the building. -Agreed, it's crazy. -It is really crazy and it's scary. [Peter] We got the couple, [woman] Oh, yeah. -[woman] Oh my goodness. John, thank you for bringing us in. -Absolutely, thank you for So many people don't know about it or it's not reported at all. There doesn't appear to be a plan. Now we did just get a new superintendent, The mayor will let him Our past mayors, and non-police officers When you try to run it doesn't work. You can't make political decisions. You have to run... -There's a lot going on here in Chicago but this was a very interesting look All right guys, until the next one.