- Okay, good afternoon My name's David Gerdes. I'm the chair of the at the University of Michigan, and it's my pleasure to welcome all of you to the Ford Lecture this year. All of you here in person, welcome to our viewers on the live stream and especially welcome to members of the the Ann Arbor community and beyond who have come here to This lecture's made possible from the Ford Motor Company. We're very grateful for them. Are there any representatives or current or former employees of Thank you very much for your support. (crowd applauding) Ford, of course, has been of our identity as a state and an important part of so we really appreciate their support for physics in our department. I'd like to recognize a in our audience today. Larry and David Leinweber are with us. They're a generous gift endowed the Leinweber Center that supports a great deal of work and fundamental physics in our department. So thank you for being here. I also want to point out that our speaker, Professor Carroll, has generously agreed to and give a our Saturday I see a lot of regulars physics audience in attendance here today. So if you like this talk or if you hate this talk and you think the guy (crowd laughs) that talk will take over in Weiser Hall, and the title is the Many and you can learn more about that by going to saturdaymorningphysics.org. One more detail before who will introduce the speaker. After the talk, there'll be time for Q&amp;A and you'll notice there's a so if you are able to do so, you can line up at either microphone and if you are unable to do that, please raise your hand who can meet you at your seat But in any case, please wait for a microphone and then be acknowledged So now it's my pleasure to introduce my colleague, Fred Adams. Fred is the Ta-You Wu and Professor of Astronomy here at the University of Michigan. He works in the same general and he will introduce our speaker. Go ahead, Fred. (crowd applauding) - Okay, good afternoon, everybody. It's a great pleasure today Sean is the Homewood Professor at John Hopkins University in Baltimore. He's also the Fractal or at the Santa Fe Institute. I'm not sure what that means, but if he like slowly don't be alarmed, he will come back. Sean has had a very on a lot of different topics and recently philosophy. He started at Villanova I guess, and then he did his PhD with After that he went to MIT for a postdoc and then the Kavli Institute at UC, Santa Barbara for another postdoc. And then came to our neighborhood at the University of Chicago for a while. He then moved up to Caltech where he stayed from about 2006 to relatively recently in 2022, and then he moved to Now over the course of this journey, he's worked on a wide including space time symmetries, dark energy and dark matter, and especially the cosmological constant, which is a subset of the arrow of time, foundations and the actual emergence of space time. Now, if you know, these research topics kind of butt up against and kind of orders into what's most people consider as philosophy. So it makes a lot of sense that he is now at least partly associated Now I also note that along the way, in addition to his or academic intellectual contributions, Sean has done a lot of other things. He has written seven books, he has written almost a He's been on television and and film including Thor, and he's given Ted Talks and on ago. So in order to, I won't in order to actually give him but I would like to note one thing that Sean is one of who have actually successfully just a mainstream academic scientist to a very successful public intellectual and even more rare than that, he's managed to do so while fully active research program going. So he's one of very, very, very few people that can get away with that. So we're very lucky to and we look forward to his talk, which is on the Secrets (crowd applauding) - Thank you. Thank you, Fred. Thank you, David. It's great to be here, even though Wolverines and so forth. I'm a Penn State Nittany what can I tell you? But in a few weeks, we'll settle all that. In the meantime, we can This talk is a slightly unusual one. If you mostly go to popular they will tell you about the or even speculation, right? You found gravitational waves, maybe there's a multiverse, Whereas if you take an as a non-physics major, they'll teach you the simplest stuff. Like here's a ball rolling and it's hard to find the in-between. So that is what I'm It's not speculative. Einstein's equation is over but the trick is this There are no prerequisites, but I'm going to do the math. There will be math in the talk and then afterwards there (crowd laughs) where you can hand it I don't know, do you use Canvas here? So, okay, good, and we'll so we'll see how that goes. Now maybe you think, you know Einstein's equation Equals mc squared and equals mc squared is not It's a multiplication of m but you can get that is the object's mass times How hard can it be, really? But this is not what physicists mean when they say Einstein's equation. This is what physicists mean when they say Einstein's equation. This says R mu nu minus 1/2 RG mu nu equals eight pi G T mu nu. Now that seems kind of hard. There's subscripts, they're in Greek. I don't know what any of the symbols mean. By the end of this talk, you will know what all And the reason why this Einstein's equation is that explains how gravity works. You may have heard that Einstein said, gravity is the curvature of space time. This is the equation that There's many people here many of whom I was that spend their time So now you'll be able to hang with them and help them solve it At least you'll know To get there, I did say so we start slowly the idea This whole talk is what we If you want quantum mechanics, tomorrow morning is the talk for you, but today we're gonna This is a paradigm for doing to us from the time of Isaac And there the really important equation is Newton's second law of motion. F equals ma, force equals And again, this equation has the feature that it's not that hard There's only one multiplication in there. m times a, mass times The only slightly tricky thing is that there are little arrows This is reminding you which is to say both have a direction in But other than that, it's The more you want something to accelerate, the more you push it, and the direction in which it accelerates will be the direction So here's an example of pushing something. Cars do not start all by themselves. You have to push them either The picture is kind of small, but there's a little I don't know how realistic that part is, but the pushing part makes perfect sense. Why is this equation of I mean, why do equations show Number one, because it's precise, by which I mean it's It's not like saying things This is a precise and that's what you need to the moon. If you wanna get a rocket to the moon, you don't need quantum mechanics, you don't even need general relativity. This equation plus Newton's law of gravity is more than enough to do the job, but it had better be very, very precise. The other aspect is that it's everywhere, it's universal, and this is really what This equation is supposed to be true not just for some particular force that you act on some particular object, but for every time any force is exerted on any massive object in it is amazing that there If you wanna know why equations it's because they're compact and precise, but also they apply over There's an extraordinary amount In a very real sense, they're smarter than we are So to put this to work, force equals mass times acceleration. You have to tell me, well, how So the other famous was his equation for gravity, If I have two objects, capital M for some heavy object, little m for some little object. A feature of these equations what letters you use, you could but it's nice to use letters of what you're talking about. So capital M for a big heavy mass, little m for a little mass. And this equation right here being exerted by the big mass capital M on the little mass little M is the product of their masses. M times m times a constant of nature, capital G newton's constant between them squared. That's why it's the inverse square law. So if two objects of equal of the gravitational pole is relatively big. As they get further away, the And so once again there's which is just the direction So that's telling you in what direction the gravitational force is pulling you. The story of Newton seeing was a very early example disinformation. This was a story spread by Newton himself because he thought it made him sound cool. The idea was not that fell down from trees or Newton's insight was that could account for apples and for the motions of It's that universality of equations showing up once again. And we can even take these two equations, F equals ma and F equals and do math with them. So we're ramping up quickly, okay? So both of these So we set them equal to each We notice that in the expression ma, the mass of the little and the expression Gmm over R squared, there's a little m that we can cancel out. So let's do that. And we get a new equation. We've just done some math that just tells us the and the acceleration of an points toward the gravitating object and depends on the mass of and the distance one over This is an amazing fact and you can see why the because you can get a consequence And in this case, the consequence If I have an electric field in the room and I have a positively charged particle and a negatively charged particle, they will move differently. One will move in one direction, But the mass of the little particle that was is basically the gravitational Doesn't appear in this No matter what the mass of it will accelerate in the same way according to the force of gravity. So for example, if you have a light object and a heavy if you asked a regular person, They will say the hammer. If you ask a physicist, they will say they follow the same rate. Now the regular person is because there is such a thing and physicists don't They zero it out in their minds. But if you do the experiment on the moon, which was done by Apollo astronauts, then indeed the feather and the hammer fall at the same rate. This is a feature of It is unlike any of the other forces. That fact about gravity, the fact that it is universal, will be important later on. But this overall picture works very well. It was so good that if you you would basically have believed that we were pretty close to fully understanding the laws of nature. They were not right. (chuckles) One of the ways in which summed up by this guy, Albert Einstein. You're often shown pictures when he was a little rumpled, The sweaters were not often washed. When he was a young guy, when he was many of these equations, he was a sharp dressed young man and smarter than everybody else. So his achievements in 1905 are multiple. He wrote many papers, any one of which would've made the career of a regular scientist. One of the more memorable ones was the theory of special relativity where he says that motion is relative. There's no absolute standard of rest by which I can say I am rest or anything like that. But the speed of light is constant. These two facts, motion is relative, but the speed of light is not relative. The speed of light is These are very, very hard to reconcile. And people had noticed this and struggled with it for decades. Einstein's great insight was really to say you need to change how you How you think about the the distance measured by measuring rods or something like that. These are what leads to length, There's a usual set of when people talk about special relativity, none of which I will talk about 'cause we're gonna do things but this wasn't quite the final we're distinguishing which is the theory that starts by saying motion is relative, the General relativity comes 10 years later and that's the theory of gravity. So this theory didn't yet have gravity and the finishing touches were actually not put on by Einstein. But Einstein's former Hermann Minkowski. In 1907, Minkowski was a geometer, he was a mathematician and He was very good at But he only ever used exactly to do his physics. He really cared about physics. Whereas Minkowski was a geometer, a mathematician through and through. And he figured out that the to conceptualize Einstein's was as a unification of space and time into a four dimensional thing, The famous quote is, &quot;Henceforth space by are doomed to fade away into mere shadows. And only a kind of union of the two will preserve an independent reality.&quot; They don't write physics They don't write math papers But despite the beauty of the conception, not everyone was impressed. For example, someone who is not impressed, Albert Einstein, who said makes rather great demands on the reader in its mathematical aspects. So you imagine like that your theory is too you know, you might have second thoughts. It turns out as often often Einstein was wrong about this. And among his many, many good qualities, Einstein was super good when he realized that something after all, he did not hesitate, and he soon adopted this geometric So why? Why is it useful to think as a theory of space time and in particular of the All those things we talked about length, contraction, time dilation. They all come down to has a kind of a different than the ordinary So here's the ordinary Euclidean geometry. The geometry of a or for that matter, a flat One of the famous results is Pythagoras' theorem, right? Do you remember Pythagoras' theorem? And anyone remember it fondly? I don't know if I'm scaring people or bringing up bad memories, If you have a right triangle, you have a long side, the and Pythagoras says the length is the sum of the lengths also both squared. So if you have, let's If someone goes and builds and labels one direction x and you have two points on the grid at different values of x and y. Pythagoras' theorem gives you a way to calculate the distance Take x, take y, add up x squared and y squared and you get the distance squared. So the distance itself is So if you're literally that you're traveling, this is supposed to be a He's counting his steps, so You could instead of using an you could use Pythagoras' theorem to figure out how much you have traveled. The entirety of special relativity consists of two statements. One is space time is like that, is kind of like space. But the second statement is there's a minus sign that comes in. So in other words, if you have two events in space time rather than points in space. By an event in space time, we mean a complete specification and when you are in time. If you're told there's you need to be told what time If you're only given one of you're not gonna find yourself So an event in the four is both where and when. And I could also set up a like an x, telling you how T telling you the difference And Minkowski says the the difference between special relativity and Newtonian mechanics is that we all use to say, you know, be at the lecture at 4:00 is not the amount of time The amount of time that is like the distance along It depends on how you travel. It depends on how you And the dependence is If you move on a straight line, in space time, the interval let's call it tau, our first Greek letter of the day will not be our last Greek letter. We like the Greek letters. So we're distinguishing that is universal and which is what I personally And there's a formula for tau, which is the tau squared equals So what this is saying is the more x that there is, for any given amount of motion in t, the less time you experience. You may have been told the One twin stays behind on earth, one zooms out in a spaceship near the speed of light and comes back. They don't have to be twins. They're just more 'cause they're the same age, they're not the same age. And you may have struggled to remember which one was older and This minus sign tells The more you move in space, the less time you experience. The twin that stays will be older then the twin that zooms out near the speed of light and comes back. A tiny little change in the equation with enormous physical consequences. So this is the sense in is a theory of the geometry of space time. It's like Euclidean geometry, but different, Minkowskian geometry, all very well. Einstein eventually reconciled himself with his fancy pants mathematics, but he was struggling The very first thing we did when we talked about Newtonian okay, F equals ma. Force, I like that. What's a good example of force? Gravity. So since Einstein had changed with his theory of special relativity, of course, he would want to fit gravity within that new context. There was also electricity and magnetism as put together by But that was prearranged to fit well with special relativity. Special relativity was making sense of electromagnetism. Gravity didn't fit very well. So Einstein realized with a better theory of gravity to be compatible with relativity. And his starting point I make a joke about him, his His real genius was the He could put his finger on that we would have to concentrate on and then he would resign for it later, but he could do it. And he realized that the secret lay in that realization we had that everything falls the same rate in a gravitational field. If you want to detect the give me a charge particle, a positively charged one and I can see how they're moving differently and I can tell you how much But Einstein says because everything falls at the same rate in a gravitational field, you think here in this room 'cause you'd be held into your seat by the gravitational field. But Einstein says, &quot;If there were no and instead this room was in a spaceship that was accelerating you would not be able to tell. There's no experiment you that can distinguish between and just being accelerated. That is entirely different than So Einstein, again, being Einstein said, &quot;I know what to do with this.&quot; The lesson to learn from this is that gravity isn't It's not a force living pushing different kinds of particles in different directions. It's a feature of space time itself. That's why it's universal. That's why everything is what feature is it of space time? It's the curvature of He learned from Minkowski that and the geometry was a of Euclidean flat tabletop geometry. But earlier in the previous century, mathematicians had worked out that there were other kinds of geometry with curvature in them. And Einstein had the brilliant idea that maybe that curvature could help him explain the force of gravity. Sadly for Einstein, he knew nothing about all dealing with the curvature of Happily for him, his friend did. Marcel Grossmann was one of who had become a mathematician, played a crucial role in He taught Einstein the geometry, the mathematical tools that he needed. Still one of the major math is called the Marcel Grossmann meeting. Without Marcel Grossmann the would've been completely different. So Einstein gets tutored. This is years after he wrote all of his Nobel So you still need tutoring. Doesn't matter what stage And here is what he learned. There's this thing called which is what we learned in But there was always a little bit of a lingering mystery about Euclidean geometry. Euclid was famous not for, he didn't invent most of What he did was express as a set of axioms or postulates from which the theorems can be derived. And most of those axioms hard to argue with, but one kind of stuck It's called the parallel postulate. The idea is that by a little line segment and from it, I shoot off at right angles to the initial segment. They will always stay They always remain perfectly parallel. This is very intuitive, So much so that for years on the basis of the other axioms. I don't know about you, but my junior high school geometry teacher tortured us by offering extra credit. If we could prove the parallel postulate of Euclidean geometry. Many of us tried. None of us succeeded, because it is not necessarily true. And this was finally by the introduction of You could replace the parallel postulate with a different postulate. You could say that two might gradually come In that case, you get spherical geometry. The surface of a sphere has this property. You start two lines at the equator, two lines moving are just lines of longitude and they're gonna hit each Or you could have two diverge from each other. And that's like living on or a potato chip that's now So this was all great. People became famous early 1800s, new foundations of geometry, But there is a hidden assumption in all three of these geometries and sometimes in short histories But the hidden assumption and character of the curvature is exactly the same everywhere. There is either a uniform convergence or a uniform divergence of from that assumption, you derive that it's a sphere But look, once you've opened Pandora's box and you have spheres and saddles, you can have any old sort of thing. They don't need to be two dimensional. You could have three dimensional or 29 dimensional spaces if you want. They could be curved positively, somewhere negatively elsewhere. There's clearly a lot of This is what mathematicians are good at. So the first person to was barn Bernhard Riemann to take it up seriously, this challenge of arbitrary geometries was Carl Friedrich Gauss, one of the greatest For whatever reason, he didn't quite finish the job and Riemann was his graduate student. And in the German system you like you just gotta to get higher and higher And at one point, Riemann was already a pretty But he had his one more degree to get in order to be allowed He went to Gauss who He gave him a list of topics Gauss told him to write about was the most boring one, And you actually in the that I'm talking about here, I actually looked up something we never do, right? As working physicist. And you see Riemann fetching I don't like doing this. This is not my style. If you force me to do His job was what if the geometry of space is different from point to point, from direction to direction without taking advantage of embedding your space in some bigger space? We want the intrinsic And the starting point is to say like how would I even keep track? What are the data? What are the pieces of what the geometry of a space is? And Riemann's single brilliant insight, a lot of what you learn now in or differential geometry or under the name of Riemannian geometry was developed by completely He set the stage, and then he unfortunately passed But his brilliant insight was just tell me the length of If you tell me the length of a curve, I can figure out anything from that. So let's say you have a I could in my mind slice up that surface into a lot of little lines, calculate their lengths and The length of an arbitrary I need to know about the geometry. And what is that? How do I tell you the Well, by this time, they knew little which means you zoom in on give me the information there and then I build it up bit by bit. So in flat space, for example, Riemann would tell you to zoom in on some curve you have some you wanna know its length, and Riemann says just zoom in on it. And if space is flat, for the length of an infinitesimal curve, it is called Pythagoras' theorem. It's the generalization to multiple dimensions. So if you have three dimensions the interval, the length is gonna be x squared plus rather than just x squared plus y squared. But that's the same basic idea. Riemann's task is to generalize this idea to come up with a way of concise, compact formulation, what is the length of And from that everything follows. So how do you do that? You wanna generalize Pythagoras' theorem, Pythagoras' theorem flat two dimensional space. How do I do it in arbitrary So the answer, I'm just you're gonna believe me, I'm pretty sure you're gonna believe me, you should believe me. It is the correct answer. The answer is if you d squared is x squared plus y squared. We have on the left some interval squared, on the right we have and we've taken pairs of coordinates and multiplied them together, and then we've multiplied by some number. In particular, in the case we've multiplied x by itself So we get x squared. Then secretly you didn't know, but we multiplied it by zero then, and we multiplied y by x and multiplied y by y and You can see like the Pythagoras' theorem is but if we wanna make it we have to allow ourselves of extra things that So these two equations are of course the same equation, right? The second one says d squared plus zero times xy plus zero times yx plus one plus y squared. But it has the nice feature how we're gonna go about in space time, for example, where you have not just The time coordinate. The general formula, I mean Minkowski's formula Tau squared is t squared minus x squared. So it's kinda like Pythagoras is now minus one instead of plus one. Whereas in general, you're have some number some number of times t times x, some number times t times y all the way down. It gets very tedious very, very quickly. Nothing brings more joy than the ability to take and invent new notations to So let's do that. We're biting the bullet here. We're following our noses. This is gonna lead us to a beast called the metric tensor, g mu nu. So what we're gonna do is the coordinates on space time, t, x, y, z, we're gonna label them with Why does t get the zero coordinate? Because somehow they nature would give rise (crowd laughs) And they would talk or 26 dimensions or whatever. There's always one time dimension and some extra number So it's just very convenient rather than x4. I don't know how they knew Also, this is a little trickier, but x1 and x2 and x3 do not x to the second power, This is just a failure of This means the first x coordinate, the third x coordinate, And even that is kind of tedious. So we're gonna take those and give them the index You see our Greek letters coming back. They were mus and also nus when we saw Einstein's equation. This is where they come from. They're labeling There's nothing scary about it here. x mu for different values things you've seen many And then rather than saying a times t squared plus we ask ourselves what is the that multiplies the x mu coordinate times the x mu coordinate. We're gonna call that G mu nu. So this is a little scary, The space time interval, the distance in space time is some number times x0 times x0, x1 plus some number And that number is g zero g zero one times x0, x1, et cetera. Still not bringing joy who don't like ugly notation. So if we call these indices and all we're really over all possible values of mu and nu of some coefficient g mu nu times the two coordinates x mu and x nu. Pretty compact. This is the generalization And in fact, even this because you know you're Why do you have to keep writing That's the summation sign This just means some over This is a big problem for mathematicians that was solved hilariously And Einstein said, I know what to do whenever that appears twice on the right hand side, don't write it. (crowd member faintly speaking) Brilliant. He actually joked in a I have made a great (crowd laughs) We do not need to write the summation sign and this is called the So instead of Pythagoras' theorem d squared is x squared plus y squared, in a general space or space time we have interval squared with the implied summation Wooh. So this is an enormous step forward in terms of compactness of notation. Hopefully, not a step backward So let's think about So let's go back to Minkowski's space. Minkowski says space except there's some minus signs in front of the spatial coordinates. So what that means in practice is that the time you read on your tau squared is t squared minus x squared minus y squared minus z squared. We're gonna write exactly that in terms of the metric So g mu nu in principle has a g zero, zero or equally well gtt doesn't The thing that multiplies x0, x0, which is the thing that and that if I compare to this formula had better be plus one. Whereas there's no appearance That's okay. That just means that gtx is So what you have in this formula is a set of spatial distances. The formula for just forget about space time. Part of the distance between will be the spatial part. That's what this part Another part is, this is tricky. The rate at which time flows with respect to the time coordinate. So once you're in the world of relativity, there's the time you read on your watch, there's also a time coordinate Those two things can have an arbitrary relationship to each other, but you wanna be able to calculate what that relationship is. Here it is. It's the zero zero or the tt And then these other ones, time, time space is and space twisting into each other. And you might say to yourself, I have never seen time and What is that all about? But I can predict with I that you have seen time and Here's a picture of it. Anyone know what this is a picture of? It's the black hole image from Christopher Nolan, Matthew McConaughey. You know what I'm talking about? So Kip Thorne, my former Nobel laureate and executive worked hard with various people that was assigned the task for the movie &quot;Interstellar&quot; to really figure out how it would work. A black hole in nature, there's a black hole of several million times the mass of the sun. People who work on gravitational in the spiraling to Black holes exist and they That spinning of the black hole warps space and time into each other. You cannot describe a spinning black hole without including those green parts of the metric right there. And it was so much work that in a physics journal. And if you look at the affiliations of the authors. Kip Thorne is last, the other three worked for double negative limited in London. And this was published in which is a semi-respectable (crowd laughs) So it's important that space and time can something that general and Newtonian gravity never did. So now we have the tools in hand to really roll up our sleeves That was a joke. We've been doing math all along. So Riemann tells you that if you know the distance in principle, you can work everything out about the geometry of a space. And it's the metric tensor that tells you the distance along any So, okay, let's work out some Let's just ask the simplest question, is the space flat or is it curved? The tricky part of that question is there's only one way to be flat, but there's many ways to be curved, positively curved, negatively curved. Maybe it's positively but negatively curved in that direction, if you have more dimensions of space, not to mention space time. So what we're gonna a tensor, don't worry about It's just a collection of The metric tensor is a four The Riemann tensor, oh my R lambda rho mu nu. You can calculate it. When I was your age, we calculated the Riemann Now you just ask the computer But there's a formula that from the metric tensor, and the Riemann tensor you can think of as the answer to a question. How curved is space or space time at any one particular point? And the way it answers it and saying, if space were flat, the parallel posture that would be true. So two initially parallel curves would stay exactly parallel. Therefore, what I mean by curvature is a failure of initially parallel So if I start to initially parallel lines and I plug them in to the or space time that I the Riemann tensor tells me Not only are they but also could they twist past each other. What direction did you the whole shebang. So all the possible forms of curvature are encoded in this unwieldy beast we call the Riemann tensor. Just that hit home how unwieldy it is. You know whenever you see an that's running over the that's what it does. Every mu or every nu or every rho, any one of these Greek letters is either zero, one, two, or three. If you are in 10 dimensional space time, bless your heart, you got some work corrected up for you. But let's stick with four So something like the momentum It has four components, PTPX, PYPZ, something like the metric tensor is a tensor has two indices, so it's four by four, 16 components. There they are. The Riemann tensor is of four by four matrices. So 256 components. Please don't tell me you see It was a certain amount of (crowd laughs) This is completely no physicist ever writes All I'm trying to convey amount of information contained all of which can be derived So it's a nice little structure So let's catch our breath and The point is, Einstein says It's not gonna be as simple as a sphere or a saddle or something like that. It can be curved in all sorts It can be arbitrarily complicated. What Riemann tells us is that in the length of every and specifically that in the metric G mu nu from which you can derive which tells you the curvature. So those are the mathematical Metric and curvature are which remember is to So what to do about that? Well, Einstein knew this one. This is Newton's equation for the acceleration due to gravity. Remember the equation where so we get an acceleration Masses and distances between them. So Einstein needs a generalization of this to gravity and curved space time. So the task is to replace acceleration with something that depends and to replace the mass of the object causing the gravitational field with some general because you know it's not 'cause you know that Einstein E equals mc squared. There's a unification in And frankly, it goes a There's a unification of and strain, all those crazy things. Relativity provides a single unified way of talking about that What kind of mathematical to describe this complicated thing? A tensor is the answer, and we'll call it unimaginably some people call it the not a big deal. The point is it's another So there's tt coordinates, And just like the metric, we can tell you what all these mean. The tt coordinate of the energy of the system, So what Isaac Newton would've cared about is up there in the corner, the zero zero or tt component The diagonal, the other in the spatial directions So we're now imagining, remember we're trying to So if you're at the center of a star, you don't just have a point, you have like a whole So there will be amounts of pressure in different directions. We now think that the universe which has a negative pressure and this is all sitting there The x component is the amount of pressure in the x direction and so on. All the other energy like things, the momentum, the heat flow, the stress and so forth are bundled up in the off the diagonal You don't need to follow. You don't need to care about All you need to know is the structure, the expression that and all that stuff is a the energy momentum tensor. So what Einstein is left with is a metric that tells you the Riemann tensor and then separately energy momentum given by another tensor. And he's supposed to use this to construct a replacement for There's an instant problem. (chuckles) I said on the left hand has to do with space time curvature, on the right hand side you need energy to match what Newton said. But space time curvature the Riemann tensor with four indices. On the right hand side, is expressed by a tensor with two indices. Those are not the same number of indices. You can't set them equal or proportional or anything like that. You are in trouble. There's an obvious problem. Happily this is an obvious problem that the mathematicians There's a whole bunch of who were just really into in the 19th century. And what they figured out, there is a way of distilling down the important parts of the Riemann tensor to other tensors with fewer indices. So you have the Riemann and you can take sums to get something called the And you can keep going the curvature scaler with zero indices just a number at every point. Now you might think, 'cause what you wanna that is characterizing the proportional to the energy that has two indices. Look, there is a tensor right there, the Ricci tensor that In fact, there's other that matches up with the So you might guess or that there is a relationship to the energy momentum tensor. If you did guess that congratulations because Einstein also suggested that, turns out not to work. It doesn't work because would actually not be which would be bad for different reasons. That's a whole nother talk. But you also have this curvature scaler. You also have the metric tensor. And Einstein was clever enough to come up with a combination of those two things that does work. And this is the equation R mu nu minus 1/2 R g mu nu. So the Ricci tensor or the Ricci tensor minus a half curvature is proportional to the energy The right constant of proportionality works out to be eight pi G, where G is Newton's constant. So this is Einstein's equation for the curvature of space Now you know what all those symbols mean in the equation that we started So that's one good news. Now there's bad news. What you do with an equation like this when you're a physicist is you solve it or you assign it to your when they take your class. This equation is really hard to solve. There is a miracle of notation. Sometimes physicists to write out the whole left hand side. So they call it the Einstein It's a little bit egregious. You can write down the whole left hand side The problem is that R and R, the curvature scaler Notice I didn't tell you it's because it's kind of ugly. Here is one component written in terms of the metric. So even if I tell you what the metric is, just calculating, this is work, but that's not your job. Your job is to solve for the metric in some situation of physical relevance. And it says a God awful And again, if you were my age, you'll be writing down late into the night hoping you did not write down a nu when you went to write down a mu, and calculating all these things. So Einstein himself and kind of laughed and said, of course, no one will for any physically relevant situation. A couple years later, Karl and the way he did it was just to make the right number of Say Look, I don't care about let me ask, what is the The curvature of space So I'm outside the sun, T mu nu is zero. Furthermore, I'm completely What's happening in one will be the same as every other Furthermore, the sun isn't it's just sitting there statically. All of these assumptions to the point where he could exactly solve Einstein's equation. And the result is this famous expression, the Schwarzschild metric, which is the unique curved space time according to general relativity outside his spherically And you see what I mean by a is a metric tensor G mu nu, tell me what all the coefficients are. And furthermore, they're not that wacky. They're a little bit wacky because we're now working So you notice that this R squared, R squared sine squared theta. These are not because it's just because we've to be spherical coordinates rather than rectangular coordinates. That is appropriate for All of the effort is in one minus two GM over r and minus one minus two GM over r to the minus one power. This is the g zero, zero, and g one, one coordinates Those are telling you things like the procession of the orbit of mercury or the gravitational redshift in the earth's gravitational field. All these predictions are contained in here, and we can do just one little bit. We are nearing the end, no worry. But one little tiny bit of You notice that if you look G zero zero is one minus two G M over r. Grr is minus blah, blah, blah over that. They blow up. When R equals zero, the g zero, zero component 'cause two GM divided goes to infinity. And also when r goes to two GM, when the distance equals that second component this is one. This is one minus one. This is one over one minus one, which is one over zero, which is infinity. These are called singularities Places where your where it blows up. These are places where your first guess is something has gone terribly wrong, but people weren't sure about whether things were going terribly wrong. Does this mean that relativity is wrong or is this just some mathematical And because the universe always likes to keep us on our toes. The answer is different There are two places where R equals two GM, R equals zero, R equals two GM is completely fine. Ain't nothing wrong with it. You've just chosen bad coordinates in which to express space time. R equals zero is a true singularity. The curvature of space Most people believe of quantum gravity will but we don't have that But that point at r equals two GM turns out to be something It is the event horizon of a black hole and you can kind of get a by thinking about the zero zero component, 'cause we told you what that is. That's the rate of your personal with respect to the time coordinate you've chosen in the background, right? And this number, the rate at which you compared to the coordinate R equals two GM. So we've plotted it here. Far away at R equals infinity. This is one minus zero. That's just one. That just means space time is flat, there's no gravity or But as you go in to smaller you hit a point where time of an outside observer That sounds bad. We now know what it is, is the event horizon of a black hole. Neither Schwarzschild They went to their graves not knowing that there was something It took decades for that this is not a mathematical We can take pictures of them now. This is a picture of a black hole from the Event Horizon Telescope. You're not seeing the black hole, you're seeing its effect but it is clear evidence that the black hole really is there. So this is the final lesson of the talk which we started with, which is that the equations This is why the equations matter. This is why you take the effort to understand what's going on, 'cause it wasn't just black in this equation, even Gravitational waves, the growth of large scale the expansion of space itself, our ability to detect dark they're all secretly living It's taking us a long But the equation knew it all along. That's why it's worth it on our side to put a little bit of effort into understanding what that Thank you very much. (crowd applauding) - Do we have to know - Oh, yes. - Okay. (laughs) So we have time for some questions, please form lines at the microphones on the side or feel and someone with a Question over here. - Hi, there. Just wanted to say thank That was really awesome. And beyond that you were, this is more of a general question. - Sure. - You were talking about the between gravity and the and I just was wondering the Wolfram physics project and the idea that we can see the universe through these like hypergraphs and that, I was just wondering in a way that physics hasn't And that's it. Thank you. - Good, so for those of Stephen Wolfram, who is the inventor of the among various papers in physics, has a new program to based on discreet cellular automata or generalizations thereof I'm rooting for him. I think it's great that he's I think that my personal credence that he will eventually Basically, what he's trying to do is to say if the ultimate laws of physics are really going to be I don't need to look at the There's only a small that can happen, and he's very comfortable of discreet cellular kind of structures. But to me, what we do know about the world is very different than his starting point. Especially because one of the things, whether it's relativity or quantum mechanics, one of the things that we or seem to know, is that it is reversible. The fundamental laws of physics between past and future Whereas Wolfram's rules absolutely do, tell the difference So I think that either he will find out that his proposed rule reproduces all of quantum mechanics in some way, in which case why not just or disagrees with quantum mechanics in some way in which I bet But we'll have to wait and see because we don't know the answers yet. Just keep talking, it usually turns on. - Hi, I'm curious about Hawking radiation. So just, I imagine that comes, it's hiding somewhere in there, I'm just curious where. - Oh, good. Hawking radiation, totally because Hawking radiation comes about through quantum mechanics and everything I talked about in this talk is entirely classical. Now, just like Einstein was how do I incorporate gravity Now we're faced with the puzzle. How do I incorporate general relativity into the quantum mechanical framework? We do not have the final Some of us have ideas, different people have But what we can do in the meantime is say, well, what if space time is classical but the stuff that lives on space time is quantum mechanical. That framework is where Stephen Hawking derives the existence So Hawking radiation living on a classical We are trying very hard and in promoting that to a from the start, but we don't - Thank you. - Go ahead. - Hi, so I don't know a ton about physics, but I really like it. Found this really interesting And I had an astronomy who told me about this thing called MOND. And it sounded really interesting and it sounded like it to explain some things in And I was just curious what - What are you teaching students here at the University of Michigan? (crowd laughs) - It wasn't here. It was at WCC, actually. - Oh, now I get it, okay, good. No, there is a very natural This picture that you have This is literally a reconstruction has to be to understand that we observe in the universe. So exactly because gravity is universal. Exactly because everything Gravity gives us away to figure out how much stuff there is in the universe, 'cause if there's stuff, it So you do that, you look at a galaxy or or large scale structure, you find over and over again that the implied amount of stuff you need to account for the gravity And the word C is very general here, and we can get into that if you want. So astronomers posit the called dark matter, and that But there is another which is maybe general right here. As successful as it is, maybe it's wrong, maybe it fails in some when you apply it to galaxies or clusters of galaxies or whatever. So MOND modified Newtonian where you try to change the basic rules, do away with dark matter of the universe without any new stuff. So I'll be very blunt, It doesn't work for a couple reasons. Number one, theoretically, it's much uglier than just Look in some sense the air I can't see it, but I know it's there 'cause I can feel it when I wave my hands. That's exactly what's This is a reconstruction of the forces due to gravity caused by dark matter. Having dark matter is not a big leap away from known physics. But more importantly, the original motivation for was to explain the dark matter And they invented the It does that very well. But when you try to go to clusters of galaxies or to the cosmic background In fact, the modern proponents in their theories to So in my mind, why not and stick with Einstein's theory? - I know it's just a lot less, but thank you for answering the question. - Look, but lemme say one final thing. I wish it had been right. As a theorist working in nothing would be cooler than if gravity were I am responsible for various I just don't think the data's - Thank you for such a wonderful talk. I just had a quick question for you about, I see that pi shows up- - In Einstein's equations, and yeah, I know whenever pi shows up there's a circle hiding somewhere. I don't know if you have any pi shows up in this equation or not, but. - A 100%. So you know that Einstein's birthday and Pi Day are the same day- - True. - March 14th. That's not why though. But if you Google why does pi show up in Einstein's equation? You will find a blog post It's not Einstein's fault, That pi shows up in Einstein's equation because remember g, Newton's constant showed up in Newton's But Newton's equation is I have two points with masses, how much gravity is there between them? It turns out that is not the most elegant way of thinking about gravity. Rather than having a force directly between two it's better to think of a and being affected by the two points. This is a way that forget you can reformulate in a field theory language by imagining a gravitational filling all space. But then instead of saying, I have a point here and now you're saying I have a point here and a sphere around it that So when Pierre-Simon Laplace in the language of field theory, the equation is not F it's grad squared pi And it's that pi going from two to a field being influenced, that also shows up in Einstein's equation. - Thank you so much. - Let me go back and forth. - I really enjoyed the talk, thank you. I hope I'm not getting but been very interested in that space time can sort from entropy and that you can sort of decompose say a Hilbert And the mutual information between factors tells you about the space And this feels like a very exciting sort of fundamental idea. I was wondering if you where this is going, and if you can explain things - We are all about the weeds. You've come to the right place. Our garden is full of flourishing weeds that we can get into. Yes, so as you will see in the that I'll give tomorrow morning, as lovely as Einstein's equation is and as beautiful as this theory is, what my research these days is more quantum mechanically based. And I think the way that quantum mechanics is a dramatic theory than relativity was. Relativity takes space and and gives them a geometry. Quantum mechanic says, no, no, no, there's not even any such thing as space. Time, we can debate about, but space is somehow an approximation, an emergence that comes out of a deeper underlying If I go off pieced a little bit here, I would argue that deeply enough about this fact because they're averse about the foundations which is too bad for the field of physics. Awesome for me because it and I don't have any So my grad students for the last few years where you start with bare and you ask how can space time And we have some tentative but we're not anywhere close much less finished. As far as inflation is concerned, no, I have no good ideas there. My current interests are more trying to just match the of gravity and particle physics, and also to look for little little tiny violations like Lorentz variants and locality that might be experimentally accessible, which would be really fun. - Nice. - So my question was about, so it seems like in your in concept came from like where like in geometry they're like, oh, it's just paddle oh, it could go spherical or hyperbolic and even with space time, it and now, hey, we can add But when you're doing theoretical work as a theoretical scientist yourself, how do you know the or like when you're like, you're kind of at least in - Yeah. - It could be t square - Right. - So how do you as a oh, this is an interesting generalization or direction to go down and or is it just someone and that's the only way to know? - So that's an excellent question. The dirty little secret is there's a whole bunch of wrong guesses that I didn't tell you about. I got to clean everything up and tell you only the right So yes, of course, when you're actually in the process of developing these ideas, not only are you conjecturing but the vast majority of your are just wrong and are left Some people empirically seem to be better at making these guesses than others, and one wonders how that is. And I think that things like dark matter versus modified gravity or things like the interpretations of quantum mechanics. These are examples where we don't know what the final theory is. We don't know what the So there are respectable, very smart people who deeply disagree and even though they know we don't know what the final answer is, they strongly think that to the final answer and even though they disagree with each other and the reasons they disagree come down to all sorts What has worked for them in the past, their own personality types, are they more mathy or Are they more space time There's a whole bunch that can give individual different inclinations for and move beyond it. I'm a super strong believer that we need a multiplicity of approaches because Einstein, the classic example, nobody was better than of the 20th century at doing physics. But by the 30s and 40s and Einstein didn't become dumber. He understood quantum but his particular intuition turned out to be less promising, less fruitful than other people's did. But I would still hire him, put him on the faculty, give him tenure. (crowd laughs) And I think that these days when we have a whole bunch of theories, whether it's gravity or where the theories fit the data, but we still are trying the data are not pointing us clearly in what is the right direction. I think we don't do a good enough job in taking diverse approaches because instead of the data we have people saying, I And then persuasive people tend And so it's very hard to figure out how academia as a whole should but I think it should try a - Thank you. - Hello, thank you so That was fantastic. I had a question about the Einstein equation. In the region between the event G zero zero is less than zero, which means- - The rate at which time flows relative to outside observers is negative. - Yeah. - How do we reconcile that with and even things like the arrow of time? Does that make sense? - Yes, I love this question You are correct. If you look carefully for values of R, let's say R equals one times GM, right? Then this upper left which is minus one, But look at the next one. Look at Grr, right? That's minus one over minus one. So now that number has become plus. So both of these numbers flipped sign at exactly the same place. So it is not that space It's that our coordinates on space time are not telling us we Inside the black hole the coordinate that you is now a space like coordinate The coordinate that you is now the time like coordinate. If you ever teach general relativity, someday you'll grow up, become a faculty member, And the day that you get that r equals zero, the singularity inside the it's to your future. And the reason why you have to hit it when you're inside the black hole is the same reason you This will be a very They love that, they eat it up, but it's just a failure of our coordinate. It's not a truly physically weird thing. - I'm eating it up right now- - So thank you so much, that was great. - Thank you. I loved your talk. I had a quick question. So I guess from my understanding of the history of physics before they had, before they understood why the they hypothesized a that would kind of correct for But then when they discovered that gravitational anomaly was explained by that new equation. - Yeah. - What's the difference being that kind of like instead of there possibly that doesn't need dark matter? - Good, this is a very good question, but remember to tell the Before they hypothesized Vulcan as a new planet in the they hypothesized a planet called Neptune at the outer edge of the solar system because the motion of the outer planets like Jupiter and Saturn with the predictions So they hypothesized a dark matter planet, a planet that we hadn't seen yet. And it was discovered it was then they tried the same trick in the inner solar system the motion of mercury, and it was wrong. They failed. You needed a new theory of gravity. But in retrospect, that arrangement where the far away thing needed new matter and the close by thing involved a new theory As a general feature of field theory, we expect field theories to keep working as distances but maybe to fail as This is just a feature of So if a theory of we would expect it to fail and nearby in the solar That's why we're super like this one where you're collecting data near the event horizon of a black hole. Because even though general near black holes, it is very Whereas when you go to cosmology or the galaxy or things like that, it's really hard and I've tried to invent a compelling field theory in the solar system that gives you something - Thank you. - I have a kind of a dumb question and great talk, I have But if the shape of space the hyperbolic, the saddle shape, if to assess to figure out you're saying you take a from where you have your right angles, when it's actually space does the ruler change as I mean a yardstick doesn't at the pole, but if space will the yardstick itself shape and that'll make it difficult that you're trying to - Well, yeah, so you have to be clever, happily, we have a whole working on this exact problem. So there's a whole set devoted to the question of what are the observable when you have a curved space time and you don't know how It turns out, for example, that shooting out two light rays and watching if they converge or diverge, converge or diverge, not actually very practical But there's another thing we can say about these different kinds of curvature, which is that on a sphere, you can take the angles inside a triangle. Oof, I gave you a lot of stuff didn't I? The angles inside a triangle on a sphere add up to greater than 180 degrees. On a potato chip, they add That's something we can The cosmic microwave and a way to measure And it turns out that space But basically, all I'm telling you is, yes, we worry about this problem a lot, but it is a one that we can address. - Great to meet you, Dr. Carroll. I have a question about black I know there's been lots of Which one do you like the best? Which one do you have - I'm beginning to think have gone to lectures other than mine, because I didn't mention the black hole information loss paradox, but that's okay. Once you do, remember Stephen Hawking and Hawking radiation and that is derived in the context of putting quantum field theory in the background of this But, of course, we want at the end of the day. So what Hawking showed has a temperature, it gives off radiation, but if it gives off because the energy from the black hole goes into the radiation. And so if you have something such as my book, &quot;The Biggest (crowd laughs) if you have that and you apparently to you the information is now inaccessible, right? It's in the black hole. But Hawking says that black hole will The information contained in that book, in principle, we believe, but we believe the information should be encoded in detailed being given off by the black hole because we think that according to the laws of physics. Now we don't know how that happens. That's what's called the black hole information loss puzzle or paradox. It's not a paradox, but it is a puzzle. In some sense, it's wholly unsurprising that we don't know why that happens because it involves quantum at the same time. And those are two things difficult to put together. The reason why it's nevertheless vexing is because there are very good arguments that we shouldn't need in order to solve this puzzle. But apparently we do. This is just yet another reminder that quantum gravity is a big challenge. It is fundamentally a than other quantum mechanical So I'm not gonna answer your question. I know your question is, what is my favorite approach to it? I am very impressed with that have been taken over of people working with or string theory inspired models, AdS/CFT and things like that, to at least construct some where black holes seem to evaporate and information is preserved. But there's a lot of subtleties here, and I still think that people aren't taking quantum mechanics itself quite as seriously as they should. So I'm going to remain silent what I think the final answer actually is. But let me say one fact, one opinion that might matter here, which is that from my point of view where quantum mechanics and space time is just an The arguments that make the black hole information loss paradox so puzzling become a little bit less forceful because they always put space time front and center into defining what So I think the door is still of what the paradox is based from a purely quantum in which we all go, ah, that shouldn't have been - Time for about two more - Thank you, Dr. Carroll, for the talk. So my question was now that we know a little bit about Einstein's equations, could you clarify exactly at in quantum mechanical senses to your idea of challenging fundamentals? Like does challenging fundamentals involve just quantum gravity and string theory or is there more on that scene? - That's another great question. I mean, yeah, you're doing okay with the questions here, I gotta say. Of course, we don't know for There's two things to say. One is we do have a kind of a rough guess as to where you would of general relativity to break down, which is namely when the If you go back into the Riemann the curvature of space time has units of one over length squared. It's basically the radius of curvature of whatever you're looking at. So if that length scale is infinity, you're in flat space. If it's more and more curved, then you're in more and more curved space and there's something This is a fundamental length you can make just by numerology playing and Newton's constant And when the radius of becomes of order the Planck length, that's when you would to become very, very important. Now compared to a black well, black holes, gravity is strong. Maybe quantum gravity is but the curvature scale of space time is way, way smaller than the Planck scale near the event horizon of a black hole. So your first guess is should show no important Your second guess is to remember that there's something called the black hole information loss paradox. And that seems to be telling us that something about is breaking down way before And that's what makes it so challenging. There seems to be some of locality of the idea that the world is made of different points of space time interacting with only And that's something that we're still trying to wrap our heads around. Last question. Better be good? - Hello, can you hear me? (chuckles) So it's a kind of general question. So one takeaway of your talk very fundamental features of our scientific understanding So for example, abandoning So given this, I wonder if you have any thoughts in the basic features of our current physical theories changing or sticking around in a - You know, this is, I'm for me to explain this one, right? So I don't wanna keep anyone. There's two different ways can be overthrown and replaced with a different scientific theory. One is you realize the Copernicus was better than Ptolemy. Like Ptolemy, actually, there's no regime in which Ptolemy is to the world, right? But as we become better at doing physics more and more often, not always, but more and more often the new better theory still but in some approximation. So Newtonian mechanics is an Classical physics is an approximation to quantum mechanics and things like that. Maxwell's an equations to quantum electrodynamics. And so in those cases, if for the philosophy buffs in the room, there's an idea called structural realism that what we're discovering is not the ontology of the world, is not the stuff the world is made of, because who knows that tomorrow we will have a different idea of what maybe Wolfram is, right? The stuff that the world is But there are structures within that stuff that persist from theory to theory. And so when you talk about the credences of these the standard model of My credence that they are themselves, the once and for all but my credence that some version of them will remain true as an approximation to a better theory are very large. The fun part is can we in the fundamental theory that has some kind of in the theories we know about. We have puzzles. Why is there more matter than anti-matter? Why do the early universe Why is the Higgs boson so light? Why is the cosmo constant so small? We have good arguments? How does information The thing about all these puzzles is there are reasons to believe in physics that we kind of understand, but the attempts to do Maybe there's something deep that will ultimately play a crucial role in understanding those things. I can't put a high credence on that in any one of those cases, but it's what I spend my life doing, so clearly I have some credence in it. Thank you very much. (crowd applauding)