So, we have with us Local pediatrician extraordinaire, UCLA alumn and pro science, pro children. So, one of your passions Blair is the idea that children who have certain Higher IQs. Gifted children. Talented children have a hard time in our current educational actually surviving without a lot of downside, which is counterintuitive, you think, well, those are the guys that become the Silicon Valley nerds and drive Porsches and have trophy wives. That's not what actually happens. You have a kind of a with your own children. Tell us about your, you know, and your work in this space. - So, I was thinking about you when I was watching the show that you had with Mrs. Dr. ZDogg. And you were talking about and it was wonderful that because we need people to do that. Like people like Chrissy Teigen, who talked about her it's super important. And it's a challenge to parents. We all stress out even as a pediatrician, as a pseudo expert, you I'm always thinking, am But what I was thinking about was when you talked about what to your parents. I was like, &quot;Oh, that's the giftedness.&quot; Because. See that mom and dad. Gifted AF, right here. - No, it's hard to talk about it because it's like, It's, you know, you can in the little league world series, but don't talk about him being, you know, in the gifted program. - That's kind of true. But it's really an attribute, just like any attribute, what you do with it is and your heart and all that, just like. - You know, yeah. And so when I see young families, with kids that are gifted, I really try to help identify them early and let them know because one of the things is the more stubborn they tend I was thinking about your daughter too. And the more stuff they get into. High intellect goes with high anxiety. So, they tend to be high strung. They get this incredible That is kinda you too. Like when they see the news it's really hard for them. So, you have to like It's really a special need, you know? So, there's several you know, using IQ testing is one of them and it's surprisingly effective. Meaning you think there's And I see kids that are and they're usually within This is just an attribute, just like height or BMI. - It's like a vital sign almost. - Yeah, and so, you know, gifted, some definitions would be above the normal. Would be the top, you know, two and a half which would be 130. And the thing I talk about when 100 is mean is as far away from the So, 70 is sort of the upper Would anyone allow their 10 Would it be appropriate with Down syndrome? And there's no value judgment But it just wouldn't be a So, putting these gifted kids in with neuro-typical kids It's really a special need, and they get bored. If you look at dropout the two ends of those extremes and the gifted have a high dropout rate, they have a high substance abuse rate. They get bored. - So, you use the term. I mean, there's so much to unpack in this. And of course it's of acute interest to me because I'm a fricking genius. You don't understand, like off the charts, I took an IQ test on United Airlines in their little sky mall brochure. And I broke, the thing it melted because because I got a lot of them wrong. - Well, you're of course joking. Cause you have to but it's true. Like what you bring And again, thinking about you as a kid would be very hard to raise the kid. I bet you were very difficult. You've talked about that. You're a little oppositional. - Yeah, incredib... still oppositional. Still high anxiety. Still right and wrong. Cannot stand when I see and I can't shut up about it. And I love the word you use "neuro-typical" to talk about more of the mean IQ, because that is now what I'm gonna call both Tom and Logan, even though it's inaccurate. 120, Z, when I took that test. I'm with the kids with the (mumbles) Were too weird. - How dare you? - Well, you know, the in the gifted is actually incarceration. If you look at incarcerated people, they tend to be. - I'm, yeah, I've been incarcerated, so I'm gifted. What's up? What's up? - Now it is. We have to pay attention to these kids. And in the end, it's kind of the rule of thirds, a third do wildly well. They are, you know, they become ZDogg. A third medium well, you And then a third of them very poorly. They, you know, the high anxiety, they can't be functional society, you know, and we have and their development - So, I never hear anybody... You were the first person I've talked to in the medical space that has talked about high It's almost like, &quot;Oh, there's a component &quot;of those assholes.&quot; Right? And the idea that they could that they might not do well in the world, that they're a square peg These ideas aren't really explored much. - No, it's absolutely true. They deal well... as children, they react well or interact well with older kids and younger kids, but typically not same age peers. I had one family with a gifted kid and he was in kindergarten. He came home and he told his mom, I think there's something wrong because they get bored. If a neuro-typical kid, I mean, if the neuro-typical kid needs, you know, 10 exposures, reps the gifted kids learned it really fast. And so from rep two to If I remember that in school, and then sometimes if an would be like, &quot;Oh, you're doing so well. We'll give you more.&quot; That's kind of punitive. What they should do is if the kids have 20 they'll throw in the five or 10, the other kids are doing and then give them some You know, skipping, I would will actually recommend I kind of don't get it personally because I worry about you don't want to be a 14 year You know I have a patient He graduated college and you know, he still had the He was kind of unhireable you know, just the way But he was obviously very bright. I said, go to grad school, right? - Right, well, you look from Theranos, who's now the subject of a Young dropout from Stanford. Always a Doogie Howser and turns out she had very low, you know, I've talked her emotional intelligence There's a lot of other issues with her that probably led to So, this idea that you can but socially, or the way I see it, and you can correct me if I'm wrong. There are multiple lines of intelligence. And IQ is one, math is one, but there are emotional there are social lines of intelligence, there are physical lines of intelligence that the kids who get which I thought is, it's absolutely true. You can tell, &quot;My kid he's first &quot;yeah.&quot; But, &quot;Oh, my kid has a really high IQ &quot;and is acing all his classes but is socially awkward and yeah.&quot; - No, a lot of times They're very, you know, great in math and not the other, those kids have the hardest time. They really, they have a higher chance Although, certainly anxiety. I, again, I read the and some people feel it's higher. My clinical experience would be yes, especially the kid with asynchronous. They're very great at math, but maybe not as strong in language arts, or they have their, what They have, they're gifted, but they have a learning Sometimes I'll be referred Poor focused attention. And the diagnosis actually gifted is what they don't have to pay attention. They know they're going And really, if you're a Ferrari you can still keep up So, these kids just tune out. - Well, first of all, how Because that's what I drive. Number next, I think you're right. Especially on the multiple and the asynchronous development. So, just my own personal anecdote. And again, I'm not saying I'm in any way, particularly gifted, but I was pretty good at Social stuff. I had some gift in that. Math had always been a kind because I was good enough that with the other kids in the class, I looked pretty smart, but compared to smart kids, I was developmentally delayed. And when thrust into the I had never had to study in my And I delayed calculus, I stopped at trig in junior year because I was so terrified And I just said, &quot;Oh, I want senior year &quot;to do a bunch of APs.&quot; Which I did. Which allowed me to graduate But that first year taking calculus, it was the most humiliating because I felt as just absolutely dumb and overwhelmed that And I was reading that math textbook. Trying to learn how to do math and I'd never been that And so do you see that as kind of... - No, absolutely. A lot of times they're So, like you did terrible. You got a B instead of an A right. - That's kind of what it was (laughs). - But again, it's an inherent trait. What you do with it, you know, is who you Someone say with Down who's got the 70 IQ. They often have a very high social IQ. They're lovely, loving people. And you know, one of the stores, one of them is a bagger and she's the sweetest thing in the world. And she's of more value Can I say d-bag on this show? That Shkreli guy, the pharma boy. He's probably, yeah, gifted but the world is not a great place because he's been in it really. I mean, it's just, here's your attributes that you're gifted in. What you do with them and how we help them navigate those to be a good person in society. That's what we want. - I have a question for you, Dr. Duddy. Is this an interesting point because you're obviously a very smart guy, Do you feel you were mishandled - No, I mean, I made it, I was smart. You know, my kids are super smart. I'm at the end of the trail, my son's a senior in high school and he's made it through. We've been in every educational He's at a very good And it's been a great school and very supportive. I think early on, we off and on my wife was a teacher and that was helpful. One of the families, I take care of, the dad's actually an ENT in town and they have gifted kids and they were kind of frustrated when we were talking about it quite early. And you know, where do you put these kids? And the private schools and he's an ENT so he can afford, you know, the more expensive tuition. They have generally bright kids, but it's still different than the social emotional or identified, especially in boys who can act out. So, anyway, they started... - I was never caught. So, they started then It's been a bit round Called the Nasri Academy. And I'm actually one of their, like, I guess, volunteer boards. It's a board members. It's, you know, it's a nonprofit and they're just trying to get it up, but it's hard because you know, you have to get, you know, we're starting with that end to 2% of the population gifted. 0.1% highly gifted, which is like 145 IQ. So, they're, you know, and they really focus the emotional needs of the gifted. - So, you know, cause what I noticed, what I noticed with my oldest daughter and she's does violin, and she obviously is decent at school is that she has trouble That pretty much everybody gets. It's kind of like a participation trophy. And it means that you're not, you listen in class and you're not fidgety and you're respectful and all these things and she has trouble getting it. And it upsets her deeply And I think it's a lot Because when you watch she'll play something, it'll be a mistake. She will drop to the and in a way that she's inconsolable. And I think it's this with high intelligence comes high anxiety it's a fact for many. - You know, when I see I asked the mom cause it's, dads are idiots and don't always know. You know, is she a perfectionist? And the mom will say yes or no. They know what I'm talking about. And that's something to work on, right? Because when I talked to them about, so the kid is, if they're that like your daughter's you know, we all make mistakes and people that accomplish a lot, all have a story, a failure story in there, right? So, sometimes I'll tell the big fail story of the Lisa computer. Yeah, most people don't know that. - I wanted a Lisa when I was a kid that's how much of a nerd I was. - You know, if he found there was like 60 grand or something. - Wanna hear a story? So, someone in elementary that he said fell off the back of a truck. And I didn't realize that was slang for, he stole it and he just gave it to me. He's like, &quot;You seem like the And it said Lisa on it and this and that. And I was like, wow. And I was so weirded out and I was like, look And he's like, that's stolen. And I had to sit in front of the principal and explain how I got this, yeah. - Well, most people don't know the story, but of course it's the a failure of Steve Jobs and he, you know, learned from it. What was the problem I don't even know is it the hardware? Software, marketing? - Whatever. And then the next version next And so these kids that are perfectionists, they don't try things. They might not be perfect at. They're super anxious. So, it can be tortured. It turns out ignorance really is bliss. - Ignorance can be bliss. You know, what's the is Lisa was the name of his daughter and his daughter from I believe, I forget the his autobiography, but she was a little bit more ignored and only reconnected So, brother, like you're You have the &quot;Star Wars&quot; gear, you're pro science. You love patients. You love what you do. And you fight for people the gifted. Blair Duddy is the man. - Aaw, thank you so much. Thank you for coming on the show. And remember if you or You're a nerd and need to be stopped. Is that right? Is that the premise? - Yeah, a little bit. - Roughly? We out. (upbeat music) Yeah