Where did you get this document? Who wrote these records? Are these CIA documents? Unbelievable. What a statement &quot;... potentially &quot;... the rest had to be fooled.&quot; This is utterly horrible language. It's shocking that this We would have liked to know but we simply For decades, What does a small Swiss firm have to do With the CIA, the NSA, Now, an intelligence file uncovers a global operation The document is called Minerva. &quot;It was at once the most productive project since World War II.&quot; It's simply the most significant that's ever happened. In the 1990s, this man almost The arrest of Swiss businessman is straining relationships. Hans Buhler, Imprisoned in Iran for nine months. &quot;The Buhler affair slid slowly toward a counterintelligence &quot;We know you're a spy.&quot; &quot;You are selling &quot;If you refuse to talk, and then we'll gouge out your eyes.&quot; &quot;Rundschau&quot; is hot on the heels So you have no dealings No other than customer relationships. ... but unable to produce evidence. No tampering whatsoever? You must be quite naive Our equipment is tamper-proof. Following this interview, foreign Everything was on the verge of The operation continues. The story began The Nazis were defeated. The Americans They were always owing to access They cracked the German devices before sending them off to make sure no one However, after the end of the war, U.S. intelligence agencies had the mathematical procedures to crack most of the communications. Suddenly, they realised there was a Swedish genius that were extremely difficult, The genius is Boris Hagelin. The Americans wanted to win him over to keep from falling into enemy hands. Hagelin is one when it comes to secure Before World War II, only a small group of people understood They all know each other. That's how the cryptologists knew Boris Hagelin. They proposed a deal to him, &quot;The CIA would control worldwide for the purpose of ensuring would only be sold to NATO Almost as if a small group of people And they're talking about how The magic is cryptology, Messages are encrypted by means to be transmitted as gibberish. Those who know the algorithms Boris Hagelin wanted to put Of course, for his positive attitude The reason was that the USA had forced the Hitler regime to In 1952, Boris Hagelin In the garage of this house in Zug he set up the first workshop which he called Crypto AG. He moved to Switzerland but also to avoid Sweden Neutral and liberal Switzerland seemed to him to be &quot;When one was engaged in a better to with fewer moral scruples.&quot; The young firm grew swiftly. Smart minds devised new machines and hatched sophisticated algorithms. The machines were sold Patents were filed in rapid The firm enjoyed In the mid-1960s, and an impressive headquarters at Steinhausen near Zug. For many, it was an honour Take, for example, Bruno von Ah, who co-shaped encryption machines We had the feeling Crypto in terms of technology and recognised worldwide Our factory was around 30 metres wide Each person to put measuring devices Everyone felt that we as a Swiss business independent from superpowers, were making something intelligent What Bruno von Ah Most of the encryption machines with a backdoor in place. Hatched by founding father Hagelin and withheld as a secret Swiss-made quality Switzerland's neutrality Crypto AG's business success. Soon, many government offices, embassies and army headquarters telex machines and radio systems The very air is full of information With reconnaissance planes the Americans intercept thousands Everything encrypted was readable to the Americans. &quot;By 1967, the programme had exceeded Co-operation with secret services The NSA and the CIA in the development of new machines. They devised the algorithms that were then used by Crypto AG At the end of the 1960s Boris Hagelin was well into The question was and the secret deal. Bo Hagelin Junior but he stated very bluntly that he was not prepared to carry on Bo Hagelin Jr. was in charge of mostly far away from headquarters but making sceptical comments &quot;He was viewed if he discovered might try to derail them.&quot; Eventually Hagelin Sr. decided A tug of war ensued the American CIA, the German BND The outcome was what the world has but has never really come to light. Finally the secret-service document In 1970, the West German BND and &quot;The sale was made on 4 June.&quot; &quot;The sale price From then on, by foreign secret services. To the public, it continued According to the commercial register, Hagelin Sr. stepped down and his son Bo, the sceptic, An intricate structure was built through a fiduciary company Profit would be transferred where BND officers half of it in cash and carried it in briefcases to hand over to CIA officers Hagelin Jr., seems to have been the weird deal &quot;But in November of 1970, Bo was only five months after the sale &quot;It would no longer be necessary with the Crypto AG board Even the BND's Vice President assumed that Bo Hagelin was not but of a murder Hagelin Sr. is said to have tried, to clear up the death of his son Until this day, in a cloak of silence He is the first and only one to talk: former minister in charge of secret services. I think it was a highly We obtained information It was getting increasingly important and be in the know The scars of two wars The world was divided Politics was driven by fear. It was important For more targeted purposes, putting bugs underneath cars These were very direct But in case a military exercise and we cannot tell whether the bigger picture is required to reveal communications and tell you what's happening Crypto AG to obtain a vast amount on what's happening and where. A new era began The firm now was wholly owned The new owners controlled everything. New executives were introduced directly by the CIA. One of them was Sigmar Grutzmann His wife and daughter have memories Of course, what their husband and father That was the start. It was absolutely fascinating. It was my first flight ever, Same here. We took the helicopter It was an army helicopter. We spent eight days alone My husband was away all the time. All he said was You said you dropped him off and there were gates there. Yes, but he didn't say where he went. It was a road in a forest or a park and there was a gate no less I dropped him off and he went away. Based on what I know today, I guess the CIA was preparing him for what he was meant &quot;He was hired and made witting Crypto AG cryptologies Mickie Grutzmann customers all around the world: Together, saying their machines were It worked. Crypto AG was getting Nobody ever really challenged This is how these manipulated such as the military coup in Chile, As documents from Switzerland's the Direccion de Inteligencia bought, and approved by Crypto AG devices in the amount of For a little while, a democratically a left-wing government He relied on the neutrality for tap-proof communications. But the U.S. wanted no socialist The CIA went to great lengths Experts believe produced significant benefits The coup was successful turning Chile into a dictatorship Followed by many years of Dissidents were tortured, Information the Americans intercepted by tapping helped the superpowers to shape &quot;Minerva illuminated It was one of the most audacious because over 100 countries paid billions That was actually quite cheeky. Crypto AG conducted its scam New technologies enabled increasingly and, particularly in difficult times would trust a firm Some of them almost rolled out I think he liked it because of all the trips he made We visited customers We visited customers The old encryption machine, hidden away in the remotest corner Malaika Hug is keeping it For many years, Ruedi Hug was a He, too, would often tell stories of generals and officers Among them such dictators He told us and showing them how they worked They were very high-ranking officers You felt like a VIP. We petty engineers &quot;The leading buyer was Saudi Arabia, followed in order by Yugoslavia, Iraq, Libya, Jordan and South Korea.&quot; &quot;Every one of these countries was For the American secret services, it was an incredibly It contributed to a It contributed to a peace agreement It was in 1978 when the conflict in Israel and Egypt fighting Negotiations between the countries until the U.S. took on the lead. Jimmy Carter invited Anwar Sadat, and Menachem Begin, to join him at Camp David. So there's Menachem Begin on the one and they hate each other. They don't want So they stay They have their delegations Jimmy Carter had to bring Of course, Egypt wasn't They had to check back and other members on how far to go in the negotiations. Obviously, they were using encrypted Jimmy Carter was playing poker Thank you very much. Long-awaited peace in the Middle East and U.S. President Jimmy Carter The Minerva document &quot;How valuable it was to be able to read Egyptian during the 1979 Camp David between Israel and Egypt?&quot; &quot;The right answer In this period of time, playing its role And many allowed it to do just that. Americans Our mantra was: At the time, At Crypto, most people working to make and secure encryption machines. At times, a manager would take and say, &quot;The Lord has handed me as he was not allowed to reveal the source of the maths However some employees My father's job was to He really knew how they worked. Crypto AG's to the best of their knowledge, to build perfectly and devise secure algorithms. I was given a diagram Once it was up and running my manager passed by and said, &quot;Good job. I'm talking it with me.&quot; That's when I asked myself what the manager would be doing He must have taken a closer look and figured out You did get the feeling there interested in what the encryption He found it odd. The only explanation that the machines Actually, there was no way that some higher power had interfered In the process of developing the MCC 314, things were becoming German agencies intervened Every week, disguised as Siemens consultants, would show up and demand changes. The head of development and took a close look One Monday morning, he had found the back door. Someone finding the back door, i.e. the hidden access was not a welcome thought the real owners of the firm. &quot;He had figured out and it was not safe with him.&quot; The head of development was gone Actually it happened over night. We got the feeling that this man &quot;We need to get rid of him.&quot; &quot;When X was fired, he had, raised charges of manipulation gear to the Swiss Ministry Unless the authorities had known this was when government agencies They were informed by foreign secret services How did the Swiss authorities Would they take the charges We are looking for answers and find the piece of evidence. The fired head of development had stated to the authorities as had been equipped with manipulated and U.S. agencies The authorities opened a case With the help of people working we manage to find one single It bears an instruction This is a record card. Where you would normally list events observed by the Attorney perhaps with reference there is no entry whatsoever, except &quot;Record card with K; &quot;Upon request, do not mention but inform L or K It remains a secret whether there was Our search gets stuck in a dead end. Other records It is highly probable were very familiar with the influence like the BND and the CIA The Swiss Federal Police looking into the allegations raised by the head of development That was before my time, They borrowed a machine It was supposed In the end, of any tampering Tangible evidence And yet, it is highly probable for some individuals at state level to have become aware I think Swiss authorities generally also in the period in question and I would assume Apparently, the state of Switzerland but checked on their own devices, According to the CIA, received unmanipulated devices by kind of a silent agreement. So Crypto AG was free Internal agitation abated rapidly. New bearers of the secret stepped in. In the late 70s and early 80s, Crypto AG became a world leader and its employees Crypto paid well. We received bonuses. I remember attending firm functions with food and drink There was any number Correct. We had a good life at Crypto. Employees were being pampered. The firm provided a football pitch and even acquired a sailing boat. This firm was part of our lives, but for the entire family. It was the time a passionate globetrotter with the reputation capable of handling Minerva confirms: &quot;Buhler was one of the rising stars He just loved his interesting that took him around the world. He visited Iran no less than 25 times But Crypto staff were unaware Later, Hans Buhler was to realise Crypto employees were not aware they were not only travelling on but also for foreign secret services. Many of these salesmen were not They weren't aware They were actually deployed as agents He knew he was virtually an agent, Mickie Grutzmann, to dispel questions Soon, his dual function I would regularly pick him up and notice a smell of alcohol I guess there was something The family saw him suffering, The CIA soon rated him as useless ... a frightened man that he couldn't quite shoulder. What a cruel statement. Deceiving distrustful customers was Former Yugoslavia encryption devices for hundreds The latest model. Top-level military officers Then there was a call from Belgrade: They had a problem and asked for a Like many other nations, Yugoslavia had developed working with experts that Crypto AG Those wise guys discovered it. The Yugoslav armed forces threatened unless the engineers That would have been a real disaster. The management One month later, carrying proposals. He showed them and make the devices secure. No more word from them until the Yugoslav Wars broke out. While war was raging ... ... a member of our management came to see me we had supplied At the back of my mind, I thought there must have been people but failing to do so. If not before, that other powers, had a hand in it as well. That secret services were trying in the chaos of war, A heavy burden for executives He who knew precisely what had been agreed what kind of put-up job was going on. He had to reassure people It was his job to lie. He couldn't cope. It crushed him. He was inadequate. Mickie Grutzmann He was fired. At home, he said he couldn't take Later on, here in Stuttgart, the admitted that Crypto was co- Mickie Grutzmann not only suffered He must have sensed that what he was doing Devices he was selling suddenly were centre Add to this that the operation Crypto devices were now such as the Vatican, Italy, Ireland, In a matter of war or peace certain methods The operation making the world providing a lot of information What is referred to often amounted to a moral dilemma Take Argentina, for example. The Argentine military regime was among the customers The Crypto devices with first-hand information was dealing with How they were abducted, The Minerva documents we've seen so far how much Western governments knew It's surprising that the Europeans more resistance against Every week, prisoners to be dropped in the ocean alive. Thousands died this way. Over 30,000 people fell victim For more than 40 years, the mothers of those abducted and in a protest that did nothing to stop the killing. Nora Morales de Cortinas Her son Carlos was kidnapped in 1977. Governments were aware of the horror, of babies and pregnant women They knew and did nothing to stop it. The dictatorship lasted because these countries doing business with the dictator in civil, religious Her son has been missing It's not unusual that secret services should find themselves You act and betray your operation, and then there's no more information. He was just another cog in the wheel of this major secret-service But Ruedi Hug To see what was happening and to know Crypto AG devices in many of those trouble spots He was preoccupied by it. He didn't feel at ease any longer he knew had been tampered with This was the reason why he turned In hindsight, I'm really happy he quit. In 1992, when Hans Buhler &quot;Jesus, it could've been my father.&quot; The arrest of Swiss businessman is severely straining relationships between Switzerland Hans Buhler, the selling genius on a routine visit to a regular The Iranians, feeling particularly had been trusting Crypto AG devices from neutral Switzerland &quot;The most lucrative target &quot;The Iranian thanks to the Iranian penchant Following a demonstration Hans Buhler was arrested, and cross-examined vigorously. The charge was espionage. This was a shock particularly because the firm seemed to do precious little for Buhler, For the time being, Hans Buhler gets better accommodation What they were realising was that basically was a potential hostage, potentially someone The CIA and the BND feared and Minerva, their big secret, Which would be the end of it. &quot;What would happen if Buhler &quot;How much did he know During the entire Buhler story, &quot;Thank God, Buhler is not privy He wasn't aware of any back doors. The uncertainty of him of what was happening and if he returned, In cross-examination, as to point a gun at his head. &quot;Talk or I'll pull the trigger!&quot; They wanted Buhler to confess that Crypto AG was selling equipment manipulated This was a concern not only to Iran but the entire Arab world, Following the first trial, The Iranians demanded a to return home. But Michael Grupe, Crypto AG's wasn't willing to pay. While the CIA refused as well, &quot;... if necessary, and pay the entire $1 million.&quot; The BND had to do to conceal So they had to put up the money. And that's just what happened. Germany spent 1 million $ After more than nine months Buhler was finally released. A shattered man I was locked up in a cell, on a stone floor with two blankets, and this for three months. It was very tough. Later on, in a &quot;Rundschau&quot; programme, Buhler spoke about his traumatic &quot;You're a spy travelling to Iran on an intelligence mission &quot;You set up an espionage network.&quot; &quot;You're selling The most terrible accusations. &quot;You're a liar. We know you're And then they told me, go and have lunch &quot;Next, you're going to squeal They sat me down to hear the sounds inside. As a priest was standing like receiving the last rites. But Hans Buhler escaped the horror. Back home, Crypto AG invited for drinks The management showed up in full. But only a short while later, because of impaired trust, Try and imagine this. It must be very difficult You're imprisoned for nine-and-a-half and you return home to a hypocritical in front of the entire workforce. The idea behind it was Hans Buhler is dumbfounded. The questions on his mind getting He begins to investigate and discovers part of the secret His good friend Ruedi Hug My dad firmly intended to help Hans. He wanted to find ways He wrote letters to MPs desperately hoping to find some means In 1994, journalist Res Strehle accusing Crypto AG of A media craze was triggered The firm went to great lengths as an independent business Managing Director Michael Grupe faced up to delicate questions lying straight in the face The Federal Republic of Germany, or the BND, is your secret shareholder. That is utter nonsense. So you have no dealings No other than customer relationships. No tampering whatsoever? You must be quite naive Our devices are tamper-proof. As the CIA specifies on page 80 it is proud of Michael Grupe's &quot;He bluntly denied the allegations.&quot; &quot;Grupe's performance was credible, What a relief for those The danger seemed averted. But Hans Buhler took his accusations Jurg Buhler was the Federal Police's As Vice Director of the Intelligence &quot;True, these are serious that require a thorough The Federal Police conducted meeting with some twenty current Bruno von Ah was also invited for an interview and ended up in a major dilemma. We remained silent for so long. Shall I break the silence Talking about back doors, I would be and remaining silent, The CIA kept a close eye on toing and was quite shaken, &quot;... von Ah was potentially &quot;Ruedi Hug also produced Here, he said quite clearly &quot;Rundschau&quot; hat the chance to All of them stated how strange as if the Federal Police officers Bruno von Ah had a similar feeling I told the Federal Police officer about a potential back door. I cannot confirm this. Some people said they had heard but were unable to describe them. The fact of the matter is to supply precise information to us. As you know, rumours and hearsay are not sufficient ground I then said to the there potentially was a back door, and if I got a guarantee that they would keep Crypto I would be willing to talk. Several Crypto AG employees but seem to have fallen on deaf ears. Also Federal Police officers &quot;The Federal Police and talked with Grupe and others, but did not appear to be very &quot;It was clearly a pro-forma visit.&quot; I got their answer a few days later. They couldn't provide a guarantee. I don't know how we could have had If it had turned other resources would have been That's for sure, but you cannot open merely on the back For the secret-service expert, why the Swiss authorities were not At least not officially. If the Federal Police or the Minister of Defence that Crypto AG was a subsidiary selling manipulated devices, the Swiss authorities would have been This would have been against the CIA, the BND and the NSA. Switzerland simply I see. At some point, the Federal Police and the Attorney General's Office to go no further Silence started to reign Bruno von Ah never heard Probably the Attorney General's &quot;Silence is golden&quot;. For Switzerland, but in Germany, the question arose of how to go on with Bernd Schmidbauer was in charge He said there was too much at stake Germany had just been re-united, Weighing the risk of such measures and considering it was the right decision for us and not to conduct In 1993, the BND sold Making the CIA the sole owner Hans Buhler had to appear Crypto AG wanted to keep him from voicing public allegations One day before the trial, the parties settled Buhler received hush money. He's hardly talked ever since. For a long time, to try to shed light He passed away four years ago. He was extremely ... He had an extreme sense of justice. It was difficult for him to accept that he couldn't manage Mickie Grutzmann died an early death. His time with Crypto He never recovered. It wasn't until that his family learnt He said, &quot;Stop talking about Crypto. We were not to mention it at all. Nor did he want us That's what he actually said. And we thought he was a boozer We thought he'd gone mad. We didn't take him seriously. It really hurts when you think of it. Hans Buhler, the globetrotter, In December 2018, probably without ever knowing And what about founding father He died in 1983, leaving behind They will be made public in 13 years. Now, Minerva has beaten him to it. Just before he died, &quot;I'm the greatest spy