One of the most hides itself in these woods, far away from the public eye in one of the most enchanting the Appalachian Mountains, home to age-old myths Within these mountains, there is also a an area where technologies and even microwaves are illegal. But why? In a time where we are how are some people within this And what lies behind Well, on a quest to piece together some Staffan and I decided to make the journey to this extremely remote area and But as there are no airports We first had to fly to Washington DC to then do the long and remote and then further into West Virginia to go investigate to see if we could and uncover some of the ''INTO THE QUIET ZONE'' The roads are getting smaller and smaller, and we are still an For the next 50 minutes, and we've already been there's no town to I've never seen that in my We're gonna stop in the and see if we can find We have not had service for 45 minutes away from the 'Quiet Zone' We are now rolling into the first village Let's go, we're gonna go and explore... What's the name of the town? Monterrey. We are making the in the last town before This is the only hotel. Monterrey, a peaceful escape. Oh, it's closed. This is the only place to Hello, hello, my name is Staffan, I'm from Sweden, and would And you are in Sweden? No, we are in Monterey, We saw a phone number. Oh, I see, I see, okay, I was like... that's a long way away for you to come. I just ran across the street to get some food. I will be back in two minutes, and I'll meet you at the front door. - Hi, guys. Welcome to Monterey, are you lost? Yeah, we're lost. - I'm Staffan. - Nice to meet you, come on in. They don't have microwaves in - Really? Wow! We actually have a couple that's He was talking to his wife on the phone, he goes: '' Honey, I used And she's like, Yay! As we were downloading the offline we somehow ran into a subscriber This is one of the most interesting We met Kate, who It's beautiful in Monterey. I'm getting goosebumps, And what did you say about when They keep historic traditions really alive. A lot of them are stuck in the past, because they like that they don't You'll get a lot of You get a lot of people who are because there's nothing else to do. What? We thought it was mostly just people that were But it sounds like it's a whole range of - I mean, you also decided to move here. Which is fascinating. I have to drive an hour - An hour? And I have to drive an hour and a - So... - Yeah. Oh, no. COMEDIC GENIUS!! What are your plans today? I was just working here today. Because we're obviously like and you seem to be very It'd be awesome if we Oh! I would die, I've been I saw the names actually I was like, this can't be! - I need to ask my boss. What are we doing? I have a question. We've been bonding, and... And we felt that Kate would Yes, she would, she knows But we know that she's committed so we wanted to know if today or tomorrow for You're the boss, so... Do you want to go? You get her into any - She's like my mother actually. Go ahead and go. Yes! Thank you. Yes! How long have you been Since 2016, so I was 12 years old. Wow! I'm so excited! Dream team! I've always wanted Okay, so now we're heading Let's do it. Do we need to send any final - Yeah, I'm doing that right now. There were multiple mysteries that we were hoping to Why was the border created and who We'd also heard that multiple people because of their hypersensitivity So as we prepared to cross and lose service we put together a checklist of the by the end of this adventure. Are there a lot of abandoned There's a ton, I'm guessing a little diner. I'm pretty sure that's what it was, It's been abandoned Let's just peek inside. - Yeah. On this episode, we'll be breaking an N.A. People have guns in this area, right? It's actually pretty and imagine and try to A lot of toys, clothes, this machine here. Abandoned places a mix of mold and humidity. It feels like we're gonna stumble No service. No service, meaning that we So we can't fly the drone here. Microwaves are not allowed. Cell phone service doesn't exist. And on a serious note, people Well, we are in West Virginia now, so I will say... Just like, don't f*** around. It's so empty, like that houses have There's the reason I only have like, two friends. It's probably not like when you're walking here that people Probably. With no town center, essentially we didn't know where So we decided to that Kate told us are I mean, be respectful, but in churches so that you can pray. Appalachian Mountains culture one of them being their music. So we were really hoping to but we didn't know Our adventure partner is an aspiring singer a rare kind that few still Despite being afraid her dream is to become and she was brave We just sat and talked about songs, I did a song in a Swedish hymn. You missed a Swedish I'm not singing that one. Take your time, no pressure. '' It was in that merry month of May When the green leaves, they were swelling That William Green on his death-bed lay For the love of Barbara Allen. He sent his servant to the town To the place where she was dwelling Saying '' William is sick, and he sends for you, If your name be Barbara Allen'' . O mother, oh, mother, make my bed, go make it both soft and narrow, Young William's died for me today. And I will die for him tomorrow ''. Wow, that was amazing! - So beautiful. It's mountain music. - I love it. How did we meet you this morning? I don't know. As we officially cross our real exploration begins. Established in 1958, the US government banned in this area to perform as well as national security operations throughout various government facilities, most notably known by the world's largest rotating telescope. Playing a pivotal role in mapping as well as in the search This observatory and area is The locals who live here never and phone service and may be one of the certainly in the West, Because of this unique characteristic, this area has attracted US government officials, but also people who due to sensitivities to the As we approached essentially also serving food, we were How are y'all? Come on in, we don't bite. Where are y'all from? Sweden and ... - Sweden? My lord! Far away from home! You guys are the first locals that we're meeting here, so we are excited about that. You guys live without internet, though? Well, you can get it but it's illegal. - Illegal? It implemented once they built this observatory, right? The observatory bought everything I don't know how they stopped the signal, but somehow they stopped the signal. There's a humming noise There's a humming noise in the mountain? Like comming from the montain? Oh, yeah... What do you think the best part Definitely the quiet, People, close-knit community, - That's lovely. It's easy to find yourself here. It's safe. Yeah, it's very safe here. -Yeah. it could take the to get to you if you had This place is like a gathering area? Yeah, but if there are storms and people come here to get information on what roads are closed and you know, to call here. You need a center where Because you can't really text or This place is the It's starting to feel really nice - Yeah, man. For the first few hours, I I kept checking my phone. Now it's just like, it's freeing It's like, okay, nice. We're just going to be in this. And before we knew it, the Wow! That is the observatory. Wow, it's so massive! It's like the most rural landscape. Right in front of the most Yeah, man. - What are you feeling witnessing this? Isn't it trippy? - It is trippy. Hi, sir, thank you, What a beautiful thing to have 240-something feet across. It's the biggest rotating - Really? You see it move? Yeah, if you come back in like - This is wild! But we didn't get shot! The highest contrast Farm with cow poop everywhere, and then the largest This is the best shot Really? There's someone there. How are you? We're looking to get to the observatory. Literally like 200 yards. - Okay, amazing! - Do you work here? Oh, amazing! How would you summarize It's a way for us to look at the universe, to expand human knowledge, ultimately. It's a pretty cool way to spend your day. - Thank you so much, nice to meet you. Okay. Let's go! Green Bank Observatory. With all of our side quests, we arrived at the but the staff told us we were still We just couldn't bring any form which meant leaving our cameras we could only capture what the telescope The dish is 100 meters in diameter, just over 2.3 acres, and was built to reflect radio waves The entire structure and can be steered to making this the largest To be able to pick up on things so enough to pick up the energy released This, is why the National to prevent any interference from getting The surrounding Allegheny Mountains also help to keep out any signals As we made our way we were about to have by running into the most But before we do that, we'd like to take a BetterHelp, who are offering at the link in the description below. Therapy can give you a that you may be uncomfortable For me, who have been through a fair talking to a professional who has been massively helpful in BetterHelp is on a mission as easy and as comfortable as possible, whether that's via phone BetterHelp is a fully online platform where therapists and clients can and get the most out of therapy. They have a journal inside of the and even have group sessions on if you'd like to discuss with other people who may be You can start by clicking the and filling out a short questionnaire. Then BetterHelp will match you with a One of the best features of BetterHelp is that you can easily switch your if it isn't a perfect match for you until you find one that So click the link in if you feel like you want on how to manage some of or go to betterhelp.com/yestheory to get 10% off your first month. All right, now back to Green Bank. - Excuse me, sir. May I ask you a question? Well, thank you. Do you work here at the center? - Oh, yes. It's research in astronomy, and it's open to any qualified It's like if you want a grant, here the proposal is time on the What kind of rule are you within I was director and then chief I'm retired but I have an office and so I'm doing research full-time now. - That's amazing. I am lucky to be here. What was your name? - Jay Lockman. Yeah, we've had a number of Does the name Werner Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, well, he came and - No way. West Virginia, the small town What you're seeing behind me is a very How busy are you tomorrow? Because we would love to - I'm around. He turns out to be You can't script it, bro. - Yes theory. Okay, now I'm going to So feel free to... You notice I don't carry a phone. Yeah, I mean, there's no... So you take notes in this. That's a wonderful thing. It's not backed up at Google, but... After chatting for a bit, we - So do you do old-time music? I was looking for some old-time Okay, so here is what's interesting. Our band is rehearsing at Amazing coincidence. I am blown away! Okay, well, I'll see you All right, take care. Jay, this was an No one's freak out, He was the two things we were A scientist who works at this place, That evening, we once again showed Hoping they'd have room for us. How's it going? - Hi. We were curious if you had Yeah, how many do you need? Oh, yes. And it wasn't until the next morning to explore the building and its grounds. Okay, here we go. You have to check this out. This is amazing. A dream room to just read in it. Wow! And you can go up. Oh, staircase. Staircase always means adventure. I've now decided I want a We need to make decisions together You can't just make a decision. You said we? There's a we there? Well, I'm gonna go... And then, as we sat down for breakfast, We bumped into a lady who told us that she suffers from this And a lot of people don't know that the headache, the heart all this stuff is really Again, the public because all the media is Electromagnetic hypersensitivity is a term used to describe a condition where individuals who are attribute them to exposure These coming from sources Wi-Fi and other wireless technologies It all started in 1994 when she was a A rash appeared on her face and she began to suffer from However, the wider medical community often considers EHS to be a and dispute the validity Still, those who experience EHS have advocated for more research into and have thus began seeking where they can escape the onslaught of constant This is how people used to You'd just show up to their and be like, hey, are you free? Do you want to play? Now, if I would do that to a This is what we're doing with one of We are essentially showing up and He said, come in. I know you guys aren't here right Wow, I never heard Good to see you again. You're certainly welcome to the house tonight. - Really? I'm so excited. Exactly what I thought Oh, there was a remnant on the - Oh, yeah, that's Bernard Herzog. Thank you so much, first of all, for being It's great to show off These are contours showing between us and extragalactic space. Jay Lockman, the one who we just is the man who discovered a part of the night sky as far out into the Because it's the part that is the least From a ground level view, that you could block it with But when you take a picture with a Each one of these dots is a So this is the most transparent if you want to look Thanks to a puckish friend of I was completely unaware Yeah. I was naming it 'The Lockman Window'. Exactly We couldn't believe Dr. Lockman to teach us about his work. And for the next hour, he with what the huge telescope How cool is that? You could download this. This is the cloud I'm working on. It's on a collision course and this is bringing in enough We've discovered over that normal matter, is a small fraction of That most of the mass of the universe It does not give off any light. All we do is we feel its gravity. This is so cool. I was in Ireland just last fall. - So we'll see you in a few hours. - This was an honor. - Very inspiring. On our way to Lackman's house, we thought we'd take a and give Kate some We just found a That's incredible. I get why you were - For sure. The music interest come to It's kind of hard to live in a so I definitely Then you come back here, and It fits the spirit of the place. What are the steps that you feel You always get that fear in your Maybe people won't understand, or how am I going to make it something I hindered myself for many years because I was afraid And I see myself so but also remember there's kind-hearted people out there ready to support you on your Thank you. After today and yesterday, thinking about I mean, why not just try things? Yes, yes. Do you record these songs On my voice memos app, We like to empower We were talking and when we heard we want to gift you one so you can Oh, thank you. And putting it out in the world. I'm like shaking, you - This has been the best dream. - How is your camera? Maybe we need to So you can record and I will do that too. Let's go. That's a good deal right there. How do you feel about that? I feel like If I think Wow, it's so beautiful. And for our final two experiencing all-time music and Rehearsal going on. I can't believe we got We're blessed to accomplish that Yes, good to see you again. We've got wine in the kitchen. There are snacks there. Nice, the violin man. With these guys, we've We've known each Wow! Yesterday, we met this and now we're in his house I never expected the to be the one to introduce In the ultimate clash of modern and old, we are watching a man who's and studying aspects of while playing old-time music This was a really interesting As contacting anyone we decided to just and somehow ended up meeting the full variety What we should do is find some - You want to make your debut? Let's go! I have a gig, my first gig. We left with our minds and some interesting perspectives A part of me wishes we without internet or cell The unintentional detox we and maybe it should be something we can That was great. - I love your style of singing. I love your style of living. For now, we would like to leave that we received from Lockman If you could tell something to It's take care of the home place, If you want to be a galactic civilization, you've got to live longer Our species is very aggressive. Really, really aggressive, okay? And so, I think we need to learn in ways that are We'll see you next week.