What's up everybody? My name is Demetri a podcast that inspires investors, entrepreneurs, narratives and learn how to think critically My guest in this episode of Hidden Forces is of Gavekal, a company that started as an on Asia and has evolved since to include In the first hour of our conversation, I asked trends set to define the investment landscape that the US and Europe are set to undergo a while China's economy is set to experience what part by rapid advancements in key industries like In the second hour, we explore why Louis dollar recycling is unsustainable and why re-industrialization of the United States. We industrial policy to achieve this and help of the American economy that has helped drive up streams, exacerbating the wealth divide, and If you want access to that part of the to Hidden forces, you can join our premium feed by going to hiddenforces.io/subscribe. All of our which you can listen to on your mobile device you're listening to this episode right now. and become a member of the Hidden Forces Genius access to special research and analysis also do that on our subscriber page. And if you to info@hiddenforces.io and I or someone Lastly, because this conversation deals with can or should be viewed as financial advice. All our own opinions and should not be relied And with that, please enjoy this thoughtful Louis-Vincent Gave. Louis Thanks for the love for having Yeah, I didn't try to go full-out French accent. How would you say your name in French Louis Vincent-Gave. That sounds so much better. It's not just a What prompted this conversation was actually La Shrub. And I read a bunch of your opinions in many of his pieces. So I was like, this which be to speak to Louis afterward. So before to be, I think mostly about China, but there's you explore in your research. I'd love to learn what you do and then to that point, why do you Oh, I don't know if I am good. I wake But we have a bit of a hybrid firm. It's and a friend of ours called Anatole Kaletsky, pure macro research firm publishing macro reports investors. Pretty early on we felt that China was in London. We moved to Hong Kong and then opened was going to be a big important factor for macro in terms of being in the right place at the right China really started to take off and there were So again, it was a question of being in the starting around 2005, we built a money with an Asian equity fund, and then when China we started to get pretty big into Chinese we also bought a stake in a private Gavekal. You might see that on social media. And aside from asset management, aside from research, in the US and that has now become a little a wealth manager based in Mauritius. So we're Obviously, since we started, we've grown now eight partners working in the firm. Our our second biggest office, remains in Beijing, and I still find it absolutely fascinating. story frankly, of humanity, how six, 700 million to me worthy of a lot of ink, a lot of studying. So I agree it's the most remarkable economic and it continues in some ways. So you you publish a lot I've seen. How an article every month? How many Personally less than I used to because the team more than three publications every day. So we a daily, which is usually two to three pages at big that happened in a previous day or two, and And so that's our daily short, punchy to the your way to the bathroom. We write a think piece we might have a second think piece specifically So I highlight this because we now have a of people looking to contribute, and we're all I write pieces that end up on the floor because my colleagues. Charles, right now, my dad, who Because he's got three or four pieces in the he clamors to get them published. So I highlight I would say five or six dailies a month and ideas pieces. So I probably publish Yeah, I mean that's a lot. You guys put while I do expect us to talk quite a bit about And so I feel like the appropriate question to the most important trends that you've years and that you expect to remain focused what are the enduring trends that define Everybody's got different processes. I start three prices that determine everything: the and US interest rates. And that as clear and intelligent view on any one of these will determine pretty much everything else. And point for me personally is that economic activity more than people give it credit for. And that the world of energy and the world of currencies. and for me to answer your question, perhaps the past decade or so that people just don't spend I wrote a book about it back in 2012. The book look at it, the US went from producing 5 million basically added one Saudi Arabia. And as it did, inflation in the US, which allowed the Fed to keep allowed for a massive rewriting of the US, etc. that's the part that people don't focus enough on. in the past decade, has gone from 5 million to for me is where do we go from here? Does the US it has built-in energy? And if it does, then US markets, and happy days for US policymakers. Or had starting to stall, starting to stall because haven't been that friendly to the energy space? next five years, the US will find another Permian being done to find another Permian and therefore a world where the US goes from five to 13 and a it a very, very different world with impact and impact eventually on policies as well. The other massive trend of course, and I must admit I didn't listen to the talk yet with subscribe to both Paulo and the Shrub sub-stacks. great pulse on the markets. But look, the biggest story, is that we've moved from a fundamentally world. And in an inflationary world, portfolio We're seeing it every day. In a deflationary for a portfolio. In an inflationary world, natural diversification for portfolios, failing And that brings me to the third big trend partly thanks to energy, partly thanks to monetary strong, and I firmly believe that with the in the US frankly the monetary policies that are consecutive years where inflation has been above its very best to sound dovish. So I think we're again that has huge consequences for portfolios, So let's tackle the deflation to inflation you point to that makes it so that you believe we Well, the first, of course, I would say the favorite economist is a French economist called advisor in the '60s. That was actually him who York and got the Americans pretty off, but he running and saying, &quot;Look, this is just simply not against gold.&quot; Here's how I'd put it. Today, recovery following COVID, pretty much anywhere you nominal GDP growth meaningfully above structural of Europe, it's true of India, it's true of Japan. is running budget deficits of six, six and a half is running roughly four. China is running roughly my home country is running five and a half. is its expenditures that give no return And this is exactly what we're seeing everywhere. give no return, whether you call them magic a highly inefficient way, whether you call them call them massive increases in social spending. in government spending and, at the same time, hold on, you got runaway budget deficits, my safety is getting worse. Against that, public healthcare is getting worse. And so this inflation money that doesn't exist. You'll be hard-pressed the case, except perhaps the one country that In China, you have had big increases in debt, but you're at the phase of their structural growth right? It's been going in high-speed in airports. It's been going in infrastructure. career, let's say for the sake of argument, 30 4 trillion in debt. Today, it's got 34 trillion 2 trillion a year. Now here's the thing. In the Where's the Hoover Dam? Where's the new interstate that was open in the US was the Denver Airport debt that has primarily funded expenditures that it's gone into silly military operations, and so you see the inflation all around you. Is it fair to say, I mean, it's hard for Americans you're living in an empire, you don't see like the United States. But in some sense, is it also the American imperial economy where you had running current account deficits, the dollar was in a world where the military balance of power the symbiotic economic relationships especially post fall of the Soviet Union. It does. And look, I don't want to be selling about this back in 2019 called Clash of Empires, e-version is free. If people want to download and I'm happy to wax lyrical on it for hours. you've had two kinds of empires. You've had you build railways. And very clearly this is One Road, the Silk Road Fund, the all these investments that China's making is Fundamentally, that's what empires often do. say all roads lead to Rome. Empires build roads to higher value-added goods, and push them out to have tried to do. That's what Britain did, that's Terrestrial or naval through That was going to bring me to my second point, you've got the land-based empires, IE Rome, and the old days. Now, land-based empires are very you need to put stations. If the US is an empire, world's oceans. Now, having said this and this, challenges to this. The first challenge is the US reluctant empire. Again, if you start off with bring commodities in cheaper, to push out finished undeniably doing this in the 1950s and the 1960s. what the Marshall Plan was about. Here we'll money to buy Caterpillar machines and to But the US stopped doing that 30 years ago; we're going to bring in the commodities here, and ship them out to the rest of the world. as I think we're seeing now with this Ukraine power. Ukraine is running out of 155-millimeter nor the US can produce them anymore. We simply expertise to produce the 155-millimeter shells World War II. We're not even capable of doing that But the idea that the US is no longer be an empire and not be an industrial power, second question mark is as you pointed out, the US a very low-cost way of being an empire, except drone can threaten entire sea lanes as we saw with seen before with the Armenia-Azerbaijan war, and controlling Seaways thanks to massive fleets and can get taken out by a $50,000 drone, all of and your ability to control all of the world's think we're seeing some profound shifts today So on that point, if you had to sort relationship is between the US and China and tell and how much of this is an appropriate for example, to try and prevent China's overestimation of the threat that China Look, I think the entire relationship to power. I think pre-Xi Jinping, the US saw and they're going to produce the microphone going to produce the shoes that I'm wearing, and and we're going to capture most of the margins margins in the United States. And that worked if you remember Xi Jinping comes in and does two like the One Belt, One Road, and the Silk Road Xi Jinping was inward-looking. You came in abroad. There were so many problems at home. It's themselves. I'm focusing domestically. you know what? We're going to build roads in East. So that piques up the US interest. to be the chief manufacturing center. You're not Is that also because, implicitly, the orbit of the American Empire, right? China was the manufacturing center of the US going to have our own empire. So the US already I think Xi Jinping did, if you remember, he had we've got to be able to produce our own commercial we want to be a telecom switch exporter. And not at exporting cars. We want to be the number one in moving equipment and tractors and whatever else. when you were producing socks and underwear, but for telecom switches, and if you're not going and if you're going to be competing with Ford Boeing for planes, then we have a problem. You can't be moving up the value chain. And so going to make sure you don't get access to see my this has happened, what the US has found, I think, the Chinese economy took the punches and they and kept going, kept going. And China pre-2025 and it has become the world's biggest tractor that's the situation we're in today. Now, the the US has just announced 100% tariffs announced 50% tariffs on Chinese batteries and I think that's terrific news because, for the we lived in a climate emergency. I was told if we didn't dramatically change our ways. we don't need to change to electric vehicles, and emergency must have been pushed back because we even though the world is supposedly burning. So I So I mean, that might be an opportunity to go much of your opinion on shale is a result how much of that is because the private of it is because of government regulations or ESG, stuff like that. But let's just bring it this doesn't fit neatly into the investor larger framework. From the European and American the neoliberal consensus of largely unconditional given the fact that they have been competing with policy and very good at using state subsidies? didn't become the number one EV exporter because free market principles. They had it because I disagree on that actually. Well, great, because this is a good because they've really crushed it on EVs. So how they've taken the global economy by storm the Europeans and the Americans have put it's not even an area of competition I think the narrative right now in the Western oh, China's really good at giving government that's the narrative. I look at it a little bit being an industry, you build an ecosystem. you know what? I'm going to throw a bunch of money is trying to do right now with semiconductors, Korea have gotten to be much better producers of bunch of subsidies from the Taiwanese government? like China, has a whole, both tech and industrial by workers who tinker and make small changes. with you that it's a great example. Today, you do out on the upside and they're breaking out on you look at BYD, whether you look at a Pole And also, I mean the huge price Huge price differentials. But there's Roadkill. You've had tens of bankruptcies of car I would say that the difference is perhaps that that it's a far less competitive landscape as the US, if you go back to when cars were first the US had what? 100, 150 car producers? And they tinkering in their garages and making things better than everybody else, and so did General competitors or the competitors just went bust. you get stupid, and the more protectionism you Now, you look at China, you've had literally in the past 15 years or so, and you've had have are the survivors, the BYD of this world does China have comparative advantages in that have in the West? Absolutely. Does it have cheaper given to electric vehicles? Yes. And have there vehicles for the Ministry of Defense and ordering etc? Absolutely. But the West does that as vehicle industries in the Western world haven't have existed if it hadn't been for government So we can sit around and say, oh, China's we're hiding ourselves from the more important ecosystem and it is that industrial ecosystem that well, it managed to build it through subsidies in past 20 years destroying our industrial ecosystem, ecosystem. And so to think that our problem Well, I should be clear. Subsidies are one thing really trying to get at is that in China, the process in a way that the US government no longer de-industrialization of the United States, and was policy driven? In other words, how much of the of the American economy is the result of I think the government let it happen, is the US government responsible for the don't have parts falling off of them? Or short-term profits at the expense of responsible for the fact that Ford and General Well, where does that come from? That's Boeing also. Where does that come from in the expense of everything else? That's just I think it is a cultural manifestation. And been done in the past 30 or 40 years to glorify the gap between CEO pay and worker pay is gap between the 1% and the bottom 20 is greater that this promotes creativity, that attracts that it promotes the highest GDP growth. What it want to cut it does not promote the building of it promotes is saying I can get a worker in Mexico So I'm just going to go ahead and do that. As I So we could argue, you could say, well, look, if is. It'd be half of the level. We'd have the same stock market returns as Japan, which isn't but houses in the Hamptons, instead of costing bucks. And I would say, yeah. So these are the were made by politicians or they were made But it sounds like your opinion is that we less income, and wealth inequality. It's not really my job to put a value judgment on really my problem. My problem as an investor consequences. Now, the investment consequence and for now, the consequence of this as the US is the US is saying, okay, this is a problem. We're problem. The reason for this is China subsidizes we're going to blame somebody else for our own to put tariffs to deal with this problem. Now, so I am naturally against tariffs, but I do If you put on tariffs and say, look, we need to to protect it for a little while. As it gets tariffs can make sense. But there's none of that tariffs. And tariffs, for tariffs' sake just means down makes it worse over the long term. And so and has decided, I'm going to put a bandaid on So you write, I mean, the reason I'm asking these electorate is today? I mean, I think whether sort of implicit in the conversations that are they're central and industrial policy and defense think about the US elections, understandably, in imperial model, what goes on in the United States politics fit into your framework and how do you context of the US-China geostrategic competition, These are super important questions. So first, really have a bone in this fight. So, actually, but I'm not emotionally involved like a lot of the first point I'd say is that as do I really care if it's Trump or Biden? Again, I but cultural issues don't matter all that much think, okay, what impact are they going to have Biden, they're both going to run massively that budget deficit in the US, which in my mind is It's going to stay at five, six, seven, 8% of GDP the money on different things. There's going to but fiscally it's going to be roughly the same between Trump and Biden is that is in foreign and foreigners. And foreigners are wrong-uns. you're trying to take advantage of the United It's America First America First. America first. and bad non-democracies. And it's very much a Western view of the world where you got the good some of the good guys, IE Japan, of this world For me, the biggest anomaly in the markets That's completely crazy. You've got the world's biggest second after China running a currency basis. It's madness. Today, the yen is one of the basis. It's cheaper than the Indonesian rupiah, that's crazy. I highlight this because I tend to stand for that. I think he comes in and he tells is the price. And then this has a big impact on bond yields everywhere in the world to probably carry trades to continue. It's triggered a lot a massive structural bull market on gold. Otherwise, I think whether you've got Trump or the same. Whether you have Trump or Biden, I lower. Now, Biden is less explicit than Trump we want a weaker dollar.&quot; Lighthizer, his So either way, you end up with a policy of excess budget deficits in the weaker dollar combined to it's like, yeah, it's sort of the same, a lot of the carry trades might implode So, Louis, I'm going to move the rest of our talk about something that is being discussed and potential R&amp;B devaluation. I know you have a chance to talk about de-dollarization, which conceptually because I feel like it's a term things to different people and to discuss how empire and the American imperial For anyone new to the program, Hidden Forces is or commercial sponsors. The entire show is you. If you want access to the second hour of hiddenforces.io/subscribe and sign up for one access to our premium feed, which you can use to mobile device using your favorite podcast app, now, Louis, stick around. We're going to move the If you enjoyed listening to today's episode becoming a member of the Hidden Forces Genius access to special research and analysis, that at Hiddenforces.io/subscribe. And to send an email to info@Hiddenforces.io and I or Today's episode was produced by me and edited you can check out our website at hiddenforces.io. can email me at info@hiddenforces.io. As always,