- Maybe we could just touch on that you just mentioned. 'Cause I do think it's important that people really start to And here we're talking about things that are relatively low time investment, certainly don't have much financial cost in the sense that they and with fancy equipment, but they don't require that. Again, I want to point out that these are not strict prescriptives, but if you had a magic wand, and because you are interested let's talk about a few of these things that can improve glucose disposal and mitochondrial function, mitophagy, the removal of dead so they can be replaced. Let's talk about the walking one first. - Yeah. - You said 7,000 steps a day. I don't track my steps. What are we really talking about there? We're talking about taking the stairs and trying to walk as much as possible. If we were going to just give You're a doctor, so you - Yes! - What would you tell people to do? How many short walks per day? Is it three, is it five? What are we talking? - I would say, I mean at least three. I would say aiming for more So to sort of just give a sense If walking were a pill, it would be the most in all of modern medicine. There was a paper in &quot;JAMA&quot;, 6,300 participants followed And the people who simply compared to less than that had an up to 70% lower in the follow up period. - Amazing. but it's pretty incredible. They've done follow-up research with slightly different numbers showing, again, though, many thousands followed for about 10 years, 8,000 to 12,000 steps per day was associated with 50 to 65% And this has been played showing about a 50% dementia, obesity, Type 2 diabetes, depression, cancer, gastric reflux, just all across the board. And I think the key thing is it's about the fact that When we contract our muscles, even in a very low-grade way, like walking or doing a couple air squats, we're activating AMPK, and we are essentially causing that cell to have a stimulus to to the cell membrane. Most of the time the glucose channels are in vesicles, in little They're not on the cell membrane. So of course that's in your bloodstream, not being processed by the mitochondria. So when we think about for just moving more throughout the day. So let's take two people. You have a person who's every 30 minutes throughout the day. Maybe they're exercising at the end of the day or maybe they're not. That person is stimulating to be at the membrane all day. Now let's take another person for one hour in the beginning They feel great about it, they've checked that off their box, but they're sitting the Yes, they have gotten the but for a lot of that day, those glucose channels are inside the cell not doing the work they could be doing. So I think about these little or pushup breaks or air squat breaks every 30 minutes or so throughout the day as me essentially inside the cell pushing the glucose to make them constituently active. It's totally different So it's not about the steps, it's about muscle contraction And this has been shown out in actually more clinical there's been several studies, two that I think are fascinating, where they basically took &quot;Okay, we're going to before each meal, three times a day, 20 minutes after each meal.&quot; So that's also three times a day. &quot;Or for two minutes every 30 - So these are three groups. - Either 20 minutes before, - Two to three minutes every 30 minutes. - Okay. - All added up to 60 minutes of walking or light jogging a day. I'm kind of paraphrasing that showed the same thing. One was jogging, one was walking, but it was basically every 30 minutes The groups that do the short movement regularly throughout the day, even though the total time is the same across all the groups, have significantly lower 24-hour insulin level averages. They are metabolically healthier. And I believe, and the research that it's because we're these channels of the membrane to take up the substrate, So this is not to replace exercise, but I think it's a reframe. I think the concept of we're really very wedded And you look at more like the blue zones and the centenarians, and it's like moving is built So we've taken movement as these knowledge workers, And then we think that exercise replaces that all-day movement, but biochemically it does not. So I think a big part of kind of digging ourselves out and creating capacity for mitochondria is finding ways to take a lot of the activities we do now seated and just find a way to do more of them moving, standing, or walking; or if that's tough, you really need to sit then every 30 minutes, taking two minutes to do some just light get the glucose channels at the membrane, get the mitochondria active. So, and I think another that our gym memberships since the year 2000 and obesity has gone So there's some mismatch between and our actual outcomes that we're seeing. And I think it's that we have not actually into our daily lives. - Very interesting, 'cause are now working out, so to speak, doing resistance training, - Terrific. Yeah. - Used to be so restricted like bodybuilding, preseason And now it's more Men, women, young, old, it's terrific. Same thing with things like yoga and cardiovascular training. I mean I like to study the and it wasn't but in the '60s when jogging was considered kind of like, &quot;Whoa, that's a really So a lot's changed. I love the prescriptives you gave, because it's just very straightforward, a couple of short walks. It just makes so much sense, and I love the visual, and I hope people will So I'll reiterate it. The translocation of these vesicles, as you call from the center of the cell where then they can be in metabolic processes and in ways that otherwise they wouldn't. And glucose disposal So I have heard that a will reduce blood glucose in - Huge amount, 30, 35% just taking a walk around That's definitely a prescription 'cause the research is so strong on it, is that building in simply a or a dance party in the for 10 minutes after a meal can drastically reduce 'cause you're just bringing all those channels to the membrane. You're taking up the It's a whole different physiology than sitting on the couch after a meal. That's very high impact. It's high leverage if it's after a meal. So highly recommend that. And the levels data and clinical data has shown that out time and time again. - Whenever I go to a city like New York, when I am forced to walk more, I always just feel so much better. We also know that the optic flow that one experiences with walking has some interesting effects and quieting of some of the anxiety and stress-related pathways. This links up with things like EMDR, although there are factors Basically, moving through but walking through space with optic flow, has a certain anxiety reduction which there are beautiful Okay, so that touches on walking. You did mention higher-intensity exercise, so let's keep it within the So getting heart rate way, way up, getting breathing hard for maybe a couple times per week. Seems that's a good way to and mitochondrial number. Is that right? - Yeah, so you take sort We've got walking, we've we've got high-intensity we've got endurance training, and then we've got sort So we've got these different flavors of how we get our heart rate up, how we get the blood flowing, And each one actually has like a slightly different impact When we think about biogenesis, we're thinking mostly endurance exercise and really more of that zone 2, and that is really going to to print more mitochondria. When we think about improving high-intensity interval training is really, really good for that. When we think about resistance training, that's like muscle hypertrophy. We're going to be creating and we need more mitochondria for those. So each one has kind And I think this is where, honestly, I think the regular guidelines that we have even by our government actually make a lot of sense. It's like work every major in a resistance-type training, and then work to get 75 to 150 minutes of moderate strenuous activity. So 75 minutes of strenuous activity or 150 minutes per week So that actually makes a lot of sense. 80% of Americans are not meeting and 20% of Americans don't really at all. Activity for the average American is 3000 to 4,000 steps per day, which is less than two miles. So we are not even close to even meeting the basic recommendations But I think those are pretty reasonable: resistance training two most major muscle groups, and working to get the for 150 minutes a week or Those are going together for biogenesis, mitophagy, for increasing antioxidant enzymes that are going to protect the mitochondria from that oxidative stress. And the one that's just in the sort of the basic is the walking, and I would at least 7,000 steps per day based on what the data is showing, which honestly would probably take less than an hour total to do. And if you break it up throughout the day, it's just a few minutes a day. So that right there are going to be a big, multifaceted set of signals for increasing mitochondrial - Thank you for tuning into If you enjoyed the clip please check out the full-length