hello. This is Hejdoo, sharing simple living tips. Today, I'm sharing my favorite IKEA organizers IKEA organizers that I've been using for a long time. From IKEA's best organizers to the most versatile organizers! Here's a great product for niches! This basket is made of steel and is lightweight but sturdy. It has a raised bottom so things don't spill out. My laundry room is less than a square foot. so I've always been short on storage. I'm going to use these baskets to add more storage space :) No installation required, just snap it onto the shelf. I used it to store the things I need for laundry :) If you drill a hole in the side of the box of tissues, it will be more convenient to use. This is a hanging basket made of white iron. The design is cleaner and more practical. It's quite deep and narrow in width. so it's great for storing rolled dishcloths, kitchen towels, etc. It's also tall enough to store pasta sauce jars. I think it's more versatile. :) It also holds 8 cans of beer. I recommend it as a good organizer for niche storage. I'd also like to introduce organizers that can make your kitchen more comfortable. These hanging products are convenient because you don't need to drill holes no drilling required. I'm going to use these to organize my kitchen cabinets. I had a lot of glass cups in my cabinets. it was hard to get to the things inside. This product is a display rack that hangs on a shelf. It's perfect for storing wine glasses and goblet cups. It fits three goblet glasses. This is a hanging hook. for hanging cups and it's also great for hanging other frequently used items in the kitchen. Make your kitchen space more organized and and organized :) One of my favorite storage hacks is hidden under my sink. It's a plastic storage bin with lots of holes. I use it to store plastic bags from the kitchen. The many holes make it easy to get the bags in and out from anywhere. You can use stickers on the back or drill holes to secure it, but the stickers are a bit weak. I'm using it with a strong tape, I've been using it well without any inconvenience. :) You can also use it to store umbrellas in your shoe rack. :) I recommend it as a versatile storage box with a good price-performance ratio! This is a paper file holder from IKEA. :) It's made of paper, but it's quite sturdy and durable, so it's very versatile. :) We have a bookcase in the kids' room, and no matter how I organized it, it didn't look neat. So I divided the papers by purpose and organized them and organized them in these paper storage boxes. I keep papers of different designs and sizes in these file racks. the room looks so much more organized and it's much easier to find what I need :) The file rack is also a great addition to my kitchen cabinets, where I keep my milk cartons, which are nicely opened and dried and reusable plastic bags. It's nice to be able to keep things upright and neat. It's also a great way to organize all those spare hangers to organize those unsightly spare hangers. :) Keep your home organized with paper storage :) This is my old cutlery holder. It didn't have a drip tray underneath, so when I washed dishes. water would get on the floor quickly. Also, I was disappointed that this utensil bin was not ventilated. So now I'm using this one from IKEA. It comes in two sizes, cutlery and cookware. and it has these ventilated holes so it's great for drying wet utensils and cutlery. and it has a drip tray insert on the bottom. so it doesn't leak on the bottom. The cookware bin is quite tall like this so you can put long utensils in it without it falling over. It's also a good size. Best of all, it doesn't clash with my white kitchen that doesn't detract from my white kitchen. :) IKEA's KORKEN series has a good cost-performance ratio. It's one of IKEA's best-sellers because it has a wide variety of colors. I'm using two sizes. The smaller one is great for storing preserves and jams. I use it to store my mom's old miso jars. It's got a big opening, so it's easy to scoop out. I put this silicone packing on the lid. it creates a good airtight seal. I'm going to use the remaining glass jars to store my yuzu green tea. I like that it's glass so you can see what's inside. This is the perfect size to fit in my refrigerator door cavity. A slightly larger size would be for cookies that tend to get soggy or or for tea. It fits 500 grams of barley tea :) Or maybe pickles? :) The silicone seal is dishwasher safe if you remove it. Here are two other useful levitating organizers. First, this one has a magnet on the back. so you can attach it to your fridge to hold your writing utensils for note-taking or or hang your favorite kitchen utensils on the bottom hooks. so you can grab them whenever you need them. :) Stick it on your front door It's a great place to store access cards or wellness cards that you might forget. Below, you can use it to store your car keys or keys. And this one would be great in a study. It's pretty magnetic, so it sticks to the rounded legs :) I use it to store my favorite pens and USB cables. It doesn't take up any space I can just pull them out whenever I need them. This stainless steel magnetic clip is has a very simple design and can be used anywhere a magnet will stick. Use it to hold recipes, notes, or magnets around the house photos or pretty postcards around the house. Decorative effect. These magnetic clips are also quite strong so you can use it on your front door to hold on to things you need to grab before you leave the house, or or even on your washing machine You can also use them to hang laundry items for niche storage! I also use them to keep my kid's artwork on display in the house for a while :) These clothespins You've seen them in my videos quite a bit, right? At first glance, they don't look much different from regular clothespins. but the spring is plastic, so you don't have to worry about it rusting. The hook makes it even more versatile. Use the hooks on a bathroom towel rack. you can hang the towel within your child's reach :) Now your child can wash their hands by themselves :) You can also use it to dry underwear, socks, and more. And you can hang a pair of tongs on the laundry room faucet. and you can use it to store things in nooks and crannies. Hanging on a hinge in the kitchen cabinet to neatly store your rubber gloves. It's so much easier to keep my kitchen dry. I've also been using these seal clips in the kitchen. When you're sealing something a little bit larger sometimes they gap or don't stay closed. This is a new IKEA sealing clip. and it holds even the largest items tightly :) They come in 2 sizes The color scheme is so pretty, right? I like to keep my leftovers organized like this. I can easily find them later. :) I bought this basket 7 years ago and it's still going strong. I originally bought it to store fruits and root vegetables. I don't buy fruits and vegetables in bulk, I've been using it to store old clothes and old towels. It's a great way to save them for later cleaning :) And if you fold it in half like this you can also use it as a wider, lower basket. The basket is lightweight and hand-woven seagrass. it's lightweight and hand-woven seagrass, so it's a practical basket that fits naturally into any space. You know this basket from Ikea, right? It's a white steel basket with wooden handles. I think it would look great anywhere. This basket has an airy, netted design. so it's great for storing fruits and vegetables. I use it to store onions. to keep my onions fresher for longer. I also use it to store cleaning supplies. and it holds a lot. I recommend it as a practical and pretty storage box! This is another IKEA staple, right? I use it as a toolbox to organize wires and cords. I organize all kinds of wires and cords with trash and recycling bins. It has a simple look, is durable, and looks great anywhere in the house. KUGGIS comes in a variety of sizes and lids, and they're stackable, which is a great space saver. I use the larger bins to store my bulky winter padding. And they're made from over 50% post-consumer plastic. I love that it's both eco-friendly and practical. I got this storage box from Ikea because I was running out of closet space. It's a pretty spacious box, so it's perfect for storing so I can store out-of-season clothes pillows, duvets, bed sheets, etc. And it's made from recycled polyester, so it's eco-friendly. It's made from recycled polyester, so it's eco-friendly and has ventilation holes to keep your clothes and bedding dry. I use this storage box under the bed in my kids' room. The handles make it easy to get things out. Most of all, I love the neat niche storage space. I have a small desk in my bedroom. It's the only space in my house that's just for me. The top is made of durable bamboo, The simple design is perfect for small spaces. This is where I edit my videos. I also use it for work when I work from home. It's a compact desk that fits my Mac perfectly. I try to keep the top of my desk as clear as possible. I also have three cute little desk drawers on the top which are great for storing small items It's a great little storage option, so I've been putting it to good use :) I would recommend it as a practical desk for home use :) Organizing wires and multitaps is not easy, right? This wire organizer will keep everything hidden! Under my computer desk at home under my computer desk at home and it looked so unorganized. I put them all in the organizer. And it kept the wires neat and organized. For multiple wires together you can use Daiso Velcro to secure them together with the desk legs. See how neatly organized the messy wires are? :) These hooks are designed to be used on smooth surfaces like glass or mirror tiles smooth surfaces like glass or mirror tiles. Thanks to the clean metal cover it looks neat and organized anywhere in the bathroom. To use, simply dry the area where it's attached. Press down firmly on the hooks until they snap into place and you're done. I use it for hanging bars. and it sticks pretty well. And then I put another hook on the back of the door. for hanging clothes after a shower. If you want to remove the hooks, you can use a sharp object to pry the with a sharp object and it comes off easily. This Ikea side table is has a curved handle for a comfortable grip and it's lightweight, so you can easily move it around. It also has a lip on the edge of the top to keep things from falling off. It's perfect for a quick snack in the living room. or put a potted plant on it. The white wood color makes it look nice and clean wherever I put it. And thanks to the self-adjusting plastic feet makes it even more stable :) I put my husband's small desk across from the kids' bed, This is also a very compact and practical desk. It has a space in the back to hide the wires. so we can hide the messy wires neatly :) There are two drawers under the desk. with stoppers to keep them open safely. I think it would make a great desk for my kids in the future. :) This is a waterproof storage bag. It's quite wide at the bottom. so it's perfect for traveling It's great for storing cosmetics and cleansing products. It holds quite a few products, doesn't it? If you roll up the top and fasten the snap strap, you can also use it as a handle. so you can carry it around like a bag. This bag is perfect for sweaty workout clothes or a wet swimsuit. Fold the top edge over three times to secure the straps and it's completely waterproof completely waterproof. I didn't get any of my swimsuits wet, did I? I think this would be really useful for water play :) I bought this spice jar quite a while ago. It's a clear glass container so it's easier to see what's inside. It's not completely airtight. I've been using it more for tea bag storage than spice storage. I organize my favorite teas by type and label them so it's easier to find what I need later. Organize them in the kitchen drawer where you store your tea or coffee. My kitchen drawer is now more organized :) This cute little thing is cell phone holder. It's a surprising price at 800 won but it's really well made. It has 2 slots so you can hold your phone vertically or horizontally. I use it mostly when I eat alone. You can use it as a keychain like this It's a great size to carry around I keep it in my bag and use it whenever I need it. :) I recommend it as a great organizer :) What did you think of my IKEA organizing picks today? I hope you've enjoyed these pretty and practical organizational gems that make my home shine. and I hope they've helped you to live a simple and fulfilling life. Have a simple day today :)