[Trailer: "Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. Twenty years ago, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas tens of millions of players have experienced CJ's and his attempts to rebuild his old street gang. playthrough is that, beneath the surface, San It's not just a game about stealing cars and and often cynical exploration of identity and of several cities' contrasting Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is deeper than [CJ: "It was time to go home ... Grove Street, A lot of the game's opening chapter is about home; CJ still considers Los Santos and Grove Street his and he seems to believe that he betrayed after Brian's death five years earlier. Home and always has been, with his family. the entire game--is about CJ trying this takes the form of CJ trying to belongs back in Grove Street. More has been betrayed by CJ's absence. ran away from, fool."] expecting CJ to leave yet again. need is your help."] CJ when he promises otherwise. back on the set?"] [CJ: "I told you that, bro."] All CJ wants to do is feel like he belongs, you'll spend several missions trying cleaning up the neighbourhood, fighting against back to its former glory. And, eventually, the gang and driving out some of their rivals [Sweet: "CJ, you're my brother, my you."] [CJ: "It's nothing."] [Sweet: CJ has found his identity. Unfortunately, it comes at a bad time. Within Ryder's betrayal, catches Sweet in the middle banished to the country while Sweet is his home and rekindled his relationship with his forced to rediscover his identity once again. to find himself a bit outside of Los Santos--a to a garage, he turns it into a fully functional her boyfriend Cesar. At Kendl's suggestion, he can like an RC shop operated by his associate and an abandoned airstrip in Bone County. CJ even if he does largely achieve success through of both worlds for him: using his criminal and doing so alongside his family. This continues notably in his work for the Four Dragons Casino To an extent, he's discovered his identity. though--thanks entirely to CJ's tireless hearing about his brother's business ventures. [Sweet: "You never did get it, did you, Carl? that's the problem. You always a All Sweet cares about is getting back to Grove It's all he's ever really cared about. He he cares about his families, even if he does Interestingly, I think CJ's reactions also defends himself and his actions and tries to but ultimately relents: the rest of the game's focused on rebuilding the gang once again, even at the end of the day, it wasn't all about the being around the people he loves and respects--his if rebuilding Grove Street Families means ensuring It's why, at the end of the game, CJ keeps his businesses are important, but ultimately they with Big Smoke and Tenpenny out of the picture, His home is not the businesses, or the is wherever his family is; that's where [CJ: "Hey, Smoke, what made you flip out [Big Smoke: "I got caught up There aren't really any characters in San but what really sets them apart is the lengths refuses to introduce the gang to the heavy drug no matter how much money they could potentially probably gain money, status, and power by but instead he chooses to stick with his Big Smoke and Ryder, meanwhile, go out of in order to earn more money and power--and, killed. Tenpenny and Pulaski don't hesitate to achieve what they believe is success--no And sure, it is briefly rewarding for these Big Smoke and Tenpenny, who benefit the most from it catches up to them: eventually, they get friends--their family--and while they largely seem anyway. Tenpenny and Pulaski's corruption is seem to think they've gotten away with it for a One thing that sets Tenpenny's behaviours face of the very institution to which he belongs: not take advantage of their positions to This story wasn't written in a vacuum--it's most notably the Rampart scandal of the late 1990s to have committed misconduct, including planting Tenpenny utilises his power imbalance to or to behave in a manner that solely benefits that exists between police and marginalised that CJ is trapped in: manipulation, deceit, and which Los Angeles--and several other cities--were It's not like Tenpenny is particularly secretive fairly publicly, at least in the neighbourhoods in part, how it eventually catches up with and Ryder too--their carelessness in hiding their ultimately discovers their betrayal. In each and it is this obsession with achieving The consequences of Tenpenny's downfall--the the imbalance of power and the manipulation does not just impact the perpetrators or even just can destabilise entire communities. Years of Rodney King, the killing of Latasha Harlins, and punishment for those responsible prompted riots To a far less realistic and devastating extent, corruption catches up with him. He is charged public. And, while he is ultimately acquitted, he prompting city-wide riots. And the game doesn't a period of time after Tenpenny's acquittal, and gameplay is subsequently--through not doesn't just want to tell you about power and it puts you right into the heart of the Both Big Smoke and Tenpenny have some henchmen the incorruptible spirit of CJ's family. And in intentions--already pretty clear--just a little bit with success and notoriety. everyone gonna remember my name, Big Smoke!"] romantic view of his own actions and importance. okay. I took the trash out! I did!"] and nowhere is this clearer than in Miami in the mid-1980s: the drug trade, The modern-day East Coast in the early and pressure on aggressive policing. games--each the best-selling games of their in two different corners of the country. choice was to split the difference in decades California and Nevada in the early 1990s. often felt like the centre of the country around concerned. Artists like Metallica, N.W.A., Rage were making their voices heard, and events crack epidemic, and Watts truce brought a lot of why Rockstar chose Los Angeles as the inspiration This decision is reflected in the portrayal world to explore; it's reflective of the Los Santos, like Los Angeles, is rife with gang You get a sense of this pretty much immediately heart of rival gang territory and forced to then followed by dozens of missions where you attempt to stop drug dealers from further ruining avoid taking the blame for their crimes. It's not the game's opening Los Santos chapter; it's a Los Angeles around the 1990s--the city's social, truthfully, somewhat satirised) in the After CJ is forced out of Los Santos, we countryside--Flint County, Red County, serve to represent CJ's isolation. He's separated these counties are largely separated from society also represents the displacement and disparity reflected in the focus on earning money through or reputation; the urban-rural divide, echoed incremental, not dynamic or powerful; showing regions that are often overlooked--not just game specifically--that are, in reality, The isolation and disparity of the country is a based on San Francisco. Like its real-life urban development, and gentrification. This is the street gangs, races, and small-town robberies; making new partners and acquaintances, and significant crime syndicate. There's no longer it's more about acquiring business and looking San Francisco is often seen as a bustling city of from arts, science, and technology to real estate, and represents as such to the player. Instead high income that is to come, often more legitimate form of income--a place where On his way to the next major city, CJ completes County and Tierra Robada--desolate and isolated, This region is even more lawless, like the full of government conspiracies and secrets, Toreno and the game's version of the highly also allows CJ a little more time alone, to find heads towards the chaos that is Las Venturas. Like the city of Las Vegas that inspired it, Las Venturas represents glamour, success, and corruption--flashiness and opulence but with little substance. This, too, is reflected in the time for partnering with casinos, working with the mafia. No longer are we robbing liquor stores we're planning complex heists on successful take down a target for a notable crime family. corruption, but on a different level it's mob families and government agents. meant to lure those dreaming of lucrative and fill the pockets of those who already have too Las Vegas, it's flashy and expensive--appealing CJ's return to Los Santos at the end of the Thematically, it serves as a reflection of and wisdom granted by travel and growth--this an extended period, but he has changed more in also serves as CJ's final redemption, at least in allowing him to finally be seen as Sweet's responsibility for the death of his brother and to finally put to rest the traitorous Big I think, to an extent, this chapter also of the cycle of violence. Despite spending nor the violence that comes with it--and, even after the Watts truce--a peace agreement completely stop in Los Angeles, either. Crime Santos. And the missions reflect this too, as CJ their territory, and their reputation. an entire gameplay mechanic built around player is forced to engage to progress. To CJ must enter enemy turf and kill a certain number violent Los Santos, after working his way through building businesses in the gentrified San Fierro Las Venturas, CJ cannot escape the cycle of Despite this, though, CJ feels at peace. Although his time away from Grove Street really allowed him feel isolated, inspired, and glamorous--so, by the the power that has corrupted those he has known And, once those problems are dealt with, he For the first time, when faced with things to need to address them, not immediately. There's please. CJ has all the money and power he needs, and all the family and friends he ever asked for. to take it easy, and smell the roses. [CJ: "Fittin' to hit the