So back in like 2018, I sat down to and about a quarter of the way through so this is about Judaism." Heya, squad. Welcome to your triannual [optimism.jpg] glimpse Got a graphic novel coming out so keep your eyes peeled for updates Remember to SMASH that Yeah, that's Sorry, guys. Thank you so much for your patience! Okay, consider Timon Jewish. But yeah, there's a reason the website "Jew or not Jew" scores JUDGE: "Timon Berkowitz, you've been found [Sad violin blares] "Ma" fills Mama" who fusses over her son to excess Uncle Max shares his namesake You know--the gay- and Jewish-coded In the words of The Lion King's Broadway "I mean, Timon and Pumbaa are Borscht And we can take this whole Jewish thing After all, where does Timon grow up? Not the lush greenery of the pridelands, climate described by Timon as "the It should be noted that, like, you weren't supposed to read MA: "You used a metaphor on Timon?! He takes things literally!" [Autistic nutshell, god was like, And like a couple of guys We went into the land to which you sent us..." "And Here is its fruit. But the people who live and the cities are fortified The land we explored devours All the people we saw We seemed like grasshoppers in our own Or--these ten guys like god promised because their opponents and they were like little bugs And god responded like, "What, you don't believe DIRT for forty years." And Moses was like, "Okay, but like...I can at least live to see the promised And god was like, "I mean, you hit a rock two times, so...no." And Moses was like, [John Mulaney voice] "Okay!" God sentences the nation of Israel Now only the next generation while the current generation is forced in the desert. As harsh as it might sound, the journey the Jewish people into a nation, giving them a spiritual focus It's the extreme conditions that make the as people are forced to rely on each other It seems to me that the Jewish people by this shared threat of oppression You can see how such harsh, to a culture based around In a world that scapegoats we Jews are taught to anticipate danger JOHN MULANEY: "Jews don't daydream because folks are after 'em You know what I mean?" "You have to be THERE. They haven't let their minds wander They just...stay...sharp. They go, 'Who's that? Who are you? What's that? Put that down!'" Timon grows up in a closed community in the middle of the desert. Predators and harsh terrain force By necessity, the entire culture revolves MA: "We have to look after each other." MA: "Our survival depends on it." TIMON: "What's the point? All we do is dig so we can hide, and hide The Lion King 1 1/2 IRON JOE: "Don't close your eyes; don't look away! Somebody's gotta guard Somebody's gotta protect us! [Incoherent, As a meerkat, your two career options are bunker This makes Timon the odd one out, as ...And let's say "avant garde" for tunnel TIMON: "What? It's called a skylight!" Timon dreams of the light above ground. But the rest of the meerkat colony fear as a product of "nature's design." MUFASA: "Everything the light touches is our kingdom." SIMBA: "Wow!" MA: "Everything the light touches...belongs What can I say?" MA: "It's nature's design!" Timon is the philosopher at odds He preaches the merits of the world so to speak--but the public demands By the end of the story, Timon He starts out as a staunch tunnel where we don't have to dig tunnels But by the end of the story, TIMON: "We're going to need--dare Lots and lots of tunnels." At first, he doesn't need company--only But over time, Timon realizes TIMON: "I found a place that was beyond TIMON: "...But it still wasn't home. Let's go home, Ma." The fact that Timon found a place but it didn't feel like home and the rest of the meerkats needs society as much as society needs his people to the promised land once he'd And no, I didn't pull that promised land bit out of my ass. [Muffled] Oh my god he's Moses! If any of this analysis has set off You're...you're not alone. I promise we'll talk about the ways meerkats are Jews!" invites some...truly unfortunate conclusions about Jewish culture For now...Where was I? Oh, that's right. Fiddler on the Roof! Fiddler on the Roof tells the classic milkman whose daughters collectively [Overlayed] God, please. No, no! No! NOOOO! Fiddler on the Roof is revered for its focus on Jewish and the way those aspects clash and evolve It's like...the So of course one of the songs "Is this the little girl I carried? When did he grow to be so tall? Wasn't it yesterday when they were small? Sunrise, sunset..." In summary, Boston-accented community of meerkats mother and "uncle Max," Timon leaves which becomes the literal promised land he sings a song from Fiddler on the Roof, to ever Jewish--a play which revolves around the ways Jewish the needs of new generations So I'm sure at this point, So where does the Jewishness of The Lion fit into the white supremacist TIMON: "You know, I have a feeling On the other hand..." The Oxford Dictionary defines white supremacy as, "The belief that white and should therefore dominate society, or detriment of other racial Now...when this dude named Charles Darwin and his friend Alfred Russel Wallace by natural selection--a process Wallace supremacists seized upon the theory In the words of the Harvard Library, brought to this country, promoters have co-opted the authority of science Thus emerged social Darwinism, described and peoples are subject of natural selection Now largely discredited. Social Darwinism was advocated 19th and early 20th centuries and was used imperialism and racism and reform." In his paper, and the Metaphysics of Race," "Gerstein and Murray assert in their work known as the Bell Curve], that culture, intellect and knowledge and hence not subject Moreover, of group or individual dispositions unchangeable by the group, RUTLEDGE: "Like Sumner, they v that or improve the intellect of a given group to fail." Some of you may know where I'm going with this. ["The Circle of Life" plays] "The Circle of Life," which introduces The "circle of life." "From the day we arrive on the planet, There's more to see than can ever be than can ever be done." These lines the inhabitants of this world, We "blink" as we step into the sun, blinded by the brilliance We are faced with a world so wide that more to see than can ever be seen--so The song goes on: "The sun rolling keeps great This segment positions animals on the "endless round"--the We see the circle of life throughout The Lion King films, The sun, as a constant force upon the animals--one which we can chart Note the lyrics, "'Till Both the music and visuals of this scene All the animals are beholden the circle of life--a system wherein The lion's place, of the world, closest to the sun. The other animals' path leads where they then bow to the new prince. This ritual affirms the lions' place But The Lion King wants us Well, circle, not a pyramid or a ladder with some animals on the top MUFASA: "Everything you see exists As king, you need to understand that all the creatures, from the crawling When we die, our bodies become the And so we are all connected in the great circle of life." [As Tonight' plays] Well, you see, Simba...we because the lower class But one day we will die our remains...And that's called which makes total sense TIMON: "But when they die, we eat the grass, right?" UNCLE MAX: "Not exactly. We can't digest grass. We're grass-intolerant." In essence, the circle of life And, you know, this concept makes a lot Like...You remove the wolves National Park, and you get an overgrazed, pray populations, and an overpopulation You put the wolves back, the native foliage grows back; the trees the berries feed the bears; which provide a habitat for animals The wolves chase off the coyotes, too, for predators like foxes and weasels The carrion feeders return The rivers even change course, In the real world, a food chain...exists. But even then, there's Lawrence Frank, a research associate at Berkeley and hyenas for another twenty, tells There is a constantly-shifting and thousands of species but there is no single balance It's one of those situations circle of life makes sense We can acknowledge that when predators as carrion or the grass And of course I don't mean to suggest can shrug our shoulders and demolish because "nature changes all the time." I mean to say: Hierarchical structures naturally evolve yes--but the theory of ecological balance animal gets one (1) specific, fixed role, they destroy the entire ecosystem." But I've gotten off track, because that's what we do on this channel: and then we cross our fingers and hope before we get to the point. We get there when we get there! Here's the thing: Let's say the circle of Let's say certain animals and that chain of rules links together and when the chain breaks down, It still gets complicated know, the fact that--perhaps the animals of the Lion King world The animals behave like humans, too. They hold jobs as advisors; they stage ZAZU: "One day you two are going to be SIMBA AND NALA: "Yuck!" They philosophize Dan Hassler-Forest, a professor of media studies and English in the Netherlands, tells CBC Radio: HASSLER-FOREST: "It's a fable in which animals perform roles that we associate So it paints a picture of a society and in which the weak have learned And the only way for the herbivores the servants and friends of the powerful." In his article for the Washington Post, Hassler-Forest elaborates: onto the 'pristine' makes these power dynamics seem natural, And by using predator-prey relationships the film almost inevitably incorporates derives The lions of the Lion King are framed while the hyenas are framed as the dangerous, mangy outsiders SIMBA: "What about that shadowy place?" MUFASA: "That's beyond our borders. You must never go there, Simba." Rather than paint the hyenas' destitution as...I don't know...the product that the hyenas' experience, The Lion as a consequence of biological predestiny, stupid and greedy as a species The hyenas are only useful to Scar too scared As the occupants of Pride Rock, (or both) choose to leech off the hard Once the lions go on strike and the free welfare disappears, SHENZI: "Scar, BANZAI: "Yeah! It's dinner time, and we ain't got SCAR: "It's the lionesses' job to do the hunting." BANZAI: "But they won't go hunt." But why did the lions go on strike, Because there's no prey left to hunt. NALA: "He SIMBA: "Wut?" NALA: If you don't do something soon, everyone will starve." In service of their bottomless greed, The hyenas have forced the lions Once the lions need to feed the pridelands fall to ruin--as desolate home. Perhaps the hyenas' homeland was once the same way. It becomes clear that only our hero the Elizabethan natural order. NALA: "Don't you understand? You're Upon Simba's victory and ascension to the throne, Because...doy! How could I forget? The hyenas' reign was so poisonous to the NALA: "Everything's destroyed. There's no food; [slow mo voice] Per The Lion King, the hyenas are starved outcasts because--even on a silver platter--they their innate greed and stupidity In short, the pridelands fell to supersede their natural role, They are not the victims Their circumstances are a consequence TIMON: "Yeee..." Another relevant "According to the logic of the bell curve, because they have failed of the fittest test, ought not to be given compassion, or compensation to level "This is Malthusian logic personified. Whites owe Blacks nothing because, any and all efforts to radically change In The Lion King, the lions earned their Other animals are only able to gain and servitude--while the ethnic minority-coded hyenas are relegated Through this lens, runs parallel to the scientific racism Some people would, of course, virulently People like Michael Knowles. Remember that quote from Dan Well, Hassler-Forest on the same topic, and Fox News "Apparently, the new Lion King--and fascist, racist, and antisemitic! They write this: As historic this bombastic scene is also a painful ideological agenda." KNOWLES: "The It is about redemption. It is about grace. It is about endurance." "It is based on Hamlet. It's based on the books of Genesis It is not about fascism, so culturally illiterate, the only thing that they can ever refer Everything they don't like If the left wants to go They go after the American flag, I think it's only going to help the Like. "If the left wants Like...Michael. Mike. Mike, Mike, MikeMikeMike. Mike. My buddy. My pal. I'm pretty sure going after kings is the most American thing you can do...? I mean--besides committing genocide, Second of all: "Go after The Lion King; the right." I remember when I used to care Conservatives will call me nuts Because I'm...I'm me. But also because my egalitarian looks like a child's fantasy who ascribe to the framework of sharks For more on that culture clash, "Always A Bigger Fish." INNUENDO this hierarchy is humanity's The American dream is, 'Here, No matter who you are or what you start But a necessary component of this is, But EVERYONE can't.'" "We're not all going to be billionaires. There's a finite amount of money for any one person to have so, there must--mathematically--be Your conservative friend is often baffled when you point out there's not enough plans for everyone." "...There's The system requires an underclass. Someone's got to clean the toilets. Conservatives generally feel can be chalked up to people not being They used to be where they belonged--but everything up with their government [Distantly, over the sound of water That kind of sounds It's simply a matter of fact that The Lion circle of life," a celebration of biology behind a functional, balanced society, to the top of the food chain SHENZI: "Look at you guys! No wonder we're dangling It's a matter of fact that this survival parallel to the racist Now, the Lion King creators seem like this biological racism with The Lion King "The circle of life makes us all equal, peddled by the first film with Mufasa's we become the grass" speech. MUFASA: "When we die, our bodies become the grass." [Muffled, over Mufasa's dialogue] Oh my god shut the fuck up Mufasa The song "We Are One" frames enforcer of a hierarchical system And...you know, you can call the other Your film can grab me by the scruff about how the natural order But as long as the film SHOWS me a world friends and servants of the ruling class, Interestingly, The Lion King 2 religious aspects. The film's opening number features and have faith." Or, He lives in me. He watches over everything we see." [Over hey mamela, hela" chants] In your reflection, he lives in you." And then that lady In the first film, the sun acted as a neutral force--an The Lion King 2 puts a warmer, force of nature, but makes no move to interrogate the The conflict of the lion King 2 unfairly relegates certain animals In this conflict between Simba to consider the ways such a system but even members of his own family--into SIMBA: "As future queen--" KIARA: "What SIMBA: "That's like saying It's in your blood." Instead, Simba has STRAYED from the circle of life. When he exiled the bad lions, Simba labeled those lions as "other." KIARA: "A wise king once told me, 'We are one.'" SIMBA: "But they..." KIARA: "Look at them! They ARE us. What differences do you see?" As much as I like this message when you rewatch the film you start to go, "EeeeeaaaaaaEEeeeEaaaAAAUUUGHHHHHHHHHH." Even when you put aside where we are all very different at the end of the day, It does not challenge that all LIONS deserve to be together because from minute one, to accept the lions as the natural-born It's perfectly within the constraints "We as lions are the same species, I, Simba, was wrong, do not belong on the outskirts." It seems to me that The Lion King 2 WANTS to tackle racism as a construct--but or agency to commit to the bit and like, posed by a system The film refuses to acknowledge the roles to ask why the "dark" lions as a species are still relegated Here's a fun one: When I brought up the topic of The Lion King and white supremacy to my college you mean like how Antifa they were recruiting furries to the WORST YEAR EVER PODCAST: "Anti-fascist here in Oregon have taken to infiltrating and militias." ANTIFA MEMBER: "I infiltrated the group And...you know, you had to pass a voice interview. They had a list of videos so that you would be more...'aware.'" WORST YEAR EVER: "A lot of these videos are what you'd expect about how the Holocaust didn't happen But since they were recruiting furries, they tailored to their propaganda SIMBA [as voiced by a white supremacist]: "Of course Our race has achieved many great things." RACIST SIMBA [singing]: "As you go through you'll see you're expected to be scared and ashamed. But study history our race filled the world with hope and light. Medicine; industry, rule of law and liberty...We are more than we are: We are white." WORST YEAR EVER: "So that was a thing!" Enter The Lion King 1 1/2 at long last. In my humble opinion, The Lion King 1 1/2 to actually challenge When Ma tells Timon all the nice parts and that their miserable lives she's proven wrong by the end of the film, to a predator-free paradise--a where the meerkats can live like kings. Timon looks at the lifestyle under the circle of life, says, "Thanks and carves a new place ...And now I have to take off this sweater Jesus fucking tits. My god! Except, how much does this film Are Timon and Pumbaa You could say because they were lucky enough Without Simba around, who's to say whether Pumbaa It's valid to look at Timon's ascension It's also valid to look at Timon's a product of a rare admission I'm reminded of Ratatouille, where so much as carve out a space for himself Commenters on my Ratatouille video this as a radical act. When faced with such an oppressive system, Exceptions chart RAT DAD: "You can't change nature." REMY: "Change IS nature, Dad. The part that we can influence! And it starts...when we decide." TEVYE: "On the other hand..." I will point out the awkward collision point between "meerkats as an accessory to the authoritarian As proposed by fake trash like the protocols, conspiracy where the Jewish people are on a slow-burn In a discussion of Wilhelm antisemitism, "Antisemitism interpreted Jewish conformity as duplicity, into non-Jewish society as proof of Jewish Antisemites and guile to weasel TIMON: "Wow. It's like you have this...special power." TIMON: "You're a king? And you never told us?" SIMBA: "Look, I'm TIMON: "But with power!" To antisemites, Jews Or dead, of course. It's not possible for the Jewish people To these conspiracy theorists, any ascension In the world of The Lion King, When Timon stands next to the lions as an advisor or a servant, the circle of life which would land him Or: "The Jew and his pig lover of the natural order." At least this time Even when analyzed as a standalone film, 1/2 boasts It's like, "Oh, great! The Jews are the small, weasel-like, dirt-covered scavengers Love that for us!" It's hard enough to get past the whole, "Jews as dirty cowards who eat bugs boil down to "move dirt forever." And things only get worse when you account for Timon's role "When Let's dig again!" The word "Hallelujah" PUMBAA: "Be right back!" IIoBS: "Hallelujah Why was this word left in Hebrew Well, it was probably considered to be violated in a way that would depart [Over the sound of Timon singing 'It's for the majority of the Bible, which was . If you enjoyed this video, So when the meerkats sing, "Hallelujah! Let's dig again," directly to the act of digging--an act and over and over again until forever, Tunnel-creation forms entire culture, Does Timon liberate the meerkats from like Moses liberates the Jews Or does Timon liberate the meerkats from Does he embrace the advantages of tunnels or does he save the day when he destroys Because, like...We've talked of the meerkats' culture already: The desert backdrop; the tight-knit the suspicion and anxiety of a life MA: "What are you, a meshuggeneh [crazy Did the meerkats reshape their tradition to match the times a la Tevye, All this leads me to my next point. [Wind howls] [Distant rumble becomes [Groaning sound becomes Mufasa's funny noise; H'yello! I'm Rab, and and the art says things This video took a long time but my main hang-up See, I like to treat stories Sometimes I wonder if this process the text at hand so much as kill it, In a series of essays, philosopher How they start as limitless potential, them a specific meaning, they enter "The absence of the sign from the thing only the negative condition for the sign to reach the thing, touch it, and die in this contact." Like, let's take a sign. Say, water. If I were to claim, "This water symbolizes and memory," By appointing it a specific meaning, the sign to the realm of self-reflection I've effectively chiseled down unfettered potential shaped by my personal whims and worldview. This...THING I love to do, where I analyze a text almost to the point of unraveling can start to feel like an act of violence Enter the term "paranoid reading." Let's say a piece of art...exists. You as a viewer may approach or you may approach with one Danika Ellis writes for Book a work--whether it's a story, tweet, anything else that can be critiqued--from It anticipates seeking out clues for them." Like...Take booklet for my Critical Interpretations with the paraphrased John Donne It tolls for THEEEEE!" [TACO BELL double beef--" on the next class day "You're very lucky I didn't take this to the dean." That's what you'd call a paranoid reading. As we've discussed, for the sake people learn to approach the world And that very warranted suspicion We leverage paranoia The theory goes, when we expect It would be a mistake, I think, to condemn To do so would dismiss the lived reality In her crucial article, "Paranoid You're So Paranoid, Is About You," "Paranoia knows some things As in, paranoid reading among many-- as neutral which can be used to great effect when applied too liberally "It seems to me a great loss," comes to seem entirely coextensive rather than being viewed affective, theoretical practice In short, the issue is less with paranoid inquiry heralded as the be-all-end-all With such close attention to detail, some crucial commentary on like, the ways our violent conditions But at the same time, the paranoid approach lends itself In our anticipation of humiliation, We are more likely to assign harm or amplify small slights I do think there's merit to an analysis narrative, and The Lion King 1 1/2 Otherwise, On the other hand, you can see the ways I've cherrypicked my points I harp on the hyenas as people of color...yet I fail to account Rafiki and young Nala-- I describe the hyenas and leave out the part The Lion King 1 1/2 references Mystery It features all sorts of songs from pop "Jungle Boogie" and the Peter Gunn theme. Yet I only address the Jewish references. When I reached out to the film's writer, King 1 1/2's Jewish connotations, Rogers Your question made me chuckle, how much we see/hear/read things You're right that a couple of references The Yiddish probably was a product as Timon's Uncle Max, And 'Sunrise, Sunset' reference for parents watching their kid ROGERS: "But beyond that, there weren't any specifically Jewish They were just two that we pulled from any- and everywhere, to Mystery Science Theater 3000 to 'Jungle Also, some of the things you cite about and being hyper-alert for predators) are just based on They take turns standing sentry duty If a predator appears, the sentry will squeak a warning Google 'meerkat alarm' Well, yeah; I did know THAT, Tom. I watched Meerkat Manor like every other maladjusted queer preteen MEERKAT its favorite rose." FLOWER, NOOOOOOOOO! It's not about the literal animals, Tom. It's about the symbolism. It's about the symbolism! We're in the universe of signs, Tom! Can't you see? The structuralism, Tom? Every word is an abstraction We live in fear, Tom! We live in a world of coded Nothing we see is real, all filtered Your red is different from my red! I can't see through the blood! [Timon laughs awkwardly] So anyway. It matters to me Rogers and company and I, as a product of my own queer a hopscotch path across those references So here's the deal: comes with that monkey reaction But what representation offends because minority groups As a Jewish person, I love Timon. I love that he's a daydreamer, and that he cares about his family And I love that he's TIMON: "Oy...show people." I get that these are loaded topics But where the arts are concerned, The moment we exile minority to the narrow margins of "good optics," do we restrict minority artists' ability We get representation I know some people will take this video or as a cone of shame around That's the reason I gotta be clear: and his Jewish family Nor would I ever demand that condemned the circle of life We can discuss those problematic tropes, to the pit of shame--to deem them too feel like that would be a disservice to It's possible to acknowledge the positive and problematic If we're worried our kids might have taken we can sit them down and talk to them. Also, to condemn The Lion would disregard all the other You can read Simba like Don Hahn, the film's as a fusion of Moses and Joseph, his story You can look at The Lion or the story of Sundiata Keita, and the rise of the Malian empire. You can look at The Lion King 1 1/2 or the plight of Zulu miners, or a smorgasbord of gags and references or the lovechild GUILDENSTERN: "Look Watch closely." Anyone else obsessed with the way the fatalism of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead to the characters to direct Because WWWOOOAAAAHHHH! LANCE: "It shook Hunk!" HUNK: [Is shook] I was so bothered by the question of like, perpetuated Was there an ethical way My quest for answers The Conflict of interpretations: Essays "Oh shit, here we go again." Now, Ricoeur [Sped-up Rafiki noises] "Hey, you. You're finally awake." [Unhinged Rafiki noises resume] Like me Paul here had a crisis over the...what He was like, "If like, to comprehend signs, and to interpret signs then at the same moment So that's...that's Is a nonviolent approach "Oh, fuck. Fucking meee. You know what? I died. I died in 2005. Which sucks ass because...because essay on The Lion King about how fucking long my book is, point." Paul here suggests that one must enter Okay, so the plan was to use this as a canvas to like, But I can't NOT color Simba. I mean, come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. [Singing "Blue" by Eiffel 65] Meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow. [Vague Eiffel 65 noises] ["Blue Lips" by Regina Spektor as sung Exquisite. TIMON: "Gee. He looks blue." Uhhhh here's a circle. Don't fuck with me; I'm using a mouse. It's fine. This is our context. And this...This is our text. Okay, so...the hermeneutic circle, from what I can tell, if you're able to bring an open mind to the process. Right? Okay, good. This is us: The context All our baggage; all our suspicion. And what we're gonna do, is we're gonna engage with the text. Wow. You know, okay, so this text is going to ask questions about ourselves, And what do you know! That gives us new context about ourselves and about the text, right? And so what do we do with that? Okay. We've got, you know...all these We can direct that energy back towards the text. And through this new read, And we can go around again. Wow. That made me want to go back! WooOAH! And then I can go back with new context pass, and I can do this...over, [as a distorted "Circle of Life" plays] And some of you may ask, like...doesn't this ask too much of the reader? Right? To engage with the material...like, And...you know, I get that. Personally, an expectation and more an ideal to strive for, right? Like, a reminder to sort of step back and maybe like...make a conscious effort to come at that story I don't think there's any But, you know, And I don't know other than...this video At the end of the day, I can't boomerang because then this video would never end. But I can tell you I've learned a lot I hope that when I doubled back, I maybe undid some of the damage--and I hope that If you'd like to keep these you can sign up for my Patreon! A dollar per video lands $3 and up gets you sneak peeks All the hugs to my top patrons: Achyutha Ananda, Acutelatios, Benji M, BroomHilda, Ginny Brown, MicaXIII, Miranda (Anidoodles), and Sohastalitha. Seriously, you guys, thank you so, And of course, till the end of this video, I leave you I lean to the left and crank that thing. Now I'm jocking on your bitch ass. And if we get the fighting, Soulja Boy, watch me crank it. Watch me roll. Watch me crank that Soulja Boy. [A mashup of "Soulja Boy" and "The Circle of Life" plays] No, no.