- I designed this machine every time on arcade games like these where you at the exact moment the light comes by. So the plan was for me to be a hero amongst my buddies and a veritable Chuck E. Cheese Robin Hood, giving out free tickets to all the little kids. But that's not what actually happened. It actually turned out And the more I tested, This was turning into a repeat of when I used physics to expose Because by building a I discovered arcade games like this are pretending to be one thing when in fact they're total scams. Now, in order to explain just let me first explain how my through the results of our Fundamentally, the way a photo resistor right here and it senses the light of where you need to hit And then after a pre-programmed delay the plunger comes down To build this, my buddy John and I started by designing the main base in CAD and then we 3D printed it overnight then we attached the of the articulating arm, with a plunger and It's powered by 20 volts And this is the same power pack I used to trigger the Super Soaker. And the brains of the operation is this and it connects via wifi to a And the app is critical because between sensing the light So if you miss short you just add a few milliseconds And then to disguise the whole thing, we put it in a backpack and so the plunger could access So to set it up, you simply and then pull out your phone like you're checking dank memes. As you can see, the and no one ever suspected anything. So at this point we were ready for our and the results were disappointing. We were getting jackpots, but And what was so frustrating in so well, we would miss short by one light and then not And then on the very next run we would miss long by one light. So for 30 attempts without were missing one light were missing one light long. So this could mean only one of two things. Either we had some errors introducing some variability shady going on with the game itself. And troubleshooting because is incredibly common when So to fix it, you have to systematically do some detective work to figure out where the error is coming from. In the last interview Carl - Science is more than It's a way of thinking. - So here was our thought process. I knew if I could prove that then the only reason we weren't because the game was rigged. So I need to start by looking at any potential sources of There were only three, so it the solenoid, or the Arduino. There was one external and that was light pollution in the arcade could mean the input to the light sensor was too noisy and therefore not repeatable. Now, there's a trick when it comes to troubleshooting where error sources at the same time. And if I can get really precise then I know that none of those components are without having to take time So to test all three of these at once we made a simple app that and started a stopwatch And then we set the trigger And sure enough we were getting results with We also repeated the test like the game, and got the Now to appreciate that one one flap of a hummingbird So one millisecond is literally this long. If you pull out your phone and try and get the stopwatch to land on 4.00 seconds, that's really hard. And this is just to two decimal places. I had some friends of mine out to three decimal places, And then I challenged them to land exactly on four seconds. And in 100 tries, these mere humans with reaction times were whereas my robot can do So there's definitely no error coming from the hardware components but maybe the sensor is being told to trip at different times because there's so many in an arcade. And to investigate that, we from the sensor, which looked really noisy and low like this until you see a spike in intensity every time which is when the delay Because we had such a narrow field of view on the sensor when we of the peaks, it was also So light pollution With this in mind, I headed to a different arcade and their kids to see if And we did win a few jackpots. (kids cheering) - Yes! - But for the most part, once again we would alternate missing of the jackpot without making which as a reminder can within one 12th of a And so at this point, it was pretty clear that these games just randomly But just to be sure, I did some digging and was able to locate for the cyclone arcade game. And sure enough, if to the back to page 31, owner can specify how often which actually makes sense of times we'd hit a go through a dry spell hit a jackpot again, on And so in conclusion, this arcade game makes My issue is this arcade as a winnable game of a random dice roll that is And if you recall from the most lucrative games are those where people of winning. That is exactly what happens you might play a few games short or one light long to getting a jackpot when at all. In gambling psychology, this is known as the near miss effect, more money to try and win do it on the next one. And for that reason, it that this scam machine is redemption arcade game ever made. So if I were you, I'd save There's a plunger in the backpack and then it pushes down on the thing. Is that cool? - So you're basically cheating on-- - Well, I mean cheating's a strong word. - You're cheating! - I'm using an advantage I Thanks for watching. (bright electronic music)