Today, I will make a rich white loaf of bread that's moist and soft and has a savory flavor. The loaf bread crust is also very moist and soft. I'll show you the knead in hand dough and stand mixing the dough together. Add Bread flour, sugar, salt, dry yeast. Mix salt and sugar first with flour and yeast. If ingredients touch each other directly before the flour touches, yeast activation can fall off. Add water, milk, and honey and mix. Add cold water and milk in summer and room temperature in winter. The point of this bread is that it contains a lot of moisture and contains honey. It makes not only the soft inside but also the crust moist and flavorful. Move the dough to the work table. Make gluten in the dough while kneading. Scrap dough together with scrapers from time to time and repeat kneading again. It takes a long time to make dough because it has a high moisture content of 75% compared to regular loaf bread. It tastes much better as you put a lot of effort into it. After about 10 minutes of kneading, I feel elasticity. As gluten develops, it starts to get elastic. Now, Increase stretchability that stretches smoothly. Hit the dough on the work table, grab the side and throw it again. Repeat for about 5 minutes. It's rough, but it's elastic. Add soft room temperature butter and spread. Cover the butter with the dough. Mix the butter. It's the process of making gluten. Repeat the process of kneading and twisting the dough again. Remove dough from hands and scrapers from drying. The butter mixed well, and the dough became a lump. Hit the dough again to create a smooth stretch. The dough becomes smooth. It took about 20 minutes to finish Kneading! When you grab the dough, make sure it's soft and gently stretching. It's a well-stretched dough that's thin enough to show your fingers! When you move it, use a scrapper. Transfer it to a bowl. The dough temperature should be around 25 degrees. 90-minutes of first fermentation at room temperature after wrapping (until it swells more than doubled). The fermentation condition depends on the indoor temperature or humidity, so check by size and shape. Put all the ingredients in a mixing ball. 3-minute mix at low speed. Mix until all the ingredients are mixed. Speed up and mix for another 6 minutes at medium speed. You can reduce the mixing time by scratching the dough on the ball wall. Add the soft, room temperature butter in. Mix 1-minute at low speed until the butter is mixed. Speed up and mix for another 2-3 minutes at medium speed. The dough is smooth when you hang your hands on it, and it stretches smoothly and has elasticity! If you are over-fermented, it just stretches like cheese. A thin layer that you can see your fingers, it's done! Place it in a bowl. The dough temperature is around 25 degrees Celsius. 90-minutes of first fermentation at room temperature after wrapping (until it swells more than doubled). The dough swells more than twice as well, right? When you press it with your finger, the dough should not shrink. Sprinkle a little flour so that the dough doesn't stick. Divide the dough into two pieces. Fold the dough. Make a smooth ball. 20-minutes bench time after covering it with plastic vinyl. Sprinkle flour so that dough doesn't stick. Roll the dough to remove air bubbles. Fold. Rest in 10-minutes. The dough can be more stable and dense. Sprinkle flour and make a roll. Take out air bubbles and stretch them out. Roll it. Press the ends with your palms so that the edges can stick well. If you fold both ends of the dough first and roll, the bread will come out with dense layers. You can pinch the edges to finish. Put the edges on the floor. Transfer the dough into the tin at the same time. Ferment to 1cm below tin height after wrapping. (About 1 hour) I like the scent of fermentation and savory. Cover a lid and bake after 10 minutes to allow the dough to swell further. Bake at 170 degrees for 30 minutes. (Preheat 190 degrees / Based on Unox Oven) Shocked. Take it out right away and cool it off on a rack. The crust came out evenly! The sweet, savory flavor of the bread is exploding! Elastic until the end! The texture of the bread is very dense and moist. The bread you eat right after baking is the best! It's a thin layer. It was so delicious that I ate all the whole loaf. Can you see the delicate and even inside? It's moist and elastic. Strawberry jam for bread. The crust of the bread is so soft and moist. Toast &amp; Butter. It's crispy, but the inside is soft, like fluffy! The bread is dense, and the crust is soft, so it's the best in the world. Make sure to make savory and soft loaf bread with a deep fermentation scent!