That splendid music, the coming-in music, &quot;The Elephant March&quot; from &quot;Aida,&quot; (Laughter) And you can see why. It's triumphal. I won't feel anything, but if I could, I would feel triumphal and at having lived and having been given something about why I was here Can you understand (Laughter) Like everybody else, I was entranced Robert Full and Frans Lanting and others; the beauty of the things that they showed. The only slight jarring note was when &quot;the most splendid creatures Now of course, we know but in this country at the moment, (Laughter) I'm a biologist, and the central theorem Darwin's theory of evolution In professional circles everywhere, In non-professional circles But in non-professional it arouses so much hostility -- (Laughter) it's fair to say that American biologists The war is so worrying at present, with court cases coming that I felt I had to say If you want to know what I have I'm afraid you're going which you won't find (Laughter) Contemporary court cases often concern an allegedly called &quot;Intelligent Design,&quot; or ID. Don't be fooled. It's just creationism under another name, rechristened -- (Laughter) for tactical, political reasons. The arguments of so-called ID theorists are the same old arguments since Darwin down to the present day. There is an effective evolution lobby coordinating the fight and I try to do all I can to help them, but they get quite upset that we happen to be atheists They see us as rocking the boat, Creationists, lacking any coherent fall back on the popular Teach your children and they'll soon move on to drugs, (Laughter) In fact, of course, educated are firm in their support of evolution. This book, &quot;Finding is one of the most effective attacks and it's all the more effective because People like Kenneth Miller could be called (Laughter) because they expose the lie tantamount to atheism. People like me, on the other But here, I want to say something It's not a thing I often do, (Laughter) I think they're right about one thing. I think they're right that evolution is fundamentally hostile to religion. I've already said that many individual are also religious, but I think I believe a true is deeply corrosive to religious faith. Now, it may sound as though and I want to reassure you In an audience that would be preaching to the choir. No, what I want to urge upon you -- (Laughter) Instead, what I want to urge (Laughter) (Applause) But that's putting it too negatively. If I was a person who were interested I would be very afraid of the positive and indeed science generally, to inspire and enthrall, Now, the difficult problem is to explain the massive statistical Statistical improbability &quot;complexity&quot; is another word for this. The standard creationist argument -- there is only one; takes off from Living creatures are too complex therefore, they must have had a designer. This argument of course, Any designer capable of designing has to be even more complex himself, and that's before we even start like forgive sins, bless favor our side in a war -- (Laughter) disapprove of our sex lives, and so on. (Laughter) Complexity is the problem and you can't solve it by postulating thereby simply compounding the problem. Darwinian natural selection because it solves the problem in terms of nothing but simplicity. Essentially, it does it of gradual, step-by-step increment. But here, I only want to make the point that the elegance of Darwinism precisely because it is so elegant, so economically powerful. It has the sinewy economy The God theory is not just a bad theory. It turns out to be -- in principle -- incapable of doing the job required of it. So, returning to tactics I want to argue that rocking the boat may be just the right thing to do. My approach to attacking creationism is -- unlike the evolution lobby -- my approach to attacking creationism And at this point I need against speaking ill of religion, and I'm going to do so in the words a dear friend who, certainly should have been invited. (Richard Saul Wurman: He was.) Richard Dawkins: He was. Good. He begins this speech, shortly before he died -- he begins by explaining how science that are framed to be vulnerable I quote, &quot;Religion doesn't It has certain ideas at the heart of it, What it means is: that you're not allowed You're just not. Why not? (Laughter) &quot;Why should it be to support the Republicans or Democrats, this model of economics versus that, Macintosh instead of Windows, but to have an opinion about who created the universe -- no, that's holy. So, we're used to not and it's very interesting how much when he does it.&quot; -- He meant me, not that one. &quot;Everybody gets absolutely because you're not allowed Yet when you look at it rationally, there's no reason why those ideas shouldn't be as open except that we've agreed that they shouldn't be.&quot; And that's the end In my view, not only is science religion is corrosive to science. It teaches people supernatural non-explanations, and blinds them to the wonderful, that we have within our grasp. It teaches them to accept instead of always insisting on evidence. There's Douglas Adams, magnificent picture Now, there's a typical scientific journal, The Quarterly Review of Biology. And I'm going to put a special issue on the question, And the first paper presenting evidence, &quot;Iridium layer at the K-T boundary, and potassium argon dated indicate that an asteroid Perfectly ordinary scientific paper. Now, the next one. &quot;The President of the Royal Society has been vouchsafed that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;It has been privately that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Professor Hordley was brought up to have total and unquestioning faith&quot; -- (Laughter) -- &quot;that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs.&quot; &quot;Professor Hawkins has binding on all loyal Hawkinsians that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs.&quot; (Laughter) That's inconceivable, of course. But suppose -- [Supporters of the Asteroid Theory (Laughter) (Applause) In 1987, a reporter asked George Bush, Sr. whether he recognized of Americans who are atheists. Mr. Bush's reply has become infamous. &quot;No, I don't know that atheists nor should they be considered patriots. This is one nation under God.&quot; Bush's bigotry blurted out in the heat He stood by it in the face of repeated He really meant it. More to the point, he knew quite the contrary. Democrats as well as Republicans if they want to get elected. Both parties invoke What would Thomas Jefferson have said? [In every country and in every age, Incidentally, I'm not usually but you can't help making the comparison. (Applause) In practice, what is an atheist? An atheist is just somebody the way any decent Christian feels As has been said before, we are that humanity has ever believed in. Some of us just go one god further. (Laughter) (Applause) And however we define atheism, that a person is entitled as an unpatriotic, Nevertheless, it's an undeniable fact is tantamount to introducing yourself And that all stems as some kind of weird, way-out minority. Natalie Angier wrote a rather saying how lonely she felt as an atheist. She clearly feels But actually, how do American atheists The latest survey makes Christianity, of course, takes a massive with nearly 160 million. But what would you think convincingly outnumbering Jews Hindus, Buddhists and all other The second largest group, is the one described You can't help wondering are so proverbially overawed by the power the state of Israel seems to owe its very while at the same time, consigning the non-religious This secular non-religious vote, is nine times as numerous Why does this far more not make a move to exercise Well, so much for quantity. Is there any correlation, between intelligence [Them folks misunderestimated me] (Laughter) The survey that I quoted, didn't break down its data IQ or anything else. But a recent article by Paul G. Bell provides some straws in the wind. Mensa, as you know, for people with very high IQ. And from a meta-analysis Bell concludes that, I quote -- on the relationship and one's intelligence all but four found an inverse connection. That is, the higher one's intelligence the less one is likely to be religious.&quot; Well, I haven't seen and I can't comment on that meta-analysis, but I would like to see more And I know that there are -- there are people in this audience easily capable of financing a massive and I put the suggestion up, But let me know show you some data that have been properly on one special group -- In 1998, Larson and Witham those who'd been honored by election and among this select group, belief in a personal God dropped About 20 percent are agnostic; Similar figures obtained Among biological scientists, 5.5 percent, only, believe in God. Physical scientists, it's 7.5 percent. I've not seen corresponding in other fields, but I'd be surprised So, we've reached a truly a grotesque mismatch and the American electorate. A philosophical opinion which is held by the vast majority and probably the majority is so abhorrent to the American electorate that no candidate for popular election If I'm right, this means that high office in the greatest country in the world is barred to the very people the intelligentsia -- unless they are prepared To put it bluntly: are heavily loaded against those who are simultaneously (Laughter) (Applause) I'm not a citizen of this country, if I suggest that something (Laughter) And I've already hinted From what I've seen of TED, I think this Again, I fear it will cost money. We need a consciousness-raising, coming-out campaign for American atheists. (Laughter) This could be similar to the campaign a few years ago, although heaven forbid of people against their will. In most cases, people who out themselves will help to destroy the myth that On the contrary, they'll demonstrate that atheists who could serve as decent the kinds of people an advertising agent the kinds of people There should be a snowball effect, such that the more names There could be non-linearities, When a critical mass has been obtained, there's an abrupt And again, it will need money. I suspect that the word &quot;atheist&quot; itself contains or remains a stumbling block far out of proportion and a stumbling block to people who otherwise might be So, what other words might oil the wheels, sugar the pill? Darwin himself preferred &quot;agnostic&quot; -- and not only out of loyalty who coined the term. Darwin said, &quot;I have never been an atheist in the same sense of denying I think that generally an 'agnostic' would be the most correct He even became uncharacteristically Aveling was a militant atheist who failed to persuade Darwin to accept the dedication incidentally, giving rise that Karl Marx tried to dedicate which he didn't, it was What happened was that Aveling's and when both Darwin and Marx were dead, Marx's papers became muddled and a letter from Darwin saying, but I don't want you was mistakenly supposed and that gave rise to this whole It's a sort of urban myth, that Marx Anyway, it was Aveling, and when &quot;Why do you call yourselves atheists?&quot; &quot;'Agnostic, '&quot; retorted Aveling, &quot;was and 'atheist' was simply Darwin complained, &quot;But why Darwin thought that atheism might be but that ordinary people were Which is, of course, our old friend, It's not recorded whether Aveling told (Laughter) But in any case, You'd think we might have Now, a friend, an intelligent lapsed Jew, who, incidentally, observes the Sabbath describes himself He won't call himself an atheist because it's, in principle, but &quot;agnostic&quot; on its own might was therefore on equal terms So, my friend is strictly but it isn't very likely, is it? Like God. Hence the phrase, &quot;tooth-fairy agnostic.&quot; Bertrand Russell made the same point using a hypothetical teapot You would strictly have to be agnostic about whether there is a teapot but that doesn't mean you treat as on all fours with its non-existence. The list of things which we strictly doesn't stop at tooth fairies If you want to believe unicorns or tooth fairies the onus is on you to say why. The onus is not on the rest We, who are atheists, are also a-fairyists and a-teapotists. (Laughter) But we don't bother to say so. And this is why my friend as a label for what most people Nonetheless, if we want to attract we're going to have find than &quot;tooth-fairy&quot; or &quot;teapot agnostic.&quot; So, how about &quot;humanist&quot;? This has the advantage of a worldwide and journals and things already in place. My problem with it is only One of the things is that the human species is only one among millions of cousins, And there are other possibilities, but that also has problems of confusion, because Darwin would have &quot;Naturalist&quot; means, of course, and it is used sometimes -- Darwin would have been confused which he was, of course, and I suppose there might be others (Laughter) Such people might be those which last year attacked a pediatrician (Laughter) I think the best of the available is simply &quot;non-theist.&quot; It lacks the strong connotation and it could therefore easily be embraced It's completely compatible When atheists like Stephen Hawking they use it of course for that deep, mysterious part of physics &quot;Non-theist&quot; will do for all that, it doesn't have the same But I think, actually, the alternative is to grasp the nettle precisely because it is a taboo word, carrying frissons of hysterical phobia. Critical mass may be harder than with the word &quot;non-theist,&quot; or some other non-confrontational word. But if we did achieve it the political impact Now, I said that if I were religious, I'd go further: I would fear science And this is because is so much more exciting, more poetic, more filled with sheer wonder than anything in the poverty-stricken As Carl Sagan, another recently &quot;How is it that hardly any major and concluded, 'This The universe is much bigger grander, more subtle, more elegant'? Instead they say, 'No, no, no! My god is a little god, A religion, old or new, that stressed the magnificence as revealed by modern science, might be able to draw forth hardly tapped by the conventional faiths.&quot; Now, this is an elite audience, and I would therefore expect Many of you probably subscribe that we should respect religion. But I also suspect secretly despise religion as much as I do. (Laughter) If you're one of them, and of course but if you are one of them, I'm asking you to stop being polite, come out, and say so. And if you happen to be rich, give some thought to ways The religious lobby in this country is massively financed by foundations -- by foundations, such as the Templeton We need an anti-Templeton to step forward. If my books sold as well instead of only as well as People are always going on about, Well, here's how it changed me. Let's all stop being so damned respectful. Thank you very much. (Applause)