If Maria Von Trapp had driven a Range Rover, every stream and driven to every Austrian singers in the back. Her and the Captain would have been able to in their finest glad rags after a day yodeling The Range Rover is the ultimate go-anywhere It was born out of Rover's desire to sell complete accident. So how did a company known for saloon cars that created a brand-new market segment? Let's find out! (music) Our story starts with the venerable Land Rover, It was Rover's answer to the Willys Jeep in World War II. The Land Rover had proven to be a big hit as it launched, Rover's management felt The Land Rover was too "rough and ready" vehicle with a little more refinement. So, in 1949 they released the 80" Station Rover with a few extra refinements, and an But it was expensive to produce and not many But the Land Rover wasn't the one-hit wonder of a Land Rover that was good both on and In 1951 Rover designer Gordon Bashford devised An early concept looked like it was about only a rough mock-up. It was to be based off a saloon car platform, feel while offering limited off-roading. They would give the car long-travel suspension in where it could go with only 2WD. As Rover was spending most of its resources main job), the Road Rover became a side project It went through so many revisions that by By 1958 it was being readied for production, It's likely the complexity of the design were factors. Why spend money taking customers away from Road Rover weren't high enough to justify So, Rover went back to doing what it did best, Through the early 60's they focused on the for road-going cars. By 1964 the P6 was out the door, and Rover the lucrative US market. The Road Rover idea had never really gone Rover saw a growth in the recreational 4x4 Wagoneer and Ford Bronco, so decided their new car The Range Rover is seen as such a luxury vehicle designed this way from the outset. Although this was to be a more refined vehicle to make an upmarket vehicle. They wanted to make something that worked a farmer's workhorse, or a California surfer's The finished vehicle would be easy to wipe and a plastic dashboard. Gordon Bashford was joined by Spen King to It was soon determined that the car must have the Jeep, but also to outshine their own Land It was to have independent, long-travel suspension The engine used would be the lightweight aluminium It proved to be excellent for the job - providing It was such a strong engine, it helped that the engine could be split between the front As the car was 99.9" in length, as a nod as the 100" Station Wagon. The car needed to be simple to construct and steel structure with simple aluminium panels David Bache, designer of the Rover P6, was with some early designs, but he was beaten Spen and Gordon had designed some simple panels from the styling department. When management saw the shape, they were so and for David Bache to only do small refinements Rover was subsumed into British Leyland in BL's management got to see what Rover was They liked the 100" Station Wagon so much By September the first road-going prototype It proved very good and only needed minor David Bache spent 1967 finalizing the design The customer clinic reaction was good, and a hit vehicle on their hands. The next two years were spent performing final and starting up the production line. The final car was launched to the press and and was an immediate hit, going on to win The French liked it so much they exhibited The car was something of a jack-of-all-trades. It was an accomplished off-roader, and a spacious People liked the commanding high seating position Soon it wasn't just farmers and outdoorsy class, and they weren't driving it off-road. Through the 1970's the Range Rover was left British Leyland didn't have the cash to on winning the high-volume car sector. But the Range Rover was selling well, not also because it didn't have any competition. In fact it's surprising how long it took to compete with the Range Rover. BMW took until 1999 to bring us the X5, Audi first tried to compete with the Range Rover into this hideous creation. But by the end of the 70's things were beginning Michael Edwardes, the manager of British Leyland Land Rover and Range Rover into their own This allowed them to create their own destiny, They started by testing the waters with new The Range Rover had always been a 3 door, but the Even though a 5 door had been mocked-up in out the design work and released it as a special It was expensive but proved that there was An automatic was also tested and proved popular, were launched by 1982 with their cool-looking Another cheap but effective tactic was to all the luxury options. They chose to call these "In Vogue" versions this proved to be an effective tie-in to increase Through the 1980s the car sold in greater finances meant bigger profits that could be Slowly Land Rover Ltd was transforming the Range Every year the interior refinements made the with a 5-speed gearbox and new diesel and In 1992 the 108" Long Wheelbase version room to the rear passengers. The car was also upgraded to use air suspension, This provided not only better handling, but car as the air suspension dropped to its lowest In 1994 the mark 1 Range Rover was replaced But that's another story for another day. If you're watching in the future then first and secondly, click the link to a video on The Range Rover can be seen as a happy accident. Spen King and Gordon Bashford's quick design Their engineering was so good that it didn't in the lean years of the 1970s. And the car invented the luxury SUV market, a little extra investment and without any The original design lived for an amazing 25 To quote Land Rover's own marketing quote, Thanks for watching, if you like these videos video, it really helps. Let me know in the comments your memories cover next. And think about watching these other great See you soon!