In Shadow Of Memories the first Stabbed in the back and left for dead in are resurrected by a mysterious being and through time and your goal now is to change all of this really couldn't have happened to Memories Eike is just such a lovable buffoon. That's a terrible thing to say. Oh bad example? Shadow Of Memories also known as Shadow Of adventure game developed by Konami and released and directed by Junko Kawano who earlier in her Yoshitaka Murayama. She worked as a designer and for the third game because at the time she was She acted as the writer director and character That of the cat. A woman of many talents. In 2008 Hollow which shares theme and mechanics with have never actually played but I think I'll have Of Memories. Kawano left Konami in 2015 but still designer. She's actually the lead character Suikoden series Eiyuden Chronicle Hundred Heroes Memories garnered positive reviews at the time of Europe and PC in Europe and North America. Years playing the original PS2 version for this video. dwellers who support this channel on Patreon and on the topic of this video in a poll I put out this Channel and get perks like that there will video. So story-wise where were we? Oh right we're too easy. After being shanked on the streets he's who offers him the chance to change his fate and on the deal. How about it will you deal with me? And I think that's the most practical thing I've either just die here and now or you prevent it right I'm sorry I called you the devil. I don't Eike's a bit of a pushover isn't he? He's just a lot of Fred from Lunacy vibes. Oh you must So anyway he's given a device called a digipad come up with a more creative name for a machine like some early prototype for a PDA or something. personal to Eike so he can only jump to certain he can head back to just before the time of passed out in a cafe with Eddie from Silent Hill This game came out like half a year earlier. headed to Silent Hill. So Eike stumbles out of fictional German Town and I don't know German so Lebensbaum translates to the tree of life so we've be getting real familiar with these streets since the town during different eras throughout its so Eike decides to head in. The fortune teller he needs to stop his death before then. She also manage to not be alone at the time of his death leaving the shop the digipad starts glowing. early parts of the game you'll need to wait for through time. Later on we'll be able to move more For now Eike uses the digipad and travels back to you'll notice there are now two dates and times numbers with the red line underneath represent the with the blue line align with the current time in time in the present continues to move forward so death before it's too late you will die and these the fortune teller you have about 25 minutes to pausing the game will pause the timer thankfully will cause time to pass at different intervals. even though it most likely didn't take that long scene play out the game decides how long these hate games with a ticking clock mechanic and I'm Memories was never really a big deal. It's pretty I wasn't even paying attention to the time and part where the game wanted me to use the digipad if you're not a fan of time limits in games I get to gather some people so he won't be alone at the take on a whole another meaning if we weren't wandering around town with seemingly nothing to at 2:30. Oh my God what's wrong with your face? are just... It doesn't feel like Kawano drew some napkin and passed them along to the character to enough people the digipad will start blinking present. Eike heads to the square where he finds now here's a guy with no worries. That's pretty Dude's working his ass off for these people. in the square is enough to scare off the murderer Oh guess not. So this is the structure of the chapters and Eike will die at the beginning of talk with people and solve puzzles to prevent his cause of all of this happening and as things back just a couple of hours. There are three other early 1900s and the 1500s with a few variations fate you go back to the present to see how the new this green bar underneath the times in the top Each time you use it you'll deplete a point of these little green orbs around town. They change respawn every time you use the digipad so as long run out. I don't think you can ever soft lock low on time and can't run around to collect a But you'll just be sent back to the beginning long it takes you to complete each chapter which just goes along with the time theme but there is a several side quests and alternate scenes that can eight different endings, six that you can get in in a new game plus type scenario that you unlock B has a slight variation that you can unlock plus to open up. I'll go into more detail on the each of them later on. And yeah that's about it main puzzles revolve around how to prevent Eike's some of the puzzles will alter things in the to figure out an antidote for a poison that a library only a museum. So you travel back 100 was still trying to decide how to use his large into a library instead of a museum. Then when you can find a book on poison antidotes. Sometimes even directly involved in your escapades in the on the head by a falling urn and you go back seem related to stopping the urn from falling. was how Eike died in the first place. You learn and when you go back to the present to talk his past and he ends up bumping the urn off of a of out the window. It's so silly but it's also all around and I think the setting has a lot to so cozy just wandering around this place. enter most of which you will eventually need before you turn it into a library is full of and some of them are directly related to events the game. There's also the town hall which is need to ever actually go there unless there was explorable. Even still it feels great just to of this old fictional German town. Unfortunately that same sense of charm and wonder. It's playing it felt like such whiplash compared to [Music] And this load screen is going way to market this as a horror game in a way in forums it seems like more than a few this actually is. I mean survival horror on the horizon. I wouldn't be surprised to lean into this style but it's absolutely these NPC faces. Luckily the rest of the eras [Music] [Music] And as you can see each era has a different color and white the Middle Ages are sepia toned. It are also other visual touches that make each era change certain buildings and locations will The 1980s takes place during a snowy day period. It's great. It's a joy just to walk pretty basic. A far cry from what team silent few months later but the budget couldn't have good job with what they most likely had to work characters for each era by reusing some of each retain their personalities throughout yeah I'm not one to complain about visuals seen some of my other videos you'll know um I'm uh Oh you're Dana right? What? Oh it's It's like a fine wine and Shadow full of awful takes and stilted delivery What is it? Oh nothing. God I love it. So after averting certain death in finds the town bar on fire. A young boy sitting bar to help his grandfather. Here we get our can choose to head into the fire like the hero he ain't going in there to rescue his stupid to watch the juggler in the Town Square who will that doesn't really make any sense yet but then going into that fire no matter what. And he'll back to the past has either Eike finding the them out or telling the barkeep about the fire. boy who cried grandpa is nowhere to be found and I'll talk about chapter 2 before taking a spoiler gets set up. At the outset Eike is approached by of [ __ ] Eike left there like a red gemstone. It gives me a funny feeling to look at it. If you on a lot of girls. Uh yeah sure lady. Well uh this customers. Oh I almost forgot what about What about the lighter? You can make that into in the Lion's Club donation bucket. This of spittle on the tine of this fork. Please a necklace with this red stone? I may not look [Music] Yeah you were killed because of that awful pickup even know what happens here. Did whoever kill And how did Dana not see anything? After Eike Luckily you can skip cut scenes you've already attempting to obtain all the endings. After that figure out what exactly happened to him and this lingering conversation between two strangers Eike uses the digipad to travel back to the past not just traveling back a few hours either. group of women harassing a younger woman about seems to be in violation of some sort of public in a cage behind them. They threaten to tell the dude who's meant to be the town constable or you must arrest her at once. But Eike drives them kind of fire magic. Alternatively you can use the machine on you. Ooh! I can trap any of you inside woman in the dress doesn't seem too surprised need to be afraid of but enough about-- That right about your age. What? Oh no. Oh that's not good. the hands gets them every time. So she finally to have completely forgotten about Dana at this sick mother Helena and her younger brother Hugo. the building where the fortune teller is in the story thread. Helena also mentions that Eike's okay? Margarete goes to check on her father boy which is awkward enough but then Whoa there fella! The digipad falls out of Eike's out that it allows Eike to travel through time suppose. After Margarete returns it's up to her the woman that he's lost in the past and supposed weren't you? Tell me what does she look like? not anything like that. I actually don't remember and had her hair tied back kind of high and I don't strain yourself there Eike. You've only spending like zero effort looking for Dana Eike town Squire's manor so he can stop this dude from to choose between planting flowers or building a from being able to hide behind the the tree and works. And now that Eike's prevented his own death about some waitress from a cafe who you can't even peaces out back to the present. Oh what have I find you. Please hang in there until then. Until cigarette? [Music] Today is a good day to quit. I don't want to die. Oh boy. Okay well we've all of the different eras yet but these are up connecting throughout the game. I think you've to play this for yourself or just want to continue If you want to skip them jump to this time or use one where we need to divert the falling urn. We an acquaintance of Eike's. And oh okay just a small book with a symbol on the front which will being that gave Eike the digiad makes its the Alchemy connections are becoming more apparent trying to help Eike and Eike asks the homunculus So it sends Eike back to 1979 where he finds a daughter. Another young man also sees Eike appear later. The digipad doesn't have any energy so all to return to the present. Eike runs upstairs to causes him to knock the urn to the floor instead the fact that he's never mentioned his daughter to in an attack and his infant daughter was kidnapped homunculus is waiting for him. He now believes really know why. All it did was strand him in the I mean this will start to make some sort of sense lead Eike to trust homunculus. But Eike's a big my body is very fragile and won't let me do much. quite terrible. Absolutely exhausted me. I won't things I've ever heard a video game character red stone that Dana had again and that he should disappears. Chapter 4 starts with a timer on to even come to grips with what's happening so visual evidence on how Eike died this time but they haven't run out of ideas on how to kill gave Eike there's an old black and white photo and he meets someone outside of where the museum a museum worker but the man explains that this ancestors. But Eike's comment about a museum gets into a museum since it's too large for just him Karl Franssen who's a photographer in this age but descendant. This Eckart ancestor is grateful tea. Boy people in 1902 sure are friendly. Inside suddenly decides to have a family photo taken in the photographer leaving his young daughter street. Father of the year right here. Sybilla meantime instead of just wearing his turtleneck an upcoming Festival complete with the mask to Sybilla suggests Eike be in the photo wearing but if you remember from the prologue this costume Square. It's also called jugglery. Huh... Anyway decides to take a look around town. There's some stand where the bar will eventually be. That's This initiates a side quest where you'll need to to you which isn't related to the main story at Twin Peaks reference. You can also pick up some for later. Hello looking for some meat? But this sign off the street. And yeah why not? After house and gets his photo taken in the goofy ass clothes. That sign. Do you always carry it around? just pinched it off the street you goddamn klepto. you soon. Come again soon. You can use that key as missed anything. We just don't know what she's the sign to protect himself from getting stabbed the costume is the same as the juggler in the juggler is Eike from another timeline. You mean Eike but it didn't work out as planned. I think that. This is too much. I love how defeated I've got a headache. I need to go lie down. Fate choose one of them and the tracks left on that what you're doing right now is experiencing you shift around in your your own timeline again [Music] Wow. Wow. Chapter 5 includes another poisoned at the bar. A few important details on the cover of the book. I--I don't like the this pentagram kind of thing. You're a little book near it is strange and not the fact that back from the dead? Homunculus explains that the who's significant to Eike. It also reminds Eike to to stopping Eike's death loop. After homunculus am I tired or something? What a reaction. So after Eckart's ancestor to turn the house into a library finds a book in the library that mentions sea hare male sea hare but the poison no longer exists in where apparently four years have passed since he Dana in that time so she's been stuck there for 4 The Alchemist's house has exploded. He learns on the street. There was an explosion just now. wonder. God sent his judgment down. Metal as [ __ ] lady. Good thing Eike been carrying around in his pocket so he can obstacle. Inside the house Eike finds homunculus Eike also finds a key to Dr Wagner's lab the explosion to speak to The Alchemist. Eike tells him that if he finds the stone Eike should homunculus. Afterwards Eike heads upstairs and about looking for Dana and Eike's just like oh for the poison antidote and Margarete hands it about The Alchemist's daughter's connection to ancestress. Also Margarete reveals that pretty Not like he's done anything to even attempt to Margarete heads off to make a delivery of some of someone he thinks is Dana but loses track realizes that maybe talking about time traveling timeline. And he gives this gem of an example like suppose I were to kill someone in this age. Yes Eike. Really bad example. Christ. Back at which will determine your ending path. You can or not say anything. There's another important happen and in these moments Eike mentions that a chance to choose your dialogue option again about these forks in the story. For now I decide Hugo returns and has an awkward argument a lock of his dead mother's hair. Are you I know how much you miss mother but forever. Sh- shut up! What do you something like that? It's not as That stool kick. I'm sorry that didn't come out quite right but You're the one who's being weird changing the Hugo. It's your fault you ought to know that. Hugo father can't be disturbed. I know. Ooh voice direction whatsoever. Uh I uh I should get and stilted conversations and then it just hits perfect. Anyway Margarete gives Ike a comb for drinks the antidote and evades death yet again. some boring movie called The Meditating Man and so boring and there were a bigger crowd out in the filmmaker Oleg who is clearly a descendant of from the earlier eras. He also caught a glimpse of on what kind of movie to make. We need to make it have a few options but only two of them will be This also changes the movie posters in the scene even the ones that don't end up saving Eike from going for 100% completion of the game which I'm Eike a different item depending on the answers apparently. Now you could just head back to the event Eike can participate in here which will also one of the streets he hears a gunshot and finds apparently lost her baby. We quickly find out that so Dana is Mr Eckart's daughter but Dana existed was kidnapped and the baby is now missing. What? the shooting and he tries to convince Eckart's as any sane person would she just thinks he's a shot again and when Eike arrives at the scene the Here you better not do anything irresponsible. Suckers. Like a true Hollywood entrepreneur of others and base his movie around the events some truths every now and then. This relates work. Actually it's going to need a lot of So Eike tries again to save Miriam and Miriam down the street and pushes her out of me. And what about the baby? Maybe. Are you You really were trying to help weren't you? I'm you all right? Baby? Anybody? Wait. Where is yeah Eike must have caused that baby to be to be found. Damn the baby. Then Eckart comes baby either. Eike's digipad goes off so he just a [ __ ] about that baby anyway? And yeah really poster draws a crowd and the car chooses another from Eckart after this. Hi there I'm sorry but If you could bring it over I'll be waiting at line again Mr audio editor? I'll be waiting at meet Mr Ecakrt in the library Tower and the door The other door in the tower is also locked so Man what a scream. That was probably Back to the past. Hey there was a rope lying try going to the night before and tying that to the tower first so it's back to 1902. While including Eike by the way he sneaks into the is where Sybilla saw Eike snatch the key. chapter 4. Now that Eike can unlock the tower picks up the rope and ties it to the railing. the locked door in the tower and overhears visit that's supposed to take place the next and after he's pushed off he grabs the rope that Oh [ __ ] Looks like we're going to need a stronger rope. so back to 1902 to grab the Rope there when back up to the top of the tower but nobody is ajar and inside we find Mr Eckart who's real comb. A girl's comb? This belongs to you? Mr Look at those flowing locks. Of course it's for pushing Ike off the tower. That's a been blackmailing him. A young man who's been Eckart that he could bring back Eckart's Eike just lets the attempted murder slide. still alive. Oh God you're. You aren't. You oh. No it's just that he looked so much like someone don't have to say anything. I actually really like it was really Ike back then but shushes him with stilted moments this was just so subtle and well Eckart then tells Ike that a man that looked just years ago. He even thought that Eike was that Eike doesn't remember his parents at all. After woman in the gallery holding what looks like Eike thinks that the woman bears a striking what she looked like. Tell me what does she look travels back to the 1500s and heads to Carl She's made something of a life for herself in this know? I'm sorry I looked for you too but I ass Eike. You gave up after like 5 minutes. You doofus. I actually don't remember too well. about her so she's staying here. She also gives choice happens here. You can try to convince can accept her decision and just leave things her decision to stay in the past. With the Dr Wagner's house and gives it to him. Wagner remembers the destroyed house and tries to warn is determined. He wants to create the homunculus fall into place. Wagner also doesn't want Hugo thinks that if Hugo knows about it he'll try mother back to life. That [ __ ] kid. Carrying perfectly good stools around. He'll definitely Before leaving Eike suggests that Wagner draw experiment after all. I will certainly do so I your thoughtfulness. I cannot help but envy it. youth. Forgive me I must not lapse into self-pity. but Eike the human doornail thinks nothing of it. Eike that Dr Wagner won't let him into the lab. like the one you showed me before. I sort of logic that is but who gives a [ __ ] we got a since the experiment he's working on is dangerous. the explosion. Eike travels to 10 days later the basement he hears Margarete's voice but all machine. Back in the present Eike gets a phone about is how Hugo got his number. How do you know You know you mentioned him once. Hugo reveals that the deal with him to try to kill Eike then he I got here it's pretty simple really. Remember own you see. What? Well actually I didn't make it. and gave it to me. A transport mechanism to Come again. A transport mechanism to time space much better name than digipad anyway. Over in the Eike remembers him as the boy who was sitting pieces together and realizes that the Hugo who's trying to kill him. Hugo blames the completion Eike since Eike was the one who brought Dr Wagner Hugo explains how his own Time Machine works. What what you were doing but all my machine could do is I thought I could manage to get to you before you reveals that he wants to resurrect his mother. gives Ike 20 minutes to return with homunculus and determine your ending. Again I'll get into all follow my first playthrough. Eike heads back to a fire before Hugo and Margarete show up at the and Margarete are still in the Town Square so because Hugo just pulled the notes out of the As Eike approaches in the present Hugo begins tosses the notes back into the fire so Hugo never and soon after Margarete disappears as well. overlapping timelines because if Margarete never learned how to make the time machine then But anyway that's the end of chapter 8. Lastly we that you managed to unlock. In this instance that it's been using Eike just to ensure its own Here you are. So polite Eike. This with your fate and the fate of those around you the power to travel through time but yeah well device back. It's got a shitty name anyway. standing there with his dumb look on his face. who offers to grant Dr Wagner his greatest desire. [ __ ] was the thing he'd been striving so long youth. Well you know principles aren't all they That young man the other [Music] Am I? Did it really work? you wished for. But then the pentagram. Oh snap. A pentagram. Just before the homunculus is zapped Where am I? Huh beautiful stone. And so in this ending the whole time. That would explain Eike's daughter and now that the homunculus has been from this point in the past and none of have ever occurred. At least not in this and definitely one of the better ones but If we replay chapter 8 and instead of accepting try to get her to come back she at first fights back with him which involves finding a note in doing a good job and talking about a birthday people in the present really did care about Hugo watches. For Dana four years have passed Eike leaves her to return to her apartment Dr Wagner the philosopher stone. After Eike hands he finds Margarete still in the basement with the this time he didn't take his sister with him Will you wait here? Are you sure? I know what Eike burned himself there. I don't even need to and gets the call from Hugo we find out that he's except for the fact that Dana is there instead and brings Margaret to the present with him in something going on isn't there? Boy you catch traveler your house exploding and your brother that out. In the present Margarete literally Hugo. What the? We're going home Hugo. still a family and we have a place to you and you take care of me okay. We have right? Okay I'll go home. Well that was easy. What was all that and why did that kid try a thing to go through all that. It's okay I'm all right. him. I know what you mean. Really? Dude killed mad at least. In the epilogue- Yeah smooth smooth blah blah blah. In the past Wagner only wishes homunculus deletes Wagner from existence and that Problem solved. So Eike still gives homunculus Dana have this awkward flirty conversation that you brought it up I should mention something. all this talk about responsibility and besides guy? Okay I'll walk you home just in case. That'd Come on dad. What? What is happening right now? So other endings we'll need to head back to chapter 5 is his ancestor. Then we'll need to play through that's added after making the choice to tell we see it was homunculus who kidnapped the baby know what happened to that damn baby. Damn the about the ancestry locks us out of getting Dana to firmly stating that she has no desire to return to try to persuade her to come back with him. Later he always has margarete hostage from now on you ending C you can go back to the Middle Ages and and Margarete come down but then future Hugo shows stop Eike Because he believes it was Eike who his father to create homunculus. Eike pops up and block his escape but he swings his cane to try to and because of the contact between the two Hugos passes out and Eike can't wake her up so he just default whenever he can't just bumble his way into and the epilogue happens. Homunculus appears tells After Eike gives back the digipad and homunculus for life which he decides to celebrate by promptly gets run over by some drunk drivers Hey dude I think it's a drunk or something. Right on dude so it's like join the club. Catch you later dude you're going to like And Eike just dies in the streets. [ __ ] For ending B1 instead of going back to the past finds out that the fortune teller is actually and Margarete's mother. Hugo attempted to bring managed to bring back her spirit which was to her Eike runs back to the square and asks says it's nothing but a shell of his former there waiting for him. Hugo is suspicious but voice. Margarete doesn't hear anything. After pissed and the house starts to crumble. She then he gets crushed by falling debris. So for used yes yes. Before Eike gives the digipad back to her own time so Eike does that. They part him Eike decides to go get drunk at the local the snowy day in 1980 and talk to homunculus. when I get around to talking about ending A in to talk to Hugo Mr Eckart comes up and bear Oh are you all right? Those [ __ ] are fighting fat old man tackles this waif of a teenage boy and a parent worth his salt out there who doesn't saying? I'm someone's parent and you're someone's now. Even if you keep trying I won't let you this. Okay. That's it? And yeah it is. Hugo and Mr Eckart mentions some batshit theory about how that in just a minute. We see a burst of light in anyway. You took the words right out of my mouth whatever and Eike goes to get drunk again. ending A. For this one you need to go to the snow visit the fortune teller to get all the info about Homunculus did this really convoluted thing so the Margaret in the past is actually Dana and now that Dana or Margaret has decided to stay to the present. So homunculus shows up in the to explain things to Hugo. Homunculus summons Dr his research to him if he just returns to his own this thing in the form of Dr Wagner just banishes realm is lovely this time of year. Let's find Wagner isn't actually dead so he can't bring his created to remove Hugo from the equation. So suggests taking Margarete back but this time she the digipad anymore and decides to give it back to oh [Music] Oh No! What happened? I think it was just killed this extradimensional being. tree is back in the Square everything that Homunculus is gone. However Eike does find the is the best ending in my opinion. If only for clumsy chode kills homunculus in such an unlocked the normal endings we can talk about game calls it. You need to see endings A, ending B to unlock this mode. You'll know you've [Music] [Music] Just start a new game and get to in homunculus dimension. At this point can say Am I dead again? and he can choose the Am I dead option first even if you will continue normally and you won't enter he wakes up in the cafe and realizes that he's philosopher stone under the table but it's fortune teller and recognizes her immediately from another timeline. Eike heads to the town After this the bar will already be burning which If Eike refuses to go in and heads back to the tosses him the egg but this time the note says the elixir of Life which can cure all diseases. who's on her way to deliver the stone and lighter the digipad will start start blinking. The which is usually only accessible from chapter are harassing Margarete about her outfit and or the lighter again. Following Margarete back to and Hugo plays out and after seeing ending D Eike and Dr Wagner have similar voices. Eike philosopher stone. Then he leaves the house and get a little wobbly. But it turns out Dr Wagner This saved her life which made it so Dr Wagner version of Eike meant to ensure its creation I've won cheated fate. This is the best day ever. You're all right [Music] In a final scene we see a different looking walks the streets of Lebensbaum. He just gets hit in the back with a soccer much like Hugo and all is well and good. Eike be used in the homunculus plan to keep itself side characters who Eike never ended up meeting. wonders about what happened to all these other lives. But there's one final ending to get in house with Margarete Eike can use the digipad to in the bar fire and be sent to homunculus itself and Eike just chucks the philosopher I did it. After that Eike fades from existence with the different timeline Eike and the soccer That's all the endings in the game. Personally I the digipad and kills homunculus but ending D was all along. And the one where Eike gets run over between the extra endings of Eike either saving homunculus? In any case all the endings have ending. Come on dad. But which one is the real dealing with time travel and different timelines. the branching paths that Eike takes through his be a bit ambiguous and there not just be one this. Looking through the results screen I only the endings. That's because there are several side that can play out depending on little choices seen enough to say that Shadow of Memories is a it. The dialogue is borderline nonsensical the there but all of those are positives in my book. travel mechanic that's fun to play around with. jump through time and solve the puzzle of Eike's to just walking around and talking to everybody a cozy atmosphere while wandering the town and that it started to feel like home. Anyway I'm good or bad. I honestly don't care. Now was it Shadow Of Memories is interesting and worth at talking about for over an hour. It's weird. It's that's exactly what I want out of a game so I with me. And that's it for Shadow of Memories. If comment and subscribe if you haven't already. All channel. But if you want to go above and beyond button on this page and become a YouTube member. before they're public on YouTube and they also They voted on this video and I'll definitely a dungeon dweller. Join us. If you donate $5 or videos like these dungeon Architects bennifer94 and Nekot the brave. As well as these dungeon DazedClockwork deekadiko goats and goblins Joshua pandiangan True Axiom Warrior song where am I help And thank you for watching. So Shadow Of Memories more. Gone again. This is a really one-sided book talks about what's the connection?