Let's take a look at creating smart, dependent that were faced with here. Number one is that the automatically as new data is added to our source have different lengths, so we want to make sure the values. So, there shouldn't be any empty two common questions I get when people watch my both right now, and I'm going to show you two The first version uses the offset formula, and sample data is this. We have different divisions: different apps that belong to that division. Let's I need to have my main drop-down. That's basically Data, go to Data Validation. Select List as the cells here, and I have my productivity, games, and to find a formula that we can plug into the Data effect that we're going for, so basically, it's here. Now, one formula that can help with that I'm just going to write the formula right here Data Validation. We don't get any help with the happy with it, once we see that it works, I'm OFFSET can be a little bit confusing to get you watch my offset video that just explains familiar with OFFSET yet, and if you are familiar a starting point, right? So, just see it like you so in this case, my starting point, I'll go with to your data. Normally, it's at the beginning of rows do I want to move down? Well, I don't want just want to show the apps that are inside the down one cell right here because I want to start move. Well, that really depends on what the first productivity, I don't want to move any columns. I do want to move one column right here. So, here the MATCH formula returns a number, right? It move. First argument in MATCH is the lookup value. I'm going to fix it with the F4 key. Next is where Let's fix it with F4 and the last argument is if case, we are, so I'm going to put a 0 in there. there is something that we need to take care of So, if it finds productivity, it actually returns just going to highlight this and press F9, and we happen is that we're actually going to move one there. So, we actually have to make a correction argument is the height, and that's the important dynamic. We want to restrict our results to the So, here we need some type of dynamic formula. But sure that everything else works fine, and then I'm just going to pick one right now. Next is to include it? Well, we just want to include one one, or we can skip that argument - it's an here just to make sure our OFFSET works and we we get WenCaL. For games, we get Fightrr, so that one here, so that was the height argument, if I Excel just shows me Fightrr here in the cell but I can actually check what's behind this. So, six apps here. Now, the challenge is to get the apps as I have under games, right? But if I'm in I'm just going to press Ctrl + Z to go back here. how we can make it dynamic. Well, one formula because we can count how many cells have text in between the COUNT formula and COUNTA formula. numbers in them, and COUNTA doesn't care if they in this case, I'm going to use COUNTA, but I can't do that because sometimes I want them to be the A exactly this part of COUNTA is something that the OFFSET formula comes into play. So, again, starting point. That's going to be the same. I'm rows do I want to move down? Well, I do want I want to move? That's the same as I had before, I'm just going to copy and paste it right so I'm actually dealing with the height argument now, I'm actually going to fix that. I'm going to have in my table. Just to make sure that if new data come in and new apps come in, they're going to actually fix that to a bigger number and have to adjust this for your own needs. Okay, so want one column, so I'm just going to put a one formula, and now I'm going to close off my COUNTA formula and press Enter. Okay, so now let's check this out. Let's just highlight that count and let's click on F9 to see what we get. We have So, let's just press Escape to leave. I'm going to the bottom of the count is 12. Okay, so this looks can check the counts, but what I can also do on F9, and I can see everything listed here until to leave now. I'm happy with this formula. I'm let's go back to Data Validation. Let's click so now let's check productivity. So, until here is Let's switch to games. Perfect. Let's switch to something here just to double-check, and that gets formula and then plugging in that formula inside a look at another way of doing this and that's formula. So, what I've already done here is the division. Now, for the second drop-down, what I'm but not one table, instead three separate tables. Ctrl + Shift + Down to highlight this area. Press so I'm going to say OK. I'm just going to leave press Enter. I'm going to repeat that for the Enter. &quot;TableGame&quot;. &quot;TableUtility&quot;. Okay, so names. Now, what I'm going to do is to use the let's do it here first and then let's copy I'm going to do something different. I'm actually for the INDEX formula. So, I'm going to work with game, and utility areas. So, what I'm going to do is header here, and click on this area. I get the if I put a comma here, it thinks I'm moving to to move to the next argument here. I want to add I don't want to go to the column argument. argument is to add these references in their own the bracket. And notice now when I move to the these three references are now considered to How many rows do I want to move down? Well, in I don't want to move down any rows. Each single I'm gonna skip that argument. Next is the column and here I just have one column for each area.I so I'm just going to skip that argument. and that is given by my match formula just like going to look up productivity in F4 to fix it. it up right here. I'm going to press F4 to fix (bracket close) press ENTER. Okay, it's giving us because I'm copying and pasting this formula right intersection. If I actually paste it somewhere in your case you're getting value. If you click see the full list behind that. This looks good, to leave. Okay, so as the last step, we said I right? So let's try to do that. I'm going to go paste this in, and click on OK. I run into a like this type of table referencing. Whenever you is to paste this first inside name manager. So go to name manager. These are the three different formula a name. I'm just going to call it &quot;my then click on OK and close. Okay, so now go back the name, which I forgot what it was. So I'm going list&quot; and click on OK. So now I get one cow to should be much shorter. Now let's add something to it should get reflected in here. Okay, so that's are not just dynamic, but they also have different if you learned something new, don't forget become more advanced in Excel and you haven't