- We gotta do something. (intense music) - You don't send them off half cocked. You be smart about this. You figure out a plan that works and you take that trash - [Rip] Yes, sir. (intense music) Had to get rid of a wrangler today. - Yeah, which one? - Fred. - What'd he do? - Eh, he worked over Jimmy. - Well, good riddance, I - Yeah, that and a loud mouth too. You know, I could drop but he's been here a Train station's where I'd leave him. - Well you run the bunkhouse, Rip. Do what's best for the ranch. - Fuck this ranch. Fuck John Dutton and fuck you. (subtle country music) Where are we going? - Train station. (subtle country music) (vehicle whirring) Took my first breath Spills into the gulf of Mexico The skyline was colored That put bread on the table Where the working man Safety and shelter for kids and a wife Giving a little - What the fuck are you doing? Every day - What are you doing? This ain't no God damn train station! - Sure it is. The long black train. - No (gun shot firing) (subtle country music) - Adios, assholes. - Jesus, boys, it looks like leaving this place is (subtle emotional music) - Where's he going? I'll get my coat. (vehicle whirring) (intense music) - What's going on? - He's done. - Says who? - Says me. - Where are you taking him? - Hell, I don't know. He said he's gonna take Reckon I'll figure it out from there. - I'll take you. Come on. - You don't know where it is, Kayce. - I know exactly where it is. Come on. (intense music) (footsteps crunching) (intense music) (engine starting) (intense music) (tires scratching) What'd you do? - I told you, it's what I won't do. - What'd he ask you to do? - That's between us. (intense music) (tires scratching) People like to think we ain't animals, like we've evolved into Prison teaches you real quick we haven't. You can forget bears and We're the meanest fucking Of all the animals in the - Yeah, I know. - I'm just trying to do that's all. - Yeah, me too. - This ain't different. - You want different. What's your word worth? - Worth my life. - You give me your word that everything you saw stays with you and I'll give you mine the next I'll be running it and and you'll be welcome back anytime. - [Walker] Yeah, I reckon I for a while. - I'd recommend it. (engine starting) - I won't forget this. I owe you one. - Yeah, knowing this world, I'm sure you'll get a (door shutting) - When did that drifter wander back? - This morning. - Is he involved in this? - It's two separate things. - What happened to them? - Your friend Wade Morrow - He ran him down on The boys are pretty hot, - I mean, he's been goading - [John] He's been goading That piece of shit is but he ain't stupid. His job ain't riding tours by buffalo. This is what he was hired to do. - Well, sir, what do you wanna do? - Can't call the sheriff. - No, they already thought about that and already have a reason, - We gotta do something. - I have more reason than anyone to go after that piece of shit. You don't send 'em off half cocked. You be smart about this. You figure out a plan that works and you take that trash to - Yes, sir. - He's sure slow - Maybe we ought before we mess with - It's one fucking guy. We're getting paid to stir trouble. Let's stir some. (intense music) (horse galloping) (intense music) (horses galloping) (intense music) (intense dramatic music) (horses galloping) (man grunting) (man shouting) (intense dramatic music) - Got off easy, you piece of shit. (dramatic music) (truck whirring) (truck whirring) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) - Why y'all dump 'em here? - Because no one lives It's a county with no people, no sheriff and no 12 jurors of your peers. (body rustling) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) - So how many people - Everyone from three states around dump their secrets off that cliff. Wanna know how the West was won? The skeletons at the bottom Now all you gotta do is figure out how not to be one of them. (dramatic music) - Who are you? Who's this? - His cell mate from way back. - The hit comes to him and then I put people That's all I do. I just put people together. - So you went to the militia? - Yes, sir. Went to the militia the same That's all I did. I got nothing to do with - Who gives the order to him? I'm keeping this. - It's yours to keep. - You can go now, Mo. (intense dramatic music) (truck rushing) (truck whirring) (intense dramatic music) (door shutting) (intense dramatic music) (man breathing heavily) God damn you for putting You ever shot a man? - Yeah, I shot some men. - [John] Where? - South Dakota, Nebraska. - On his body, dummy. - Back of the head. - Why the back of the head? - Shoot him in the chest or stomach and they look right at you with all this surprise in their eyes. Shoot 'em in the back of the head, they never know it's coming. Better for them, better for me. - This is one time I wish I (man grunting) (man shouting) Quit your whining. (man shouting) (man breathing heavily) About the simplest gun on earth to shoot. Cock the hammer, pull the trigger. (man breathing heavily) I'd love nothing more than to shoot you in the back of the head and be done with you and there's nobody watching I'd know, so we'll have ourselves an What do you say? Care to send me to heaven before I park your sorry ass in hell? - I ain't falling for this! That gun don't work or some shit! - Nah, the gun's fine. (gun cocking) This is as even as it's gonna get. (intense dramatic music) (man shouting) (gun shot firing) (gun shots firing) (body thudding) (crickets chirping) (vehicle rushing) (intense dramatic music) (intense dramatic music) (intense dramatic music) (body dragging) (intense dramatic music) - [Beth] Stop. Turn around. (camera flashing) You should have picked options one or two. Three is gonna be worse, (intense dramatic music) (intense banging) - Rowdy's hurt, hurt bad. - Where is he? - With the cattle. Hurts too bad to ride, he says. - Did he get bucked off? Rip, did he get bucked off? - No, sir. He talked about your daughter and we fought about it. He pulled his knife and I hit him in the head with a rock, too hard, I guess. - You wait here. (door slamming) (intense dramatic music) (horses trotting) Here, give it to me. Here you go. - He's dead. - He's dead? - That ain't gonna help. Get down off that horse. Why didn't you just tell - That's what Rowdy said. You said never lie to you, so I didn't. - Well, you're gonna have to lie now or you're going to prison, son. - [Lloyd] Rowdy ain't got no We could drop him off - That's putting a lot - The boy's putting a - Quit fucking crying. Time to worry about consequences Now there's a thing I could do, but if I do it, you don't You'll be part of this and you will do for no matter what that is. You understand me? - This ranch is the only family I've got. Ain't never leaving, (subtle emotional music) - All right. - Come help me. (subtle emotional music) (subtle emotional music) (intense dramatic music) (body thudding) (footsteps tapping) (intense dramatic music) (truck whirring) (intense dramatic music)