Transcriber: Darcy Henderson So lovely to be here. I'm going to try and persuade you all that we're and that it is not a transition. Okay. We hear this phrase quite a bit, and I'm going to start by saying from my The first driver is solar technology. And the third is what I call I couldn't think of another phrase. All and it's China. Okay. So let I want to say we have never seen a So if we just take the case of nuclear we've just actually caught up with So in other words, there's as much the whole solar fleet, which has taken as opposed to the nuclear fleet, which The question is, why has that happened? Why it happened is it's a semiconductor And what we've seen is technology which means the performances have got And the second thing about it, it If we decide tomorrow we're going to Ten years later, we might get If I want to put a solar panel it's done in two minutes. All right. The other thing is, I come Well, the finance world realizes it, too. The finance world is putting its capital Right. Last year, really, really big year. More capital globally went into solar and The second one is batteries. And in particular, if you look, batteries There's been little or no innovation We still use lead acid batteries, which And then came lithium ion. And lithium And the reason is, is because you're going a kilogram weight of the battery. And the cost reductions have been enormous None of the mobile phones that you have batteries. If you had a lead you'd be carrying five kilograms. But it's not just the digital It's also the automobile. you're seeing record automobile the world year after year after year. And there's a big reason and And that is we have now got cost parity and the EV. In China today. Now that is a really, really critical it's cheaper already and You can see where I'm going right. We're going to go on electrified and cheaper. Right. And I also It's not just actually cars in particular, If any of you go to South Asia today, It's only us in Europe here that and buy Harley-davidsons. Right. The world is not using it because It's cheaper to run, cheaper to buy, and So that's that. We then also have to look solarizing the world of electricity. This is California and this is just any The yellow is what you see Now what's very interesting is the green So what we're doing is taking that solar so that when the sun is not there, It gives you an idea where we're going in the world that's happening And it's happening in a lot of The other thing that's happening is on your roof today in Germany, Because the economics of it makes sense. Why would I sell it into the grid to buy I use the battery. Okay. Economics are That's the second point. Next point And energy intelligence is a mixture First and foremost is connectivity. You You need to be able to control Second thing, power electronics, I'm going to talk about this in a second. And all of this means that actually you a completely different way than before. Let me give you an example because we don't think of it today. We put solar on our roofs here in Germany, And by the way, you're generating That's one third of what I'm buying from Solar is plug and play. I don't need an I can hang the thing anywhere I have no installation costs. Guess what? I'm actually generating power in Germany That's one fifth of the price that I'm You see where I'm going? That's. You know, we're going to go because you can't block it. Right now what I does though, it also is about efficiency a huge amount of energy that's mainly because we're burning it and AI enables you to do that. It enables you to reduce actually, So there are three technologies. China is financing the energy revolution. It is China. Okay. If you look at the amount of expenditure they into installations, it's, you know, four times the combined amount of the Right. Nobody is scaling any of these EVs, batteries. They're leading But not just the installation of these. They're also leading the production whether it's solar or the parts that Or they go into an EV car. They lead all of them, and they also because they had a very clear vision the next slide, more concerning, because we think here in Europe a technological point of view and the Not true. Okay. Clean energy patents and North America. And there's Yutong is the largest EV electric Catl is the largest battery And Catl just brought out a new battery, and it's got a 1.5 million kilometer My Tesla does not have It has a warranty of about 300,000km. Right. So what does this all mean? What this means is we have It's very different in the And I'll start with the really positive The world is very close to peak carbon When China peaks, the world peaks. So the China government plan is 2030. I'll put It's this year. And the reason is because the scale of electrification the scale of renewables ization. Now, what happens if China peaks Because the world will They will follow what China The second point I would make also is that materials come from the ground. I hear this again and again Oh, there's not enough lithium out there. This is ridiculous. There is. All these materials are there I cannot recycle that coal. Once And then we have to try and take the We're close to peak oil demand, right? You can see what OPEC does What they're doing is they're reducing the way they expected it to. Okay. And the more you electrify, I'll also make a point as well. We will I call it deep electrification. And the reality is all our digital They don't need gas, they need electricity You can't do anything. It's all about We will also build a power And the reason is it's low cost. History of any form of energy transition The lowest cost form of energy wins. And It's a niche market technology very, Nobody's built one in the Western world on A finance guy not going to do it right. Next point I would say, is we'll build The system was built for. We basically bring it into a city and distribute it. And guess what? So you've got EVs You've got storage. You've Suddenly it all changes and it's So we totally different system I make a point about the global South. I'm going to use the example of Pakistan. So just to give you an idea, if we sat here two years ago and you asked me how much power will I would have said a half a percent. This 10% . So 10% of all power. And the reason is, is because it's so It's at the residential level. And that is what will happen They will not do what we've done. They will do things in a completely I also make a point as well that many Volkswagen definitely has Whether they're going to survive, I don't know what I will say is that The gross margins on their cars are 50% Volkswagen. What that tells you is that All right, so guess what happens. Volkswagen has to restructure or nobody's the future because the Volkswagen ID4 is So why would I buy it? Right. Also, There will be huge resistance and incumbents are not just They're not just the automobile They're coming from an old world, right? They're coming from an old world. Right. And I also make a point as well, that I would believe that there's a redistribution of global wealth. If you see any energy revolution Think of oil and gas at the beginning of etc. it was all led by the United States. China realizes the importance of it, I don't think in Europe and the US What I will say is positive surprise the positive surprises are. I've seen so It's incredible. I will say, where the it's in storage. If you'd have said we're going to elect a freight planes, I would have taught you I'm not saying that today, and I'm not saying it because of the amount of brilliant people that innovating and doing research Seattle Chinese business 18,000 people in That's Europe's number one which is on the verge of bankruptcy. Okay. It's R&amp;D. That's how you compete. So what do I end with with this We're entering a renewable era and that's renewable era is full Opportunity is to China going, hey, we don't have any technology in Let's jump on electrification. Let's We're stuck in the old world with a whole and block change. That's what we've got. And I would say to my last message, and this is as a European and this is for years, that's us. We're sleeping. And my message to all of you we need to wake up and change quickly. And for those who have not been to China, go to the country and see what's the competitor that we have there great for the environment. But I'm concerned as a European, whether that competitor is And that makes me concerned for So that's my final words to you guys is a little bit of the arrogance.