A Man Played Video Games Nonstop for 73 hours. This is how his organs shut down. DC is a 25 year old man, presenting to the Paramedics were desperately performing chest his brain. To try and push blood into his organs. To try to keep him alive. But it seemed like their attempts, were all DC was a college graduate, but he never wanted He worked a minimum wage job, but he was recently He wanted to be an internet video game streamer, And he lived at home with his mom where she when he was no longer going out to look for Depressed and lost, DC binged on video games Sometimes he'd sleep at the computer, and He gave up personal hygiene. He gave up friendships. His life was games. He was obsessed, and he just couldn't stop One weekend, DC played for 73 hours, nonstop. Glued to his seat, he barely ate any food. He hardly drank any water. He didn't even get up to use the bathroom, and finally couldn't hold it in anymore. He got up for the first time in days as he He suddenly felt lightheaded. He blacked out. And then instantly collapsed. At the front desk of the internet cafe, the had fainted on his property. 30 minutes pass and DC was found on the floor, 911 is called. In the ambulance, DC suddenly flatlines. His heart stops beating and he stops breathing. Paramedics desperately begin CPR as he's now. Doctors continue chest compressions. Ultrasound immediately reveals that the right It's larger than the left ventricle, which for pumping blood to the entire body. The left ventricle has more muscle so it's functioning human. But DC can't function normally now. His heart is twisted. It's disfigured. This immediately tells the medical team that Embolism. Embolus from Ancient Greek meaning a wedge, Pulmonary meaning Lung. And Massive referring not to size of the actual that it caused in DC. A blood clot wedged into the lungs causing Causing his heart to stop beating because Causing his organs to shut down because they're his heart has stopped beating. Acute meaning that he didn't have any underlying for sitting at a computer playing video games Doing anything nonstop for 70 hours is dangerous, because of venous stasis. This is a time when a lack of movement of The blood pressure in the body's veins is directly pumping it back to the heart. Venous blood oozes its way back. Without moving the legs for 70 hours and given compartment of the body where blood flow is of blood causes some of it to clump together which is what happened to DC as he sat there, As the clot formed, it stayed in his legs He got up, it broke off, it went directly blood normally does, but then lodged itself right side of the heart connects to the lungs. This back up of blood into the right ventricle, To distend. To disfigure. But this is only the beginning of the dysfunction. The right ventricle of the heart typically It has a lower volume to surface area ratio. This makes sense because blood from here goes You don't need high pressure going to the But when the right ventricle swells due to It pushes against the interventricular septum, This increased pressure and volume in the output. In DC's case of hemodynamic collapse secondary into the pulmonary artery meant a filling out to the rest of the body. There is no longer an adequate oxygen supply His heart, while still trying to beat, can It arrests, as he comes into the emergency But it wasn't like this when they found Paramedics tell the medical team that DC was That he did have a heartbeat when they found hypoxemia, a low oxygen presence in blood. His blood pressure was low from the then hemodynamic And that it was on the way to the emergency That all of this happened just minutes ago, There might still be a chance to bring DC Is there a way, we can somehow remove the Maybe. But it has to be done, immediately. Surgery and cutting him open to pull it out, long. Guiding a catheter through his veins to direct is also not an option because of time. The quickest solution, is to infuse that medicine This systemic fibrinolytic therapy, is his On the emergency room bed, DC is immediately chest compressions are continued. Additional lytic was set for infusion over team will continue CPR until he either comes that DC is lost. As the chest compressions are desperately A detectable heart beat is found and this sign. DC is not lost. But several hours pass, and he doesn't regain Admission into the intensive care unit finds Shining a light into his eyes, a normal functioning the pupils will constrict in reaction to the Absence of this indicates brain damage, and In a normal functioning human, motor response Absence of this reflex indicates brain damage, As the days go by, DC's mother arrives to She tries to speak to him but no response. He may not have listened to her in life, but a response, an indication, something, from nothing is returned. The several minutes where DC's body was the point where his heart and lungs connected, Most people can easily pick out that healthy for 3 days straight, without sleep, without Most people can't stay up 3 days straight That to be able to play that much means that Internet gaming disorder has been described several years now. Back in 2013, The Diagnostic and Statistical that description on paper. And in 2018, the World Health Organization in the 11th revision of the International DC is at one extreme end of the spectrum of The actual people who will have this are a people won't have this level of obsessive Context here matters, make no mistake. People who only hear headlines may be underinformed is. What behavior those words are describing. It's probably not describing a kid who wants who day dreams about the game during class, don't play games for a few days. Who can comply with their responsibilities. It also probably doesn't describe a 25 year but can still show up to work during the week, without problem. Internet gaming disorder doesn't describe But, if someone lets their kids or pets starve playing a game, then something might be wrong. If someone continues to obsessively play after house, plays for several days at a time nonstop, bathroom, and not sleeping, well then something Even worse if blood pools in the legs while thrombosis, that became a massive pulmonary hemodynamic collapse resulting in residual Something that results in tangible, detrimental lack of self control over playing video games, it's been classified as such. For DC, limited neurocognitive function was and sepsis during his stay in the intensive Diminished urine output and elevated transaminase The loss of pupillary reflex and absent extensor percent specific factors to indicate poor to massive pulmonary embolism. At autopsy, extensive neuronal damage was of his brain. Cerebellar injury was observed along with Little could be done by the time he was found time had passed in a setting where minutes The only hope was to salvage whatever the arrest. For gamers today, be sure to keep yourself hour at a time. Get up, walk around even if just for a couple And most importantly, be kind to yourself. Internet gaming is actually stressful, even Thank you so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And be well.