I was four non-small with a driving EGFR. Excellent. 19 at 43 years old in December of 2019. So I've been a for 19 years now. And my oldest is 19 and just about, I don't know, a month And then I also have going to be a senior in high school And then I have a son and he will be this coming in September, mid September of 2019. I started with a cough and it was just a dry, kind of persistent cough and I really didn't think because I watched who at the time two days a week, and they were always, you know, had some But after about I went to my primary and I was there simply that would not And she first what she called meaning I got some kind and this was just that was So she put me and sent me on my way. And I would say in, I don't know, a week or so, definitely I was feeling better. but then a few weeks later And, not only was a cough back, shortness of breath. I was a distance and I ran and the way we started this group this was going So we were going to we ran, run like 8.5 minute talking Now, I can't imagine. But I started noticing that I couldn't like I could but I couldn't keep up without feeling So I went back and I saw a different I just feel like a and especially And he exercise induced I don't know Like, I feel like and I've never had So why now almost all of a sudden, So I saw an allergist and he was like, So then I went back the same doctor which had not been that he was available. And I said, I'm feeling really I'm still coughing. I have a heaviness and I feel as if I may I've had this before. Can I have a chest And he was like, oh, He's like, I listened and you sound like And I said, well, can you just this is making me feel And he said, but I'm going to call you in 45 minutes it's negative And, you you know, either So. Okay. Well, 45 minutes He said, He's like, admitting this, consolidation He's like me and So he put me on a on a steroid. And halfway I was at my daughter's She swim and I've been sitting coliseum thing with a nasty chlorine And I just felt worse And that night when we got back home, coughing up blood this isn't right. On Monday morning, and I spoke to him this is And he's like, well, a stronger antibiotic. So he put me on antibiotic and more steroids. And every time I was on the steroids, But I still was like, And so, on. Like November of 15th ish, I went to the doctor I mean, can you please Clearly this pneumonia So they did. And they were like, shows this right So they admitted me for four days to be on infusion, high powered antibiotics So by the time I left that hospital stay, I did feel pretty good on steroids, through While I was there, came in and he said, well, I'm going And I was like, well, can you explain what And he's like, well, we're going to go in your nose, down through your throat, And I'm just going to take a look around and I'm going to And if I see any we'll go ahead And I was like, what are you talking I'm here So he did it. And he came out everything There is consolidation It's just residual Didn't And, and can hang around He couldn't hardly without, like, cause I couldn't I was having right rib pain and right I was coughing, I had lost weight, and I called and they were like, we don't have So I drove myself to the doctor's office and was standing I was crying at the ladies I was like, seriously I need someone I need somebody And they And I said, I'm not leaving here until So they sent the nurse and I think that was more for like a mental wellness check, because I think losing it. And she sat down and she listened had been through I had written down everything and dates she's like, not right about this, and you know And she said, I'm going to send you to the hospital for And I had a CT scan when I was in the hospital in November And I said, okay. So I went had that And that night around I got a phone call who was my original primary care back in September. And she kept saying, are you having And I said, no, and are you doing this I'm like, no, I'm just It's the heaviness It's the shortness She said, well, there's some things that are a little She's like, I'm not really but we need you to go on to the emergency so we can do We went into the emergency room and, after my husband We go back to see the doctor in the E.R. says to me, well, seen your CT results? And this is before dropped in real time. On to my chart. And he's like, literally turn towards me. And he said, right here? This is what And it said present on T4 and T5 highly concerning So I read that to And I looked and I said, That spread And he goes, yes, And I said, I don't understand, And he said, well, but we're going to admit where this cancer So they admitted me and they called a pulmonologist in that I had fluid on my But they said a sign of breast cancer And that's kind of what they thought, and my health and I So, the hospital and he called to do a thorough synthesis some of that fluid to test it within 24 hours. that came back but did not indicate where So they sent an he offered to do a bone biopsy for my spine was the easiest place So the bone biopsy came back a couple, I don't know, a day and it said that non-small Stage four. Do you want to guess I went to the doctor with stage smoker at 43 years 1234 not kidding. Five oh, that I was also for antibiotic resistant pneumonia Back to the doctor six back to the doctor You could not, or my mom over with a feather because none of us that you could get lung cancer that oncologist 6 to 12 months to live and that I need to get And I was 43 so my husband to leave the room And that was And to send a the second oncologist actually randomly into one of my husband's and younger, he's like, I'm not going to say 6 or 12 months yet because you've never smoked I think that you might have a biomarker that is driving this So I think we need to which is the first And we were like, We learned that positive for the EGFR deletion mutation. So then local oncologist And I was prescribed which is a targeted therapy or TKI And I he actually had which he says he never So I was able to start to regress out since then I have had fourth or synthesis When I was first I switched my primary care to Vanderbilt University a comprehensive I have had numerous Pet scans and CTS and abdomen about a year they felt like to had done its job And all of my bone metastases meaning healing The only place was to my spine So it wasn't it wasn't in my liver So I had one primary in my right and then I had about Mets in my spine So about a year all of those Big and my primary tumor So we said, we What else can we do? So they introduced us radiation oncologist at the end of November beginning of December, sessions of SPR sbrt radiation, and high powered so that I primary lung. And I have remained stable since then, in my lungs or in any of the sites where So I take tagrisso and I'm just staying until I progress. And it's a not a matter of It's a matter of when the average patient for 2 to 3 years I've been on it for four still so I know I'm I guess borrowed And as for there is no official They would redo to make sure any other mutations just EGFR positive joining the club, or it hasn't changed the small And then at that point there would be talk of depending I progression or platinum chemotherapy IV infusion oral targeted therapy. Do we add another You know what. What would we do at that point is unclear lung cancer is an ever right now. And I feel lucky when I was going to. Grasso was FDA I remember and I burst into tears this can't be Like metastatic cancer is what you die And I'm living now. And actually that I was admitted I ran that morning, like, even though my I still ran So how can you tell me instead of cancer, when I'm still And I remember just sitting there and saying it out loud, my job is not done My job cannot be done I still have I still have and when I was admitted on the floor, I was still in this Like that's It's trauma And I was saying these same things and this nurse practitioner that was trying to get me she's like She's like, being I have kids your age. I can understand why and I have to And then she came back and she said, I'm for standing up many of which were older than I was. and even the young, the one younger than me like I'm a woman and I don't know what I guess in some ways it was so disappointing in the what if I were not What if I wouldn't have stood up What if I didn't have or the insurance That's who And being dismissed has never been I can be. I'm not a confrontational person, but about something, who had a learning difference, whether it was a, friend that was not I will stand up and I knew I deserved than what and I knew that there I firmly believe that as a 40 year long, life long enough and prioritize by eating the not smoking this is not right. No one else like me this right now. So we're going to get And it's very easy put your head because you don't you don't want to hear You don't want to get But every time I talk to a new person with lung cancer, but with anything or is been going to I'm like, be your own And if you don't feel you need to find So to me, a second Like, It's not a luxury. It's not, maybe It's a part of because I am a My husband is very actually was diagnosed at 42, 18 months I was diagnosed. and that had been that had been taking his family for years. So we definitely knew of getting a second When he was diagnosed, it wasn't even really that we had. We just knew that's So when it came and and Todd is cancer six years cancer free. And he's he's great. But being stage four, I always say it's not a broken It's not even a Like, there are smart but there always are There's always someone and as soon as I was my husband was emailing he knew He doesn't work in the and saying, where Where do we need What's the best place we don't care just tell us And so that's how we ended up This is not a cancer I'll never be in I'll never be cured. It's a matter of It's not a matter Statistically, if you look at lung statistics as a whole, still And from I'm going to be Somebody's I'm going to be Those statistics and so skewed because this whole new there are lung cancer, being diagnosed with these genetically mutations put us in a totally than these people are typically at an average age of 65 and typically have And that's not to say that I'm any better is more important. It's just different. You know, Brac, her two breast cancer. They're types of cancer. And we have to treat Saying not to isolate or make someone feel guilty for the choices because no one I don't care if they've smoked a day No one deserves this, but it does different position because we did not at a knowing risk So smokers, 20 years old, male, female. I don't care you identify as, a second opinion important. So I'm heading into the oncology office He's not my primary my local oncologist, keep tabs on things. And for the second when I've come if coming to isn't stressful enough or anxiety I've driven around 20 minutes trying to This is a to be dealt 100%, but I could sit here on the fact this will, in my life it should or I can choose. And this is kind of in There's been a few One is I'm going to be So I think I'm going to be able the other thing was by live my best life That's always been Like every day You just have to to be your best day. Some days are but you know things getting to go watch your child play a sport, having 45 minutes a time to yourself that you've been every day can be your And then the third is, if I'm going to I want to be able the people behind me. I had a good friend We were talking about this and like and we both agreed to have that you can look to for like what's It's always good who's walking the path next to you what you're going and it's always good who's behind you that I think my final message to people that. Statistics And, you know, just because Google says something does not mean that you're going I also firmly believe modalities the emotional and even the physical I see a Reiki every eight weeks. I go to therapeutic every other month. I listen to sound Now, maybe they're working, Maybe My husband calls Maybe it is really just like in my head But I would say if it's not going to like interfere with and it makes and it helps you live a better life, that Second, opinions are priceless and just really trying each day as a new day, Because all of us in this world No one is guaranteed Some of us just learn, but it's going to be Or that it's in So if we can and enjoy and try you know, like we've taught our kids like there's between and a big problem. You know, a you know, they forgot to put, you know, ketchup That's You know, a A small problem is, you know, being disappointed get an atomic test, That's The big problem is cancer. life lessons that And I guess that's to take away with it. As many bad things There are some very good things you find out people out there. You find new friends, you become an life is not over you have a terminal It's really