We'll take the shops Now then two... Now then two - one lies down here on the edge Kneels down - looks straight Lagutin, you'll do it Look straight And one on the other side Also looks so that some boy from there doesn't come out here And we'll walk slowly with you there, and then they will pull up. The visibility here is very bad . You two stand here on this side. Take, shake out everything from the briefcase and put the stores there . Let 's go and look at the other side. can't see It can't even be seen there We won't win anything here, do you know where to bet? This is from that side, hold that side I still can't hold That side I ca n't even see It 's only visible from here Although something And it's only up to the edge, and it's not yet in the trench Got it? Is the enemy lying? Yes , you can see there from here, see? You can see the approaches And you can see there, see? I thought people would stand at the position. I thought they would see through this strip of forest . Even if they stand there, they still won't be able to see here. Look, they're lower there. Here's the strip of forest they would have a clear view of . They won't see it, they're located below. If here so put two observation posts They won't see, I was there yesterday - nothing can be seen at all To be honest, I don't want to put here They can easily pass through the bushes Undetonated ammunition can lie here, be careful I found a briefcase for stores Hold, stores can be collected Be careful, if you see socks and various scattered things - don't touch them . I remember they were dropped from the drone. Okay, go on. Take the stores . There will be a bayonet. Is there a briefcase? Of course , no one had a normal Kalashnikov assault rifle. They took away all the &quot;barrels.&quot; How did they get it here ? Let's move on? Yes, let's go There's another one lying There's a dead man, here he died and crawl over there Give it to &quot;brother&quot; There 's a bomb There's a bomb lying near him somewhere Is it ours? Yes, there it is. Don't walk here a lot, because they can work from the vibration. You have to go out there so that you can see the end. Nothing will be visible here in front of the bushes. You will see them here, when they are already 20 meters away. Whose Kalash? My Okay, let's get out, let's move on. He has red and white bracelets - it means HIV and hepatitis . Look, bomb, don't touch us either. Go away, she can detonate from the vibration. Is there someone holding the perimeter? Yes , Yakut , don't touch that stick, there's a bomb. Uncle is tired. He seems to be missing something. His leg &quot;ran away&quot; somewhere. He stepped on a bomb. There are three of our bombs (bombs) lying there. OK , I saw a &quot;Kalash&quot; somewhere here. ? Then we were told not to go A, we can still reach those kidneys Grenades, we don't need Stores &quot;Oscar&quot; &quot;Steiger&quot; M? By walkie-talkie At the reception We finished that. Should we go forward or back? Did you find a convenient place? There is no such thing here, one thing interferes with the other Plus, plus, get out, you will send me the video later Plus, plus They looted everything here They would have bought the shops themselves There is nothing Stop I will give you a little Everything, ready, let's go Don't forget the automatic machine No, you can't see Crawl as you like If you still sit in the trench, you won't see anything at all You can put a (SP) there a little behind to control the approach and the end But then the other side won't be visible But don't run &quot;Stretch&quot;, it's an infantry mine, don't touch it She's alone here taka Then you go, and I'll go to the moped, it's standing there And I'll also look at the road, how it will be visible from there Okay, that's it, let's go Here from here, understood? But then you will have to leave the other position, because you will not be able to control it On the other side, the other position &quot;Shubin&quot; can't see anything, because he has an increase in front of him. I say, the position will have to be left. Because you can see there from here. But not much, you can go down and go around. You can see this approach from here, almost. If you stand to the right there , you can see the approach from here. You can see the transition there. You can see the road . And you will be able to see a little there, but there will be our other position to see. If you stand close to the landing, then you will not see anything at all