(gentle mysterious music) - Hi. Hi. Hi, friends. I hope you're having My name is Bailey Sarian and I'd like to welcome you to my study where me and my friends hang out and I do all of the talking. My podcast is a chance to and to share the history of stuff we would never think about or just, like, maybe never learn about. I'm just a very curious person and I wanted to just deep dive you know what I'm saying? So sit back, relax, and let's talk about that hot (sighs) Listen, I'm gonna say it. School does not prepare us for real life. Point blank, period. Thank you for coming to I mean, we spend so that you never use. Like, why did I have to memorize When I'm baking a pie I'm not And, like, where was the class or where was, like, the, I don't know, the semester in the class where I learned how to fill out a W2. Do you know? Now I'm not saying math is Most of us maybe need a little Okay, the basic ones I'm I know I do. Like cooking. My god. What happened to those Home Ec classes they had back in the day? I know there are, like, who still have Home Ec classes, and you guys are so lucky some, like, basic life because most of the time I start a kitchen fire. I've mentioned this numerous Hi, if you haven't heard it, I've started quite a few kitchen fires. Okay, look, but then I was introduced to the Betty Crocker, like, Not recently, you know, back in the day. And it was like, &quot;My god, where All you have to do is mix in and, like, maybe it's oil. Sometimes. I'm not sure. You mix that shit up and You feel like you are just You feel incredible. It's really a confidence But what I'm getting at is for freaking ever, right? And she's been saving the day since, I don't even know how long, And that got me wondering, like, who the hell is Betty Crocker? (laughs) I wanna thank her. I wanna shake her hand You sure did, you know, save Thanksgiving that one and we all just wanted a little cake to celebrate the fire. (laughs) That led me into today's episode. I just wantd to know everything about this American icon, right? So naturally what do I do? I got to googling, of I found out some wild things about who I thought this lady was. Yeah, yeah. Are we surprised? Well grab that tub of for an emergency because you've got it made. This is a story about Miss Betty Crocker, the American icon. The year is 1921. The First World War had just ended and still fresh on people's minds. I mean, that shit was crazy. Everyone was like, &quot;Did you see that shit? That was wild, yeah.&quot; You'd think that humanity but America loves a sequel, right? Yeah, well, during this time, America was going through She was growing, it was going from the Gilded But there's one part of American life that people have always and that is the home. Am I right? The home, the dinner table. Ah! During this time, there was a very popular magazine called &quot;The Saturday Evening Post,&quot; and I believe Norman Rockwell, the artist, he would, like, make the cover. I have a bunch of them 'cause my grandma used to collect them. Yeah, they're actually really incredible. Anyways, that's not the point. The point is &quot;The Saturday Evening Post,&quot; from what I believe was everybody read this magazine. So if there was an ad in there or they were selling something, you know, everyone trusted it, right? One day, like an ad &quot;Saturday Evening Post.&quot; And this ad was run by a flour company called Washburn-Crosby Company, which was, like, based somewhere, and they would sometimes have recipe cards in their bags of flour. So it would be like a But the prize inside was a recipe card for, like, corn muffins. Back then, no internet, right? No Food Network. So these little freebie recipe cards were very valuable to people. I mean, especially housewives who are at, they're at home, they're and they were called homemakers, you know, 'cause they're making the house a home. So Washburn-Crosby, they thought it would be fun in &quot;The Saturday Evening So they're like, if you cut out the puzzle and you put together and you will get a prize. So people are like, &quot;Oh You know, there's nothing So naturally I wanted to know, like, what is the price that you would win? And it was a little pin cushion shaped like a little flour Pin cushion for all the pins I'm sure someone out there 'Cause I was just like, And anyways, people must because 30,000 people ended up writing in. But guess what? They weren't just mailing The Washburn-Crosby Company of letters asking for advice. The public figured that this was the company I mean, of course, they figured that because it's in their flour. So they must have some idea Or like, you know, &quot;My husband won't eat the They're writing and asking. Now all the questions were different, but they all had one thing in common. These people that were writing in, they were desperate for They needed help with They needed advice. This So back then everything was So if you were a housewife and was like, &quot;Hey, I don't That bitch next door would be like, &quot;You don't how to make a casserole? That's so unfortunate,&quot; you know? So it was like kind of looked down upon if you asked anybody for help. So when people were writing they were writing anonymous letters. So they were just hoping and then not also be outed for not knowing how to make a casserole. You know? Like it was like this So during this time, you know, women were kind of groomed you know, like I mentioned it stands for Home Economics. It's a class you can take in school where you can learn how to make a pie, sew, sew a button, I don't know, because I never took it, but I wish I did. Well back then it was essentially required if you wanted to get your lady card. And it wasn't just cooking and cleaning. Home Ec also included stuff like learning how to build a budget, child health and hygiene. Which honestly, that should be mandatory for all of us, right? Like, this actually Well, for women at this time, high school was usually I mean, only about 7% of women and most of them just got and just banging out So a woman not knowing was a big source of shame. Like that's the one thing Quotes, like allegedly, you know, I'm not saying that that's So they were always looking for tips wherever they could get them without having to feel bad What a wild time, huh? Now you could go up to anyone and be like, &quot;Hey, how do you make that pie?&quot; And you wouldn't think twice Well, that flour company, Washburn-Crosby, they were swamped with What the hell are we supposed They're acting like The men in charge didn't feel of the letters. They were like, &quot;This not me, I work on cars and stuff.&quot; But there was this one manager in the advertising department, his name was Samuel Gale. Well, he decides, hmm, there and maybe he should step in. But the one thing Samuel realized from a big, large company especially for these letter writers who were feeling very vulnerable. So he decides that there needs that these women could relate to, right? They don't wanna hear from a man, they wanna hear from a real woman at home, a homemaker, just like them. Samuel first decided this mascot needed to be an everyday woman who Someone confident, realistic, who had the time to respond to every single one of these letters and weigh in on their problems. Someone to make the writers feel heard. Samuel thought if they could solve all the problems in these letters, the company would get in Now this would be a great opportunity because these women are the ones who are running the household Spending money to run the household and take care of their family, right? What does this mean for a company? Profit, you know? They're So Washburn-Crosby does a little suspish, but also They invent an everyday, to lovingly answer all these letters. It's a homemaker Santa Claus. She would give some pretty solid advice, but she'd also win over She would even hand write with an authentic signature. So who was this godsend of a woman? Well, guess what, bitches, as you've probably guessed by the title of this fricking video, it's Betty Crocker that they invented. Yeah, that's right. Betty Crocker is not a real person. I know. Quit, leave, everyone. Bye. World's over. Betty Crocker's a fraud. She's not even a real person. This whole time, I was An icon, a legend. Wow. She's like amazing. She's saved us in so many She's not real. She's made up. Yeah. How do you feel about that? Everything you know is a lie, Barbara. She's a figment of corporate But here's the thing, America had no idea and the creators of Betty Crocker wanted for as long as possible. Oh my god. Yeah. I know I keep making but this was like my Santa Claus moment when I learned that she was fake and I was, like, kind of Like when we were doing &quot;Oh, I can't wait to learn And then it was like, &quot;She's not real. So everyone's just been lying.&quot; It's just so sad. (bright music) The holiday season is around the corner and with it comes gift stretchy pants, and of Holiday portraits, you know. (groans) This time of year can get really stressful for a lot of us, including myself. And stress for me always Oh, boo. While we can't control other we can make sure like you feel for your photos. And that's why I'm always excited to partner with Apostrophe. Yeah, baby. Apostrophe's goal is to in your own skin. Whether you're dealing with breakouts, signs of aging or acne scarring, Apostrophe will help you because you deserve that. Now, if you don't know, Apostrophe is an online platform that connects you with an And what they do is get you for your unique skin. Through Apostrophe, you can get access to oral and topical medications that use clinically proven Now all you have to do is simply fill out an online consultation about your skin goals and Then you're gonna snap a few selfies and a board-certified dermatologist will create your initial Now, Apostrophe, they offer access to prescription treatments from hormonal to facial, even on your butt. Treat breakouts from head to toe. I've been using Apostrophe and I still, I freaking love it. Apostrophe connects me with who helped me with my skin in times when I've experienced my stress breakouts. Yeah. So I'm currently prescribed or I take that at least once a day and it helps calm my acne. I love that the signup and receiving your 'cause it shows up right to your door. So no matter what your skincare goals are, it's nice to know you have access to an expert dermatologist team and that they're gonna tailor Great. Right now we have a Get your first visit for only $5 at apostrophe.com/darkhistory. When you use my code DarkHistory, that's a savings of $15. Now this code is only and to get started, just go to apostrophe.com/darkhistory Then use the code DarkHistory at signup and you'll get your A big thank you to Apostrophe So you're probably wondering, well, how did they come up You know, that's step one. Okay, so the company gets together and they're brainstorming, right? We need some names, you Mary? No. Okay. Gertrude? No. Linda? No. Okay. Well, in 1921, another very popular name. Betty? Not too young, not too old. Betty. Sweet sounding, Do you know a Betty who's a bitch? No, I don't know a Betty who's a bitch. They come up with the name Betty Crocker. I don't know how they got there besides Betty being like Great. So then they know Now, back then, remember, like, before computers and all that, everyone hand wrote everything. Like handwriting is an art and we're kind of losing That's besides the point, but they knew that they needed to have like a true feminine looking (clicking) Betty Crocker's signature. So remember the guy who kind of came up with this Well, he decides to hold a competition amongst the woman in the office place. Okay, whoever comes up for Miss Betty Crocker What do they win? I don't know, but a secretary and (whooshing) knocks Oh, she creates a beautiful signature. It's not too snooty, you You can read it. It's just, it's perfect. It's exactly how a housewife This employee did amazing. They're like, &quot;We're using your I don't know what she won. I don't think she won anything good. She should've, but she Anyways, from there on out, every single letter was signed, &quot;Cordially yours, Betty Crocker.&quot; But it was in Florence's handwriting. Now, I don't know if they used a stamp, was Florence actually I don't know. But if she was, she That poor woman, I hope But this signature is actually still used on their packaging to this very day. Shout out to you, Florence. So they have the name, And in order to really you know, people could She needed to feel like Someone who had already a housewife might need But Samuel and a team of men in the flour advertising department, they didn't know anything So they're like, &quot;You know what? We need to hire a team that and figure it out for us.&quot; So they came up with this and these women were gonna and they were gonna start writing back to all the letters that were coming in. Not only could they get back but also these women knew about mixing, baking, broiling, basting, anything that had to do whatever, you name it, this team, this department, and they could also guide other women on how to do it at home. You know, they're just like the people you wanna ask and hear from. Thanks to their hard work, Almost overnight, Betty of information for women all over America. I mean, it was a judgment free zone and they were making women happy and learning how to cook and stuff. It was great. So naturally women were, like, &quot;I wrote to Betty Crocker did you know that?&quot; Word of mouth amongst all the friends, you know, spreading around? And people are like, If you have a question She writes back.&quot; Now people are writing If you had questions Betty, she's got an answer for you. Your kids, they're dying for a snack, you don't know what to do. Well, Betty's got your back. Betty slowly started of loyal, technically, customers, but they felt like friends and stuff because Betty seemed like she cared. (groans) It's all a lie. (laughs) The perfect example of this could be seen in a letter I found from, to this mother who wants while he's serving in the US military and while he's away at war. Instead of responding with or maybe just like sending a recipe card and moving on to the next letter, Betty took the time to send and some words of wisdom about in similar situations. The response is like an entire page long. Again, personally signed at the bottom. I mean, can you think of the last time you reached out to a company and they were this nice to you? I can't. Yeah, I can. Look, listen, side note, because this wasn't a company to people. This was Betty Crocker, a It wasn't a company. So it all makes sense, right? Cause, yeah, if you tried to what are they gonna say back? You were writing a woman, Betty. (sighs) People love this bitch. This was all working out Washburn-Crosby, because All of Betty's recipes and Most importantly their flour. Hello. Think of it like this. Betty is the influencer and the flour is like her main sponsor. Betty Crocker is Jaclyn Hill and the flour company Yeah, that's what this is. Okay, so to the public, it seemed like Betty was to everyone's letters. It's like, when does this woman sleep? She is so hardworking. Because the team who was was actually doing just that. At its busiest, the department was dealing with 4,000 letters a day. Yeah. Once it got to this part, you know, things started to get a little crazy. And they're realizing that like, valuable, loyal customers if we don't keep up with this. Right? The demand is high and Betty or at least a team of 25. Samuel Gale, remember that guy? He was really nervous that his whole department So he needed someone and take it to the next level. He no longer could do it, it So he finds this woman who's I think she might be part unclear, but this woman, her name's Marjorie Child Husted, or something like that. Samuel Gale saw something in her. Hmm. And he had his eyes on her. So Marjorie, she was born And she was always like super interested in the art of homemaking. So she went to the University of Minnesota where she graduated in 1913 with a degree in home Yeah, she's, first of all, she's a woman with two college degrees. And like women couldn't even, they didn't have the right to vote yet. Go off, Marjorie, go off. So Marjorie, she spent time working at the Red Cross during the war, and then she also got a job in marketing before she was She had experience and especially when it came to home economics. I mean, she started out at the Oh, yeah. She was, like, teaching cooking classes to homemakers in Kansas. Washburn-Crosby promotes Marjorie and puts her in charge of That group of professionals, Gale, Samuel Gale, put together. Her mission was to make the voice of Betty Crocker feel like a real person. She pulled her knowledge but she wasn't satisfied. There was still something missing. So Marjorie does what she does best, packs her bags and hits To do some research on or what they really wanted Like for me, I'd be like, &quot;Miss Betty, I wanna shovel a whole How do I achieve this?&quot; There's all kinds of letters, no judgment. We don't judge here. I hope they're okay. Marjorie was like, you know what, if I'm gonna be in this industry, I need to know the everyday So she drove around Minnesota, doing her own little case study, I guess, I don't know, survey? Would that be the word? I think so. Just going around the Midwest, you know, seeing what's up with the everyday American family. She was taking notes on how they were actually cooking at home. How they were actually and really trying to understand what the everyday American family or homemaker wanted to know She was learning about the customer. I think she really elevated to the next level. Like yeah, they were doing some cute shit, writing letters back and signing it. But now they were actually trying to fully understand their and really take this to Betty Crocker, the brand, and the company knew it. So it was time to really and make her a celebrity, get her in front of more Americans. What do we really want? Money. So let's be real that they're just, like, how can we make more money with this? And the best way to do this, like to become a celebrity in the 1920s, it's the radio, baby. They know they gotta get on that radio. So back then Americans were Okay, think of it like today, we're on our phones all the time. Back then they had radio. So they're listening to, So if you wanna market bitch, get on the radio. TV's not a thing yet, okay. Radio is where you went for everything. Home sick from school? You interested in some Where you're gonna find Sports? Radio. So this is when the has a light bulb moment. They found out that there was, that had a recently shut down. So Washburn is like, &quot;Hey, not only can we own our own station, but we can give Miss Betty Oh, shit. And guess what? They had the money, they had the funding. That's exactly what they did. They named it &quot;The Betty Crocker That's too much of a And the whole concept was inspired by Marjorie's time on the road. Marjorie is in charge of And not only that, she actually became the And people's minds were blown. When they turned on that radio and they heard Betty oh, shit, you know, like, she's real, wow! Oh, it was cool. They could put a voice to, like, the woman who was writing these letters, right? It was just like, oh, incredible. It was so successful that the show almost by 13 other stations around the country. And even NBC. Do, do, do, do Great. Not sponsored. But how do you turn a bunch into an entertaining radio show? Easy. You read the letters on air? No, I'm just kidding. But you gotta like make So I guess Miss Marjorie, she would take home a that were sent to the company and she would open up those letters and she would read every single one. That's what she said. We weren't there. So we don't know. The only reason I'm like because they're trying to But it was all a lie. You can't take it back. So she's reading all the letters, she's trying to get an understanding of what people want answers to, you know. And with all this info in hand, she would write the radio show scripts and address actual things that the American housewives were asking. I don't know. But the Betty Crocker on the radio was, like, really Now Betty Crocker was Her radio show was taking off. She was not only helping with people make their food and whatnot, a home chef, you know, a best friend, confidant, Betty Crocker was this real amazing woman and you couldn't tell them otherwise. Especially after Marjorie put together an interactive program to get People who were listening were told to take the recipes featured and then write to the radio station with a little review of the recipe. Oh, I love that. So, like, people would do On top of that, it was free. So a lot more people could If the listeners did every they would be invited to the radio station for a graduation ceremony. Like, it was a real Betty And while this radio show was on the air, there were over 1 million people who completed Betty's Cooking School. So in 1928, seeing all the Washburn-Crosby Company, who technically owns the They knew it was time in their business, their company, right? So they end up merging with and they end up rebranding Yeah, General Mills, maybe Cheerios, Lucky Charms, which does not make you go to So yeah, things are going great It's in every American home. People are listening in on the radio show, they're getting involved, they're baking, they're I mean, they're loving But then comes something no When you decide to start a business or pursue a passion Not only does it take a lot but also takes a lot of time and effort. So when you launch your business, you want to launch a website that will help to put Squarespace is the all in one platform for building your brand and Now you can stand out engage with your audience, Your products, content you Many of my listeners own which is amazing. I've seen you guys make amazing products that the world needs to see. But in order to do that, you really have to market yourself. But Squarespace has got you covered. Squarespace makes it easy to monetize their content and expertise in a way that fits their brand. With member areas, you can for your business and free by selling access to gated content like classes, online You can also display posts from your social profiles on your website, or you can, like, automatically to your favorite social media channels so your followers can share it too. This is a great way to allow fans of your product or services to spread the word about your business. Squarespace also provides to help grow your business. Learn where your site visits and analyze which channels This information is super helpful for you to improve your website and build a marketing strategy or most popular products and content. Check out squarespace.com/darkhistory And when you're ready to launch, use offer code DarkHistory to save 10% off your first The entire country grinds to a halt with the Great Depression. During this time, people and they just, they didn't have a way to even feed their families. It was said that people were fighting for scraps of food in the garbage. The lines were hours Everywhere in the groceries were expensive, for ways to save where they could. So during this time, it wasn't so much about it was about fricking surviving, right? And just keeping your family So what does this mean for What's the point of a baking show when no one can even afford food? Well, they've gotta brainstorm Marjorie and her whole So the Betty Crocker radio on how to save money and also still make good food if you don't have a lot of money or big budget to spend Now this was groundbreaking because nobody was doing this at the time. And one of the ideas with was, like, something which sounds like something I make on Tuesdays, you know. (laughs) Depression cakes were people could make without Wait. How? Well Betty taught people how they could substitute those things with vinegar and water. Oh, shit, really? Wow. With all of our episodes we run it through experts, Okay, look experts, and for this episode, we had an expert, her name's Krista, and she swears by this recipe, the vinegar and water situation. Have you guys made a cake this way? I feel like it would stink. No? Anyways, doesn't matter. I'm just curious. But anyway, yeah. So this cake was a really big hit, okay? And it was there for the people when they really needed something Betty's voice on the radio that everything was gonna be okay. And because of this, she was So in the 1930s, Betty where she, Marjorie, Marjorie So Marjorie heads to Hollywood and gives an interview Hollywood stars like Cary Grant, I know, I know you're, it's kind of the same, you know? You guys are twins. I didn't know, you know, So I guess the whole goal of this trip was, like, to make people think that celebrities are just like us. That they love making Betty Crocker banana That they, too, are familiar with the Betty Crocker brand. That they like peasant And so that, it was like I'm not even sure. But they did that. Now because Betty Crocker with like some, whoo, Hollywood elites, she enters a new level of like, we need a face to go with the name, something we can put on our products, our magazines, our posters, something our customers At this time, no one had actually seen like, 'cause it was And even when she interviewed it was through the radio. So the company was like, &quot;We need to create a woman, of what Betty Crocker looks like.&quot; So what do they do? They hire an artist and to go look at all the Okay, look at them. And then if you can kind of draw portrait of what Betty Crocker's gonna look like, like a maybe a mashup of all their faces. They wanted the company, they wanted Betty to look like everyone and like no one at the same time. So they would take like a little bit of that girl's butt chin, right? Or like, I don't know, the eyebrow, just mixing everything up. And eventually they create of the &quot;Mona Lisa.&quot; It's an iconic image people She had a classic conservative... Oh, oh, I'm sorry, Joan, I Joan's been getting jealous and she's gotta have her light, Anyways, so they create this image, right? Probably wondering what she looks like. Well, she's got that It's like brunette bob situation. Her skin is as white and she's not old, but She looks confident, She's kind of smiling, but not too much. She's not that happy. But she's happy. She kind of reminds me of just really sweet and innocent and you just wanna give her a hug. Oh, and Betty's outfit? Also iconic. It was a red blazer with Sometimes that collar was ruffled and other times it was a but also tasteful at the same time. Over time Betty needed a makeover. So there have been eight of Betty over the years. All white, all brunette So they've kept that consistent, at least. The 1965 Betty Crocker complete with a pearl necklace. I really like the Betty because the outfit features a pussy bow. And any chance I get to say pussy bow, I'm going to take that opportunity. Pussy bow. The red blazer look has to this very day and shows But one really interesting note, not one portrait shows Not one. I'm not judging. (laughs) The staff at General of marriage proposals to Betty, but soon people's by something way bigger than We've all been there and saying to yourself, Which is absolutely crazy because you literally have but sometimes you literally and you, like, need to switch it up. Now you can have Stitch just in time for the fall. Stitch Fix is the best way to discover new styles Think of Stitch Fix as your style partner. Your stylist will learn about your tastes and collaborate with you I love Stitch Fix because, but like shopping's not my favorite and it could be very overwhelming, So leaning on Stitch Fix All you have to do is about where you typically like to shop, what you like to wear, I would consider mys style but definitely comfortable. So when I was taking my style quiz, I made sure to communicate Now with your choices in mind, in a wide range of sizes available, they'll find your perfect fit. I mean, they've got you covered with over 1,000 brands and styles. My favorite part about Stitch Fix is that you can try your pieces at home before you even buy them. Just keep what you love and I've been on the hunt for which is, like, so much But with Stitch Fix, they sent me a pair of Mother Like, they fit like glove, Plus, on top of that, shipping, returns and Love that. There's no Simply order a refresh as with regular seasonal Fixes. I mean, you're completely in control. Right now, Stitch Fix is with their first fix at That's stitch fix.com/darkhistory Stitch fix.com/darkhistory. So during World War II, a lot of people were tuning and, like, they really, this some positivity during The Betty Crocker brand, they created episodes about people struggling to someone who's been shipped off to war or letters with wives on military bases or letters about how to hold It once again, made feel very heard by Betty. And while all that World Marjorie created a badass organization called the Betty Crocker's Home Legion, which was all about being and how they could Betty gave them a purpose and gave them a sense of community. It was, like, a very Women had to apply to and if your application was If not, sorry, loser. And this wasn't some like in the basement of a church. By 1944, this was a with tens of thousands of members. Each one of them got a little pin and received a copy of something called the Homemaker's Creed. Creed is my favorite It was sort of like this oath that every woman in the Legion swore to and probably hung up in their kitchens. It said something like, I believe homemaking is a Which yes, very true, but it also asked members to believe that a homemaker must be of love, loyalty, service, and religion. Kind of sounds culty, but okay. And around the end of the war, &quot;Fortune&quot; magazine named Betty Crocker the second most popular woman in America. Oh yeah. Oh, she was right behind the First Lady of the United Cool it, Betty. Too bad you're not real. (groans) You know, like I think we should give more Yeah, because, like, who took this to the next level. So Marjorie technically is Betty. I'll let that slide (laughs) because it's always up to Okay, but again, the drama. Drama, okay, listen, this list seemed to piss somebody off because later that same the one that you know, Somebody outed Betty as a fake. Oh, shit. Yeah, yeah. In 1945, &quot;Fortune&quot; magazine that calls out Betty Crocker as a quote, &quot;Fraud, a fictitious creation.&quot; Now this was a scandal. (laughs) People just like me, people were very upset. Everything was a lie. I mean, who was I writing to? I told them about the butter Like, &quot;Oh god, who got that letter?&quot; It melted. It's fine. So yeah, people's worlds were rocked. I mean, imagine you're writing to Betty, maybe and you start to see her as your friend. She's like your mentor, your pen pal. And then one day, just all of a sudden, you hear that it was just a PR stunt that some flour company came up with. (sighs) That's truly, truly unfortunate. Before this, people had no reason to distrust big companies They saw a woman on the and they heard her voice on the radio. So why else would they I see her, I hear her. I don't feel her, but like, So as you can imagine, this was very upsetting to some people. But you know what they say? &quot;There's no such thing as bad press.&quot; That's what they say, but But okay. So it must have not had a negative effect because not long after the gets now its own products in grocery stores all across America. And I know what you're thinking We got the cake mix, the But actually her first product Yeah. She was peeing Fuckin' wild. The minute this thing Everyone wanted Betty Crocker's pea soup. I mean it was such a hit that they roll out their first cake mix. How did she go from pea to cake? I guess this cake mix and it was essentially a gingerbread cake. Now all you had to do at home Oh it was so easy, literally, They even had this great slogan, &quot;A perfect cake every time you bake. Cake after cake after cake.&quot; Bitch, who came up with that? That's a good one. The honestly should have just ended it at, &quot;A perfect cake every time you bake.&quot; Period. That should just be it. Like that's beautiful, 'cause it's true. I mean, you can't fuck that up, to most. I guess this cake was a hit. I mean, people thought it So back then, remember, like I know all of us kind of are familiar with the cake mixes, right? Because we all grew up But back then, like making a cake and everything took so much time. And then on top of it, you you had to clean the house, you had to look good for So it's like when Betty okay, this was like when America went from covered wagons to cars. Like incredible, right? Time was saved. People I can make a cake really easy. Oh man. And homemakers everywhere to deal with in the kitchen. If the Betty Crocker brand they would still be an icon, right? But they want more. They wanna take Betty Crocker And how are you gonna do that? A cookbook! Yeah. Okay, so in order to get Betty's recipes, you had to be listening in to where she would verbally give out recipes. You'd have to be listening And if you missed it, you're Or another way to get recipes was by getting the local newspaper. Now they would list a couple and you'd tear 'em out and just hope that no one threw away your little tear outs, right? Like there just wasn't an It was just this whole ordeal. And General Mills, they knew this. They were like, we're Okay, so in 1950, they created the &quot;Betty Oh, we love a picture. I love a picture. Give me a picture. Okay. Helps me see. What am I making? So people are losing their shit. Everyone, these cookbooks hit the shelves. Oh, and people are loving it there's this book and it's a fat book. She's a thick one, okay? Where you could open it up and just have so many different recipes. I'm talking different dinners. We've got baking stuff, pies, dinners, lunches, snacks, I don't... People are excited. (laughs) Right away, this book starts Like it was some, a staple In the first two years that it sold 2 million copies and it showed up on the best seller's list Dude. To date, it has sold around the world. So after this cookbook is I would say is solidified I mean, she steered the country through both the Great You know, she empowered by helping them feel seen And not to mention, make their lives a little and reassurance that It's okay. You know, it's okay. In 1948, President Harry the Woman of the Year Award (clapping) She deserves that shit. She killed, You killed it, Marjorie. So Marjorie wins this award, okay? Naturally, you know, you're thinking like, how come they don't Like how come not more of us And of course, this is corporate America where women really And despite all of her amazing work, Marjorie allegedly has The salesman of the made four times as much as her. Marjorie then retired and went on to create her Good move too, because surprisingly, the Betty Crocker brand went over the next couple of decades. With the holiday here, for your parents, siblings, it could be so freaking hard, right? And what are you supposed I mean, do you wanna show up to another holiday I did that last year. Everyone got socks, I'm sorry. You want to get something and from the heart, So I got you. I got you. Because for a really special gift for the special people in your life, you've got to check out Skylight Frame. Skylight Frame is a photo frame that you can update instantly It's a great way to feel even when you're separated. You can also preload it with for the perfect personalized gift. It's super easy to set up Just plug it in. Use the touch screen to connect and boom, shaka-laka, enjoy. Sending photos to Skylight I mean, everyone in the or email them to the Skylight and then they'll pop up in seconds. So you can constantly update it. It has a black frame and white matte, so it looks like a real photo frame that adds a beautiful touch to your home and it fits with any aesthetic. Skylight frame's vibrant through photos and even tap who sent the photo know that you loved it. You can choose from two There's the original 10-inch Now get this, If you they'll offer you a full refund. 100% satisfaction guaranteed. This year I'll be with all of I'm getting them each a Skylight Frame and I'm uploading it with I've taken of my nephews I have so many. Now, as a special offer, you can get $15 off your when you go to SkylightFrame.com That's right, baby. To get $15 off your purchase just go to SkylightFrame.com That's Skylight Frame. S-K-Y-L-I-G-H-T-F-R-A-M-E.com and use promo code HISTORY. Now let's get back to the story. We're rolling into the 1950s Okay, look, Betty Crocker So of course it would be a TV hit. The only minor detail who would play her? Betty Crocker, AKA Marjorie, didn't work for General Mills anymore. She was like, &quot;Bye, bitches.&quot; I wanna go make some real money. And plus, on top of that, she was doing most of and people thought they would And she showed them, mm-hm. They need Betty to be on TV. if they're gonna keep this going, they know they have to get ahead of it. So what do they do? They find an actress that of their Betty Crocker. Boom, &quot;The Betty Crocker Show&quot; was born. Not only did Betty have but she also appeared on live commercials and guest starred on other The cooking show was mostly like, they had a test kitchen. And it was modeled after the that Marjorie had taught. Betty would, like, sit at a desk and give instructions And the audience watching at and like learn a recipe all from the comfort of their living room. The woman hired to play Betty was an actress named Adelaide Cumming, who, fun fact, had zero That's a shame. There was one big difference While Marjorie was in charge of Betty, the Betty Crocker division, she had made supporting because, like, it was a pivotal And not only were women in for the first time, they're pursuing careers, and even voting. That's a lot of pressure. And Marjorie, she wanted She was all about to budget her time wisely, make time for themselves But the new TV show had a It opened with a man saying, quote, &quot;Homemaking a woman's most end quote. So yeah, people didn't You know, they're like, And the Betty-stans must have caught on because this show was a total flop. It ran for only two years, And they tried another version where they interviewed but that also flopped. And this was back when there So in order to flop, people It was clear that people and hear Betty Crocker on the radio. But seeing her, I don't it wasn't the same. Anyways, General Mills We have to let it go. Stop It's not gonna happen. Then the radio show came to And Betty Crocker just kind of disappears from the spotlight by the 1960s. Even though she wasn't on air, she was in all the grocery stores, like literally all of them. She was still a staple The company even put a red that were Betty Crocker approved. And guess what? That's the same red spoon you Betty Crocker had created that for years and years, women that toured the in Minnesota expected to I guess, just hanging out there. And then when they found out they would start crying. That's how important Betty was to people, because Marjorie was that good at her job. And so were the other to the Betty Crocker story. Not just the persona, but every product and Of course, Betty Crocker wasn't the only fake spokeswoman created by a big brand to sell things. Victoria of Victoria's Her tits are fake. Just kidding. Well, she's not real. So yeah. Aunt Jemima wasn't real. Problematic for so many reasons. What's interesting is that when he was usually real like Real dude. Orville Redenbacher, Oscar Meyer, the Wiener, 100% real. Chef Boyardee? Real! Seems to me like society trusted men to be founders and CEOs, but women had to be make What's that about? You know, like, yes, I she carried the Betty Crocker brand and, like, did big things with it, right? But we don't really know her name. But at the same time so we kind of know her. I don't know. At the end of the day, Betty actually did have on the world. Like, she was really there for people. And, like, that's huge. Whether it was Betty or Marjorie, honestly it was really incredible. You know, while Marjorie was in charge, she encouraged women to and the double standards of the day. I mean, she even created that was designed for men to recognize their internal Marjorie wrote this, but the Betty Crocker They also did another article titled, &quot;Would You Like More Recognition?&quot; So I mean, yeah, like what I'm but a pretty good agenda, And guess what, as of October Betty Crocker turned 101 years old. Well, whoever this invisible woman is. You know, and even now to this day, she's one of America's The girl is still a household name. Her products, recipes are You can still send her You could write her a letter. Betty Crocker at General Minneapolis, Minnesota 55440. I'm gonna send her a dick I'm not going to, that'd be rude. But I thought about it. So don't feel guilty about and eating it in one day. Oh my god. Can I tell you, like, something Look, when I get really stressed, I binge on like really sugary sweet food. I, look, I'm ashamed, but Betty Crocker's involved you know, birthday cake mix. I made a cake, full intentions But instead I ate the cake mix, all of it, followed by, I ate half So shit happens, you know what I'm saying? Don't feel guilty. Thanks, Betty. You got me through that cry fest. (laughs) Well, everyone, thank you so much for learning with me today. Remember, don't be afraid to ask questions to get the whole story because it's okay to be curious, come on. I'd love to hear your guys' So make sure to use the so I can fall along and see Or maybe even join me over on my YouTube where you can watch these after the podcast airs. And while you're there, don't forget to check out I hope you have a wonderful day today. You make good choices. You deserve it. That's the fun part about you can just make a cake to make a cake. Like, you don't even need an excuse. Like, that's pretty cool. So I suggest you do so. But other than that, I'll I hope you have a good rest of your day. And goodbye. &quot;Dark History&quot; is an AudioBoom original. This podcast is executive Kimberly Jacobs, Dunia Kevin Grosch and Claire Writers, Katie Burris, Allyson and me, Bailey Sarian. Shot and edited by Tafadzwa Nemarundwe and Hannah Bacher. Research provided by Regina Dolza and the Dark History Research Team. Special thank you to our Hey girl, love ya. And I'm your host, Bailey Sarian. Now why are you still Go make a goddam cake, will ya? Bye. (gentle mysterious music)