- [Crumb] On a chilly evening, 19-year-old Noah Urban is listening to his favorite artist, Playboi Carti, in a rented Airbnb. Suddenly, there's a knock at the door. He stops the track, and with a bad feeling in the pit of his stomach, goes to see who it is. Not too long ago, one of Noah's Holders, that's the person who in a sim swap hack, had and held ransom for $200,000 just hours away from where I can't show you the video here, but you can listen to it. - [Holder] Yo, Dan, Like, they're gonna kill me if you don't. - [Crumb] With two pistols to he goes on to say, - [Holder] Like, I'll pay you back. I'll apply to any store so I could be a plug. I don't care if I get caught Like, I will get that money - [Crumb] Noah wondered the same fate. Rival hacking groups to throw a brick through the window of his parents upscale Now he feared they were back, planning to torture him until he gave up the millions of dollars in stolen crypto they He had been so public about it, streamed himself losing on crypto gambling websites - [Interviewee 1] And it's You can't make it fiat. So what else is he flex his money on his or gambling on stake. - [Crumb] That's someone I talked to who has personal involvement See, there was another reality If it wasn't someone from coming to hurt him, it would be the FBI. They'd already raided his This had led him to including a purported $200,000 collection of unreleased music most popular rappers. Music he had been posting snippets of all over socials with captions like, &quot;The song loses its quality He had spent the last 11 to avoid them catching up again. As he went to open the door, he wasn't sure what would be worse. This is the story of To understand it, I had who were around Noah before anyone even knew his real name. - [Interviewee 1] I feel of the people that end up liking Bob is that they get started with something where you don't need OPSEC at all. And they don't think or anything like that, and they'll be telling people their names. And then eventually it just like, they do end up in that position and they're already from - [Crumb] For Noah, that thing was playing Minecraft Hardcore Factions in 2019. If you've watched any of my other videos, you understand the starts with this game mode. - [Interviewee 2] His entire was full of people that were That's probably how he got is through like that faction 'cause they were all in that shit. - [Crumb] It's always kids doxxing, pizza bombing, swatting, and hacking each other, and Noah was in one of for committing the sort of stuff. - [Old Editor] I feel like to get sucked into that shit. Not gonna lie, like some of my friends would do like small shit. Like they would call for like a bit and get a few bands or whatever. And then just you see and you feel like it's cool or whatever, especially being younger, 14, 15, 16. Back then, playing that you're - [Crumb] That's Noah's old video editor. He was uploading kill compilations from Hardcore Factions - [Old Editor] 'Cause I was in the community. So he hit me up to edit This was four years ago. He paid me like $30 a video. He was just very impatient. I would be like, &quot;Oh, it's late.&quot; I'll send it to you tomorrow.&quot; And he's like, &quot;Can you send it right now? Just stay up longer, like can you do it?&quot; Blah, blah blah, and he'd - [Crumb] Reading these Even here, Noah is pressing the editor to let him remote into his computer. But another thing stuck out to him beyond just being pushy; his username. - [Old Editor] Just having or just like having an OG name people just associate you with fraud, because 90% of people that have OG names just SIM'd for the money - [Crumb] So if you haven't there's underground on Instagram, Minecraft, Noah had Sosa, Chief Keef's and he presumably bought it which is another notorious breeding ground for SIM swappers. They were originally to take over accounts to begin with, but later found out that it was much more profitable to take over crypto accounts. - [Old Editor] But most related to him just kind of the faction Voltage, which just again was related to fraud and stuff. But I never saw like him specifically. I mean, he would have like a big ego in the sense of Minecraft, like calling people randoms and just 'cause he was in a good faction, like stuff like that. But I didn't firsthand experience stuff. - [Crumb] The folks I'm talking to here weren't part of Noah's faction. They were always fighting against him. I tried speaking to some and nobody would open up. In fact, over the last four years, three of their members have And so, there's this question of, how did Noah transition out of Minecraft into a hacking group (thrilling music) - [Old Editor] Everybody in the community genuinely did stuff like that, but they were like the main with a bunch of stuff like that. That is definitely where the main source of where he got introduced to all that. - [Crumb] During his Minecraft days, there was no indication that I mean, hundreds of thousands of dollars. But that was about to change with this collection of hackers that's going after all They're using these pre-made for sale on shady Telegram channels to create fake Okta authentication pages. Okta is used by a slew of big companies to secure access to When an employee logged into it would send their credentials and two-factor authentication code off to a private Telegram for the hackers to abuse. They began by registering You can see some of the companies here that they were targeting; AT&amp;T, T-Mobile, Verizon, and these domains are carefully something the company might That's because they to sniff even a single That's because they were via text message to employees on somewheres like LinkedIn, incentivizing a click under the guise that their work schedule had changed. The goal with all this to the company's internal tools. They're targeting people that For example, here's a picture that lets them conduct a SIM swap. You know, customer walks &quot;Hey, I bought this new phone, I wanna transfer my number to it.&quot; This is the backend panel But why is this important? Why would they care Well, the group was after something else. Security researchers found more than 130 organizations including LastPass, This earned them the But there was a theme with these attacks. For example, in August 2022, Scattered Spider, using stole data but only from 214 customers. All those people were involved with cryptocurrency and finance. They could have got their Why just crypto guys? That same month, Klaviyo post this blog announcing that they've also been hacked. And again, they only downloaded including emails and phone numbers, all people related to crypto. You see where this is going? This is where having backend access to those telecom companies was useful. That they go try to log hit Forgot Password, and by conducting a SIM swap, they could get that reset because it allowed them to of the victim's phone number. Then they could start searching for anything related to crypto. Oh, they find the victim's They go to Coinbase, they Forgot Password, it sends a link to the victim's email which they now control. They're in, they drain a million bucks. Easy peasy lemon squeezy. And of course, this stuff Group-IB investigated this slew of attacks by Scattered Spider and they find that the phishing page that's being sent to is connected to this kid on Telegram who had previously been a popular Hardcore Factions server. Actually, this kid is a very well-known Minecraft plugin developer from the Hardcore Faction community. He went under the handle joeleoli. There's this clip of him rapping. Fuck you, Bob You're dog shit skid Fat a, you probably got big tits Oop, fat up the left boob He's really funny on Twit Ey, I'm a fat so I take a shit I'm up on MMC and I be rocking the I'd be squeezing triggers (joeleoli laughs) (back-up singer gurgling) Boy - [Crumb] That was a betting man. He was the technical brains Not only because it was connected to the phishing panel, but because of the development services he had been posting online. He was also friends with Noah. What they didn't realize at this time was the mistake they had made. They had sent the source around their friend group, probably so they could spin and host it themselves, whatever. But it seems one of the and so they scanned the to make sure that there wasn't like a rat or some other malware bound to it. The problem is, VirusTotal with threat researchers, so Unit IB was able to get It gave them backend access which contained joeleoli's used to fire off those channel messages when victims entered And well, as you can tell, joeleoli wasn't a But blunders in cyber crime Now it's during this time Number one, Noah starts going and he starts streaming himself gambling. He's getting viewers to he's sending them tips all the while his e-girls in the background on a Discord call. - [Noah] Hold on, this guy in chat said, &quot;Run it up on BJ, then get (Noah laughing) - [E-Girl] What? - [Crumb] By the end of this stream, he had lost over $300,000. Seemingly out of nowhere, Noah had come into a shit ton of crypto. Now, there's a few things in this stream that I wanna point out to you. Number one, you can see set to private here. Number two, very, very briefly, we can see he has a website There's so many articles in specific being used by hackers. Most people that commit will rent a virtual private server that they do all of their bad stuff from. But when connecting to that server, they string together residential to master home connections so that their illegal activities can't be as easily traced back to them. I don't know if that's but he has it bookmarked. Then number three, in his Spotify. See those playlist? Yeah, he's got one saved of unreleased music from XXXTENTACION. This stream happened just months before he would join what is known as the MusicCOM, and this is the place that was about to actually Speaking of stealing private data, DeleteMe is the sponsor of this video. So, we know that Noah millions of dollars through SIM swapping, a crime that requires about the victim; phone addresses, social security So you might be shocked to learn that there's hundreds of your personal information. Check it out. In 2023, Brian Krebs reported reselling access to For eight smackeroos, anyone can look up the social security number of virtually any American. The guy behind this bot, &quot;SIM channels is where I With his illicit service averaging 500 of these lookups a day. That's why I hate these data brokers, even the ones who are like USInfoSearch, allegedly vetting users well, Noah, have vulnerable systems. This bot is using stolen Not to mention, I don't want any companies selling my data regardless I mean, that's why you're getting non-stop marketing spam phone calls. Using DeleteMe really So look, you might not have but maybe someone wants open a line of credit in your name, phish you for all your RuneScape gold, or just sell you damn hemorrhoid cream. Don't let it happen. The best way to stop this from these brokers. Trouble is, there's thousands of them. That's where DeleteMe comes in. They contact these brokers on your behalf using every data protection law available to get your information removed. They don't just do it once. Throughout the year as new brokers pop out and old ones collect more of your stuff, they keep sending those It's not enough to do this once. It has to be a constant thing. And I love that DeleteMe that updates in real time with and removing my information from all these nasty third and people search websites. Every time I check, I'm always surprised by how much more they've So, if you're ready to take go to joindeleteme.com/CRUMB or use promo code CRUMB on checkout for 20% off DeleteMe's US Consumer Plans. That's joindeleteme.com/CRUMB, code CRUMB. That's an amazing deal Thank you, DeleteMe. (light music) - [Interviewee 1] He paid for a role on a website just to look cool. And when that happens, everyone's like, &quot;Okay, this guy is like And turns out he was rich and he was buying a ton of songs. He didn't really know and he thought like just having - [Crumb] Okay, wait, wait. Let's back up for a second here. So he joins MusicCOM, is getting bullied, but what even is the MusicCOM? What is leaked music and to spend thousands of dollars on these? - [Interviewee 1] All right, leaked music pretty simply is just music So, an artist will record a or just because they wanna record songs, and most of the time a lot Playboi Carti or Lil might record like 20, that album will only All those other songs that don't come out, people find ways to get them, whether that's phishing, SIM swapping, or just like friends of the And that's what leaked music is. It's just all those unreleased songs and how they come basically to the public. - [Crumb] So music leaks like a factory worker before it was set to go to market. But in the early 2010s, something interesting - [Interviewee 1] For the modern MusicCOM, I'd say it started with Rap People there would talk about music leaks and share leaked music. And from there, there was who were super obsessed with Kanye West and they would go on to called KanyeLeaks. I'm pretty sure a lot of new people were introduced to music in a forum called Kanye To The. Kanye To The was an Rap Leaks and KanyeLeaks. However, a lot of people would share stuff from the KanyeLeak subreddit and this would continue on up until 2018 when Reddit started cracking down on illegal activities on their website. To combat this, in May of the KanyeLeak subreddit called LeakThis, which was and LeakThis was just a So you'd be able to see there was a marketplace on there. There still is a marketplace on there. There were also a bunch of For example, there was MusicMafia who was like probably the most famous. Back in 2017, they were all and they even had their own iconic tag, which sounded like, &quot;MusicMafia, go to And it would be like Young Thug snippets, it would be Kanye, Quavo, Uzi, whoever. They would just post and then you would be able And one of the first group was on MusicMafia. It would have like a little you'd click on the song and it would tell you how which means people were sending them money and just trusting them to leak the song when it was fully funded. And one of the biggest grails of all time, which has leaked now very recently, &quot;CAN U BE&quot; by Kanye West. It's just like the holy grail of music. That song was on the for like $4,000 or something, or $8,000, which back then was a lot of money. But nowadays, like $8,000 - [Crumb] So, there's that cropped up full of dedicated fans that wanna listen to more Sometimes these artists and so that causes the price to go even higher because they'll never There's two main systems for group buys and private buys. Most of the people in these they're big fans. But the people selling the songs, they've usually done something shady to get their hands on the tracks. Today, most of this happens branded around specific artists. They host group buys, and once the amount desired the song gets posted Here's a list of every Lil on a group buy in a Thousands of dollars being spent here just out of love for the artist. But then there's what people and that's private sales And the craziest thing to me is that this is all built on trust. Like, if you spend $10,000 how can you be sure they won't or post it for free? - [Interviewee 1] Rule of thumb bro, everything that anyone Like, you shouldn't buy something Whenever I tell someone, first &quot;So when you send the song do you delete the file No, that's not what happens. What happens is that if they'll sell it to someone else, and then they'll receive the money. And now both of those And usually there's like like, &quot;Yo, don't do anything don't pass it to anybody.&quot; But people have their best friends, and they send the song And then their best friend sends it to their other best friend, and all of a sudden and everything leaks. Yeah, something that's sellers will cut the song by a second. 'Cause you can't uncut the song, so like you'll chop a few And then when it leaks, you'll see like, &quot;Oh, I know who I sent the cut file to.&quot; The issue with that is the seller also has access to the cut file, right? So the seller could just Most interested thing is without a song leaking. One of the first ever songs It's been like four years, five years. But that's just 'cause like - [Crumb] Okay, this is all fascinating and I have a thousand more questions, but let's circle back to Noah now when he first joined the - [Interviewee 1] He Yagami I think is like an anime character. Light Yagami from &quot;Death Note&quot;. He has a ton of SIM'er money. You know, at this point kind of normal for SIM'ers We had Cameron, like 4K Lucky. He joined the website. He did a $40 million hack and he started buying And I don't know if he saw it from other SIM'ers joining the website or if he was just really into music because his Minecraft username But he joined the website for like obscene amounts of money. Back then, like 2022, prices were high but they weren't like King Bob high, and he was paying like five He was buying like grails three times, which is one of 'em &quot;Trap&quot;, &quot;Movie Time&quot;, whatever, whatever it was. And when he joined the website, the first thing he did which it changes in price. Every time someone buys But I don't know if he paid like a thousand dollars for it, $600. He paid like some stupid just to look cool. And he was buying a ton of songs. He didn't really know and he thought like just having I showed you some screenshots that you can probably show at this part of him just talking with other users. You can see that, like, he and being like, &quot;Yeah, I have these songs. I'm so cool, respect me.&quot; And people would just like shrug him off. They just call him stupid. It's cool to have money, but you can't just like up until a certain point - [Crumb] So it seems Noah from the Sosa username, likely because there was during the Minecraft days connected to that handle and parents' address. We know he had actually already Like, in his hacking circles, And so maybe Yagami was a way to even further distance He wanted this to be a But he kind of made a fool He had joined in May of 2022, and after not being well received, disappeared like a fire in the wind. My contact here told me he was still making friends with people. People who had a lot of unreleased music they were willing to sell and who I apparently And so, four months later, I he rejoins under a new alias, King Bob, and this is where he goes on to try and make a name for himself. (thrilling music) - [Interviewee 1] So, the is September 2nd, 2022. He became King Bob from Yagami, and that's when he became where he starts showing &quot;Hey, I have this, this, and this.&quot; He starts selling songs and I put that in quotes, &quot;help the COM&quot;. There was a group buy for a The song is now leaked, but there was a group buy for it for like eight grand or something. And he completely finished like for everyone. And then the seller messaged &quot;Hey, instead of just just buy the song yourself and we'll just move the funds It's just some like lame shit, you know? - [Crumb] So he's bragging about songs, but this time actually Two of the big ones being both by Playboi Carti. But a snippet isn't the full song, just a small clip to To give you an idea of in the community feel, when &quot;Money and Drugs&quot; the top comment on this Reddit post says, &quot;Fuck you, King Bob. Hopefully we get 'Friends'.&quot; Come late September, he spends $25,000 on unreleased Stevie Wonder and scoops up more Playboi including &quot;Dirty Diana&quot;, &quot;Recoup&quot;, &quot;Let's Go&quot;, and &quot;Automatic&quot;. And actually for &quot;Automatic&quot;, he ends up leaking it for free, saying he felt bad for sniping Despite being miserable this earned him some brownie points. But this was still only his He's being very low key, only buying songs, not hacking for them, and not bragging about them too publicly. This was about to change though, funny enough, after another incident threatened to expose his real identity. So, this video I showed you in the intro, the guy kidnapped and held ransom went by the name Foreshadow online, but his real name is Justin. He was a holder for sim swappers. That means he held the that the victim's number Then, when the hackers like Noah triggered the reset password codes, or crypto accounts, it was Typically, holders are paid or some flat rate amounting It's the riskiest and least because the Feds can the number was swapped and in many cases subpoena Apple or Google for more information. Justin here was being kidnapped because he had turned on the swappers. Since he had the phone and the off codes, instead of handing it to them, he just took all of the money for himself. The problem was, the guy apparently goes by the Violence-as-a-service Telegram channels had recently been popping up, and apparently he ordered a hit on Justin. And one way or another, Justin was now in the back of a car somewhere held up by two guns, that he seems to know to or he was going to die. As this video began making rounds, a rumor surfaced that he and had actually died, but pretty soon after these guys that held he had crypto somewhere, right? But they couldn't get it out of him. So, they let him go and he and now he was cooperating with the FBI, telling them everything about all the different SIM For Noah, this was He had worked with Foreshadow, a lot. Curiously, just days his own real name had been leaked for the second time online. But this time, instead of Minecraft, it explicitly referred to him And earlier in the year, Noah's own home had been For Noah, things were heating up. It seems he had tensions going on in his own SIM swapper channels, but now he also had a reason to believe that the FBI would be hot on his tail. But instead of lying low, he just doubles down in MusicCOM, gets more public than ever. - [Interviewee 1] He hit just spending obscene And I mean, I'm interested in Carti too, like I had a bunch of the but I didn't even know he had them. It was at that level. He was pretty low key and then kind of just came out of nowhere and started posting snippets, playing them on Twitter, And you know, as someone you see it. - [Crumb] So this begins his mad attention seeking campaign. - [Interviewee 2] Oh yeah, for sure. Like he'd post snippets or his Instagram story, and then get posted in the Discord and everyone be freaking the fuck out. So yeah, it's definitely And you can see that 'cause of, like, his follower count just go way up. - [Crumb] I've long thought that when you steal millions of dollars, the problem is you've So there's nothing that you can show off as an accomplishment. And so these kids, lacking the respect and admiration that comes they instead try to seek validation through these ostentatious displays of their ill-gotten gains. Like he posted this video going through Benjamin's playing in the background. - [Interviewee 1] Yeah, so he tries to get this like aura. And he'll just post like a random lyric. And then the song will leak eventually and then he'll retweet the lyric. He was just like clout - [Crumb] Come late October, he's teasing a bunch of Uzi songs in the Uzi Hub Discord server. Songs like &quot;Remember&quot;, &quot;Just all never before heard. Naturally, the fans are freaking out, but there's this question of, how's he getting these because no one else seemed to have them. He didn't buy them this time around. - [Interviewee 1] So I think, he definitely got songs both ways. I'm not King Bob, so I can't say with a but like I'm 99% sure that he So he would have this little group of him and couple other leakers and they would buy and So, he had one of the specifically for Uzi because he hit Uzi's engineer. He was definitely hitting for music, and allegedly, he hit Songshare engineers, producers, He was definitely doing that. I don't know if it was through I'm pretty confident that he but like a lot of people, phish as well, he could have been phishing as well. There's also like a lot within it as well. There's a screenshot of like and they SIM swap someone, and then they texted another artist from the number that they &quot;Hey, I lost this file. Can you send me it,&quot; for a song called &quot;Sauce&quot; by And that's how they get songs as well. - [Crumb] Okay, this brings I know that Noah's music vault was worth somewhere's around $200,000 now, but how are these songs even being priced? Are people hacking songs specifically to sell them for money? Obviously, the artist know so what's their position? Does it hurt them? And then, around this time, Noah also gets doxed and for the first time they know who he is and this kind of creates But let's take a step back first. I wanna talk about those other before we go back to the story of Noah. Tell me about the price It sounds like they and then nowadays they're - [Interviewee 1] It depends So, a lot of the times the and they'll be the only So they can charge You know, supply and demand. I personally don't like that because I feel like it's really ruined the community over the years. It's so inaccessible for a lot of people and it also brings in a who are just like, they have Those aren't the people that you want running the community, you know? It's a lot better when it's like, oh it's just a bunch and one day you'll be if you save up like a thousand bucks, which is how it was back in the day. But nowadays, it's like, yeah, you have to have so much money. And for certain artists like Yeah, he's dead, he can't But also, Juice WRLD has one of the biggest unreleased catalogs. He's recorded like thousands of songs. So realistically, his songs I remember before he died, you'd be able to get one of And then like right after he died, the prices just skyrocketed even though everyone knew that this dude still has thousands of unreleased So there isn't really It's just like, he died and the took advantage of it and raise the prices from like 500 bucks, a thousand to 8,000, 10,000, 12,000. Now group buys are like 25 grand, and that's just normal, you know? another day in the Juice WRLD community. - [Crumb] Well, if a community's willing to pull together 25 grand in a group buy to get a hacker to drop this song so they can all listen to it, or shit, you know, someone buys it just as a private sale It's gotta be reasons about the music to do that, right? And I'm not super into So like, what is the that are buying this stuff? - [Interviewee 1] There's You have a song that nobody else has and that makes you feel like special. There's a screenshot of &quot;The music is worse when And that's why people care. It's like, it's a flex and it or like deeper cuts of fans, you know? Like, I'm a hardcore fan 'cause I know every single Frank Ocean unreleased song. And so, like, I'm a bigger fan than you. And actually, I have a so that means I'm cooler than you. So yeah, it's a big status thing. It's a big ego thing. People love flexing their songs. There's so many snippets of like King Bob and his friends and other in Discord voice chats, and people just freaking out. Some people just love the attention, and there's some people who and they stay super low key about it and they just spend tons of money on music and just nobody even knows. There's also another side to it. There's some people that, they're just super to the point where they wanna even know how the artist works. And they're buying like studio sessions. The whole session for the song, which is like a folder which is like the raw recording data and how everything was laid out. People know naming Like Uzi will be called like and then the song name. Dude, it is deep. Like people are crazy about these artists. And then the OG files, which is something like Which is the file that is like a mastered version. It goes through a bunch of and then it gets sent to A&amp;Rs and stuff, stuff gets changed. Some people even care about the OG files, which is like the original recording file, which is like super hardcore. I know some people that spend for a song that's already out just because they wanna Like, that's how deep it gets. Like, I don't, why are you The songs already out. And they just, they wanna But at the same time, because they get this sense that they And so they think that There's this thing which is like a word an artist will post a snippet, or like a seller will and it'll sound really good. And then, the song will come out and suddenly it doesn't sound as good. And that's called snippet syndrome. So like, Juice WRLD's &quot;Oh, this song sucks.&quot; But to us, we've only heard a snippet and the snippet sounds really good, so we want that song, we'll beg for it, and then the song will So like, people in the they know what's best. But it's all out of love, you know? The people who buy these listen to these leaks, they love the artist. I think it's super everything in the community and out of love most of the time until the SIM'ers come around - [Crumb] Do you get the sense that people selling the music are - [Interviewee 1] No. Okay, some of them definitely are. Some of them like exclusively do music. I know people that phish for songs and they've only done music. The thing with music is that I feel like it's a lot less consistent Because you can get a song and you don't know if anyone will buy it. Or you can do a hit and they that are unreleased. For when you're doing crypto, it's like, you know this guy has money. So-and-so is holding like So if I hit his Coinbase, I'll get 200K. You might not know where stores his music. There're a bunch of places. Could be Dropbox, could be it could be Untitled. They have like 50 places where And so, even if you hit them, you might not necessarily get the songs. So I would say the amount of pay their foreign cars, car payment is a lot less than people who SIM. - [Crumb] Okay, so what I'm hearing is, if I was to go and try to make a career out of hacking people, number one, it seems because it's more of a civil issue. Like, what are the chances that a producer or a rapper who's already very wealthy is going to press this, and get me sued, whatever. Like, if I go and steal a they're making a report. They want my ass. That's nearly a guarantee. But steal a bunch of music that they weren't doing it's much less of a chance that any issue is going to arise from that. At the same time though, I've also talked to a ton of SIM swappers, This is the guy who stole had more money than he would ever need, and then he goes on to steal even more. And he told me the only reason he did that was because it was, quote, And I feel like that's where these kids are involved in some other sort of cyber crime, but they're also interested in music. And so they're doing basically just for the rush because it's their interest, whatever. And so, then it ends up Does that check out? - [Interviewee 1] The artists have like come to terms with the leakers. So for instance, like for Lil Uzi Vert, I've been in the studio with his manager. There's a video of me interviewing his manager, and I asked him about - But it's like, what am I gonna do? Just go out in the world, over a leak song? Like, I can't. These are fans that love this shit. You know what I mean? Whether they're selling there's nothing I could do. - [Interviewee 1] At a there's nothing we can do about it. You know, the music is in and we can't change that. And so a lot of them don't care. There have been instances, very rarely, of getting arrested for music, but I think that the odds of you getting arrested And it's also like, you need to fuck up in the sense where you need And those people are usually So think like Taylor Swift, Ed Sheeran, or someone like Jay-Z, who is anal about his music leaking. So there are people with reputations, like if you get their music, they're gonna be dickheads to you. But then there're also where if you get their music, their team will just start and just try not to have stuff leak. Because how do you judge the And I think that becomes in terms of law. How do you charge someone for when you don't even know And a lot of the times the is stuff that would never come out. So like, I mean, it sucks to but a lot of times it's stuff that was just never gonna come out. So they don't care. - [Crumb] I feel like for the most part, it's kind of beneficial for the artist. Like, I wish there was Discord communities with 10,000 people in them wanting to see my unreleased videos. - [Interviewee 1] If it wasn't I don't think artists like would have the following that they have. Because there's certain for their unreleased music, like Juice WRLD, for instance. But there are also times where Lil Uzi Vert had his That album came out in 2020. It was announced in 2017 or 2018, and the album was supposed He dropped the cover, he and then all of a sudden two And I don't think it leaked I think his management and it caused the song to get leaked. But the song was leaked and it completely fucked and the album got delayed for three years. And there's like an interview &quot;I wish I dropped the first version because that album was perfect.&quot; I feel like there's an where it's like you don't wanna sell songs that are coming out. I had a song that was supposed I couldn't group buy it &quot;Nah, we don't wanna buy There's certain communities where the people running the community will get a song that and then they'll sell it that it's gonna drop. But that's seen as really negative. - [Crumb] I get the impression that Noah was seen as negative I mean, he effectively Wonder why didn't it happen again? - [Interviewee 1] A lot but he had so much money and so many files that you were kind of - [Crumb] But then he got doxed and things went downhill So tell me about that. In a few months, King Bob had to an infamous music leaker holding some of the most desired songs. Clearly, not everyone was a fan, though. And after posting another someone posted King - [Interviewee 1] He just rolled with it. Like, he wouldn't tell So because of that, I do think to know that he was Noah Michael Urban because he was letting Like, you would ban the word - [Crumb] Yeah, it was wrong. It had that Elijah name, the name he was using which is nuts because he had Both of those times had his the Noah Michael Urban name, and this time it was I have a feeling this was a fake identity he had created for himself But he did the right thing People really believed it. A lot of the folks I talked That's how far spread this got. Unfazed and heading into the end of 2022, his vault grows extensively. He's buying a ton more songs from new people entering the community and he's starting to join Discord calls, acting like an authority - [Noah] There's apparently 17 versions. There is only four that we've heard. - [Crumb] This comment sums it up best. His shenanigans continue into 2023, but come March, members he's gone dark. This isn't like him. Turns out, FBI agents had did a search warrant, but to the FBI's surprise, Maybe someone tipped him off. But as they entered his room, his computer was in the It's a good thing they because by shutting down the computer before it could complete, they still had access to This was a big failure for Noah. His only saving grace is that they didn't seem to have a warrant for his arrest The court files aren't public for this, so it's hard to say, And most of these cases, by the time the search warrant is issued, they've spent years collecting evidence beyond a reasonable doubt to It's like this search warrant Perhaps they didn't understand the gravity of who they were dealing But for now, they had his computers and so they were surely In the meantime, he was not to access any cryptocurrency accounts or talk to any co-conspirators. Come summer, back in the COM, some of his music starts to spread. There's rumor that he to keep safe with all the - [Interviewee 1] There's about a lot of this stuff because it goes through so And there's so much he Like yeah, there's a rumor that there's a zip file that he had with like 300 plus songs And anyone who would know like specifically would be they'll always be like, &quot;I don't know, I don't know.&quot; Which leaves it up in the air because I've never gotten - [Crumb] It's around this time that he moves out of his dad's house. It seems tensions were high. He's Airbnb hopping from If he continued living like this, maybe the FBI would But come January 9th, 2024, there's a knock at the door. Noah couldn't be sure if the Feds had finally caught up to him, or someone was coming to hurt As he cracked open the door, several FBI agents and police A warrant for his arrest They had only just now found As officers inspected his ID, Noah held onto some hope, even living under a fake identity. But unfortunately for His short run had come to an end, but he wasn't going to (thrilling orchestral music) The MusicCOM had been wondering On January 11th, 2024, The Department of this indictment against King Bob, complete with his list of old handles. For the first time, they behind the avatar; 19-year-old Noah Michael Urban. The first thing the judge did was revoke his ability to make bail, stating he was a flight risk. So, you know how when he was encrypting his PC? Well, they put it down in &quot;deleting his files&quot;. When his attorney argued &quot;Ah, he was just re-encrypting his already encrypted computer the judge bit back saying, &quot;The defendant's new assertion is an even stronger argument due to obstruction of justice. If the defendant was at it would tend to show that in the hopes of making sure no one has access to them ever again. But the defendant wanted to encrypt an already encrypted computer to ensure that the government to that information.&quot; Anyways, his parents which affirmed the judge's decision. Noah's dad said on record that, &quot;he was so intelligent even when not being told the password.&quot; And his mom said that Noah, &quot;wouldn't follow her rules at home. He was kicked out and that she did not that he was very secretive.&quot; On top of that, the judge also considered that he had no fixed address, was facing a lengthy at no stable employment or residence, was using a fake ID, and worst of all, had no explanation to how he had been Noah never had a job, yet his lawyer is still fighting this. He's arguing that this to revoke bail under the The other consideration is after that first search. That he talked to co-conspirators, you know, people on Discord, told them about the raid, and accessed cryptocurrency Apparently, he got a refund from one of those crypto gambling websites so this gave him a little cash to spend. Noah is charged with eight one count of conspiracy and five counts of Between August 2022 and March 2023. They found he had stolen worth of cryptocurrency after abusing people's personal information to break into crypto He's pled not guilty. His trial is set for December 2nd, but it could get dragged He faces a minimum mandatory penalty of two years imprisonment for the aggravated identity offenses and up to 20 years in federal prison on each of the wire fraud charges. To top it off, on November the US Attorney's Office against four of Noah's co-conspirators involved in the Scattered Spider hacks, having used their little to steal millions of dollars. Noah made a post on Twitter immediately after this press release, saying, &quot;Well, fuck.&quot; - [Interviewee 1] I don't know. He was just really Which is like, think about it, bro. He was like 18. I guess he started SIMing You don't know better. You're just a teenager who What are you gonna do?