- And it was a Sunday morning. I was in bed, still asleep. It was early, early in the morning, maybe like nine or 10 o'clock. And the phone rings. And it's my baby brother using my mom's phone. His name's Isaac. He's nine years old. So I answer the phone like, hello, - Hello, What do you want? - How are you? I'm also fine. Thank And how are you, Isaac? I'm I'm fine, thank you. It's a pleasure. - I'm Trevor. Why? No. 'cause mom's been Yeah, mom's been shot and Can you come? Mom's. What do you mean? Okay. Yeah, Okay. Which hospital? Tell I dropped the Can you come like, he's too polite for his own good. He's too like, can you come? Like, what? I'm gonna have to slu Just find, oh, coffee at two and then ish. Lay station at one. Okay, Can I come? Of course I I jump out of bed. I'm running around. I'm trying to put my clothes I don't even notice. I don't But I'm looking for the They're losing my mind. I jump into the car, into the streets. As soon as I get out the gate, You can't even control All of a sudden he says, I'm driving. I'm trying to hold it back. but then I get to the traffic light so the robot is red and I just let it out. It just comes out. - Yeah. No, no. Don't watch my window. Yay ha. Ah, no. Hey, no, no Uhuh. - And there I'm driving to I get there, jump out the car. My brother's standing there, I see him outside. He's just Looking around around. I go, He's like, mom, she's So I'm like, okay, are mama shot, not me. No, that's not what I'm saying. I'm coming back. So I run inside. All the doctors are standing around her. There's blood everywhere. and just by the way, doctors as they're on those TV shows, eh? No. Like, they set the bar really high. 'cause I was shocked. I ran. whoa, Sorry. Sorry. That was inappropriate. They're like, sir, you need Come on. What's this? What's You can't be here. Please Okay, okay. Okay. So I go outside, the nurse comes to me, she's like, Mr. Noah. I said, yes, yes. Okay, Mr. Noah, we've got your wife And I said, my wife. She says, Yes. Yes. That's, that's I thought, why would you Hold on. You think I would? I mean, she's cool, but I mean, like, have you seen the girls? I should show you the pic. Oh, I'll show you the pictures afterwards. What's going on? She's like, okay, Mr. No, your mom's just been stabilized and we, we, we are gonna have to start thinking about surgery. She's been shot in the in the lower buttocks region. So this, this is a very serious Okay. So what's happening? that she doesn't have medical aid. Said what? She says. Yeah. She My mom always had medical aid. Always. But now it turns out she I didn't know this. She canceled it because you never get sick. You know those people? I never get sick. Trevor, I I don't know why I have Yes, but you didn't think of, Now she's in the hospital. No medical aid. So I said to the nurse, well, what does this mean? She says, well, Mr. No, it to put her back in the ambulance and send her to a public hospital. I said, but, but she's She says, I'm sorry. So She has to go to a public I'm a public hospital. to go normally, you know. But now what's happening is there's, there's this misadministration of funds, like money's going missing. You don't know what's happening. They don't have the right equipment. Now I'm picturing guys There's the doctor. Gimme a scalpel. We got, oh, okay, bring it. Okay, let's try something. I'm stressed. So I said, well, what do She says, well, there's nothing, sir. I said, well, what if She says, well, you don't so you can't unless you give us your card. And then we just work from Here's my credit card. very it expensive. I said, this is my mom. This She goes, you can tell me it's We talking about, you know, I I've just neglected my brother. He's been standing there the So I'm like, Hey, hey, What's on your mind, man? Are you okay? Big boy, like Trevor. Yes. Can I come to your house and How you gonna ask me about PlayStation? Your mom has just being shot. You can't be asking me about what the hell is wrong with you, stupid child. You know what? You're never gonna play PlayStation ever again. Ever. No play PlayStation for Go away. Go sit down and think about what you just PlayStation. You're gonna ask me how the hell's you gonna ask me about PlayStation? The nurse comes back, she goes, okay, Mr. Noah, we just used 900 I'm like, okay. Why are Yeah, 'cause it's 900. This is my mom. Use the I'm 900 grand. How are you She comes back again. She's like, Mr. Noah, we need 2000 grand for some x-rays. This is my mom, not a pair She goes away. I'm like, die asking me questions here. Busy asking me. My mom's That's what I'm saying. And I He starts crying. I'm like, Isaac, I'm sorry. Are you okay? Are you okay? I'm not okay. You said, I'm never never my life play. Need for speed. And now I can't play. I'm like, you still crying You have no right to cry. Stop crying. You can't cry Now, some woman comes out. Now she thinks I'm telling my brother not to cry about my mom. She just gets involved. She's Okay? You let him cry. Some people express their You let him cry. I'm like, I I will not let him cry. Many This is not even, nothing's fine. Like, you should go play It's not a time to cry You spoil your kids. That's your problem. You should take it away from them so that they can learn about life. You and you, you both shut I'm telling them this. The no, we ready for surgery. I'm like, so do the but sir, this could get very expensive. I see you. And surgery's what is expensive? This is my mother. She said so well, anywhere from like 20,000, 20,000 ran. This is my mom all the way Yeah, but she's lived, eh, - I mean 56, 57. I mean, it's almost finished. I mean, you know, even she says she's old. I mean, you know, you head and ah, I'm in head. It's finished. Oh. Because now that might, we and we need to buy scones for everybody. And my, this guy needs So I don't know if she's like, otherwise we, we can't do anything. I said, okay, well, Just use the card. We'll handle I'm stressed. 'cause I've Go into a hospital, you Use your credit card. Next and the person could die. Yeah. The person dies. And when they die, the doctor doesn't give No. Oh, he doesn't. Yeah. 'cause he tried and And you'll get them and be like, Be like, wah, and your money's gone. That's all I was stressed about. But the most amazing thing happened. Turns out my mother It was a miracle. Really? didn't do much damage. 'cause my family's gifted. The head bullets didn't Other than the head, obviously. But it missed her spinal cord. Missed the nerves, didn't touch the brain. Went right through, missed and so deflected. And all it did was it cut a piece of her nostril off just, just one side. And the bullet went out clean, to go in for intensive surgery. And her recovery was only Which was fantastic because that means the I mean, and she's alive. Yes. But the bull was only Really great. 'cause 25 was my, so you laugh, but that's how I'm willing to pay my mom back for all the ultra male custard Everything else. None of my schooling, all of that stuff. I'm not paying. I hate it when parents say that to their kids. You know how hard I have to work for your bloody school and your clothes. I didn't ask to be born. You handle that. I asked for the ultra Mel, we can keep a tab. Don't involve me in your 25,000. Yeah. I would've I would've been there. The No, stop. No, no, no. You No, you tried it. No, just Switch off. How much? Two 50 left. We'll pull patrol or something. It's fine. Just switch off there. You tried. It was fantastic. I told She laughed because she did ask serious. And to show you what a My mom's in the recovery ward. She's got those tubes in her And you know, my brother's in the corner bored out of his mind. And my grandmother's in the And I'm holding my mom's hand This is a week later. I'm still crying. And I've been crying the whole week. But I've also been using this time to cry for other things in my life. No. 'cause as a man, you You, you, you loop it all together and you just cry at one time. It's like you, we cry in You cry. You don't just cry. So I'm crying for everything. And my mom looks at me and Don't cry baby. I said, You are shot in the head. Look on the bright side. She says, no. At least now because of my nose, you're person in the family. I was like, oh, by default, white people love being flabbergasted. Come on. You know exactly You ever seen when, when a day, something's gone wrong? And they always do that They get flabbergasted. It's like, ah, white people love being flabbergasted. You'll see it in It's like a long line, right? Everyone's standing there patiently. There'll always be one white - What are they? Why - Don't they open the Why don't they, are you - The only thing white flabbergasted is finding another white person to flabbergast with. Have you seen that? - You It is absolute magic. A white They'll look, they'll make eye contact with another white flabbergast together. It's like they vulture on super flabbergast. You see them look over and And that's one of the keys to You have to exhale. You Life is so hard that the You can no longer even breathe. There's, that's why there's so many tornadoes in the Midwest. It's just white people We don't celebrate our heroes So many of our heroes, we, we chastise them, we bring them down. It's jealousy. It's hatred or mourn. Heroes that we don't Nelson Mandela, we always go, nobody else can live up to that. Yeah. But there small levels of greatness. You don't even have to our great sign language interpreter, Tom son Yankees, the man who made it all happen, huh? He was there at Nelson A service that the whole And because of that, the to everyone all over the world, translated into all languages, And so Yankees was there translating for those who didn't understand. Unfortunately, he also didn't Which is a small problem, a problem that he didn't let stop in people where others see obstacles, People go, he's a cotton man. He's a bloody, how could he Yeah, you gotta go. How could that man Yankee showed something. So far, he's a role model to the children because he showed that what people say you can or cannot do. If you believe in yourself and you work hard enough, People told him his whole you can't do sign language. He was like, we'll see about that bitches. And he did it. He did sign language for the most powerful people in the world. Every single one of them. Yankees was on that stage doing it and doing it. Well. Nobody even suspected him. No one people was just People ask questions. Where He didn't sneak in. He'd been interpreter for the government Yeah, official for the last five. And apparently before this, But obviously the complaints So nothing done about it. And now he was here. The Signing for the world, signing, Nobody suspect. I suspected. No, no, I did. I did. Lemme tell you why. Lemme tell you why. No, no, because I know sign language, but because I know my president. And if there's one thing Jacobs in Mariza speech, right? Jacobs Mariza speech. He's He's very calm, he's very measured. Takes his Time. The rhythm is the most important thing. And Yankees didn't match his rhythm. I knew there was something Zuma was there reading And while he was reading, Yankees was doing totally different. Like the rhythm was wrong. Zuma was there. Like, and thereafter, Nelson Mandela went to Robin Island for his prison. And to Fault for the rhythm didn't match. Right? Zuma was on page one. That guy was on like page 17 or something. It didn't match up at all. It's almost like Zuma was That's how slow it looked. Ken, Ken or all, sorry, I haven't practiced guys. It didn't match up none He stayed there in the face of adversity. And he fought, yeah, he did We've gotta ask ourselves as South Africans, we For instance, did nobody think to ask him how he could speak every Every leader came from They spoke in their language. Yankees translated for everyone. Did nobody stop to ask? Even for a second, the president of Brazil is standing up there. Nelson man, Yankees was there. Did no one say, Hey Yankees, I'm in the zone. I'm in the zone. - I'm in the zone. He did sign language for everyone. The ambassador of China was up there. Yankees was there on the side. He just made it up. He made everything up. And he did a great job at But then like a, like a he just took it too far. He just, enough wasn't enough. He just, you know, that's, that's our That's all it is. We just, We take it too far. You know, the same thing All of these things, guys are stealing houses and everything. I go, guys, I understand you I understand. But if you get a tender to build nine, at least Don't steal all the houses. And then you can't steal more houses. But no, we want it all in South Africa. We take it one step too far. He had done it for everyone. The best fake sign language He had gotten away with it too. Until Barack Obama came up to speak. This was a speech that by the most powerful 90 million people watching that speech. This my friends, is the point where you pack up your little bag of Not Yankees. If I was Yankees, that's where I would've called it quits. Say, Hey, Yankees. Next one. The whole world is watching Sorry, sorry. Hey, my I've lost my voice. Sorry. Oh no. Not Yankees. They were like, Barack's, like I'm there. And he was doing sign language for Barack Obama. And they found out that language, he kept on using the same signs over and over again. Right? The few real signs And apparently all he Four things that he kept And those things they asked afterwards, real sign, language interpreters. They found out he was doing this right, which means greetings. Yeah, greetings. He kept on doing that. Another one he loved doing was circle. Yeah, circle. One of his favorites was smoking. Yeah. And every now and again, That's all he did over and over Nelson Mandela's memorial, Barack Obama pouring his Barack Hussein, Obama, and Yankees. - Oh, Nelson Mandela's, a man. The sch that through peace, you could free, not only the prisoner, but also the guard. Nelson Mandela's a man. He's A legacy I could never aspire to be. But we can all look towards. And for me, Nelson Mandela show that sometimes in life, You gotta say the things that matter and always remember to do what counts. I could never be an else, how horrible it must've person watching that speech? Imagine what it must've been that at home, sitting there. It must've been the craziest thing they've ever seen in their lives. Deaf was just watching, going, hello? Hello. What? Why is he talking about smoking? Why are you talking about I'm talking about, talk about Nelson. Why are he talking about, hello? Why did he, this is the worst speech. There's something wrong with The smoking problem. Let guy what wrong with him? I'm not listening anymore. Come and finish, come through this man. That speech must have been ridiculous. By, by the way, that's only told a joke about deaf people. Ever. Only the second time told one joke when I was starting out in comedy, and then I stopped. 'cause I believed you shouldn't make jokes about disabled people. It's the wrong thing to And I never did it again I, I got asked to do a show in Sun City. I was asked to do a show. Al party for the South when they were going out to London. And so they invited me. They to come and do a show to We'd like, oh, you, you That's the name. We gave our that was our official name. We had am Bo Ana Bafana and am Kroger. We called our Paralympic Kroger, which means the broken things. A bunch of Crocs. That is the worst thing you Ever am crock. That is what we call, you cut Amma. That's probably what Reva That's the only thing I can think of. Don't you call Ammar Crock. So anyway, I was doing a show And because I'm there, I did or anything that could I did nothing like that. And after the show, I was meeting some of the guys, everything went well. And one of the athletes came up to me, and I'll never forget this, and he was partially deaf. And he introduced himself and he was a fan, a great fan. And he was like, - Hey, Trevor. P hey man, how are you? - I said, Hey, how you doing buddy? How are you? Good to meet you. Good. He - Said, yeah, I'm great to meet you. Great to meet. I'm a big fan. - I said, oh, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. - Said yeah, do like, I love You need hands. I'm tight. You know, sometimes I don't get in because I'm, I'm actually, I'm partially - I didn't even notice. I didn't, yeah, yeah. Cool. I just thought you had an That's nice to meet you. He said, - Yeah, yeah. That's cool, man. I didn't have a question, if you don't mind. I said, yeah, go, go, go ahead. Go ahead. I said, how come, how come you never known Joan bounce deaf people? - I said, I'm, I'm, I'm sorry. What? I, I don't tell jokes about deaf people. - He said, yeah, how come you - I said, what do you - Mean? He said, well, you tell Tell people, show people I've never heard you telling - So you've, you've never heard me tell a joke about deaf deaf people. Yeah, no man. Like that is too, no, I said, no, dude. I dunno. I like, I don't make jokes Yeah, why not? I was I shouldn't make jokes about deaf people. Because if I did that, then and they would be offended. Why would we be heard? It's We death. So I, I've never thought, I - You. Protecting us from one, from loving. We the one, don't, we never, but we no one the name things. - I was like, yeah, but you say, I must make jokes. Right? But even if you are cool with it, you know who will complain? People who can hear. Yeah. 'cause that's what people do. They get offended for other people. They'll be the ones going, He made jokes about deaf people. - And so why do you can? - I said, because it hurts. It - Hurts. He's like, dude, you a It's easy for you. No, just make the joke. If them don the money, people will love. And then we move on. I was like, yeah, - You know what? You say that. But then what do I do? If - They complain, like, dude, and they complain, then complain. Okay, you know what? Go, go. And then, and then if they I was like, what do you mean? - You know, one of the biggest South Africa, I've learned to to the US, is what a with our police. - Huh? when they stop us with not one thought in your That's a luxury in America. I I had just moved to the US to start working on the Daily show. And one day I was driving and I got pulled over by a policeman. Right? And I get pulled And being pulled over in America is a stressful experience because they make it a game and figure out what's It's simple. Straight to the point. You get pulled over, the He tells you, my friend, License, letter, letter, letter license, plus no seatbelt license. Then immediately you're in Come on. Eh, don't come on nothing here. Seatbelt, let license, let license visit. Driving here maker. Eh? You know, it's time to talk. It's time to work things out in America. They don't play that game. I was sitting in the car, got Good, good afternoon, sir. Do you know why I pulled you Why? Why are you asking me? What did you say? I said I, I don't know why you pulled me over. I pulled you over, sir, because I I, I didn't know. Do you know Did you not check your, I feel like this is part of and my job at the same time. Sir, are you, are you giving me attitude? No, I'm not giving you attitude. I'm just saying, you can't And then ask me how fast I was going. Next thing you're gonna tickets, sir, are you giving me attitude? You're gonna get outta Are you're giving me attitude? And I was just talking to the guy. 'cause I was like, look man, here's the craziest He looked at me and he is like, sir, I'll tell you something. You were going a hundred miles an hour. And I was like, a hundred miles an hour. He's like, I was like, Where's your, can I see the, the thing? He's like, what whatcha show me your, show me your, your your gun. And he's like, I got Whoa, I wanna see the laser He's like, I don't, I don't, I estimated that you were I was like, estimate it. What Conscious estimate a hundred. He's like, I can do that. I'm like, dude, that's So you just look and then you go, that guy's going a hundred. You can't just estimate. Imagine where I'm like, estimate standard seven. Eh, you can't just do What did you just say to me? I look, I'm just saying that it's a weird experience And my friend was in the passenger seat. He was shitting himself the - Dude, shut up. Yo dude, shut up. Shut up, You gonna get us killed? Shut up Trevor. - I was like, what do you For what? How? Why are we getting killed now? He's like, shut up - Trevor. Shut up Trevor. - I take that for granted because in America you could get shot. You know when you read of black Americans getting shots. And that is true. They get But whites, Americans also get shot by the police all the time. Whites. Police in America, police in general in They don't play games. All racism. It's just police as a whole. Shoot first. Ask questions later. There Should I get that order right? We take for granted the here in America. You read stories of people getting shot because they pulled out their wallets. In South Africa, you'll get shot because you didn't pull out your wallet. We're always talking. That's African Police is that you feel like you're Pull over. The cop comes I'm, I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine. Eh, eh, I don't know if you saw Let me just, can you see Check the numbers. See Yeah. See there. Top score. Yeah. What does that number say then? You like, it says 1 6 1 60. Yeah. If it was Pacman, you have One 60. So what are we doing now? Ah, Lum. Yeah. Yeah. What are Yeah, I know man. I know. They feel pain. We're in this together. I to send South African P Police. We need to send South African that Americans can learn what it's like to have a functional police force that's not always You know, the police force where you can air your of mortal retribution. Wouldn't that be great sticky situations? There they are at a standoff. Woo woo. Alright, we're We've got a Sergeant Matula here. He's a specialist from South Africa. We're gonna hand you over. Hello? Hello? That hello? Man, I ain't coming out. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm greeting you. I said how are you? Don't just How are you? I'm fine man. Thank you very much for asking. Thank you very much, much. My pr look man, that shit, It ain't true, man. I'm innocent. Okay? So just come out there I know how this shit goes down. Y'all going to kill me or I'm gonna spend the That's not true. That's not true. Just come out, we can talk. I know what y'all going to I'm going to die. I'm There's another option. It involves a cut drink. It doesn't have to be this way. I just got back from Atlanta. It was 107 degrees Fahrenheit Hot is where the worst thing is. Everyone comes up to me and they go, well you, you must be used to this being from Africa. And no, I'm not. I'm from That was just, no, I was 'cause I thought if I and fainted, wouldn't I'd be running and I'd They would have their vans reporting live. They'd be standing there Even Africans are fainting. So I'm enjoying this. You know, this is, this I, I hope I say I hope because I never know what standup comedy. It's just, you know, it's a, I find I'm always nervous because I find comedy is Well, it's exactly like sex the comedian playing the role of the man and you, the audience, Because it's my job to satisfy you. And you just have to sit there. And then just like sex, my success or failure will somehow be determined by how much noise you make which makes it a one-sided affair. I feel, you know? Yeah. I mean, I, I hope we have magic tonight. I hope we create something wonderful. I mean, for many of us, it's And that means it might - This. - And if that's the case, I'll look into your eyes. I'll see that I'm freaking you out, and I'll stop, I'll stop And we'll go back to the simple stuff. - Okay? I've been in America for a few months now, and I'm, I'm really just It's not what I expected at all. Different from the There's many assumptions I had about America before I came here. And I've come to learn For one, I just assumed It's far from it. It's not, you know what? It's not so much the language of words that throws me off. It's just what Americans have done with the language you guys have. Just, wow. You've just, You've put 20 twos on It's got rims that just pimp my language. That's what you've gone with. I was chatting to this woman She came up to me and she I don't know what though. look over there. I said, look over what Look at that her. And I said There's two of them. I understand. Nothing. Even the small You know, small things that I pronounce the opposites I say, my aunt out here, to me is an insect, made When my friend told me his aunt died. And I was like, so what? What a great way to end the friendship. I couldn't get help the for a battery for my remote control. 'cause that's what I say, So in America, you say battery, which to me is a different form of power, sponsored by Chris Brown. And you know what to understand, we live on different sides of the globe. So it's fine. The language will evolve. This is something I've, but I, I hope I change one Just one thing. And that that looks like a horse. It has black and white stripes. Yeah. Do me a favor from now on, It's zebra. - Yeah. Same structure of word. Plus, you cannot name them Zebra, there's madness. Do you know how hard it is to You have to change everything. which is just, I mean, America, you guys have your own thing. The imperial system. You know, on my side of the And by my side, I mean the we have the metric system, which is amongst other things, very efficient. It's a very simple process. You know, everything goes into each other. And out here you have I mean, I won't judge you if you want to be imaginary, that's up to you. But I just feel like there's Small things, like for instance, when we abbreviate our small we use mg milligrams, mg milligrams. And you guys have have ounces. Ounces, which you then abbreviate OZ, there's no Z in the word ounces. I don't know that that's what you've done with pounds. That for me, Please explain for pounds became LBS LB pounds. I look like the idiot could I please have the The guy was like, you mean pounds? I said, I don't see the P. No, I don't said, well, it means pounds. It's not LBSA lot of bullshit. - This is horrible. - In fact, it's, it's, it's crazy. You do realize the imperial that even American drug dealers have switched over to metric. Even drug dealers got to we need some order. We are going with metric. And I, I thought, I honestly I thought, you know what, this It's a coincidence, but it's about abbreviation nor English language. They, they just, they don't give a damn. I learned this in the small things. Like, like for instance, I stumbled on an organization You heard of them? Worst magic show ever. Guy gave me a pamphlet. He's like, come and see the Grand Wizard, grand wizard. The grand wi didn't do one I mean, I noticed a few But I mean, that's not magic. I wasn't impressed by that. I sat there forever. These guys running around in their sheets. Yeah. Look, guy, the K, KK, as has nobody bothered to tell 'em ever that you do not spell Klan with a K. Nobody, nobody stopped. Even in America clan is spelt They're the KKC, not the K, KK. You realize that Ku Klux Klan, KU, the C in fact, the name is wrong. The whole thing, the Ku Klux parts of it, that's, this is horrible. 'cause they, they got that, as you know, from ancient Greece. It was Ku Klux Elon, meaning And that's how they got their Greek circle of brothers, which is, which is wrong for two reasons. One, if your sole purpose to hate black people, that you've now named yourself And secondly, did they realize circles of brothers were things with one another. Very loving, very, you know? Yeah. If they were really a Greek circle, the sheets would be a bit higher up. You know, just more of a, - Yeah, They're not a, the newspapers And now people treat They start saying weird things People would say to me, Trevor, Trevor, well done on everything. Hey, congrats, congrats. But you know, even though you're going to America, don't forget us. All right? Don't you forget us. I got, I don't even know who you are. People would say the You know, the number one number one thing, it's not good luck. It's, Hey Trevor, good luck over there. But whatever you do, don't Please don't put a charise on us, okay? You keep your accent, man. Make us proud. Everyone said that. Trevor Hey man, you making us You're doing big things. Us. I can ask you five, don't lose your accent. Don't lose your accent. Yeah. When you come back from the states, you might come back talking Friday. Okay, please, ADA, if you lose Just threaten me. What does that mean? If you lose your accent, People make it sound like street and then just out of - My - Hell. Well, hello. No, it not my accent. My how are you gonna lose your accent? I was stressed. Now 'cause I don't want, I don't want South Africans to I don't want them to think This is my home. Now. I'm in the plane flying And the whole time, I'm just thinking, don't lose your accent, Trevor. Don't lose your accent. Ex don't accent. Ex accent. Accent, accent. Accent. Ex accent, accent. Ex ex accent. Ex ex accent. Accent. By the time I landed at or I like walked in arrivals. Customs Welcome back to South Africa, sir. I was like, yes, I'm back. Same. Nothing changed. Crazy because I love, I I love accents. I like learning languages. And so obviously accents I've learned over time that language, and accents is with somebody in your own language whilst trying to bridge the gap. You know, you learn somebody's accent, you communicate more effectively. The thing is though, you have to learn the accent in the right way. Right? If you're gonna speak and you do it in the wrong way, you might come across as racist. You gotta be very careful about this. White people in South Africa Yeah. It happens at petrol See people driving in with their friends, talking normally sitting in the car. Oh, you know, so I mean, if, if we get all the numbers together, marketing should be behind this. It should be a breeze. You and it's gonna be, it's Look. We, we try and make sure Hello, Bubba. Hey. Sharp, sharp man. Please put Lao full Yeah. Also, check armor tires. Not too much, eh? 2.2. Yeah, sharp, sharp. Tanky boss. Don't, don't do that. He's a grown man. He's been Paul petrol his entire life. He knows what you need. Just talk to him like That's the thing people don't understand. Speak to him like a normal human being. I used to get so angry whenever I'd see white people they talk to black, I'd get so angry. I was like, oh, white people Oh, racist. They were, and Life taught me not to be I learned a valuable lesson. I was driving to gold reef city one day and the security guard came out to the boom and he was Say, is your name on How are you, Baba? My name is Trevor. He's like, okay, Chaba, I said, no, no, no, no. Cha Chava, Chava, Chava, Chava. I said, no, Trevor Chava, Trevor Chava, Trevor Shava, Trevor Shava, Trevor shovel Trevor, Trevor sh. And now my friend who was and he's like, Hey papa, get Trevor. He like, whoa, Trevor, why you don't talk properly? And then I understood. I understood. I finally understood what white people have been trying to do. I see you're trying to You're trying to engage somebody, but understand this, understand this. When speaking to somebody in to understand is an accent is not a measurement of intelligence. Right? An accent is just language with the rules of theirs. That's all an accent is. So Don't patronize them. Speak to them the way Just try and learn their It's just another accent. I learned them. I spent all my I try. I love it. I that's a safe place to start. You know, you learn, you and pronounce the words correctly. I was inspired by French Whenever I'd go to a French I was always fascinated by the fact that people would order I never understood why. Yeah. Because they don't do it Only in French restaurant and then change the accent when they order and they come in talking normally. - Yeah. You know, it's a wonderful thing. You really gonna enjoy It's You have to have, oh, How are you, sir? Yes. I will have a bottle of And let's start off with, could we get the Sauvignon Blanc please? Yes. And you know, we definitely, from Maine's gonna have the file Mino. And for dessert, we, we Thank you very much. Thank - I'm like, why are you doing I was like, why? Why? Because it's not like the French There's no French people South Africa looking at the menu. - Like, so for the table, we can order some start portion. We share - Something. No. Okay, - Could we please have one shaving of the - B wars? That's not gonna happen. I met an American in South - He said, well, you know, 'cause 'cause if you come they'll label you as black. - I said, really? - Oh yeah, everybody's black Well I want to be black. And I found out it's true mixed race. People are categorized as The only catches, and You have to be liked and successful first. Before then they say you and you get upgraded to black. All the famous mixed people do it. Singers like Alicia Keys and But then they say black singers, sportsman like Tiger Woods mixed. But then they say black golfer, most famous mixed person Barack Obama, mixed half and But then they say America's first black presidents, which is interesting. 'cause when he was running, mixed candidates. I see how it works. Everyone They're like, yeah, yeah, Of course. It, it wasn't that It wasn't, I remember comedians coming out, they used to diss him. Guys would come out on stage of y'all seen that crazy ass mixed fool. Wonderful president. Y'all seen that mixed fool, wonderful president. Where you gonna see, ain't no of the United States of America? Ain't no man, which white for a mixed fool, even a black man. Can we shit Even a black man. How some mixed fool think he going to do with that man, that mixed fool. That crazy ass mixed fool. How some mixed fool, that And all of a sudden they - So, - So I see how it works, In order for me to become black, and I'm willing to do the time. - Yeah. I took the first opportunity I could, bought myself a plane and I said, I'm going out to America. I'm going there and I'm going to be black. And I got on that plane, it of nonstop flying. And I sat there in my chair and I spent every moment practicing being black, just practicing. - I this black opportunity. I just sat there just I was watching every black movie and TV show just going through it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You not, I mean, you King Kong ain't got shit on me. Yeah. What you talking by Willis? - I was just, but 18 hours of flying and I landed in JFK and I was fluent into my Black I was just, I was walking I was even laughing, but I was like, ha ha - Ha ha, good, my man ha ha - Should have seen me. It was like, oh, this to be the personification There's nothing cooler. This They can make you feel by asking if you are you, you don't believe me, Just come up to you and just nah, this you, this, you, this, you. And you'll be like, I think it's, it's magic. I was that black. Not just any black but the And that's American black. I can say this with I know black, I'm well I'm from the black factory. I mean it, I've seen every kind of black from light black all the way to like navy, blue, black. I know, I know black. And there's no cooler Nothing cooler. You know? 'cause American black people, how much they've done to You know, small things. And the bigger, like you look you know, jazz, hip hop, r and b, all black Americans just this general swag that Even small things like walking. I mean, walking is such a It's just a very, this is very, there's nothing cool about this thing. You just, you just move from and pretty much everybody can do it. This is, this is it. There's nothing. And then black Americans came along and then they just added in that bounce. And then, and all of a You just, you know, you look You've just got that. Yeah. And it must be hard for Just like, That's why if you no black man was ever Ever. So when they stopped and said something, bang, Because they have to walk. every time he comes out of the Jets or makes a speech, he's always just got that little bounce just before. Because in his head he You never know. You never - You never know. Got the walk. It's - A cool walk. And by far the coolest of all is the talk. I've listened to black Americans and it's the most amazing use of the English language I've because they pay no regard is cruise through sentences. It's fantastic. First time I had a conversation with a black American man This guy walked up to me after the show. He didn't even walk, he just He was like, AAL b aal a ao. Let me holler at you for a minute, man. Let me holler at you. He said, okay. He's like, man, I ain't I ain't going to front. I ain't even know who you As I hear the show, I bought You came out there and I was like, yo, man, I ain't bones out there in the motherland, man. I was like, yo, this kid But I ain't going to you was keeping it You was just beasting. I Maybe this kid is the truth. Yeah, this kid was doing his thing. He was keeping it out My girl were killing herself. I was like, all right, this You know what I mean? And I was like, no I don't. But I love it. It's the most amazing use of English I've ever Just that one word alone. Just Mean, do you know what I mean? You nah mean, it just, it It's just, you know, neither This is like, why we been wasting our time with syllables for so long? I don't understand. It You know when I made yo, You nah mean, it just, it It says it all. I feel like I've wasted years I wish I could go back in time and relive my favorite moments. Watch my favorite movies again. Seeing them bring to life this isparta. Nah, man - Power. - But the pilots, the you know, you get into the air. They start making useless announcements that you don't even care about. You know, just to give you that, that feeling that he You get up there as the Ladies and gentlemen, we've reached our cruising altitude. Currently sitting at 23,000 cruising at about 720 kilometers and hour in the Boeing 7 3 7, 1 of our favorite planes on the It's a beautiful sunny day up here. We might encounter a few The cabin crew will be taking We've got Esmeralda and Simon Depe saying, and re, And if you need anything, I'll let you know once Until then, please enjoy You like, oh yeah. Pilot my guy, my guy pal. It is cool. It's cool. I just, I just don't like the fact that they never let you know It freaks me out. 'cause they trained to keep you calm no And I noticed this because we hit turbulence coming into Jovi. There were hectic storms and And it would, and you know, it wasn't like the calm turbulence. You notice that turbulence the knuckles get wiped when And because, you know, people try and act natural in the plane. They're like, and then, and then they get to a you know, and that point comes and like, everyone is panicking They're amazing. I love how they do it. You know, like you'll hit the TURs and be like, things are falling. The bags are hitting the People are panicking They just move through naturally. It's almost like the lower half is not connected to the upper body. 'cause they'll just carry - Be like, yes, yes. And you guys, - Hmm? - Would you guys like some Be careful. The hots. Anything for you, sir? Hmm? Yeah. Okay. Okay, then just pass me Thank you very much. There you Thank you. - You know how they do it. And then the pilot has the of the biggest storm ever. The plane is shaking the wings You think you're gonna die. Ladies and gentlemen, we've encountered some slight turbulence. We'll ask that everyone return and refrain from using the lator. Please note we will be flying and to alleviate the problem. Also, keep your seatbelts We'll be served at this Thank you very much. And I'll speak to you in a moment once we've gotten out of this bumpy patch. Speak to you in a moment. He doesn't tell you this. When the nationwide flight lost an engine, the pilot said nothing there. It just fell - Quiet. - I don't want a pilot like that. I want someone who lets me know. I wanna know before I'm gonna die. I wanna know. I wanna say a prayer or two. I wanna prepare myself. You know, I wanna forgive everyone Gimme a chance, gimme a No, they don't. I bet people don't even know they've died. Must be the worst feeling in the world. It's like a whole bunch of confused people popping into heaven. Like, - I swear these airports I never know where to go. Oh, are we in heaven? Oh, wow. Hey, I, I can't believe. - And they're saying - He's like, come Come, come forward. She's Peter, St. Peter. How about you? Yeah, - I know. Many, many are people are - Shocked. Just come. I get that all the Just come. No, I just thought, Just, just come. Please. Come, come, come. - I don't want that. I want someone to let me know when I'm gonna die. Like taxi drivers. There's no person who dies in a taxi not knowing that they've died just before the crash. Taxi - Yo, ah, - Dead, dead, dead, dead. Yeah. No, we dead. Corn, corn, corn. - They know sometimes - They survive the crash, but Walking on the pavement. - Dead. Oh. But luckily we did land We landed safely and everyone landed yay clapped and walked into the And that's once, that's, that's you're back in South Africa when you're flying, it's international. And then when you land and if you listen carefully, you realize that you back like The world went there. will find just, that's it. Because all over the world And that is in airports. It's always a woman, always. And she's always calm, always monotone, always come over that system. She sits in a room quietly. They bring her the pages one by one. You can be in Heathrow for instance. You'll hear that woman come in the system. Attention all passengers. Please note there's an No passengers are permitted as this may be seen as a security risk. Any unattended luggage will be removed by security and destroyed. Thank you. Everywhere in the world. Even if you go to like they still conform to that norm. You know, you go to places like China where you wouldn't expect it. You know, you think I see some of you probably think they'll That's racist. Don't even No, that's racist. You don't even laugh. But they're not, they come, She's just another language. She'll come on the p and be like, and you know, you know they've conformed. And then you land in South landed, you know, you know that you're back home when terminal building, you walk in and I don't even know if they No, no. It's almost like whoever's closest to the mic gets to do it first. You know, it's the craziest thing. Luckily 99% of the time it's It's the craziest thing ever. As you walk in, she'll come and be like, dun. - Attention all presenters. Attention all presenters. Hello? Hello. I'm talking to you. Hello. Yeah. All the people t come. The plane is delay the P Go All the people must just Have a problem, eh? Take. If I ticket said two, then That my complain when Because then I need, I told you now and my just phone, the to pick you up, I tell them, yo, I getting my plane is changed. They stuck. - And then they start background. They don't even turn off their - Mic. All their people they Chicken. Chicken, yeah. Stick. Okay. Yes. Okay. Okay. All the people is lying. It's not D two, it is It is C 15. If you can go to T two, oh Byebye. But - We've been traveling all It's been so much fun. You and Cape Town and East London. And recently went to Durban, which was, which was a bit of a schlep for us. It was really hard because And then, and then on, on that you have to contest overbooking, which is a problem, you know, I dunno if you know what overbooking is. But basically it's a, it's it's a practice rather where, tickets than there are seats on the plane. So they book more sort of like a taxi, but then they don't let you So there's hope you don't - Please. Ah. Yeah. - You know, that's what they do. And so we, we flying down to Durban and it was the funniest thing ever. Standing in the queue. line looking at their watches. And they call us for, they're Next, next, next. So we go to the counter and there's one of those and her relaxed hair. And then she's like, can And you're like, IDs. She's like, wave flying. And She's like, Deban. Yes. - Are No, tomorrow. We just, Are you flying? And we're Okay. And then she starts typing frantically, which I never understand. 'cause when I book my tickets, It's click, click, click, Ah, that one click. And then it does it all I bet she wasn't even busy She's just like there clicking. Facebook or something - Yo, another one. Another one here. I'm dead, dead, dead, dead. Dead. You overbooking. Dead. You dead by over booking. Yo, - Because of their faux par. The airline is as kind as to upgrade us on the next They say we sorry about Business class. Oh very. You know, you get to where everyone's very businessy. Yes. No, it is, it is. 'cause when you, when you're you overhear conversations and they, they, they You know, you overhear people well the mergers are, are coming along. I mean, if you look at the people walking around, well, right, then we'll definitely And you got people walking I'm in, I'm in the kids with that all the shareholders are happy. And then we'll present to management and it's gonna be a, a You know, you just, you hear Whereas when you're in economies, it's like a huge group of people. You generally overhear conversations. Like, I thought you put - It in the bag. You said you put it in the I asked you to put, why - Oh wow. And so we going through the airports and, and then we go through security. And I, I love security in South Africa. It is the most chilled out security you'll find anywhere in the world. It is like South African we work on an honesty You know, the security guard. There's, he's there to enforce. It's like, look, this, This is the honesty places we all admit to our sins. Come forward. Come forward. Do you know, that, that type when you come through customs You, you gotta take off everything. You've gotta take off your and you, you know, you can't wear a jacket or a hoodie or a cap or anything. You gotta take off your Not even coins in your pocket. Even you've got like a big Then they'd, you know, then you're like, but, but, And they're like, well you're You're gonna, you know, and then like colored people are like, excuse me. Yeah. Oh that's Craig, where is in South Africa. I sometimes feel like these know what their equipment does. You know, they're very 'cause you'll walk through and you'll get there and the guy will be like, called number four. Number four. And you go and the gal will be waiting, and he'll be like, what's in the bag? Like, what do you mean in the, he's like, is there a laptop? Yes. - Out, out. out please. Yeah. Put it by itself. - Any other laptop. You're - Laptop out. - What did you do? Okay. And, and, and my gun. No, it's - Fine. It's fine. Just, - Just at the top. Yeah. - Watching you. It's so much fun. And you walk through the metal detectors, which I swear either don't work or these people really don't She'll walk through metal detectors. And it's not just at airports, no matter where they are in this, through a metal detector, government institution. You'll walk in there and it'll make that sound. But then I don't know if 'cause you walk through and be like, and you see how security guard 'cause they're gonna use the You can see they wait the whole day. - Yes, - My time has arrived. Ex I call up upon you. - I was like, what the hell's Yeah. Pulls out his one. You know, black one just pulls him out. Okay. It's not, I'm sorry, I'm just doesn't doesn't really do that. It would be cool if it did the, It would be weird, you know, for like some guy from the Wouldn't, wouldn't work at all though. It wouldn't, wouldn't - Like bravada. - It would've been the If it was in South Africa. Wouldn't it like the critical that made the movie wasn't a township in South Africa. 'cause which guy from the child after that many years? God would be like, - Look. Yes. What is it? - No, look there, Ooh. - But it wasn't, it wasn't, I, I digress. The wand. The wand, the wand - Comes, Comes out with the wand and You know, they go around and we don't know what it's supposed to do or not. You know, you any weapons. What was that for? Even I'm not gonna tell you now. Obviously you have been And that's it. We like work on the honesty system in this country. - Everywhere you go, - Genius who invented the honesty book. Ah, yes. The honesty book. No one can lie when - Whenever you visit or office complex, we - Have the book of truth fill - Name. Ah, yes. Surname, phone - Reason for visit PVT. - We'll just do that. Look - V-T-P-V-T-P-V-T. - And once I asked the security guard, I was like, what's the point of this? Why am I, why am I filling - No, it's for security Says I figured that much. But - It's like, it's so that inside there, if maybe you can steal or kill someone, then we can find you. - Ah, of course. Because I The honest killer strikes I was like, okay. And then I kill someone and then what are you - Gonna do? He's like, then you sit there who can just phone me and - Yeah. When you think about colonization, it is the strangest thing 'cause conquering is one thing. You go to another country, You want more, you take you take the resources. You, you kill the people But colonization, I don't But colonization is strange and you don't just take over. You then force the people to become you. That is such a strange where the British did it. I mean they, you know, They, you know, they And think about in India, those cultures could not be And out of nowhere, the British Imagine what the Indians must Minding your own business, Next thing you know, the Ye ye by order of her majesty You over there, what is This land over here? This is called India. Well, my good man, I'm here to tell you that India is now under And I'm glad that I can tell you that India is exactly No, no, I I feel you're not I'm letting you know that by order of the queen. Who is the queen? The queen. The queen of England, the She who was ordained by God. Which God, God. The one true God. There What is the name of your God? There is only one God and his name is God. And you two shall worship him. You want me to worship a God, but you don't want to tell me his name. What are you talking about? There is Shiva, there is There are many gods. What His name is God. You don't know the name of your God. It's just God. Is it like mommy or daddy? You want me to worship, be a God, but you don't want me to tell me his name. Huh? How am I going to Every morning I go to wake up and I pray like, oh, dear that maybe God you could help me. No, no, sorry, not you other Not wrong God. No. God. I No, no, no. You are right. I should have asked for her first name. No. No God, no other God, No. Not you today, God, He told me He would know. I was talking to and I please that God on the no. No that God, you. Then I wonder why my friends was getting answered. Huh? How dare you speak to me like No. Because you never introduce yourself. I have come here and I have never heard of Great Britain. Who gave you that name? Well, well, well we did. You called yourselves great. Isn't that a little presumptuous? Shouldn't you wait for other people to tell you how great you are? Huh? Shouldn't you just and just do good things, Then people go, oh my God, And I, I I begged to Jeff. I believe we could do it are Great Britain. Well, in that case, welcome It, it doesn't, it doesn't work like that. It doesn't work like that. How dare you speak to me like this. Look, you are the one who I was here minding my You came over here riding on that things are going to change. I don't know who you are. All I know is you are really crazy. Okay? You are not feeling too, right? And I didn't want to say anything, but you look like you're going to fend. In fact, it looks like you Something is very wrong with your skin. You are not looking good my friend. Maybe you should come We talk about this. What I look quite normal. You do I have never seen anybody with Okay? You look like you're playing. I didn't seek with the I don't know what is happening, but that is not our person should look up. I can see your veins pumping You are not creepy. That is pumping, pumping, pumping, pumping. If I was your doctor, I I just go, what is How do I know? Because you translucent. That is how I know tell you we are going to run this country We are not going to do You are a madman. We are going to take it. You are not taking, we're going. She is all yours. Take,