Thank you to Novium for supporting PBS We're almost certainly the first technological not? No. We are. But how sure are we, really? A favorite way to estimate the abundance of which figures that the number of intelligent might overlap with us can be estimated by summarized as the number of habitable planets life, then technological life, then factoring We now know that there are billions of habitable are still extremely difficult to guess. And of the formation of life and civilization technological species going extinct, although If we detect just one more instance of life be able to upgrade our guess at the probability development. But you know what would increase twice on the same planet. There's an extremely maybe just "teaser" that life may have this zircon crystal found in the west of Australia looks like it was filtered through a living proportion of carbon-12 versus carbon-13 that carbon was probably been perfectly sealed billion years old, dating it to before Earth's asteroid bombardment that should have extinguished That's a lot of probabilities, but this in Australia, and also in Greenland-date the Earth re-solidified following its pounding. non-life-would have to have happened again. very quickly given the right conditions. We'd of the probability of life forming given a But all this is extremely speculative-and the origin of life is because these fossils of Western Australia are the only fragments of the rest of the crust has been subducted-pulled once but many times. The crust is recycled much of the early fossil record has been deleted, track the early rise of life. But if the geological record is so crappy, inhabitants will have precious little evidence that we are the first technological civilization on Earth? And if for our Drake equation, forcing us to update arising from life, and also our lifespan estimates I know this sounds like some lizard-illuminati rubbish, but proposal like this is a paper by NASA climatologist Adam Frank from a few years ago. They propose pre-human industrial civilizations might have Who reference. I'll leave you to google for. Let me be quite serious for a moment: I don't and Frank don't think such a civilization is massive, and massively on the claimant, The actual purpose of this video and of the scientific question around a very speculative idea. So let's do just that. Broadly that question would be: Could a non-human industrial civilization lack of evidence of such? And if so, how long to be completely erased by now? And finally we could now look for? But first, to start thinking about what evidence let's think about what our civilization Our species has been around for 300-ish thousand the past 10-ish thousand years of the Anthropocene era of our major impact. And that impact has post-industrial revolution. When you look at the world now, you might telling signs of our presence once we're The pyramids may have lasted millenia, but our great cities will erode to dust, be covered ocean floors then deep sedimentary layers also be pulled beneath shifting tectonic plates-subducted. geological memory almost completely wiped any sign of these works be apparent to a far future? The recycling of the mantle means that anything much gone. But we do find plenty of fossilized of millions of years old. So surely we'd millions of years old. But that is not necessarily the case, because of the potential limited extent of the civilization, both spatially We have of course obtained samples of the ago. Some of those areas are still exposed, But here's the thing, we've accessed only Earth surface from before the Quaternary period, coverage is less than 1% of Earth's surface existed a few million years ago, it's extremely on their physical remnants. That includes fossilization rate is so low that we've that ever existed. Remember that the dinosaurs roamed the Earth been gone for a third of the time they were we have just a handful of specimens. By comparison, a blip in the fossil record, our industrial but we can't find T-rexes from a particular I'll elaborate on the extent of the Anthropocene is in sedimentary rock. This is rock that dead ocean things onto the ocean floor, building rock that has since been exposed, or from analyze these layers to track changes in ocean from these layers, which in turn reflect those The entire Anthropocene will be represented in kilometers of sedimentary layers, with of that-perhaps millimeters at best. Although a far-future civilization probably might find and recognize this wafer thin layer and cities grew, so did our broader footprint. era dominated by human activity. It's not Geological eras are periods of time reflected The Anthropocene certainly qualifies. In fact, down in new sedimentary layers due to our of the transitions in the geological record So to assess whether any of those previous let's take a look at the specifics of how and paleontologists with the crap we're are already seen in the newly-laid sedimentary First there are the more direct chemical and of weird stuff. Industrial pollutants like their long-lived byproducts. Consumer waste fertilizers and even steroids from large-scale from nuclear weapons testing that will last the effect of habitat destruction and species layer in the geological record as a sudden But our main geological impact is, of course, carbon in the Aussie crystal? This is more around half a trillion tons of carbon that's air. This is increasing the ratio of C-12 in the soil and oceans, and ultimately in The rise in temperature associated with this new atmospheric carbon will influence the geological record in a number of ways. Increased rainfall and rising sea levels increase more of their dissolved CO2, increasing their alters the fauna that can live in it and ultimately known and unknown effects beyond these. So from all this it sounds like it'll be we scrawled "we was here" in the geological a prior one. Except that so many of these signals can be duplicated by natural phenomena. We'll come back to those natural explanations, but past geological markers that look anything Let's go hunting for pre-human technological Our geological record contains several candidate environmental shifts. Some we understand well-like is connected to a dinosaur-hating asteroid But some still don't have broadly accepted hypothesis, which asks if any of these as-yet-unexplained have been due to an industrial civilization. Schmidt and Frank focus on two broad types, in the Eocene from 56 to 34 million years in global temperatures and are often accompanied The latter suggest that the temperature shift of some organic fuel. We are triggering a hyperthermals also have been triggered by for the debunkings. Then we have ocean anoxic events, a few of and Jurassic periods. These are characterized oceans, accompanied by a great dying of ocean "OAE" right now. As in our case, the ancient CO2 isotopic ratios, and so could also have Going back further, there have been several ago involving combinations of the signals back we go the harder it is to pin down the room for our flights of fancy about dinosaur The biggest challenge to assessing the Silurian can duplicate so many of the current anthropogenic and the carbon situation to the different floor due to changes in ocean life. And there change-for example, the periodic shifts cycles, which we covered once upon a time, shifts. And if a signal is not caused by the climate with that climate change. Spikes in heavy technology manufacturing, or be produced by of minerals and metals into the atmosphere due to a nuclear program or due to a nearby in sediment could indicate combustion processes wildfires or an asteroid impact. These can eventually settling around the globe. And climate if enough CO2 is released. There's Maximum-the first and greatest hyperthermal zone intruding on a giant fossil fuel bed. climate change can also trigger the type of our own geological book-end. That said, there are some things we're doing hard to explain naturally. Some of the long-lived source, like some of these industrial fluorides. left- or right-handedness of their symmetry-that in our industrial production. I should also point out that past sudden climate sudden than our own. So if we found a shift rather than 10s of thousands of years, that difficult to get that sort of time resolution points to a bit of a paradox: a civilization leave such a narrow record it might be invisible. so presumably environmentally sustainable ecological disruption over millenia, and so In any case, distinguishing between these extremely careful analysis of the context, and their association with each other, all geological epochs. So have we detected signs of industry in ancient geological transitions? Nope. But our search has also been limited. And this is the true and Frank themselves emphasize. It's not as a likely explanation for past geological of what to look for if we wanted to find evidence And although it seems extraordinarily unlikely, civilization would be impossible to overstate. planet, for our understanding of the likely It can even guide us in looking for past life-even with Mars. But most importantly, discovering higher level of advancement as ourselves would own future and a profound reminder of our allow us to avoid that hypothetical predecessor's geological blip that had once dreamed of exploring Thank you to Novium for supporting PBS. Inspired Edition is a high-end pen designed to defy reminder of our home planet's axial tilt. notes on your favorite show, the Hoverpen, and Neptune Blue. But if you choose Space a piece of the Muonionalusta meteorite - which million years ago. Each meteorite fragment certifying its origin. Novium offers worldwide There's a link in the description to learn