I watch a lot of movies and TV on the train, at home [overlapping] at the movies, in the bath... But no matter where I'm watching I find myself constantly doing this one thing. [unintelligible] What? [unintelligible] [exhasperated sigh] [unintelligible] [exhasperated sigh] [unintelligible] Oh. It turns out this isn't unusual. We polled our YouTube audience and about 57% of people they can't understand the dialogue unless they're using subtitles. But it feels like this hasn't So to figure out what was going on, Hi, my name is I am a professional dialogue editor I basically perform audio surgery Do you watch with subtitles? I- I do, actually. I do a lot of the time. So... Why do you think that we all feel like I get asked this question all the time. All the time. It's something that is... It doesn't have a simple, It's very layered and very complex. And after talking to Austin It's a very layered and complex topic. But everything kept pointing back Technology that got us from this... -I'll get you, my pretty. No, Richard, no. What has happened... To this. Mom, I just woke up. ...little slim-waisted birdy... [unintelligible] Let's start with microphones. I'm going to use this clip from to show how mics used to work. Here's the mic, you talk towards it. The sound goes through the cable A man records it on a big record in wax. This scene illustrates some of early sound recordings. Mics were big, bulky, temperamental and required creative solutions to be hidden. They were wired and recorded like wax and eventually tape. No matter how many actors all sound got recorded to one track. So performers had to be diligently focused and facing a certain angle so that their words could be picked up. Otherwise... [muted noise, as if from far away] [sudden sound up] [muted noise, as if from far away] [sudden sound up] You couldn't hear a thing. But technology's improved microphones don't impede performance They become better, smaller, wireless... and we use more of them to ensure that performances get captured. What we typically are working with is 2 boom microphones and then every actor has at least hidden somewhere on them. These shrinking mics have to be more naturalistic in their performances. They no longer need to project so that their words reach the mic. They can speak softly, hidden on their body will pick up And my personal favorite example is Alec Baldwin on 30 Rock. In a 2011 speech slash roast, Tina Fey says that &quot;He speaks so quietly that she can't hear him when &quot;And then you play the film back Just listen to this whisper off I'm not afraid of you. Yeah. Well, you should be. Let's just see how it all Naturalism isn't always the best Take Tom Hardy, an actor that but who famously is a mumbler. ???????????? I mean... the mic picked that line up fine. Like we can definitely hear that he's talking he's saying something. But once that mumble gets recorded it's on to a dialog editor's shoulder to make it as intelligible as possible. And that was a lot harder when While you could pick the best takes and physically splice them together. If some piece of dialog was then actors will come in and in a process called ADR or which you can see Meryl Streep from &quot;Postcards from the Edge&quot;. There isn't enough money in the world That still gets done today, but.. ADR also costs money because you're not only you're paying for the engineer's time and then the editor's time. So we try to do ADR, frankly, And so a lot of her job is The show I'm currently working on I remember in the middle there was just this loud metal clang that I couldn't remove. So I had to go in and I had to that fit and then I had to fit it... to the movement of her mouth in that moment and then push it in. And once she's done with it who works to make sure and music don't overlap with the frequencies of the human voice something that's only possible has moved away from tape and into digital recordings. That is a big challenge. Carving out those frequencies, amongst every other element for the dialogue to be able to punch through and not be all muddied up by any other sounds that exist in that band of frequencies. But even with all that work lines of dialog can still be hard to understand. The kind of feeling has been if you want your movie to feel you have to have wall-to-wall A lot of people will ask like &quot;Why don't you just turn the dialog up?&quot; Like, just turn it up. And... if only it was that simple. Because a big thing that we want to preserve is a concept called dynamic range. The range between your quietest sound If you have your dialog, as an explosion that immediately follows it. The explosion is not going to feel as big. You need that contrast in volume in order to give your ear a sense of scale. But the thing is, you can only make something so loud before it gets distorted. So if you want to create you have no choice but to push instead of pushing the louder sounds louder. So explosions go up and dialog comes down. Which brings us to the [loud music layered over] [Tom Hardy mumbling into [rocket blasters layered over] Nearly every film of his has been criticized for its hard to hear dialogue that essentially begs for subtitles. But as as this headline explains, According to an interview in a book he said that he gets a lot of complaints. Even from other filmmakers who would say &quot;I just saw your film and the dialogue is inaudible.&quot; &quot;The truth was it was kind of of how we had chosen to mix it.&quot; And in his 2017 interview &quot;We made the decision that we weren't going to mix films And this is kind of the crux of the matter. The content that we watch here and here and here is not mixed for us, primarily. Rerecording mixers mix sound format that is available typically like big release films. That is Dolby Atmos.... which has true 3D sound The thing is, if you're not at that can showcase the best sound you can't experience all of those channels. So after the movie is mixed for somebody has to create a separate version where all those same sounds live This is called downmixing. Downmixing is the process of taking that biggest mix and folding it down into formats with lesser channels available to it. So say Atmos down to 7.1 or or 5.1 down to stereo stereo down to mono. Unlike old TVs that were gigantic and TVs today are super thin like this one that I have is about the same thickness as my iPhone. So even though it's outputting the same that an older TV might, it's still going because you have to have to fit into this tiny, sleek form factor. These tiny speakers are also usually So the downmixed version of this movie that went from 128 channels down to just 2 is going to sound even muddier And when you're watching on your phone or a laptop... it's generally not much better. When you combine not great speakers, dynamic range featuring bombastic sound It's no wonder we have trouble hearing what's going on. And it seems like the industry knows this are shipping with all kinds of settings built in like this intelligence mode. You can put on active voice amplification in hopes of making that dialog track come through just a little bit clear. But of course, that's more band aid than it is solution. The way movies get mixed likely isn't super pristine dialogue. So the solutions we have are, one: Buy better speakers and only go to theaters that have Two: take a chill pill and try to just worry a little bit less about picking up every single word that gets said. Or, three... Just keep the subtitles on. For people who are deaf or hard of hearing subtitles make movies and TV shows accessible and this accessibility has just expanded in recent years. Laws have been passed to ensure that movie theaters have at least with captions. Pretty much every streaming service and speech recognition technology has made them accessible in pretty much every YouTube video and TikTok. Plus, they're super easy to toggle on and off.