Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more This time we're exploring it's Venice. And hold on tight. Yeah. In its day, with trading posts stretching all the way to Greece But today, it's just a with endless intrigue for the thoughtful traveler. Venice offers one of Europe's truly great Its main square, with its grand Doge's Palace and the basilica of St. Mark's, marked by was the most powerful couple of acres in all Like a grand boulevard, its Grand Canal winds with once mighty palazzos. And Venice is remarkably with an intoxicating mix you'll never forget. In this second of two episodes, we venture beyond We'll join a friend to explore the lagoon see traditional artisans join locals in the market, get to know the leading and follow into the decadence In the north of Italy, Venice sits in a vast lagoon, connected to the mainland Along with the main island, we'll visit Torcello, Murano, Venice was born After the fall of Rome, sick and tired of being moved out into this lagoon, hoping the barbarians From that humble beginning one of Europe's great cities. And by the 13th century, and military superpower Today's lagoon is filled with reminders those farmers who became dredging canals, pounding in millions and building communities that ultimately coalesced But those first settlements Torcello -- about a half hour was one of the first places Once a thriving community, Torcello was decimated and today, Dating from the 7th century, this is the oldest church The church feels ancient. Its wood frame and beam ceiling to accommodate the ever-shifting Its mosaics illustrate to those first Venetians. Perio: Hello! Hi, Rick. My friend Piero is picking me up Venetians love their boats. He spends his favorite hours in what he calls Steves: When did you have -My first boat? My first boat, -Seriously? This boat the freedom to escape when the town there is a lot of people, when there is It's a perfect thing You step in this boat, Exactly. Steves: The lagoon is protected by a string Until modern times, the city Then, in 1846, this causeway and a highway added connected the city Well-marked channels are dredged Boats of all kinds Our next stop is Murano. Venice is famous for its glass, for centuries blown here A 13th century law restricted to Murano to prevent fires and also to protect the secrets historically vital Today, glass is still as tourists come here in droves. While savvy shoppers know that cheap knickknacks the venerable art form as you'll see in some of You can witness the traditional in adjoining workshops, These artisans are from families which go back many generations. If you don't have water taxis zip quickly while regular ferryboats connect Venice with neighboring in a more relaxed Our next lagoon Burano, with its pastel facades was first a fishing town. Later, it thrived Today, it's popular with and lace shops. Once sleepy, its main center Locals say, &quot;Anything with Burano's lace-making heritage Shops proudly display these painstakingly produced Rather than using bobbins, women make with only needles and thread. Meticulously following these traditions from older generations As the day winds down, and the crowds return to Venice. Stay and wander Burano's back of the Venetian lagoon Earlier today, this place I'm here in the early evening, All over Italy, by sightseeing late in the day. As the sun sets, Piero picks us up, In this light, the timeless is particularly striking. Piero's is taking us on another island, Giudecca, From this peaceful the hubbub of downtown Venice becomes a romantically Piero's brother-in-law Roberto and after a day on the lagoon, it only makes sense the obvious forte and passion For antipasti, we have a tray sardines, calamari, This is like a cream. So this would be a cod? Steves: And along with it, a bowl of fresh mussels &quot;Spaghetti alla Busara&quot; This dish is common Veneto? And the first part of Okay. Steves: It has spaghetti made from farro, and it's topped with langostino. The food is fantastic, and this romantic setting The touristy heart of Venice can be absolutely mobbed The main square, with the Basilica San Marco and the Doge's Palace, big crowds. Midday, the bus tour groups day-tripping in from and cruise ship passengers all dutifully following The waterfront becomes And tour groups clog the canals. But it's easy to organize to escape those crowds. Five minutes on a vaporetto to Palladio's dreamy church Its 16th century facade made famous who inspired generations in England and America. Inside, his textbook Renaissance architectural values clarity, orderliness, In the choir area, monks gathered The altar is topped acknowledging discoveries and the universality The statue is of God the father, whose triangular halo that he's part Ascending the church's bell tower with stunning vistas The view from here Venice is an almost perfectly It's built upon all laced together with bridges, alleys, and canal sidewalks. Smaller canals flow like streams the Grand Canal. Once a glittering center of showing off the wealth the now sinking, shrinking city Venice survives thanks to One place without the help of tourism In the morning, in the shade the fish market is busy Observing the timeless everyday it's clear, amid all this tourism, Seafood still plays Small fish -- anchovies Shrimp, octopi, and squid, distinguish many From the Rialto, a street called the Mercerie This is the tourists' main drag, with human traffic jams and a gauntlet of shopping Many tourists, as if in never get beyond If this is all you experience, Venice can be more exhausting But savvy travelers leave Walk and walk Don't worry about getting lost. Keep reminding yourself, &quot;I'm on an island, Worst-case scenario -- and you can enjoy a drink By the way, you can pop pick up a card, and a prominent &quot;you are here.&quot; Since there are no real you navigate by landmarks. Follow the directional arrows or simply ask &quot;dov'e&quot; -- that's &quot;where is&quot; -- &quot;Dov'e Rialto?&quot; They'll point you in &quot;Scusi signora, dov'e [ Conversing in Italian ] &quot;Tutti... Okay, &quot;grazie. Wandering, you discover You may stumble upon Five hundred years ago, a big decided to update with a Renaissance Over the centuries, the haphazard community Because nobles on their own little islands, you'll find palaces scattered all over. Eventually, island communities or literally bridge, Building bridges Later, paved canal-side walks While plenty wet, Venice had no natural source But a thousand years ago, of using town squares Rainwater would flow and then through a sand and on to the main well. Only after it devised this safe, was Venice's population Hundreds of these provided drinking water right up until 1884, bringing water in The city, with its is slowly sinking. Many ground floors Pondering this church's you'll appreciate While accelerated due to global climate change, this has been a challenge With the right combination wind, and barometric pressure, Locals are used to it. They put up elevated walkways, and life goes on. And the population of Venice With the high cost and the allure of a faster-paced with better employment young people are leaving. More and more businesses by immigrants who commute in But in its prime, people In the Middle Ages, merchant the Mediterranean world in what was the trading capital This was where the Dalmatian met to worship and preserve It was one of several for various ethnic groups, all part of the cosmopolitan mix The exquisite decorated with paintings from about the year 1500, is one of the finest Scenes throughout the Dalmatians' patron saint. Here, he slays a dragon and metaphorically George charges forward and spears the dragon to the relief of the damsel. St. George then leads spear still in his head, to the pagan king and queen. Finally, the royal couple as he baptizes them. The Greeks lived in the shadow of their church's Stepping inside, you step To this day, this church Another part of was the Jewish community. And the original ghetto In medieval times, Jews, who were the moneylenders were allowed to do But they were segregated which was a former In fact, the term &quot;ghetto&quot; comes from the Venetian word The island's bridges were locked As the population swelled the ghetto had to expand, The resulting skyscrapers in their day -- To get a sense of life in Venice head to the Accademia, the best museum for Art is the closest thing to a time tunnel experience It enables you to imagine The Venetian love shows itself And a perfect example -- Paolo Veronese's It's a party, Everyone's lavishly dressed. Conversation rages, and there's plenty It's textbook Venetian -- big canvas, bright colors, A slice of luxurious The original title was It showed Jesus and his before his crucifixion. The church considered this too Veronese was hauled before and to save his hide, he just renamed it -- Venetian masters painted This serene &quot;Madonna Enthroned is by Giovanni Bellini. Mary and baby Jesus engaging in a sacred while musician angels The painting's believable depth a chance to feel like welcome to mingle Paintings here show how little over the centuries. This procession in painted in 1496, helps us imagine the ritual that came with Venetian society. Enjoy an intimate peek Linger over these then get out and experience The venerable Caffe Florian, one of the first places has been the place for a discreet rendezvous Today, when locals want they bring them here In these richly decorated Casanova, Lord Byron, have all happily paid Venice peaked in but after the discovery and new trade routes outside its power plummeted. As Venice fell, Through the 17th the Venetians partied as if through earlier centuries The palace of overlooking the Grand Canal, is Venice's museum and an ideal place to ponder The grand ballroom that opens up into the heavens. Imagine the hobknobbing here as Venetian society gathered The 18th century was The new ideas and innovations swept more adaptable into a thriving new modern age. Meanwhile, Insisting it remained Venetian society chose to dance Partygoers revel behind masks, scenes Casanova Gentlemen dressed to the max, ladies with powdered hair And everyone used a mask to be devilishly incognito. Delightful Rococo portraits Rosalba Carriera Lunghi painted wealthy showing a society bored and, it seems, with And landscape painters the wonder of the city with These served as souvenirs after Venice became on the Grand Tour. Remnants of the city's decadent like its many colorful These papier-mache which you can see being made and artfully painted gave well-bred aristocrats during party seasons Throughout Europe, Carnevale provided a safety valve for people to really a time of austerity That's when rich and poor alike enjoyed a burst of when anything goes [ Playing &quot;Largo al Factotum&quot; ] As life got frilly, The Musica a Palazzo recreates a Baroque evening, letting you be a guest Venice was home and for two centuries, a force in the world of Opera. Tonight, it's by Rossini. Figaro figaro [ Singing in Italian ] Steves: The performance -- three is punctuated by social time [ Singing in Italian ] [ Applause ] Steves: The tradition continues every night where cafe orchestras &quot;dolce vita&quot; going This scene evokes that last chapter when it morphed to a romantic traveler's If any city in Europe escape the modern world, it's Venice. I hope you've enjoyed our look I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, &quot;Ciao.&quot; [ Conversing in Italian ] Okay. Because it was for s-s-- -Safety? Can you pour me some wine, [ Laughing ] Absolutely. Venetian society chose to dance. Hey, baby! Venice! Yeah!