An evolutionary biologist named William Muir studied chickens. He was interested in productivity -- I think it's something but it's easy to measure in chickens (Laughter) He wanted to know what could make so he devised a beautiful experiment. Chickens live in groups, so first of all, and he let it alone for six generations. But then he created a second group of the individually you could call them superchickens -- and he put them together in a superflock, and each generation, he selected After six generations had passed, what did he find? Well, the first group, the average group, They were all plump and fully feathered and egg production What about the second group? Well, all but three were dead. They'd pecked the rest to death. (Laughter) The individually productive chickens by suppressing the productivity Now, as I've gone around the world in all sorts of organizations people have seen and they come up and they say &quot;That superflock, that's my company.&quot; (Laughter) Or, &quot;That's my country.&quot; Or, &quot;That's my life.&quot; All my life I've been told that the way get into the right school, and I've really never found it I've started and run businesses and because working alongside is its own reward. And I've never really felt very motivated or by superstars. But for the past 50 years, we've run most organizations along the superchicken model. We've thought that success is achieved the brightest men, and giving them all the resources And the result has been just the same aggression, dysfunction and waste. If the only way the most productive is by suppressing then we badly need to find and a richer way to live. (Applause) So what is it that makes some groups obviously more successful Well, that's the question They brought in hundreds of volunteers, they put them into groups, and they And what happened was exactly that some groups were very much but what was really interesting were not those where they had with spectacularly high I.Q. Nor were the most successful groups aggregate I.Q. Instead, they had three characteristics, First of all, they showed high degrees This is measured by something called It's broadly considered and the groups that scored highly on this did better. Secondly, the successful groups so that no one voice dominated, but neither were there any passengers. And thirdly, the more successful groups had more women in them. (Applause) Now, was this because women the Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test, so you're getting a doubling down Or was it because they brought We don't really know, but the striking is that it showed what we know, which is but what's key to that is their social connectedness So how does this play out Well, it means that what happens because in groups that are highly ideas can flow and grow. People don't get stuck. An example: Arup is one of the world's and it was commissioned to build for the Beijing Olympics. Now, this building had to receive two and a half thousand that were coming off long-haul flights, highly jet-lagged, And the problem what quantity of waste to cater for? Now, you don't get taught this and it's not really the kind of thing so he could have spent months tweaking the spreadsheet. Instead, he asked for help and he found someone who had designed The problem was solved in less than a day. Arup believes that is central to their success. Now, helpfulness sounds really anemic, but it's absolutely core and it routinely outperforms Helpfulness means I don't I just have to work among people At SAP, they reckon that you can answer But there isn't a single that imagines for a moment because what drives helpfulness Now that sounds so obvious, and we think but it doesn't. When I was running I realized that we were getting stuck. There was a lot of friction, and I gradually realized the brilliant, didn't know each other. They were so focused they didn't even know and it was only when I insisted and invest time in getting that we achieved real momentum. Now, that was 20 years ago, that have banned coffee cups at desks because they want people to hang out and talk to each other. The Swedes even have They call it fika, which means It means collective restoration. At Idexx, a company up in Maine, they've created vegetable gardens from different parts of the business can work together and get to know Have they all gone mad? Quite the opposite -- they've figured out and it always will get tough if you're doing breakthrough work what people need is social support, and they need to know who to ask for help. Companies don't have ideas; And what motivates people are the bonds and loyalty and trust What matters is the mortar, not just the bricks. Now, when you put all of this together, what you get is something Social capital is the reliance The term comes from sociologists that proved particularly resilient Social capital is what and social capital What does this mean in practical terms? It means that time is everything, because social capital So teams that work together longer to develop the trust you need And time is what builds value. When Alex Pentland that they synchronize coffee breaks so that people would have time profits went up 15 million dollars, and employee satisfaction Not a bad return on social capital, which compounds even as you spend it. Now, this isn't about chumminess, because people who work this way impatient, absolutely determined because that's what their contribution is. Conflict is frequent And that's how good ideas because no idea is born fully formed. It emerges a little bit kind of messy and confused, And it's only through the generous that they achieve their potential. And that's what social capital supports. Now, we aren't really used about talent, about creativity, We're used to talking about stars. So I started to wonder, does that mean no more stars? So I went and I sat in on the auditions at the Royal Academy And what I saw there really surprised me, because the teachers weren't looking They were looking for what happened because that's where the drama is. And when I talked they said, &quot;Oh sure, we have It's just, they don't last very long. It's the outstanding collaborators because bringing out the best in others in themselves.&quot; And when I went to visit companies for their ingenuity and creativity, I couldn't even see any superstars, because everybody there really mattered. And when I reflected on my own career, and the extraordinary people I realized how much more if we just stopped trying (Laughter) (Applause) Once you appreciate a lot of things have to change. Management by talent contest employees against each other. Now, rivalry has to be replaced For decades, we've tried even though we've got that money erodes social connectedness. Now, we need to let people And for years, we've thought that leaders all by themselves, Now, we need to redefine leadership as an activity in which in which everyone can do their most We know that this works. When the Montreal Protocol called the chlorofluorocarbons implicated the risks were immense. CFCs were everywhere, and nobody knew if a substitute But one team that rose to the challenge The first was the head of engineering, there will be no stars in this team. We need everybody. Everybody has a valid perspective. Second, we work to one standard only: the best imaginable. And third, he told his boss, that he had to butt out, because he knew Now, this didn't mean Tudhope did nothing. He gave the team air cover, and he listened to ensure And it worked: Ahead of all the other this group cracked it first. And to date, the Montreal Protocol is the most successful international ever implemented. There was a lot at stake then, and there's a lot at stake now, and we won't solve our problems by a few supermen or superwomen. Now we need everybody, because it is only when we accept that we will liberate the energy to create the best beyond measure. Thank you. (Applause)