The Banana has been peeled. What's up, guys? I'm Robby Layton with Robby Layton Nation you guys are here watching. I'm going to work on this hood. If you remember back in the first video, that went from here to here Matt wanted a reinforcement doesn't have any sort of flex. K, so I've got this all welded up in here, that goes in here So I went and asked Dinner to source me some material But I don't think I'm that good. I can't weld aluminum to steel. I know someone that can weld aluminum The Internet. Oh yeah, the internet K, so I went and sourced a fender, we're going to patch it That is what we call a nibbler. It nibbles the metal. That's welded. K, we've got this all ground up and kind of cleaned up, roughed out. It's not as bad as I thought. You can feel If any time I do body work... Use your hands, bare hands so you can feel What I'll do is I'll come back in here in a second There's a little bit of a high right here, Sometimes you really got to put your back Use your pecking side. If your hammer doesn't quite fit in the contour or what you're This one's got a better tip on it, Just going to work that out. Oh, that's feels good. If you hit it and the dent doesn't Use a bigger hammer. Oh, got one right here. Two hits that dent's gone. Bam! Ta da! Want to see a magic trick? Oh!!! It's like a bottle flip, He's a magician! Oh my, they're gone. Is this Actually, it's like the stem. I got the header panel on the grill We've got to make this Banana So when you guys head down to Matts and you take a look at this thing you know, you guys will see that even though Matt's and put dents in it and dings But that's just fine. This might be called a header panel this is the stem. Look, I'm turning into a banana. Stickers be gone! Hey, Taylor I'm stuck. I'm stuck! K, we just eraser wheeled all those stickers off. So right now, I'm welding slag that landed on here. All right, got the stickers off. So what I just used is an eraser wheel, the end of a pencil Works awesome. So what I'm trying to do on this, in here, we're getting all the rust Then Taylor is going to grab that grinder. We're going to get all this Yeah, we're going to Rhino line this, but you just want to make sure You take care of it the best you can, and then we'll be able This is going to look so good Lets hurry and get this body work done, Let's do it. I'm sure all of you out there And so would we. Grab that, grab that big wire wheel. That thing's aggressive. So this is all damage that was caused So what I'm doing now is I'm up, getting it ready to where we can do our pulls And it's actually not called Bondo. It's We're going to use a little tiny bit of it is all. Just like Papa Dar says... Ernie shows up like a blister Hahaha, yeah. Just kidding Ernie. I hate it when you tell the truth. Is it ready for paint tomorrow? Oh yeah, we're painting this sucker So what an eyebrow is, is just that. See this little eyebrow, right here. See how it's kind of got an arch to it I've got a little eyebrow right here. It's got a nice little arch to it. You can't really see it, And we call those eyebrows. That's when the metal has been pushed in So we've got to pull here, tap there because nobody likes a unibrow. All right, so I've got all the dents Now we'll go through them, we'll just feather everything out This right here. Is Banana peel. Poof! All right, got her stripped. If you break it up into smaller sections, Nobody loses their mind You got it. When you pick it up, it feels like sand. So Matt from Matt's Off Road That's going to help us to speed things up We're going to be using doors, back We're going to use in any part we can off That's probably good. That worked! Worked out great! Side glass, I got those ones there, 1960 Chevrolet. The one off, only one left. Yeah, I want the Matt's Off Road to not be able to tell the difference. Paint these yellow and like I said, if my audience votes that they go back K, well, let's go. Let's go. Let's see how this is going. OK. Whoa, look at that. Assessed it, and then we've ground everything down, We're going to feather everything out. We're going to get our stud box, We're not going to put a lot of filler in This is a tool. So tomorrow, all day and Saturday I got this brace in. So I'm just gonna have you look at it, Yeah. Hopefully it is, That should add a ton of strength. The only thing I haven't figured out on what to do with it. Well, it doesn't have to be perfect. Here's my option I want to talk to you. See if you care. What are you doing with this one after? That one is just pure parts. Can I cut the roof skin off of it? That's fine. Yes, we're cutting the roof off. You're doing too nice of a job. To paint these bars it... You kind of have to. Hey, and we... We do have a Cherokee now. If you ever have to come back to this Hillbilly used it two nights ago. We used your rope He was so excited, went up used your rope. You don't need to rub it in that He couldn't The sheriff's department was there And you can get that rope at Matt's Off Yes, you can. So what do you think of the progress I'm excited. You're going. You're going deeper than I would have Don't don't go nuts on this. Yes, you said rattle can that. So our plan is right here. We're going to stop it So we'll probably go there. Or... However, you want to do it. Anyway, just rattle can so you can weld on it. We probably will wire can it just cause that road We wire wheeled and ground the fronts We'll prep it all. I think it's the first time this thing ever saw salt, And I don't think these bolts They were so hard to get out. This was a pretty nice jeep, but I got it. It's still it's So is this two layers? Yes. So this is where, the top, the top Okay. In the pinch weld. And so we're going to try to do it Oh, right there, there's the line. And use my spot welder to spot Well, yeah. Like I said, let me know We can run it up here. Stay in touch. We're headed to Fab Rats. Cool, well, tell Paul Frank is freezing. Frank is now stuck. So here is our donor. This is actually Rudy's parts Jeep. Matt was able to take it So inside this Jeep, with the louvers that Matt specifically Try to get this thing So we can't screw this up. So we've got the doors... they're opening and closing nice, A little bit of cleanup Dinner is going to be ripping He's going to be pulling out So this roof skin isn't much better in But that's OK. The most important part is This is a rust free solid roof panel. We got a lot of work ahead of us, This is the throttle cable on our parts We're going to use it Not quite sure how yet. We're going to use it here Got it. That's all we need. K, so we're going and we're going to use a cable That'll work. I'm going to start working It's got hit so hard right here It's got some pressure on top. So I got to relieve that. Very light taps. If you're pulling in the right spot Just about got it figured out to where I've got a ball on our latch assembly now. Now all I've got to do is figure out how to mount this into there and that to this and this to that, We'll grind it up, trim this, we'll have us a hood release, side cable bracket thing, majigger. Custom. Custom! We need a cool our bracket down, so we'll just use some snow. Oh, yeah. Time to grind it. I'm putting what's called a nutsert in this bracket to the inside of the hood, We're using a 1024 nutsert. It's like a little rivet, So we're going to pop this into the hood. Be able to bolt that bracket down. So it's removable. K, so it's just that easy. Now we have threads See now our cable has some support to it. I'll lock this in, so that's locked. Just like that. We're in business now. Boom, so now we've got to figure out That is our next task. Yeah, I'm really intrigued the hood release. Yeah, I think I think it's awesome. Yeah way awesome. He was going to use bike cables on it. But to ese the throttle cable, It's got factory ends. And then if it ever breaks, Exactly. is going to work, I'm Dinner was curious how this is all going There's no turning back. We ruined it. Push. Oh, it works. So the rod's connected to that one and So all we're trying to do And then we've got these clamps so that this is all nice and neat k, hit it again, just for fun. Worked a second time, so hopefully Next, we just need to fit this hood. Make sure that it's going to latch Watch out. Would you look at that, first try! Oh, you see that? Beautiful. Works really well. Yeah, surprisingly well. Now we're going to take after this phone call. Don't worry about the phone. Mmm boom! That's how you take a headliner out. And there we go. K, so Dinner's been hard at it, He's got this rear hatch all stripped out. We've got all the wiring, wiper arms So now we're just going to undo the shocks. We're going to pull this thing off. This is the roof skin But if you look up here at one point stacked up on it. And so it's a little bit wavy. Everybody ready? So this is called operation &quot;Fix We have this really expensive tool. It's 32 years old Did it work? It's up. How much up is it? A lot. OK, now we've got to use our lower back. OK. Oh, my whole back cracked! That's called Auto Body Pilates. Yeah, Auto Body Pilates. That's a lot of words. But this really isn't bad. Yeah, it's not. That's actually like usable. Yeah. The dent is coming up When you come Ya ya ya ya ya ya. Oh, that's my long arm stretch. The last thing we're going to do is get this header panel off, and get them put in before any of us And this header panel So we're actually going to put That was really nice of him. Thank you. So today we've got Jack Clark from West He brought down our spectrometer color camera. We're going to take a picture and we're going to get the code from it and make sure that we have the exact same Taylor's going to run and grab our Rupes. We're going to just polish a little square so that we can get This is the Rupes big throw polisher Big Foot 21. Don't get better than that. Just a couple of dots. K, so It takes readings in five different angles going into the paint. We take this back and it goes over you know, roughly 50,000 color formulas So we'll put this on here. We'll take a reading on it. Took one reading. We move it around It doesn't get closer than this. K, so our measurement is complete there. We've got five different readings So Robby and Taylor Okay, so we're actually planning We're going to be getting the base coat and then the clear coat we're using That's stuff's going to dry super hard. We're going so that when Matt is using this, and it can get brush marks on it and it's Obviously, this is a tool, but we want it So I've got this fender I felt it with my hand. We've got a mental note for the guy There's some more slaps, So these are pretty warped. So we're just going to try to unwarp them I'm going to get them pulled and then I'll Once you release the pressure, These are the tools Gotta feel with your fingertips where you want to put the next stud. You just want to constantly be going over your work See I can fill new spots. Make sure you pull so much air into this, It makes the painter that primes it If you don't do that you're lying. This might look like we're putting... putting a lot on, we're not. Just a thin little layer. 80% of this will get sanded off. So I've got all this plastic filler We've got a few little high spots Now I'm just going to glaze this section. I'm not putting a lot of plastic filler because I don't want this to flex So just like the highlight point. This doesn't need to be perfect. Just needs to be good. Like, Like right, here's perfect. Needs to be like, right there. Not quite perfect, but, Oh hey, guys, nice to see you. I'm just working on getting this roof skin ripped off because we need to get So what to get all the seam sealer so that I can take off all the spot welds These little things... I'm going to cut the backside of these or damage it. Just like a tuna We got Nick here tonight helping us. I'm actually going to cut this the entire side of the Jeep all the phalanges We got this side cut. I usually like to have two of everything and then I can use the other one and then I can lose that one and use that one and then lose them both. So this is a seam buster. We're going through a breaking seams. Just like such. K, so we got foam up in here. This equalizer just slices it like butter. Got one more spot weld we need to get cut and then this roof skin There it goes. K, hold on. Okay, yep. We're loose. Alright. Macho macho man, he wants to be a nacho man. Oh, look at him. He's in the Jeep convertible. Look, you can drive like this. Drop a like, a comment, We're going to cut it up into squares, We've got Tom Tom, Paul Cox, Trevor, and then we've got Tucker. You guys let us know what you think Drop a comment. We're going to see has been peeled. Somebody say convertible? Maybe a double sunroof? Well, we've just about Matt ought to like this in the sand. Not so sure how happy Matt is going to be Matt's going to be so mad. Nothing... NICK!!! Nothing strips So while Nick is doing who knows what, at work separating all these seams... What? Extremely hard at work? OK. I've been sitting on my butt Nick's been working, So much fun. We don't smoke. None of us carry lighters. I don't know. We're just going to do it. And that is how you strike a torch or flint or rocks Oh yeah. Come on. We are cleaning up When we go to put the roof skin back on. We're going to use high impact glue When I went down to Matts I used his hoist and all that cool stuff to pull this out. He said that this was good enough, you can see that so I'm going to pull it with my arms. So we'll just get that pulled out. Get it where we need it. Oh yeah, that's That drip rail will go on straight now. Oh yeah. Yes. Eight hours later. Well, good morning. You can't see me, that is because we had a humongous and the power's out. Since we're having a snow day, We've got to get some cars moved around so we can get everything plowed, We've got to park it in our back lot. Here comes &quot;Creepy&quot; and Robby. Well, we got it parked. K, so we're moving forward on body We're going to prime everything and you'll see why on next week's video. So we're going to sand and call her good. Getting all the little dents. Cody's working on that, This door is feeling pretty good. I think it's just about ready for primer. He's going to throw a little bit of glaze It would probably be fine but there's one level that we do All right. So after last week's episode, we asked well, Zane Christopherson from Payson, the hatch that we have off of the parts This one, So this is going to save us Thank you, Zane Christopherson. We're going to delete the light. Those are two things That's what we're doing this evening. That one done. K, so Cody got that jam welded up. We're getting the metal work We're not quite body worked on those, but they're looking a lot better than they We've got all the doors in the booth Taylor's prepping those all out, we're going to go shoot We're working on this liftgate. What do you think? It's looking real good. I'm liking that metal work. So I'm going to mix up Kitty Hair. What it is is fiber reinforced Bondo. We call it kitty hair looks like green fibrous stuff and mix up some hardener. I'm not using this to fill. I'm just using this to cover up where I So me, Taylor and Cody, Everything's feeling good again. that there was a wiper arm here Everything's coming out pretty well. We're going to hold off It's Christmas Eve, we came into work and we care about Matt. We want to get this thing done for him. They've got the rear hatch all primed up, It's almost Christmas morning right now. All right, guys. Super appreciate We got a lot of work to do, Next week's videos, everything's I think Matt's going to be super happy. Drop us a comment. If you're liking the content, if you're We appreciate it all. Just drop it right below. Don't forget to like, subscribe and turn miss out on anything that's happening Thank you, guys. As always, We'll catch you on the next one. &quot;You guys are making it way too pretty. It's gonna be a mall crawler.&quot;