- We're gonna talk The ovaries are two reproductive system that produce her eggs. Each month her eggs go called the ovarian cycle, a secondary oocyte than can to result in a pregnancy. The ovarian cycle is also responsible for what we commonly know Basically, the primary to be ovulated will complete meiosis one and then they'll be as a secondary oocyte to be and swept into the uterine So let's start from the beginning. Inside the ovaries, eggs develop in structures called follicles, And they start off as And so what a follicle is- I'll just blow that up for you- It's one primary oocyte, so an egg cell, surrounded by a layer of And the granulosa cells develop as the follicle matures. Now the granulosa cells Estrogen, a little and we'll talk about a little bit later on. So let's put a timeline on this. Now the ovarian cycle lasts 28 days. This is day zero here at where we're going counter-clockwise. All the way over here, this is day 13. Here, where the secondary or ovulated, that's day 14. And then the rest of the the primordial follicle So now you have an idea of So you remember when we said that the granulosa cells produce hormones? Well, as the follicles develop and you can see the changes and the one here. It's got a lot more Those are granulosa cells. So the number of granulosa cells goes up, and since they produce happens to the hormone They go up. So that's sort of just a general point. So keep that in mind, but We know these are The next stage of development and these are called primary follicles. And in the primary follicles, and the oocyte, the egg, this other layer that That's called the zona pellucida, and I'll draw it here in light blue. And even though the there's still a layer of zona pellucida, even though the egg is because I wanted to draw the egg in blue. There's still a layer of Now even though the separating the granulosa the granulosa cells can through gap junctions that and into the egg. Gap junctions are just little passageways from one cell to another exchange nutrients or other signals. And actually, through those gap junctions, the granulosa cells send that keep those primary meiosis one stage, 'cause all of these primary oocytes They're not dividing and reducing their chromosome copy number. So as we develop from our to our next follicle here, and you'll see why it's the granulosa cells are and become a lot greater in number. You can see that there's in granulosa cell number to our pre-antral follicle here. And remember the granulosa in purple here. So while the granulosa this wall on the outside of the follicle called the theca starts to form. Theca cells have receptors from the anterior pituitary, or LH, binds these theca called androstenedione. And when the thecas get to the granulosa cells, who and release it into the blood. So the blood estrogen levels And so that's what these red and blue bits running down the middle of the ovary are, blood vessels, arteries and veins. And if they look a little that's just because they're Now you might be wondering like what you see in and this early antral follicle here. It actually refers to the antrum, which will be formed in the next step. This space here is called an antrum. And the antrum is just basically fluid that's being produced And it's that antrum and that pushes against the and causes it to expand. Now just so you're aware, multiple follicles are actually forming. It's not just this one and then this one early antral follicle, and this one mature follicle. You're getting a lot of But only one of the biggest eventually gets ovulated, one egg every 28 days. And that one that gets ovulated is called the dominant follicle. So let's just say that is an example of the dominant Because the rest of the along this pathway sort in a process called atresia. So I'll write that at the bottom here. And atresia just means to degenerate. So another note. In the ones that undergo and the eggs they contain die off. And that means that a woman 15 to 25 eggs per while only one gets ovulated. So you can kind of imagine how you go from two to four million to having zero after about It's not just that one You lose quite a few. So anyway, back to the development It enlarges mostly due as I mentioned earlier. And granulosa cells actually start to form this bit of a mound the middle of the antrum. This mound of granulosa cells is called the cumulus oophorus. As part of the development the cumulus oophorus and the from the wall of the in the middle of the antrum, And the follicle increases in size. So the actual follicle as it gets filled with more and more fluid from the granulosa cells. And the granulosa cells as a by-product of their metabolism and creation of hormones. Eventually this dominant is called the mature out the side of the Just starts to push out And then because the edge of the ovary and the wall of the mature close proximity, enzymes that common wall between onto the surface of the ovary, because now this wall is broken down. And by the way, an carries out a specific task. The task here is to break down the wall between the mature follicle and the ovary, and that happens on day 14. So it takes day zero to 13 of When this happens, some of pelvic pain. And actually sometimes, by reach maturity, and they all pop out. And that's how you get twins or triplets or quadruplets or octuplets, and get fertilized by Because they're all subsequently swept up into the uterine tubes where So now you have the egg out here, but what about the old follicle it was in? The follicle actually collapses a little and transforms into a structure And in this transformation get a lot bigger and start progesterone and that that we mentioned before. Just briefly, inhibin follicle stimulating the anterior pituitary. And it does that because actually propagates this whole process of follicle maturation, as you So if you didn't know exact follicles that follicle At least in a female. Anyway, if the egg doesn't get fertilized, then the corpus luteum in about 10 days. So that's about day 25, which in this diagram. And then it degenerates by apoptosis. That's a process that cells use to sort of self-destruct and die off. And here I'm abbreviating just so you know what I mean. But if the egg is into the uterine tubes and then the corpus luteum persists, because we want it to and progesterone. That's because estrogen the inner lining of the uterus, that's called the endometrium, for implantation, which since we have a fertilized And that's where it does it, by implanting in the endometrium of the uterus. So just a final note. Ovulation doesn't happen forever. At about age 50 to 51, females undergo something called menopause. First menstrual cycles In other words, they like they do when you're And then ultimately, they And that cessation of The main cause of menopause as ovarian failure. Basically the ovaries lose to signalling hormones from And we know these as LH and FSH. And this happens because and eggs have already that we talked about called atresia. In other words, they've degenerated.