Will it be poisoned? Third Master, this mechanism is opened from both sides Previous people may The third uncle door is sealed Calm down. To prevent the tomb from collapsing Any underground tomb must have a vent Find it when we leave Just make a burglary hole and get out There is no way left or right The main burial chamber should be just behind this wall Don't move. There is no burglar mezzanine here All bricks can only be hit from the outside Can't push in There's not even a crack in the wall How could it be possible to take the brick out? The reverse calculation used in Joris alchemy When it breaks, it will be handed over to me Immediately burn without even the skin Is this the burial chamber? Is it as you imagined? Panzi lighting Brother, I can't tell from these words who is buried here Hurry up Of course there is a sarcophagus in the tomb Hey, don't be so fussy and scary, okay? Excuse me. I'm a little excited Brother , please slow down a little bit. I look so dizzy I'm not your textbook If you have the ability, come down by yourself, okay, okay? I don't speak Stay steady. The third master has something Remember those heads Cheng Cheng mentioned? The owner of this tomb cut off the head for a few days The body is sent here This corpse should be a prisoner of war Slaves couldn't wear jewelry. So what? I'll try again if there's a trap. Third Master I'll take a look inside This one is for sacrifices Do you want to be a sacrifice? Master, don't scare me I am timid That's a lot of good stuff. Don't move How come? Maybe I'm talking to him We have to get out of here before dark Don't touch anything in here Don't go over gently Hai Shao, where are you? What am I doing? Where is Hai Shao, I am here I'm afraid I' ll talk and you'll blame me You don't have to talk to him. Wu Xie, where are you? Uh I'm in the passage The decoration here is starting to be elegant Should be the main burial chamber Hey This hole should have just been dug The soil is still new It must have been dug by the tomb robbers It looks like they're digging this hole in a hurry But the hole doesn't look like it came in from outside It's like it was punched from the inside Oops, can't they have taken the cultural relics and gone out? Not necessarily. He didn't go out the same way. It looks like it should be sick. magic I'm afraid we have to hurry. Since someone helped us through the minefield Let's forget about mother-in-law We are approaching the main underground road Do you feel like it's suddenly cold? This decoration is much more elegant We're approaching the main burial chamber This key card is dead From the theft hole just now This door must have been opened from the inside Let's go in and see Everyone follow carefully The lights in the tomb are still on Maybe someone else Why are there so many sergeants here? Don't you know ancient Chinese? See what's written Wu Xian, please stabilize a little bit. I'll scan the scandal. It should describe this petty officer The life of the official Who is that? It seems to be a prince of the state of Lu Ah! Anyway. Now we finally know who's waiting But so many coffins Which one is his? There are a total of 7 coffins here It is arranged according to the position of the Big Dipper stars. Let's split up and look at the inscriptions and details on the coffin See what you find These inscriptions seem to be similar Third Master It's a gun. It seems that those foreigners left it behind. Take it This petty officer is open There are traces of being pried by a shovel at this time And the pry marks are new How can I be a foreigner? Don't move. The Lord is below Innocent third uncle Little brother panzi Who is this shadow? Over there I don't care if you are a human or a ghost No, I can't let him go. Just plotted If he touches that coffin, it's over Plate chase Wu Xie, how are you? Where did that guy go? We're okay. The man ran towards the tomb where we just came Meng Youping went after him That must have been a grave robber Wait until you get him back I have to let him tell me everything he knows Spit it all out That's not necessarily true. They do like to do things in groups. Just one person I guess it's just a mess Here are two earrings. Let's go see this first Yeah, be careful. Yeah. I seem to have seen it in grandpa's notes third uncle third uncle Third Uncle Panzi third uncle Panzi third uncle Wu Xie, what happened over there? third uncle Panzi third uncle Han Shao, can you hear me? I can hear you . What's going on? I don't know that Third Uncle and Panzi suddenly disappeared just now Gone. How could they suddenly disappear? I don't know. But they probably won't leave me alone, will they? Besides, was there any sound of fighting just now? It's like they just vanished. Don't worry. Tell me slowly, how can I not be in a hurry? Now there are seven caskets. And an unfamiliar corpse third uncle Panzi three innocent Wu Xie Wu Xie Can you hear me? Say what? Say whatever I just want to hear the sound Now I'm alone in the tomb I am afraid Oh don't be afraid we are here That one just now is the Seven Stars Night View. I read it in grandpa's notes Seven-star moving coffins means that there are 7 coffins in the tomb Only one of them is true The rest are all sarcophagi If you open the wrong one, you're dead So you're saying that the foreigner was caught in a coffin? I guess so. They think all coffins contain treasures Instead, he was dragged into the coffin Hey There's a hole. Maybe I can go out Hello Haisheng Can you hear me? I can hear you. I have a socket here. i I can't see clearly. Tell me. Well, forget it. Forget it. I'll just rely on my character Hey wait You forgot what my brother asked you to do. Don't touch it? You'd better save yourself I'll put a marker here. So that Third Uncle and the others can find me Hey There's a hole Do you think this place looks familiar? Hey Isn't this the tomb passage when I first came in? Why am I back again ? Do you think it's easy for me? Entering the tomb for the first time I meet zongzi everywhere I go I can't even breathe. I just want to find the artifact as soon as possible Let Third Uncle and the others find me Go home with cultural relics Wu Xie, please don't be discouraged. I see. Hey What are the clues mentioned in the picture just now? Hey, don't move Let me see what's written on it. What's on it? It's all ghost talismans Hey Here's a map. Hey, isn't this a tomb design? This is a cemetery This is the seven-star crown. It should be next to it. It doesn't show the burial chamber I just came down from. They should not have been to that place. This is the cave that I just crawled through. This is the fork just now. Wu Xie, what is written on the other fork? he Here it is. And this is where I'm standing. But this picture clearly shows that there is a burial chamber next to this one. Yes, the dotted line connecting the burial chamber is a dotted line So? There is a secret passage next to this wall I have studied the structure of stone trapdoors The mechanism that touches the secret passage is usually a tablet. If there is a secret door There must be a stone in here that can be moved. Innocent Innocent Innocent Innocent How have you been? Oops, people haven't broken down yet Your broken machine crashed first Oh, don't worry. I can't help it if there's no signal underground You don't want to go down, do you? Just now, after Wu Xie triggered the mechanism, he will No news Maybe something has happened to him. Do you know? Uncle didn't allow you to go down Third Uncle did not allow me to go down But the third uncle didn't allow you to go down, did he? The dumpling is me What are you still doing? Come up quickly I thought you were going to kill me I really don't have time to explain just now hand San San Ye Are you all right? I'm fine, let's go If you wait for them to climb up We're doomed. This tunnel must have been left behind by the woodworkers to escape As long as we run along the road You can definitely go out and wait a minute I've gone there several times. Not a single exit It's a maze Then there's no way we can stay here What the hell is this door? It's you again Wu Xie Hey Is that your buddy on the side? Let's put the gun down My Fatty Wang Fatty Wang Oh, dear. You fell from here too Do you know the little third master? It was you who scared us in the main tomb just now. Where did so many monsters come from? Long time, no see? Wu Xie, why are you so naive? Oh, right. What's the matter with your friend? I just came to say hello Just shoot with your gun You are cruel enough Who made you play tricks? You're overreacting. Hey be careful fire Only fire, lend me a fire Take advantage of the fire Hey! He's back! Uh-huh. Ah! The fire is dying Is there any more? More fire Come come come come Are there any more? More wow wow Die or die Here I come. Go Don't negotiate Come and touch your friends! Little Fatty Yellow A lifetime of bohemian The provincial road is strung with two stinky gentlemen I'm not fucking wronged, my fat man What time is it? You're still talking nonsense Don't move. Protect the little master Go, go. dumpling dumpling Monkey saves people It's too cold, who? Don't ask, climb Wu Xian Please reply if you receive it. Please reply if you receive it. If there is no more signal We'll go down and find someone Okay. He can't catch up for now Ah! Take a break for a while Take a break. Take a break at the service desk. Slow down slow down Be careful Who is that? mercenary Fatty help me recruit What are you doing? Fat man hurry up The fat man can't take it anymore Okay. He can't catch up for now Ah! Take a break, take a break, take a break Let me sit down and rest for a while this way Slow down slow down Be careful Who is that? mercenary How did it go? Brother Brother, don't die! You have to let my Fatty Wang know no matter what Who do I owe my life to? What's your name? fat man My fat man Fortunately , the wound is not deep Help me hold him down What do you want? He got one in his stomach What are you looking at me for? Anyway, judging by your performance I'm less nervous. All right. Uh-huh. Ah ! This one's dead. Lucky It's all little soldiers who are not poisoned If it is not sterilized, it will become infected. Fat man, take a picture for me Bear with me! Is Pan Zi alright this time? You can't die this time As long as you can't die? Go out buddy treat you to kebabs If you really can't, you can also eat roast duck. Roast duck is more expensive anyway Let me tell you something. Beijing's roast duck is particularly good Oops fat man It's this time Can you be more serious with me? Am I not comforting him? You southerners don't understand Quanjude roast duck is fragrant Really, do you like to eat on the stove or do you like to eat with sound? innocent Go, go, go Comrades Come here. Go quickly There is no bottle. How did it go? I shouted for a long time without movement I don't seem to be following Did Wu Xian receive it? I enhanced the signal Why is it so dark in there? I said keep your voice down. What if it's so loud that the zongzi are attracted? Are you okay? I'm okay However, Pan Zi's injury is not good Wu Xie, why do the people around you seem to be Fatty Wang? Well, yeah, it's him. Hey, can you see me with this thing? Don't move! Hey, a little bit Haha Don't you move Where is it pressed? It's on it. Hey, it's not Hai Shao Why did a king suddenly appear? Fatty, you seem to know each other? Fatty Wang who saved us in Inner Mongolia? It's just him, why is he in here? Okay, let me ask you Seriously, why are you here? I followed Anin here The last time we were in Inner Mongolia I'm afraid there's some conspiracy behind this bitch So out of Inner Mongolia, I followed along here Why are you here? We are also afraid that they will steal cultural relics. So I came over Yo So is this the fate of our brothers? Stop it, fat man What happened to the writer just now? Look at them dressed like Anin I just don't know why I'm biting everyone You see this for me This this this When he touched my flesh, it was on fire It hurts The wound is black It's like being smoked. That's right, at a loss Hey By the way, how are you two? Did you find the ghost wash? Ghost wash is real Mom Co-author, you two mothers came to this tomb without knowing it, right? Then you always know the King of Lushan, right? King of Lushan, I know He is a vassal king Able to fight with undercover soldiers What? What? What ? ? What? Hey, Fat Lord, let me popularize it for you. So-called compensatory casualties The so-called undercover soldiers It's just blood Fat Lord, why don't you popularize it for you? Your brain is broken Can't figure it out? OK Didn't you say you came with A Ning? How do you know so much about King Lushan? What do you call that? I call that professionalism. Never fight unprepared, you know ? Hey go on Can't you give up your seat? Go go go I'll tell you two. This Lu Shang.com is not so much betting on a general It's better to bet on a tomb robber You know, legend has it that his army rested during the day Night march And often And we walked. We walked. Suddenly disappears from a while And then out of nowhere And most of the places they risk are cemeteries Think about it, the thought of that man in ancient times What a feudal superstition So as it spreads, it spreads out the underworld soldiers. And you sort of jump to conclusions based on that information. Is it too arbitrary? That's not it. Ah, just the seven-star clothes we all built just now. History has recorded In fact, that's what tomb robbers invented And you know why? Because ah, they think they robbed too many graves while they were alive Fear of retribution after death That's why you set up such a game Hey, what can you dig out is the dawn? How can this stop the fat master me? Let me tell you something. It's very simple. You get a crowbar Lift up the lid a bit Get a hook and stick it in Such a tick Look what comes up Isn't it over? Oops but I'm afraid our seven coffins in the Qiao family None of them are real. Including this king's tomb It could also be fake actually I couldn't figure it out at first either Until ah Finally, I was transferred to this maze of tombs I just suddenly realized This was originally a tomb of the Western Zhou Dynasty What Western Zhou tomb? Hmm, so to speak We're not in an escape hatch. And still in someone else's grave I already guessed it Who would dig an escape route like a maze? But that's not right. Why would someone dig their own grave on top of someone else's? Hey From a Feng Shui perspective There is Build your own tomb on top of someone else's What is this called? Call call call It's called Hidden Dragon's Cave, right? OK It seems to be called this name. I want your numerology to cooperate. Plus properly arranged That's great for feng shui. So? According to my analysis The coffin of King Shang of Lu is very likely to be with us In the tomb of the Western Zhou Dynasty in front of you If you really understand Feng Shui Why are you stuck here like us? Hey, by the way, Panzi By the way, why did you suddenly disappear? I'm not very sure either. I don't know what mechanism I encountered at that time. The whole person fell off Then I met you at the equator Where did the third uncle go? I don't know. Fatty Wang Fatty Ah, what's wrong? You tell me how you got down You tell the truth. Did you recruit that snowman? Oh, is it wrong? Didn't you see it just now? Shoot me with a gun Of course I have to run And I ran and I ran . I suddenly felt someone chasing me. As soon as I look back Isn't that my brother? Then my brother told me to stand still He found something that seemed to have been stepped on the wall I thought he was going to save me Who knew there would be so many bugs in one fall? He is going to kill me My brother knows this tomb very well There must be something wrong with him I always felt that as long as there was a place where he was there, there was a sense of security But listen to you I also think he knows a lot It's like he can expect anything Don't worry. See clearly Hey where have you been What about writing people? It must be that little girl's This bug has a good appetite Hungry to eat Isn 't this the arm of those who are chasing us? Definitely. Bunch of mallets Isn't this a problem? He dared to come to the island of Lushan King without these two strokes Looking for abuse? This is Hey, hey, hey. Hahaha Be careful! He bit me! OK Hey, fat man Isn't he that Anin? Yeah, that's right. That's the girl If he hadn't chased us We can run like rabbits in Inner Mongolia and burn to ashes My fat uncle knows It's in my hands, don't move Hey He didn't hurt me either. You are so naive Does Panzi have a rope? Yo what are you doing Tie it up Don't you see this girl is a dog? Catch who and bite who, hurry up Hey She has been injured Wu Xie You are so naive Is it sick? Where are you giving me this glasses drama? Your hero saves the beauty. This drama is in the wrong tune, right? Ah! Humph How about you keep it safe for me? No no no What! Hey No leather. What are you doing? He has a wet turtle in his body Little Third Master Thanks. Hey don't move It's okay, we won't hurt you. The enemy's road is narrow But you're lucky Look at you Not bad looking Whenever you meet a bad person Must have raped and then killed Kill and rape Kill after rape How come? A corpse just got into your body But it's taken out now. What about them? Who? My friend. Oops, just the rotten garlic in your hand has long been OK We've only seen you. Little Seven Girl So what happened? Why are you here? What cultural relics did you take? We haven 't got it yet. ambiguous Little Third Master Oh no! How are you? Why did you faint again? Brother Wu Qian Wu Qian What just happened? Is the identified poison gas How did I get poisoned by the corpse turtle? Are you stupid ? That woman must have bit him just now. That corpse turtle is poisonous Then he bit you again I will infect you with this poison gas And you saved him? Only temporarily suppress toxicity You need treatment. But this is the first time I've heard that human blood can cure diseases Why don't you have a bite for me too? I'm trying to lose weight. There's something in this tomb that can save him Also identified poison gas He'll be fine Why is there a problem with the little third master? vaccine Just in case. We were all vaccinated before the project This will not allow the gas to enter the bloodstream But it's no use to anyone else. Hey, hey, hey, Hai Shao Hai Shao heard the reply Haishao Wireless needs treatment Don't talk Take the earphones off Right? Second Young Master, where did you die? Talk back quickly Wu Xie is dying Wu Xie Han Shao and Chen Chengcheng are in my hands From now on you have to listen to me Or they're both dead Dare to follow me Afraid or not Why is there no sound? No, no matter how bad the signal is, it won't suddenly stop. Someone was talking in there just now Doesn't sound like a sea whistle Something must have happened. What could happen? This barren mountain? Unless you meet a ghost Stop talking useless you You have company up there. Have him They've got a team up there. Could it be that they kidnapped Cheng Chenghai? I don't know. We've lost contact. If the wounded really have your people Will they hurt Chen Rencheng and Hai Shao? My orders were to get back before dark They don't wait for people who don't come back. If I don't make it up alive before dark Your friends are in danger They will be left in the virgin forest Lizhuang trading It's impossible to get out of these woods There's still time. No way. We have to find another way out quickly Come on, just you guys. Residual flowers lose willows Hey, be careful Don't be happy Can say Come on. It is estimated that Anning's subordinates are Xiongguo Airport Hey Don' t tell him the obvious for a while I'm afraid he can't take it. He will know the truth But wait until we get out first. If cold out I think this place is getting more and more evil Dude, watch your back Let's go Hey, let me help you Don't be brave I said don't worry about me I don't mean anything else. You see, a girl like you is so injured that she can't get out. That's right, what's wrong with helping? You're not pregnant. Don't hold us back. Come on. Here is the way Hey, swim, swim, get out of the way Are you all right? Too bad it was poisoned That pan Don' t bite your earwax in your mouth. Is there anything you can't say in one go? This is called Lu Your family is like this This is a wall. This is called a wall. The wall is called wow in English. It's called Gurit. Wow it's called forget Anyway, our road is not long like this. There is light inside Take the gun apart first Shit What the hell is this flower? It's Spring Festival Gala on the East Building Ah, dear. This place might lead to the outside Anyway. We all have to figure out a way to get out Hey, it's easy Leave it to me. Hey, hot hot Enough wheels, don't hurt Okay. Mom Xiong, you don't ask about your fat master, who am I? Will it work? Shhh! Keep your voice down. Say how they know our names Could it be that they are also the gang of overseas tomb robbers? That's them. Why did you break the machines? Don't you want to keep in touch with Wu Xie? Of course. But you heard it just now. He wants to use us to threaten Third Uncle and Innocent They're dangerous enough on the wooden beams Stop listening fat man Don't waste your time.