- Everybody does a late The late night show is It's an extension of their and everybody does it differently. And so I look at the and on the surface There's the desk, and there's the band, and you tell some jokes. But after that, I think, and should be different because the people hosting them are very different people. So for me, personally, I I'm less interested in making that rattles the White House That's not really what got me into comedy. I like silliness. I like things that make me laugh. I like things that make without thinking about them too much. And I think that can I think it's the hardest comedy is just something that's visual, or silly, or fun, and it makes people laugh, and it endures. And so my favorite monologue jokes, if I told them to you, if I could even remember them, would not be ones where or skewered in administration's policy. There would be very silly who got his testicle caught in a combine. And I know the man, he's fine. But that's the kind of stuff that just always appealed to me. And so, you know, and all the things I've like &quot;The Simpsons,&quot; to the silliness, the cartoonish silliness of, you know, physical comedy. That's the stuff I always loved. So that's my approach. That's what I like to infuse my show with. And I really respect these other shows. I think they're fantastic. But I know that, you know, if I had to host someone else's show and do it their way, I'd be miserable, and I like funny, and that sounds like, on a special that I'm guessing that sounds like a stupid thing to say, but I relentlessly, I resist the conscious attempt to be too cerebral. And one of the reasons I I was watching, I think I watched &quot;Night at the Opera&quot; again, and there's no reason for it. It's just funny. I mean, you know, they're in Italy, and then they're on a ship and they're messing around the ship, and, you know, Harpo's And then they're in New York, and someone's trying to arrest them, and they're running around room to room, and then suddenly they're And there's just a that, to me, is life affirming. And that's the stuff that I love. And one of my favorite Years after he made &quot;Duck Soup,&quot; some intellectual writer and said, &quot;Now, Groucho, &quot;Duck Soup&quot; was clearly the Marx Brothers responding to the rise of and this was your comedic attack on that, you know, horrible movement.&quot; And Groucho took the cigar &quot;What are you talking about? We were four Jews trying to get a laugh.&quot; And it just rang so true to me. Great. Did it help people find Maybe. Sid it in any way help? Who can say? I think, you know, bullets but it was just funny. It was just funny. And they were being silly. And that's what I liked. WC Fields, you know, playing Three Stooges, there's some great stuff that the Three Stooges do. You know, when snobbery I get very suspicious. And, you know, the Marx Brothers, there's the randomness Why any of that? Why a guy with a piece bent over and accompanied and a horn at the end of his cane, and an Italian guy who plays the piano? Like, why any of it? And that's what's beautiful about it. You know, what's the beauty of comedy? It's Darwinian. The good idea in a good comedy system... And &quot;Saturday Night Live&quot; it's a good system. It's flawed. My system's flawed now on &quot;Late Night.&quot; They're all flawed in their own way. Good ideas just present You can't deny it. You can't keep a good idea down. And so when there's a funny and make the show a little better, it's gonna get on &quot;Late It's gonna get on &quot;Saturday Night Live.&quot; Every now and then, you know, there'll be people that bitch about, &quot;Well, my idea really would've been great, but they kept me down.&quot; I think, I doubt it. Everybody wants, you know... If an idea is really funny, it's like finding a diamond in the dirt. You know? You're not gonna toss it away. It's gonna get on. My favorite thing that Andy Kaufman did was his whole scam with wrestling. I mean, to me, that was the funniest thing that Andy Kaufman did. And there was, I think a documentary I saw a number of years ago, which might be one of which was Andy Kaufman on wrestling. And it was just a documentary about his whole, you know, and threatening to wrestle, you know, was it Jerry Lawler? And what I love so much about it is it's not for anyone. It's so clearly just for him. Who's the audience for that? Do you know what I mean? Everyone who came to see just hated him. Most people who saw his thought it was real, and something was wrong Who was that for? He just had the strength He, you know, had an incredible waste of everyone's time. And that was part of what, You know, I mean, and all those things that he was doing, he had a religious conviction in it. And I think that's so much of what makes it powerful You don't get the how's this whole wrestling Well, what are you talking about? What's the point of it? What's the point of any of it? I mean, to me, what's is that there's a lot of it that just seems pointless. And, you know, that Some of my favorite things There's no point to it. You know, these images come up in my head and I'm like, &quot;Why did we It really made me laugh. It was pointless. So, yeah, I don't know who he was doing all that for. You know, primarily himself. And that's what most of the I don't think all comedians I mean, because there are clearly people that you like and admire Johnny Carson comes to mind. Johnny Carson was not some outside weirdo struggling to get in and He was someone with just who is inordinately charming. You know what I mean? And so I don't wanna as being outsiders, or loners, or weirdos. I'm fun at a party. But definitely, I think a lot of the root of comedy is maybe coming from a place of being excluded or outside. I mean, many people have made the point that, you know, who's funny? Jewish people are funny. Irish people are funny. They're groups that were or they were sublimated. They had no power. This is a way to worm your way back into the system. Well, comedy's a defense mechanism. And basically, I remembered that I'm earning a living that should probably be treated. And I think that's true. I really do think that you and people instinctively know what they're not good at and what they're good at, at a very early age. And I maintain that at non-athletes know they're not athletes. And they know, &quot;Okay, And I'm not the best And I don't have this, I don't have that.&quot; But if you have an ability you find out early. And probably everyone yeah, I started making people laugh at the family dinner table, you know, in the playground at school. You figure that out, you and then you hyper develop it, and then you overdevelop it, and then you're not fit for anything else. And then you're a comedian And I really believe It sounds crazy, and I'll say this. I'll tell you guys this. I actually hate jokes. I tell jokes at the top of my show, but only so that I can then play with the audience's reaction to them. I can never remember jokes, and jokes to me are too obvious. Like, they're too, I'm going to tell you something, and then you're going to laugh. Well, that's completely My nature is I wanna make you laugh, but I don't wanna tell you, Do you know what I mean? It's too... So as a consequence, I've had people come &quot;Oh, tell us a joke.&quot; I don't know any jokes. But if you put me in a situation where for an hour I have to entertain you, I'll make you laugh. I don't know what's gonna happen. And it might get pretty ugly, but I certainly don't I admire, you know, I to Los Angeles, I went to an event and Milton Burl was the MC, and this is probably when he Hilarious. Jokes, fantastic jokes, rattling 'em off, one after the other. They were all in his head. You know, he had hundreds and they were great. And he was fantastic. And I looked at him and &quot;I'm not one of those guys.&quot; You know, I think, I can make people laugh out of a nervous desperation which is the parental fault, but just had to sneak that in. They won't watch. But those guys that know all I don't have that kind of brain. Can't remember 'em. They're like math tables to me. I still don't know what One of the things that's is that he was relentlessly sad. And I've noticed that that if you have a certain kind of face. I think some of the biggest laughs I've had on this show are, I'm not saying a word, So, do you know what I mean? We'll have a beautiful And you know, she'll say, &quot;If I had known you a few years before you got married, Conan, you know, I'd have taken you to bed.&quot; And then just the director cuts to me, and there's a deep sadness. I don't say a word. And the crowd really likes it. They like when I'm defeated. I don't know why, but I that when I look sad in a people really enjoy it. It's also Jack Benny that wistful sadness. And Buster Keaton had most miserable looking person And it's sort of relentlessly funny. Yeah, we've done 2,624 hours of &quot;Late Night&quot; here at the Conan O'Brien fiasco. And so it's impossible for me to isolate, you know, any one thing we did. I mean, one of my favorite things is when I somehow got involved in the presidential elections in Finland, and it just kept escalating And we kept doing more and that were then shown in Finland. And then the New York It all culminated with me announcing that I was going to Finland. And I went to Finland and thousands of people at the airport. Screaming mobs pursued all over the place. And then finally it culminated of Finland at the palace. People lined up around chanting my name. I met with her, and then I walked out, and these guards opened a door, and I walked out on the steps, and the crowds were cheering. And I remember standing there You know, like it was a I've met with the president. It's all culminated. I've walked out. The crowds are cheering. And it was, again, that did what? Was the point of all this? It was a completely silly... It was harmless. But it was everything It was an idiot in over his head, fish outta water. I had no business being there, famous in that country for no reason. And meeting with a head of state, and being presented with a plaque, and then walking out onto a balcony, and being cheered by a mob for no reason. It was every, you know, It was just the randomness of it and the absurdity of it all. to me that warms my heart that in a world, you know, the world that we have today that can seem so serious, something so pointless and silly, and, I think, good natured And, you know, so those that I always love, that just, you know, and that I remember. Do Those are the moments And those are the moments if I'm still alive, I'll be sitting on a no one will know who I am, and I'll be wearing a wifebeater T-shirt and drinking whatever juice And I'll be thinking, &quot;That'll be the stuff