Hello, In this video I am going to explain how to make different types of concrete, I know that it is a material that is used a lot for visualization, and sometimes it gets a little difficult to create dirt, create reflections, etc. So we are going to create a floor, a wall, a wall, and a few more things, I am going to show here, a little we are going to make this image this floor that has a little reflection has like a... here with the Chair is dirt that appears on the walls how to do it... it is a floor like smoothed cement and... nothing smoothed cement is used a lot in the visualization, we are going to make this wall we are going to use Corona mix, some masks to create this dirt that falls from the roof and also with a displacement to create these holes in the concrete, we are going to make this roof which is quite simple, and we use occlusion and some other things... and in this outdoor floor we also use occlusion displacement and... we use a AO also with a Corona mix to explain a little how it is,... and we also make a concrete that is very exaggerated, something more general to have for any object. I hope this tutorial serves you and is useful to you. ] Let's get started. The intro is very well done, I'm going to start with the floor, I'm going to do this as I already said half in the moment, So let's see what comes out, I have the Armed station, which is this one, I'm going to pull interactive right now to See that everything is white and neat and the light is more or less good, very good. Well... floor, let's start with the floor, I'm going to delete this. Here I have the slate mat, which, as you already know, I like to use the compact one more than This is it but to assemble materials, understand well how to do it, we are going to use This one, I am going to first use a physical, I will put it together, always remember the phiysicall, I don't know why it comes with the R at 0.75, put it at 1, some maps for this floor I'm going to to con... Well I said it I think. I'm going to use making different concretes and using different types of things for these materials so as not to always do the same thing and in the process you learn several more things... Very good, then I'm going to grab this map and see for the 4k floor very good, I'm going to start as always by throwing this at the Diffuse and I'm going to apply it to the floor that is back here, the truth is that it's not good to not see what's happening back here but I'm going to try to arrange this to see if I can get it out the moo from here to see so we can see a little better and this a little smaller and this is going to last I think, but well today I have time... Here goes I have this camera raised which is the camera which is the camera of the render and to test things and I have the other camera that I always use other than the one for testing... the one for testing to see what the floor is doing, we are going to make it like a smoothed cement, let it shine that it is a little worn, let's go there Let's see this very well, UVW map, I have it 400 400 400, experience tells me that 400 and 600 maps always fit well really . Very well, the map only works well but rather let's start working on it, what do you think ? I'm going to do first... first... I'm going to do something with this same map so that it reflects me, in the Roughness I'm going to throw it at a color-correct Corona and we're going to desaturate it because it has like a green So I desaturate it and I'm going to put a little more white, I'm going to put the rought, as the rought works the other way around, put a little more black and there it goes, I'm seeing that this reflects a lot very well and the rought, so what I'm going to do ,r because I don't want the concrete itself to reflect a lot... I want to put it like a lacquer, above we see that it is reflecting a lot we see it there almost that it is a mirror so I want the base a little more worn I'm going to wear it exactly That, So for that I'm going to lower the rought,... no, in one and I'm going to lower the use that I'm using in this map, sometimes what I'm doing in it is going to be half imperceptible in the render. but let's go there and I want the reflections to be at 1.5, the IOR is fine, very good , let's see what happens, supposedly this should be made a little more diffuse , well I don't know why the camera is going there, it became a little more diffuse Perfect, I have this and what I want is to put a lacquer on top... I think this base is good for the concrete now we are going to start staining a little more doing things but first you have to have the floor freshly done. So we are going to put a lacquer on this and with a Clear Coat layer I put one and you see how it starts to paint on top as what is already there is another layer of reflections on top I am going to throw an interactive so that?.. and to see what! What's wrong with this... maybe I don't have to put so many interactives in this one but it's good that they're seeing... or let it work... very good, there you see, I have that hairspray on top. This hairspray is there, I'm going to put this here, it's like too strong. I'm going to put a little, I 'm going to lower the intensity a little to 1.3 and it reflects a little less and I also want to... well, now let's start, I'm going to leave it, I'm going to exaggerate, I'm going to put a mask on the IOR, so that where it is very reflective and in others not just any mask see I have this one here and I'm going to throw it here there as a distance, you see it starts it's a total exaggeration the concrete is starting to look a little better too much I'm going to see this I want to see here on stage then. show I'm seeing exactly where it's reflecting and where it's not, these blacks are reflecting a lot, I don't want that, it looks like a strange metal here you can see it too so what I'm going to do is make this map, the one I'm using down here, I'm going to lower that intensity. I don't know about 50 from the IOR but of course it's taking me 2 mostly 1.2 And then it starts to make a little more sense this starts to have these little spots it starts to get better maybe in the Roughtness I'm going to put it if I put it at 1 it will be at 1, very good and amount a There this is better I think the base is a little better I'm not going to put any displacement or bump on this because we want a floor that is ready, maybe a little bit of bump of any kind normal let's see Here I have one that we are later I'm going to use it again but This goes on maps normal normal, I put this on the one that is there it will be easy to find very well, here is the bump, as an example, I have to invert this The gamma starts to work well, this is the grated bump that I have out there, we don't like it but if we make it a little bigger a tling of 0.3 and 0.3 Maybe it gives it a vibe... you see it there, but it's a The amount of bump it has is crazy , so I'm going to put very soft 0.05 well so that it has like the past of the brush to tell you, and this now we want it to be a little dirty, maybe not more in the encounters here with the wall and no, where it rests Not because it wouldn't make sense, but we want it to get dirty here, so for that we are going to add a Corona distance, which I have here I already explained this in a live I think but we use it a lot, we are going to put it as near color this one and this one also the same and the distance we can use a mask that I'm going to bring it here very well and this here, it tells me that it doesn't come out because I don't configure it, I have to tell the distance from where... So I want it to From the wall the floor gets dirty, that is, nothing more than taking the wall into account. So I'm going to add the wall I touch the wall I touch the more there it is now supposedly it's working supposedly no, it's working And now you're going to see that nothing is happening... Exactly nothing is going to happen because I have the same two colors it takes a little while the start There it goes, nothing happens... I'm going to the near I'm going to take out the near here to see what's happening well... Come, this map is also using this to generate that dirt there it's diluting a little bit So let's go Let's use the distance of the near that is in black, I'm going to put it in red to see how best it does. There it is and I'm going to put I don't know 10 cm, see how it grows, this is a lot, we don't want it, let's go with 10, 10 too. It's a lot 5, it's perfect, I think it can work, and since we're here, we're also going to put on this edge, we're going to tell it to also take into account this plane that I have here, so from the material I select the plane and I give it a + it takes it into account Also then take this plane you see how it is already happening this seems to me to be still a lot so I am going to put 2 cm and here I am going to lower it to 50. What makes more sense to me seems to me... the scale of this is a little small, or not? So I'm going to grab the material, this is the mask, the mask is placed here and I'm going to make it a little bigger . There, I like it better... it's a detail so well now I'm going to copy this map and I'm going to put a with a correct Corona color and I'm going to make this map a little bit darker by 0.5 a lot but to see it it's a lot or we're not going to leave it like this... it might be Well, if I also select this Or in this I find it is going to get dirty too, I'm going to do it so you can see it from a distance, I select this chair I put + and you see how it starts to get stained there too, it doesn't look bad, so we leave it and this is a floor that is Pretty good to see how it looks on the camera. It looks horrible on the camera =/ because I have a lot of reflections, this is what happens sometimes when you have a camera looking down... well, as I said, everything I had done on camera 1 here I realize that it turned out badly (DIO MIO) I'm going to try to correct this, hey I'm going to start to see badly because it has a tremendous reflection this is not right, it was because of the position of the camera, very good I have This so I'm here to correct this let's see it says so many things I'm not Sure, Ok This is in the Clear Cout, let's go to the ClearCout, it's down here, let's see if this has anything to do with 100, perfect, it looks better and then we're going to lower it to 0.3 and there it goes! I have to solve it and it looks pretty good although this reflection is still very clean, right? Let's put some mask in there... let's see one here, let's see which one I have here maps masks let's go with supposedly for metals we're going to use it I'm going to throw it here so that to clean a little this reflection that is very clean or about these seconds reflections another mask as a distance that is not so clear 20...... it is becoming, sorry Okay This is like a mirror, so I add it to the rought of the ClearCout, Here is this map because this is like another layer that already I said it from reflections on the rought of the Clear cod, I also added a little map to start making this more realistic, Here it is, it is at zero now it is not applying, it is taking the 1 up here I am going to put 60 well and it starts to be seen a lot better maybe 50 40 30, there if we want to see it it's a lot 60 was good and there I'm starting to like this floor . well I think it's good, we can say that the apartment is finished ladies and gentlemen. I stop it and now I'm going to make the roof a concrete houses roof here we are going to make a concrete of boards that is also used a lot in everything that is architectural visualization Very well let's start with the same as always a physical I have it here I bring myself a map of tables, this always starts, I start at the base, I select these two materials, I put it on and see what we have, this is the base, and the base looks good, but let's do some more things. It's scaled, as I said before, I know from experience that more or less 600cm 600cm 600cm is going well maybe this finish here that you see here doesn't fit well So what I'm going to do I'm going to grab the Gizmo and I'm going to move it a little first I'm going to lock the camera to continue seeing this so I It ends right here well and maybe This is very very narrow, let's make it a little, no, it's a little wider, a little more. There I like it, well, well, let's apply the maps to this one... let's see a specular, Well, let's apply a Specular It is also a reflection map that when you buy maps or when you download maps it always comes with a diffuse with a specular with an Ambient occlusion it can come with a reflection map it can come with a normal Map which are maps that you have to use in the The materials are not always assembled, but they all come like this, so we are going to use this one, which is the reflection one that comes with some whites that are always in the black and white range and this always goes in the Rought, so we put the rought in it and this I should give a little reflection to this ceiling that we don't want it to reflect too much because we are making it more rustic. I 'm going to leave it interactive so I don't start it and finish it every 2 minutes, because I waste time on this.... well as you can see It looks very strange, it is reflecting me because now these maps are older , so the black did not reflect before and the white did, what they have to do when they come like this and use the rought is to invert this map, you will see that now when I invert it in output inver, whatever this is black is starting to make more sense, I don't know why it wasn't updated here update preview There it goes... black and white now the black is not reflecting the white yes, no Okay I did wrong it was good before there it goes the black is reflecting, anyway It's strange. So I'm going to tone down those crazy reflections a little , I'm going to put it at 1, remember and I'm going to put this at 50, so it calms down a little and it looks good. Then we have Difusse, which for the sake of the image, perhaps this would look better a little clearer. And by the way, we'll see how to make it more clear without changing the map, Corona color corrects the diffuse and from here I increase the gamma a little to 1.2 to 1.5, and there it goes...... well, Maybe it is too much 1.3, it looks good and this needs this has texture So we are going to put a displacement map that comes with the letter B almost always, which is the bump or the displacement. We are going to put the bump, the displacement we are going to use it for what is the wall, this one came without normal, In other words, they can come with normal, what are those violet maps, they are I'm going to grab what I have here so you can see it, this is normal and if they don't come white and black they go directly to the bump double click on the material it appears there I'm going to put the bump As an example, obviously, and then this begins to have more volume, I can exaggerate it a little in 3 to learn and there it looks good,... We want it to be, to get dirty here in this corner... yes, it would be good for it to get dirty like this then I'm going to add an AO to the diffuse, I put this in Unoculed and well, you see how this turned completely black I'm going to put it in red to understand what it does... very good here is the distance in 100 cm let's lower it to 20 and we see how the occlusion where the parts collide is generating this red color, I can put a mask like we did before and we are going to put this one that I have here in the distance, well now it becomes a little less even and I am going to raise it the distance from 20 to 40 to make it a little more noticeable, well I like the concrete, it's a little... the same. It would also be good to have the edges pass here... right? This is very clean so what I do instead from outside Just calculate it from outside, well if I put it inside you will see that all the edges are generated and I would have to lower the distance here from 10 to 20 we are going to do outside inside very well... and there it will look better to me I like these black spots that are generated there , yes, so here I could put a black color but what I'm going to do, I'm going to duplicate this, I'm going to darken this instead of lighter, I'm going to leave it at 0.8 and I'm going to throw it where it is. Now it's red, well there it looks more real, I'm going to darken it more to exaggerate the effect a little. There the ceiling begins to look much more real. So in this ceiling we used a base color, a rought for the reflections and a Bump to give it texture. As you can see here, the previw is very exaggerated in this camera, it is not noticeable but I think it is fine, so we made a ceiling with one floor and what we can What to do now is as we are, this concrete wall and then we are going to make a generic for this seat And here outside we are going to make another This wall, we are going to make a concrete of plates then roof we are going to make a new View wall and here we start With the plate I always start the same with the physical, physical remember to set the roughtness to 1 to start clean and I'm going to throw a plate map that I have here, I throw the map I'm going to do what needs to be done well first to a Corona correct color, to have total control over the map and we are going to start with a base here, I have it here and I am going to apply it to this wall... very good There it is perfect and it looks good like this but we are going to make it a little More about things like that we learn more about the box UVW map 600 600 500, as I told you, more or less all the maps in 600 600 400 fit well. Here what we can do is stain it a little with a....with something with something....let's see let's stain it with....let's make a.....I'm going to stop this render, second We are going to make a layer material, no, we are going to make a composite that I quite like to use, this way we give more texture to this concrete. composite very good..... one we are going to use this the composite I open it I tell him that there are two layers and for layer 1 I use this and to see what this does I am going to throw it here and I'm going to start an interactive so we can see what each thing that I'm adding does and see if this starts... why did I stop it, right? birn... Of course now it didn't do anything I have the composite I have Corona color correct the composite in layer 1 and layer 1 says that it is normal and it is the base layer 2 is on top yes I put this like Photoshop I put it as multiplay now there is nothing here but whatever is up here will be multiplied to this layer so let's put some spots, put it, let's use a mask that I have here black and white masks some dirt may be let's see... Any mask sorry...I'm taking a while to choose, I think I think let's see stop stop stop... This one can totally work and I'll add it in layer 2 well... there you go, it's a lot, a lot, it doesn't make sense.. At this moment, I put it there a little bit . I take the composite as multiply, I put it as normal, the only thing that is going to be there is going to be on top, that is, it is not 100% on top in multiply, as Photoshop takes the blacks and stains it there, the opacity I can lower the opacity of this... to 50 And maybe I also do a 20 and there it does something to this... It seems to me... very little I'm going to do a 50 There it goes... they are generated like this stains, imperfections that give a little more realism, at least to this, well, I personally like it. It would also be good to put together a mask here of this typical concrete blasting . That would be good. We'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it. Okay, let's do those stains, there I'm going to like that one... I don't know that dripping... that appears on the concrete over time we like to do so much..., very well, for that I'm going to add to this to the composite one more layer and I'm seeing it here So you see how it goes... I don't know why it doesn't add it to me... here now the layer okay There I have the 3, for that I'm going to need a mask and to show how it works I'm going Let's put a Corona color here I'm going to put in red red so we understand well what's happening...very good red he painted me all red correct this needs a mask because this is what we'll see is on top of everything so obviously he's going to paint me everything red everything that is above is going to work on everything that is below, I am going to bring me a mask which is this squirt mask I am going to apply it to layer 3 I tell it to work on that layer the black disappeared completely obvious You can't see the white Yes... and you have to scale this this mask on this object, but here they are going to have to start different UVW Maps, different channels too, so we are going to put this map on channel two and I am going to put a UVW map for channel 2, Perfect there you see what appears there to see this map I want to see it on scene to see where it is it is much easier to do it here you see what it is for me what you see what it is doing Here it is still badly scaled and it is generating that red here... Very well I'm going to make a Box, Well there it was stuck there... maybe not it wasn't stuck a little higher a little more like that and a little higher the Gizmo I'm going to lower it and start to appear could be a little Well there that's fine I'm going to make it a little higher still to exaggerate a little more... there I like it perfect it shows well, we have it there and obviously it's not going to be red I'm going to copy this one that we already have here It's the same map, I'll put it here and I'll lower the gamma a lot or however you want to lower it, you can lower the gamma here, it's bad... 0.5 is correct, it seems to me that we're already adding detail to the blind, which is looking quite good, and it's Well, here I am only at the base, so I need to add more reflection things to this and as we saw just in the ceiling quite a bit and here also in the reflections on the floor, what I am going to do to This is going to be something basic, I am going to lower it a little bit of the rouhgt to put in just a little reflection that you don't really need . Here it goes...What you do need is a baump for this but I'm going to do it with a displacement so we use that too. Here I have I have the displacement map of this I have normal I have displacement here it is Close displacement, very good this map is the displacement you see it here which is always black and white and it is almost always called displacement but if you don't have it you can generate it also very easy desaturate and keep in mind that the white goes forward and the black goes back, I am going to use it now as an example... putting in the displace is called displace and I haven't passed it at all yet because here we are going to set the displacement at 10cm to exaggerate and in less than 10cm to see what happens... well , see how we start, we're going to see the map very big so it's better understood, I'm going to open it here in Photoshop, you see that it has very black black points so that this goes backwards and it has some stains here on each plate now what you are seeing is that perfect here, see here also an imperfection in 10 minus 10 is a lot, I'm going to put it two minus two, it's going to look very good anyway, it looks good there maybe a a little more a little less... this, as I said before, has nothing to do with the centimeters but rather it has more to do with the color they have here, this here is very clean, very clean so here we can add ahead of all this an AO, you see how the materials are getting complicated... right? As we already saw it and there it looks better, this looks very good here I think I don't need to add any masks but we can add any of the ones, well I'm going to bring it back here as I'm in different layouts I don't have them copied the distance, there goes the concrete is looking very good. I think the wall is already there, we use it, I want to tell you something, here on display I always recommend, although you can use the display map here, the ideal is to use a Corona displacement MOD on the object so that you have more control over what is happening, here For example, we are going to put 2 -2 and get from material, they check it here, it is going to take this map that we already have here and we enable the override here. So here I am going to have more control over the quality of this displacement, the bigger the number, the less They have quality... well, there isn't much information here, to be honest, but with one pixel in two it will look good and this concrete is very good... and for the sidewalk outside, here we can make a combed concrete, which I have it ready here ready I don't have the map we start with a physical as always with repetition you learn rought in 1 so that it does not have a reflection at least for now and I look at the map... what map...? We're going to make this concrete, this very dark concrete that's not a hairstyle, it's I don't know what a concrete is out there that's going to be here. We're going to put it on the base and we're going to see how it turns out.... I'm going to do it. put this material and perhaps it is very dark, the color composition does not look good on this, the truth is, as we already learned a correct Corona color, I apply it to the base and we are going to raise the gamma a little to 2 so that it has more to do With all this... it's going well... and I'm going to use a mix for this, I'm going to use the AO on the map, that's to give you more information, because sometimes some maps come with occlusion, which are black and white maps. also and to use this I am going to show right now well here it can be but the ideal is to use a Corona mix, mix we are going to put this on the base and on the top, This is like, Corona mix, in add no, I put mix no, in ADD, perfect there, wait for a second it will be all white of course add mix mix base in multiply, that's where the error was . So this is going to add up to how that division you have there becomes much more noticeable, if I I take this out, the amb occlusion I set it to zero, you see that this joint is starting to go unnoticed in one, the concrete here is starting to be seen much better, it's clearer... I would add some... a safe AO on the tips and For that, they obviously already know Corona AO quickly and I send it to the base and there the edges begin to have more realism, perhaps so that it is not black, I copy all this quickly, in the Occluded and lower the gamma to 0.8. mask can we use? Yes, of course we can... use the same one that we are using here Ah, I was wrong... there in the distance, this AO is perfect, we are going to use it outside and inside to exaggerate a little more, and there it looks very good, we have the floor The roof , the exterior floor, and the walls were also quite good, and we used quite a few things to make a summary. we use several times displacement we use a Corona mix, Here to use these two maps, on the ceiling we use the roughness for the reflections and Corona distance, on the floor we use a corona distance, bump and a Clear Coat to have a double reflection. I think we saw several options to generate this concrete and if yes, what I can do in this one is apply this same material to see how it looks. I'll exaggerate it, I'll make some variations. Oh, I can't because I have distance, I'm not going to let myself. never.. so I copy this material or what he told me there is that no, you cannot apply the same material because the distance. I have this object selected, I copy the distance and I am going to take it out, I am going to put it in this..... very good, of course. You don't know where to get a reference, I'm going to tell you about the floor, Ok, it's the same material... Well, I'm going to take the distance directly... put the base color on it... HORRIBLE. let's do it again! Let's do it again, We're going to make this more general concrete that I just do n't like this one so I'm going to make a new one called H general general and I'm going to start as I always start with a physical very well one I bring some maps I bring this map, actually here I can bring any map, I'm going to bring this one and throw it to the base and I'm going to put this in and see what's happening. We're going to go ahead with it, Armando. I'm starting an interactive... to put together this general render, not this render, this concrete one, these long videos sometimes make me... and even more so when you work like this it kills you, Ok, it's very clear, let's add several things to it. This is why I'm going to use a ..this 2D panzoom to see it more closely if you don't use it and I explained it elsewhere, it doesn't zoom in on the image but rather the render is closer and you see the materials much better. A very good mapping and I'm going to grab another material to see another concrete one to mix..., this is very clear. It would be good to start I see it well, an Ambient occlusion maps... I have this pinned here... OK , We're going to set the distance to 5 and I want to see what it's doing so I'm going to set this to red, very good. That's fine, that's it. Well, I'm going to bring a mask... there's this dirt here. Well, as you see, a lot of things can be added to this above, but what this thing is missing is a little bit of reflection, let's lower the rought to 0.6 and we are going to also add a mask to the Roughtness, let's see... this suit has a bump of reflections so you can see it, it's like a mix of grays and whites that's half uneven, it doesn't have to be anything very spectacular... to give you different tones in the reflections different quality of reflection. Okay, the truth is I would make a composite of the concrete here to stain it even more but we already saw it on the floor, so what I'm going to do is an AO to this, not a Corona color correct to put it in what Now it's red, maybe I'm going to lower the gamma to 0.3 to exaggerate well, there it looks pretty good and.... it needs it needs a little... this is like another mix... So I'm going to do a Corona mix. We just saw the top and sorry about the base, I'm going to put this on the top as well, and I'm going to add this to blend. So here what I'm going to do, I'm going to mix two maps, this one that I already have, and another one, let's see any other one, maybe for the example I'm going to mix this one that I have here, the top one..... Okay, And I'm going to put it a mask to mix these two things, a good mask, that has good whites and blacks like this mix and there it goes... this stool was used a lot from what I see... but it fits. Let's see how the color composition is here and it looks good there. I'm going to get out of 2D, exit, we have the camera that we were working on and I think it's ready. We saw a floor, we saw a ceiling, we saw a concrete outside, we saw a general concrete and we also saw a lot of things like using different types of textures and maps and solutions for different situations. Use it, I hope you have spectacular concrete in your next projects.