Tu Yen welcomes everyone! Tu Yen wishes everyone a happy and happy new day. How are you today? Are you okay? Mr. Long's mother's flock of chickens is still growing very well. I took Tu Chau to school and returned home to clean the house. The bamboo house was being bitten by beetles, so it was very dusty due to the dry weather, so the floor was very dirty. Mine is also cracked, a lot of the chrysanthemums I sowed have started to bloom, the cabbage has started to roll, the remaining small kohlrabi tubers have also grown. Today I will harvest them to give to my mother and grandmother's family. Long each person has a little too big, so I'll give it to Mr. Long's mother and Mr. Long Mr. Long and Mrs. Long each had a few vegetables this morning. I also brought bananas to the market to sell, Ms. Hoa! Miss Hoa! Miss Hoa! I'm sure she's not at home so I'll leave the vegetables here so hello / um are you going to sell vegetables? Grandma, I brought you some vegetables/ I brought you to the market to sell/ My house has a lot of vegetables, grandma, can I give you some vegetables to eat/ Um, thank you/ Mr. Long has he gone to work, grandma?/ Um, Mr. Long went to work early/ Yes, I'll ask my grandmother's permission to go to the market too/ Um, let's go/ Hello grandma, today there is a new road at the market. Today there is a girl selling agricultural tools. Here, the rice planting season is coming, everyone is buying rice seeds How much is a bunch of bananas?/ The big bunch is 15,000 VND and the small bunch is 10,000 VND . The big bunch is 15,000 VND. How many bunches did you get? Can you help me hold the other 2 bunches/these 2 bunches? Luckily, the sales lady next door took my bananas to sell . Please pay her the change. Thank you, the biggest bunch broke and one of them broke. I'm so sorry. The bananas are delicious. Please buy them./ How much does a bunch of bananas cost? This bunch is 15,000 VND and this bunch is 10,000 VND/ so take all of these 2 bunches for me. The bananas ripened on the tree so one of them broke. Please give me back 5,000 VND/ yes, thank you . Today's market is so lucky. Luckily for me, I didn't think it would sell so quickly. I'll buy some pork to cook lunch. Mr. Long probably hired someone to clear the grass . They've already finished cutting the grass. Wait a few days, I'll burn the dry grass so I can grow vegetables. I'll go cook lunch, sister! I'm still watching her yes, now I will come to the meeting point as soon as the meat is golden I add dried onions and spices such as salt, MSG, and fish sauce. Fish sauce is a traditional spice of my country. It is indispensable in meals when the spices are absorbed. Finally, add fresh onions. This is a grilled pork dish my way. Invite everyone to dine with Tu Yen. I'll ask you to follow the situation. Where have you been following Ms. Tu Yen? The other day, I asked you to come home and follow me and you caught Dr. Long buying a shirt for Ms. Tu Yen. I also followed you home and took a photo, so where is the photo? Can you show me this photo? It's so creepy , isn't it? They even took each other to buy clothes, she really didn't take her words seriously/ the next day she bought clothes to Dr. Long's house and gave them to her, then ate there, and then drove each other. Come back, sister, is there anything else? This morning, she cut vegetables to give to Mr. Long's mother and grandmother, then went to the market to sell bananas. When she ran out of bananas, I followed her home and received a phone call from my sister coming here, which was shocking. I even know how to please Mr. Long's entire family , but now what does my sister want me to do next? So you here know the terrain, do you know any way to get to where she lives without going through Mr. Long's mother's house? I know, I often follow her that way, but can you take me there? Why don't you give it to me? What are you doing there? Now I want to meet her in person to talk. If there's any problem, I'll ask you to leave now, sister?/ Are you free now? Can you take me in?/ Okay, let's go, okay? ?/ Yes, her house is over there/ So which way can I go/ Here, I'll just follow this dirt road so now you stand here and call me/ Is it okay if I come in alone?/ Don't worry. I'll just come in for a bit and then come out right away. If there's any problem, I'll call phone/ yes ahem. Hello, what are you doing?/ I just wanted to come here to talk to you, why do you look so scared? I don't have anything to tell you/ but I have a lot of things to tell you, Ms. Tu Yen. I have nothing to say to you, can you stop and come in and talk to me?/ I have nothing to say to you, so will you stop and talk to me? you're stepping on my vegetables/ stop it, I'm sorry/ you're doing it on purpose, right? What did I do on purpose? Your vegetables have already soiled my shoes. Say whatever you want ! If you had been obedient from the beginning, wouldn't these vegetables have been crushed? Okay, you can say whatever you want . I told you the other day, but you told Mr. But you just told me, but you don't take what I said seriously?/ I'm just telling the truth, I'm not adding or subtracting anything, Miss Tu Yen, you probably know me and Mr. Long. There was a time when we loved each other very passionately. Currently, you are the third person to interfere in the relationship between me and Mr. Long. You and Mr. Long have also broken up many years ago/ broke up but you are not allowed to interfere . Try looking at yourself again, Miss. What's there? Looking at people, they are poor and still living in poverty. Do you think you deserve it? For me, just having sincere love for Mr. Long is enough !... what you said made me laugh so much. What time do you think it is now? Without beauty and money, there is no love. Do you think today there is still a thatched hut with two golden hearts? That only happens in movies, Ms. Tu Yen, that's just your opinion, but Mr. Long and I truly love each other, there's no such thing as rich or poor here, you're testing my patience, you should know. My patience is limited. After all, it was because you left Mr. Long for another man. Why are you here now to interfere in my relationship with Mr. Long? What do you know about me that the supervisor said like that? I've been very gentle with you since just now. So don't challenge me , don't think I won't do anything to you, try saying it again. Let's see what I'm going to do. Who is Tu Yen talking to? It seems that Ms. Tuyet doesn't know what she came here for? where Mr. Long came. You know what you have to say, right? Snow ! What did you come here for? What did I tell you? Yes, I just came to see how Tu Yen's life is, Tu Yen! Did she do anything to you?/ No, I told you, I don't want to see you again, why do you still deliberately come here to bother Tu Yen? If we don't love, we can be friends. Why are you being so difficult with me? This place does not welcome you. Please come back immediately. After all, we have loved each other for many years. Now Tu Yen is my friend, just like your friend , it is very normal for friends to visit each other. ? But we don't consider you a friend. Please get out of this land . If you say so, I'll go home. Hello Ms. Tu Yen, is it true that she didn't do anything to you?/ Yes, please come in./ Um , please sit down/ Um , has she been here long?/ She just arrived, sir. , I was weeding when she came/ Um , what did she say to me? Just like the other times before, she came and told me to stay away from you, not to love you anymore/um , did you meet her and talk to her the other day?/well, one day I told you, then the next day I had an appointment to meet her. I said from now on don't come to bother me and you anymore, and I don't want to see her anymore, but I don't understand why she still deliberately came to find me today , yes, sister. I came to say what did you say to me that made me scold her? So I just found out that you went to see her/ Well, when you met her the other day, you said all that but today she still came here. She was so shameless , please forgive me, because of you, she offended me/ I'm okay, but did her coming today scare you?/ I didn't, and I also said You and I truly love each other and I hope she won't interfere anymore. My Tu Yen is so strong today, and since she came here today like this, I think she will come and bother you again. I'm not afraid , but I told you, it's me Buy me a cell phone like yours. So if anything happens, I'll call you to let you know , no need. Buying a phone is very expensive, and I don't know how to use it. It's okay, the phone isn't very expensive. If you don't know how to use it, I'll guide you easily. Please don't buy it, I won't take it / If you keep leaving me like this, if she comes again I'm very worried about you , please just let me buy one for you, please don't waste a lot of money. If she comes here to do anything, I'll run to your mother's place. That's fine . If she comes to bother you again, you can go upstairs and tell my mother so she can send her home./ Yes, that day. Today I bought you a pair of geese, I'm leaving them out there. Can you go out and release them with me/ yes/ The geese are very good at detecting strangers, are they big or small?/ The geese are adults, my dear. . Where should I go, baby, it's so big, why is it falling over like this? Can you carry it with me? I was going to buy you a small goose, but I was afraid it would be difficult for you to raise, so I bought a big one/ Yes, it's too big, right? Can I let it go?/ Um, will it go away?/ I think there's a flock of ducks here, they won't go anywhere . It's so big and beautiful. Doesn't it swim like it does?/ Well , I came home from the market today and was surprised. Is it clean?/ Um, they called me this morning and told me to come and take care of it. I told them to just take it out naturally./ Yes, come on in, bro./ Umm, it's fine to just leave it here/ Well, I'm doing it. grass/ yes/ then let me help you/ yes So can I go in and change my shoes so they won't get dirty?/ Well, you go in first and wait until I finish changing my shoes and I'll come out right away/ Yes honey, why are these vegetables crushed?/Just now, Ms. Tuyet stepped on two plants. Honey, this girl is really too much/ It's okay, you 're really petty. Please weed this bed/ Yes , I didn't think she was that much/ It's okay, it's just 2 vegetables. Ignore her/well , this time There's a lot of grass, isn't there?/ Yes, I've been busy going to the market lately, so I came home early this afternoon so I took the opportunity to do it./ Um, the cabbage is growing very well/ Yes, please be careful when you do it so your clothes will be dirty. I'm sure I'll be able to eat it soon/ yes this tree is very big/ um on this side the pigeons have pecked and eaten it all/ yes I probably have to destroy it to plant new vegetables so it won't be a waste, right?/ yes there are still a few trees left. That's probably enough for one more meal. The pigeons really destroyed it, so let's leave it at that I'll go buy a net tomorrow and wrap it up, okay?/Is that okay? Sure it's okay, I'll lock it above the chicken coop. I have to temporarily confine it, but I spent so much time planting vegetables and then let it destroy everything. I'm afraid that if I continue to plant it, it will get along well, so I don't know what to plant if it won't eat it/ well, the eggplants are also fast. Big brother/ Um, did it peck at the whole eggplant plant?/ Yes, it ate the whole sweet pepper plant/ I broke these old leaves so much that I can feed them to the chickens/ Yes, I also gave them to you this morning. Chickens eat kohlrabi leaves/ Well , it's convenient for me to go to the market this morning Also cut kohlrabi for your mother and grandmother ? Thank you, I didn't come straight back just now/ yes, if I come back, grandma will tell you and she must be very happy/ She said why don't you bring it to the market to sell, I told you to sell it/ well I see that she loves you very much/ yes, every day I take Tu Chau over to play with her for a day/ well, sometimes I come to play with her to relieve her sadness/ yes, I have 2 grandchildren and I work all the time, so she must be sad too/ well, good luck but the saleswoman should have people coming in and out She doesn't make you sad, right?/ Um , do I have to weed the beds on this side?/ No need, I'll probably destroy it tomorrow to grow other vegetables. Because it's also had all its tops cut off, sir/ um, can you help me with the cabbage bed?/ um, you really take care of the vegetables, the onion bed is gradually fading as it ages/ um/ I guess I have to too. Just harvest to salt to eat/ Well, I'm tired after work and coming here to help you is too hard for me/ It's okay, honey. I really like coming here with you. Please pick up some old leaves for the chickens to eat/ yes. Eat cool vegetables , sir/ Well, I'll probably grow more corn in the near future More cabbage/where are you going to plant it? / I planted it in 2 beds of kohlrabi that have all been harvested, sir/ um/ tomorrow I will destroy it to plant cabbage in there. Thank you for watching my video. See you everyone in the next video