Consultants. They live among us in our cities, that look down at poor people. But what does a consultant actually do? Today we investigate. I'm here in front of 10 Hudson Yards, BCG is one of the so-called firms alongside In total, these firms receive nearly only 1.5% of them, making them But even with all this prestige, society is still unsure What is it What the fudge is management consulting. What is management consulting? Clearly, these people are not sure So to answer this question, the place young people go for wisdom Maybe I can find my answer there. Cha cha ching. You know, this is what a big I could not. So then I went to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which states to improve an organization's efficiency, I had to go deeper. It was time for me to speak with somebody who had been inside the belly of the My name is Tyler Cook. I live in New York and I work as a Tyler Cook is a research assistant Man with an Earring and former What does a consultant actually do and why does a consultant actually do? I would say go to meetings. Go to meetings and prepare for meetings. Jesus Christ. It was worse than I thought. I was beginning to fear was actually pushing me So to try and clarify things, a hypothetical case study with me in which I am a struggling business owner And he, my big daddy consultant. What do we do with our widget company? Well, you know, first of all, like, Are they not selling They're exploding and kids face That does sound bad. So are you an expert in which and here's even if you're not you, So here's what we'll do. Sounds like that's going to be a big case. I think we'll probably need One team will be on a PR management Another team will be looking that you're manufacturing them safely Okay, this all sounds good You know, probably some on the order of when a six week Let's say probably 10 to 15 million, God, what it was in this moment what consultants do You know, there's a lot of people you know, useless. And, you know, they're basically regurgitating You know, that's one thing But there's a lot of other work They can go into a company or they can go into a government And what I mean is You hire McKinsey, You know what, you need to cut staff. And then the CEO can say, you know, they took a look at our company That's a very common use of consultants, Mike Forsyth and Walter Bogdan Together they wrote a book called In it, they profiled McKinsey and Company, firm in the world. The book is extensive detail of the firm's to Jewel, and somehow the Chinese government the biggest name in the industry, exactly what a consultant does all day. I would say, you know, just for a buzz brains for hire by companies. Wait, that's it? Why did that take us so long based on secrecy, All their consultants, their new recruits are told never to disclose names of clients, And so cracking that corporate veil piercing it, I guess, was extremely difficult. Okay. It seems like we ask the question, For two reasons. One, Mike and Walt's reporting came out decades after McKinsey had already been working because the company deliberately doesn't And that seems to be the industry So when you see a tick just chilling on their laptop, all day What the hell are they doing? That's kind of why But people also ask, Because in some ways You get to travel, other young, smart people, And consulting firms promoted that way. McKinsey likes to use a phrase and you know, and that's the people that are attracted You know, these people were at the top of their game They went to maybe often, very often They're They're going away from an institution And they want something that's as the Harvard or Penn, you know, We very proud of the fact It was very understood, you'll come Not most people will not stay to become And then along the way, you'll have fond You'll still have connections and whatever your big corporation, you'll hire which is how we get here, I guess, to where management consulting in the world. The only industry that could that regulates tobacco at the same time It's an everything job, The ideal place for someone that's to work on secret projects all day but will certainly help a firm And add to that person's private network of connections, a network How am I doing here? I just spent 6 hours ranting about people that will forever Oh, God. And now how can I apply? Tyler's answer Boil down Align It's like, Oh, there's going to be Boil the ocean. Let's not boil Oh, another one is double click parallel I don't know if that's a consulting word