Every man, every Ukrainian, has three options. The first is to go abroad and never return to Ukraine. The second is to drown in the Tisza River. And the third: to go to war with Azov. Fire away! Fire! Fire! My call sign is &quot;Pass&quot;, I'm 23 and I'm a gunner. My call sign is &quot;Ray,&quot; I'm 20, and my position is charger. Caption: Artillery. Melara. At the beginning of the full-scale invasion, I volunteered for the [Territorial Defense Forces], but I realized that guarding checkpoints was not my thing. So I went to join the real tigers in Azov. I decided to join the Azov Brigade because I believe that every man should defend his country in such a difficult time. Fire! Fire! Good morning. That was a hell of a shot. Now we're going to stream... Did you hear what the commander said? We really hit the nail on the head. We gave the Russians a bit of a nightmare. Yeah! High five! No need to high five. No need to high five... No need to show off. No, we just scared the Russians a little bit. Now we're hiding a little bit of a hot gun. That's all. If they come out again, we will finish them off. We are your nightmare. The work of our cannon is to repel enemy attacks, to cover our infantry. When the enemy moves towards our infantry, we counterattack with the artillery, covering them. Or if there are any counteroffensive actions, we cover the infantry. Recently, there have been enemy attacks. We [Azov] repelled and destroyed 11 pieces of equipment and captured one tank. And they all scattered in the roadside trees. We watched it all happen. They ran into the area with roadside trees. And we destroyed them all there. I did my basic combat training from November to December [2023]. It was a difficult period in terms of weather, and the training was even more difficult because of that. A puddle in front of me. I avoid it, and the instructor says: &quot;No way! Dive in! You're not going to have a scuba.&quot; I've had that happen to me, too. There were puddles on the training. I was trying to crawl, and he said: &quot;No, no way, crawl through it.&quot; And then the instructor takes this huge log and says: &quot;Here's a bazooka. If you lose it, you're dead.&quot; I also advise you not to wait for a draft notice, but to choose your own path, your own brigade, where you want to go. I usually recommend Azov, because they have a proper attitude towards everyone. The kid is 20 years old. You guys should be ashamed of yourselves. You have to choose your own team, your own brigade, so that you don't end up in God knows where. A combatant. That's it. Caption: Artillery. Gvozdika. &quot;Epicenter&quot; is sitting there somewhere on the side. If you go near &quot;Epicenter&quot; after this shot, you'll have to manage the gate every five minutes. There's some shit flying around. My call sign is &quot;Cheburek&quot;. I am 26 years old. My position is gun commander. Cannon! Cannon! It's a 2S1 Gvozdika cannon. It shoots quite accurately. Briefly about the gun: it is generally mobile, a liter per kilometer. This is one of the advantages. The 122 caliber is not so bad, because it is harder for enemies to determine our location. On the downside... Spare parts are probably hard to find. Because if there's any alternative to these years of European or American model... I think it's easier to find spare parts there than in the post-Soviet period. My call sign is &quot;Pianist.&quot; My position is quite interesting. I am a gunner. I am the one who shoots. But as a gunner, I can say that this is probably the most interesting job I could have been offered. You aim it with the help of a panoramic view and press a lever. The lever that brings about death. So yes, it's a dream job. Caption: Artillery. Hyacinth. My call sign is &quot;Bulba.&quot; I am a sergeant, a gun commander. My call sign is &quot;Yenot&quot;. I'm the service number of the 2A36 Giatsint gun. I am in charge of loading the shells. We had a task and a desire to work on the big guns and make f***ers &quot;bang&quot;. Fire! It should be noted that this is not our first gun. This is my second gun. But in general, it has a lot of advantages. First of all, it's stabilized. Secondly, it has a large caliber, it is powerful, it is easy to maintain. Basically, a little bit of intelligence, a sledgehammer and good strength are enough. The range itself is one of the longest for artillery systems. For Soviet ones. On the Soviet system, yes. It was the most long-range gun. The maximum we fired it at was 28,500 [meters]. This gun is serving us very well now, given that we have ammunition and smart specialists. For example, our artillery crews in Azov, which are now working. In fact, every gun crew member, whether it's a commander, a gunner or a loader, is interchangeable. That is, they can help each other. This way, the crew and the FP [firing position] remain in combat condition absolutely permanently. In general, Azov artillery does not fight in quantity. It has always fought with quality, and I think it will continue to do so in the future. What we are showing at this mission, what our colleagues are showing in other parts of the frontline, on other equipment... The guys are trying to fight with quality, not quantity, thus successfully performing combat missions and getting results on the battlefield in a short time. Fire! The combat experience that our commanders have, the guys who are with us, who help us grow, who help us fight, they are excellent commanders, just like good older brothers-in-arms who help in many ways, who support us in many ways. And in general, without them, this hard work, our war, would not have been done. Each group will have its own specialties, its own advantages. And you will be able to find what you like and become a professional thanks to those who are here, who are helping you, who will help you fight the enemy on our land.