- You look at the human body, the body, you've got cells, organs, systems of interaction with each other. And then you've got organisms, people who are interacting with ourselves in the outside world. So that the irreducible what can you get rid of? For DNA, you need a water supply. For DNA, you need an oxygen supply. You can't just say, &quot;Oh, we had one, and then we No, it won't work. We can't even get out unless we have a reason for doing that. Humans have purpose. I became an evolutionist, a These PhD scientists were showing that the age of the Earth was short. I was gobsmacked. I literally thought, &quot;Why wasn't I told?&quot; - You've probably been taught that your body has slowly evolved through millions of mutations to the amazing person that you are now. But what would you think if someone said that there is a lot of evidence that what you've been taught isn't true? I'm here today with Dr. Dianne Grocott, who has 40 years of experience Dianne, as a medical doctor, when did you start questioning evolution? - I didn't until I was 30. I had a church upbringing. So we were taught that for primitive people and God had set the world and left things. I thought He was a pretty sitting up there in the And so you didn't wanna be close to God. Then I went to a church school, and we sang hymns to And that was wonderful But we then put Him back in his box, and He didn't arrive again And we learnt about evolution. And we learnt giraffes. You know, they evolved long necks because the food was up high. And nobody asked any questions. Nobody said, &quot;Well, what until they got up high? And why didn't zebras grow long necks?&quot; None of that. I just believed it all. But I didn't like the idea of God. I thought He was a bit of a So I became an evolutionist at about 15, a bit of an angry evolutionist, wasn't interested in the church, thought it was a lot of hypocrisy there. So I went off doing my own thing. Then I went to university, and it was so nice to be 'cause I really love knowledge. And we learn all about human evolution, you know, the Australopithecines, and we were examined on those. And I learned about the family tree and how everything And that was pretty good. It felt okay. And there was some amazing Everything's so complex. And when we were learning it was almost mind boggling. It was like, &quot;How did that happen?&quot; And I thought, &quot;Wow, And I just took it all in and then became a doctor. I really enjoyed that, did psychiatry, and I really liked people and their minds. And I learned all of Freud's theories and all the other different theories. And I thought, &quot;I'm gonna find the answer. It's gonna all come together And it sort of didn't. And then at about 30, I think the biological and I'm starting to think, &quot;What's the point of this?&quot; You know, why I can see and in life, and then it all ends. And there was sort of 'cause there must be something So I went looking for spiritual anywhere except Christianity, because I'd given that a miss. I remember doing a meditation course. And each week we'd meditate on and they had a Christian one, and we had to meditate And something stirred. And I was quite uncomfortable because I didn't expect that. Anyway, I totally ignored it, of course. And then later on, I actually was looking, and, you know, it is, if and I met God. And I was most surprised. And so I thought, &quot;I'm And I thought at that stage, &quot;Well, it's like an insurance policy, so it just means you go And I was still not or not even asking any questions. My husband accidentally He was not looking. He thought I'd lost the plot when I was looking: &quot;Oh Dianne's You know, she was looking for Anyway, God smacked him over the head, and he's going, &quot;Oh my goodness.&quot; Well, he's a scientist. So he thought, &quot;Well, well, basically my employer I've thrown my brains out. So he started to find for creation and the and took me along to a And I was gobsmacked. These PhD scientists were showing that, you know, the age of the earth was short. There's so much evidence for that. There's so much evidence that I thought I didn't even For example, the giraffe. All right, so you wanna make Great idea. Okay, so you'd think you for long neck. But what you do, you actually have to So you need higher pressure. So you need a bigger heart. Okay? And the other problem is when it's gonna blow its little brains out and all the blood's gonna fall back there. So you've gotta have special to stop all the blood going back. And then you've got well, we've gotta have a thicker skin, otherwise it's gonna bleed And then the other thing is, and I only learned this recently, if you've got a longer air tube, you know what, you gotta push a lot if you can get another So if you've got lungs and then you elongate the neck, you are gonna die, you're gonna suffocate. So you've gotta actually So you can't just go, Everything all works together. And I was starting, I literally thought, &quot;Why wasn't I told?&quot; When I was 15, when I was looking and I was than just a mote in the universe that nobody cares about who and it's pretty scary being 15 when you think you're gonna and that there's nobody really there and God sort of wandered off, and so I started to go, &quot;This is amazing. Why And I thought people would be so excited. And we had a friend who came to the Creation and we said, I'm just I thought he'd go, &quot;Oh, I And he goes, &quot;Oh, well, I can't, I can't refute anything I've heard here. But, no, not interested.&quot; He just wasn't- - Even though- - He was recognizing that And he's saying he can't refute it. - He can't refute it. - But he just said he wasn't looking. And if people aren't looking, fine. You don't wanna beat them That's really, really important. But if people are looking, I - And you were looking? - And you were looking for answers and you were starting to ask the right questions. Yeah. Exactly. - So, Dianne, let's have a look at DNA. You've been talking about the giraffe and all these things that to actually function properly and for the giraffe not to die. Why don't we talk about DNA? So when you started what did you learn about DNA? - Mostly from Creation Ministries, Rob Carter is a geneticist who's taught the most amazing things. And look, we all know about DNA. It's the double ladder, the spiral helix. It's got all these little And there's so much I have brought you a mnemonic. Yes, D-E-S-I-G-N. Okay, D stands for &quot;Dependent&quot;. So the DNA actually is but the cell can't be there That couldn't have evolved DNA is really fragile. It's about two meters You got a little bit, it's very tiny, but it's about two meters long. It's all coiled up. If it was the width of a hair, it would be like 50 kilometers wrapped up in the size of a golf ball. It's amazing. And then you've got all and they are A, C, G, and T. You probably remember that from school. And what I learned at the thing unzips and the RNA reads it, and then you get an impression. And then three of those little letters, they're called a codon. Each three is turned in Amino acids are like pearls on a necklace. So if you get all the here's your protein, and then the protein can wrap up. And then it does whatever it does. It might be a cell wall, or it or it might be an enzyme and does a whole lot of different things. But basically you've and you would think, the reading would just go, you'd think that the letters would, you'd just read the first three, then you'd get an amino acid, then you read the next three, and you get another amino acid. Well, you know what, you can start at the second point, and you can read those three letters, and you get a different amino acid. We can start at the third point, and read those three letters, and you get a different amino acid. So you can have three sentences from those letters, whether you start at the And so there's amazing complexity. And where did I go next? D-E. E is, I went straight into So you've got your letters, That's the first dimension. Then you've got the second dimension, which is the way things are connected. Because DNA, right? Well, only about 2% of our DNA The rest of it, they used to, That actually is almost It's the operating system that tells everything And then when you look at everything connects with each other. And those things are turned So that's the second dimension. The third dimension is the they wrap up together. You know, our pictures of DNA is usually at making a new cell. They all spread out and they're all sort of on the Petri dish with their little, their chromosomes. But the way they work, they are actually, well, it's like a dance. They're choreographed. And all the chromosomes, they And if you wanna read off, it might be a section a section from that chromosome, and another section from that chromosome. That's the third dimension 4D of course is time. This changes. So you might actually be reading, the RNA might be reading the instructions for this particular protein And then they flip. And then you can read another which is how we've got 20,000 100,000 to 300,000 proteins. There's an enormous complexity And it isn't just lines. It's amazing. It's actually the biggest with a better operating system than anything that's been to this point. So what was that? That was D-E. E was S stands for &quot;Software&quot;. The point about any language is there's a difference between that you can convey the language and what you're actually conveying. So you can evolve a whole lot of letters. You can even evolve how to read them. But you've gotta know how that they're gonna become. So perhaps an easier example If on your computer, you've typed G-I-F-T, and I speak English, I think you're talking about a &quot;present&quot;. If I speak German, the word is &quot;poison&quot;. That means &quot;poison&quot; in German. So the letters are letters. They don't mean anything and somebody interprets them. They can't just evolve. Design is all about a plan, You can have the stuff, but if you haven't got the And if it's designed and there's a purpose there must have been a designer. - And, Dianne, if someone everything, our bodies has evolved, how does that mean (Dianne laughs) - Funny, because you gotta We just happen to evolve out of nothing in a sort of a linear But on the other hand, we just we look at humans. We can't even think, we can't even get out unless we have a reason for doing that. That somehow there's some, we just know in ourselves that if we move, something will happen. Now, we have to learn that But actually humans have purpose. - We are up to, so we're spelling DESIGN, D-E- S, we're up to I. - I love that one. &quot;Irreducible complexity&quot;. - Oh, that's a big word. But you've heard of a mouse trap, haven't you? - And if you think of a mouse trap, okay, you can have fancy ones, big or small. But for a mouse trap you've gotta have a There's actually five And if you take any one you've got four parts, and All right, so that's the concept which, you look at the human body, actually even humans in our But let's just go back to the DNA. So basically, in order you've gotta have a cell to look after it. But you've also got to have to keep it clean and stop that happen all the time And you thought that DNA was just sitting. No, it doesn't just sit there. It's really fragile, really complex. And then in order for your let's just say you just want to repair a little piece of your DNA. Well, where are you gonna Oh, okay, you've gotta have a gut which actually gets the and sends it off through the And you've gotta get it And not to mention the fact that the organism might to find the food, okay? So just to repair and maintain, you've gotta have this outside source. On the other hand, you've got as complex as like New York City. And you have to have everything including an energy supply, You've gotta have building You've even gotta have a postal service. You know, the cell- - Yeah, these amazing little proteins. And they walk them along inside the cell. - They walk? Yeah, There's a video. Yeah. Absolutely, amazing. Yeah, you should, just Google them! So the cell is amazing. The DNA keeps the cell going. But what keeps the cell going? After that, you've got You've got cells, organs, systems of interaction with each other. And then you've got organisms, people who are interacting with ourselves in the outside world. So the irreducible complexity here is, &quot;What can you get rid of?&quot; Okay, for DNA, you need a water supply. For DNA, you need an oxygen supply. You can't get rid of it. You can't just say, &quot;Oh, we had one and then we It just didn't happen. It was just designed from - So that process where we slowly evolved into the- - Bodies that we have today, With irreducible complexity, - Right. Next one was G, Charles Darwin just didn't know that you couldn't just Let's just say you've got a single cell and that would have DNA for the things that it does And where's it gonna get DNA is like a blueprint for a machine. So if you've got a car, you've got the blueprint for the car, however many pages that would be. Well, you would imagine that the blueprint for a space station would But you can't just copy and think you're gonna You've gotta get new information. And the biology itself Where did you get your information from? Outside of the system. - That's so important to just hear. The biology itself doesn't - No, absolutely. But the other thing we are taught is that things change by mutation, okay? - Yes, (indistinct). Right. Natural selection You know, you want a or this sort of a nose or whatever. And what you do is you and you kill off the ones you don't like. Well, you don't breed them, you hope. And then eventually over you get the new thing. And then you say, &quot;Wow, Well, you haven't. You've still got a dog. You haven't created anything that flies because all it had was And you've shuffled them around a bit, and you've got rid of some of them. So if you happen to be a Pekingese, you're not gonna turn into a wolf. But if you're a wolf, you well, Pekingese if you want to. But let's look at humans Natural selection always So you've actually gotta and then you can shuffle them. And you might get all But you can't add new things. Okay? Now, we get taught thalassemia, for example, a beneficial mutation. Well, thalassemia basically is a mutation. It's where the red blood And it doesn't last as long. And you're more likely to be anemic because it's not gonna be as much as you like. It is helpful if everybody in with the malaria parasite, because that gets into the blood cells, and then the fragile blood cells break and the malaria parasite So people with thalassemia are more likely to survive an attack by malaria, whereas other people might die out. And then what happens is of the people in that But it didn't add any information. - Beneficial but didn't add. And the other one we've the super bacteria. And I must confess, I and I've even as a doctor where someone was talking about and the evolution of the new bacteria. And I knew that was rubbish, absolutely. But I wasn't gonna stand up and, you know, risk my career by saying that's rubbish. Because again, an idea is And if you just get one idea, the whole thing isn't gonna change. If I'd said to the person, even if they'd said to me, &quot;Well, what do you mean it's rubbish?&quot; I'd say, &quot;Well, those bacteria, they're actually damaged, they're mutated. Their little pump for bringing things into them doesn't work very well, which means they can't pump So all the healthy bacteria they pump into the antibiotic So then what happens is, the ones that they were weaker, but they've now got no more You know, they breed in hospitals. You actually find them in But if you send them out to the community, they wither quite quickly So they didn't evolve. And the other one about bacteria that they did find some bacteria that had been taken by before the development of antibiotics. And they have those same bacteria. They were there with their weaker thing, their weaker mutation. So you can drive trucks through Mostly people don't want to know though. - It seems odd that people who would know these things that you're explaining about it's evolved and focus as support when they They understand this medically. if they do know. If you can't see, you - So that was N. Okay. So DESIGN in DNA. D, the DNA is dependent on the cell, and the cell is dependent on DNA. Well, evolution doesn't win there. E, enormous complexity. The 3D thing of DNA is absolutely S, software. The information isn't The language is outside of the DNA itself, had to come from a designer. I was irreducible complexity. Remember the mouse trap and the fact of the New Everything needs everything else. And you take the posty G was getting new information. That was, think about the giraffe. It just doesn't happen. You've gotta put so much more. And you've gotta change the whole thing. You've gotta change a It doesn't happen bit by bit. And N was natural selection. Natural selection takes out information. So you may have some beneficial mutations, but they are basically to the DNA. So DNA was designed. And the amazing thing is - If it's designed, it needs a designer. - Yeah. - When you were studying you said evolution is wonderful as you were marveling What were you actually reflecting on? - I think it had replaced God. Because previously when He was this person who'd at leaving something, mah, but some amazing bits as well. Then when I was learning and evolution had caused it, it was a sort of like a God up in the sky who'd done the thing who you And you just had to accept So we were absolutely aware of the human body, the the feedback loops in hormones. I mean the process of birth, which means &quot;standing same&quot;. Where you've got this set point, which is the best thing for survival, either the certain amount or waste, or pH, which is acidity. So you've got a set point, and then if you stay within And if you go too far outside And say blood pressure. So you've gotta have a mechanism for being able to measure what it is. You've gotta have a mechanism for being able to send a message to say, &quot;Hey, you've gone off track a little bit with your blood pressure too high. You've gotta bring it back again.&quot; And there are all these where you've just got, it just stays amazingly where it is. Otherwise, we would be dead. You can't evolve those sort of things 'cause everything fits together. And then in most systems, you've got what you do normally to keep it within the normal parameters. And then often there's a And then sometimes there's a to try and maintain life. - So there's judging of and if there needs to be any changes. And then there's even planning- - Planning, yeah. wrong or something really bad. - Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I do that in my psychiatry work. If someone is likely to have an episode of a particular mental illness, we work out a relapse management plan. It is, this is what you're and this is what people see and how they should interact with you. And then if you are slightly stressed, well, every human can be stressed. That doesn't mean disease. This is what you'll be like, And this is what they should do. Maybe help you get back on track On the other hand, if there's the signature of the illness, well, you may not be able They might have to do something different. And then there's, if things this is the crisis of what So we work that out as a plan with people so that they can manage and monitor and really delight in their the problem that they which is a homeostatic mechanism. - And what you're saying is this is happening in our body. - All the time. So many examples. - What about another example? I've heard you mention circulation. Let's talk about that one. - Okay, I really enjoyed because it's so easy to So you've got the heart that's And it's pumping blood 100,000 kilometers of blood And- - Yes. Okay, so basically what it is, the circulation is a transport. It's your super highway, which sends in the first responders if there's been a problem. You know, how police, well, we've got them in So the white blood cells and they come along and And then you've got the platelets. They do a little clotting cascade, which is amazingly complicated. And what happens is you can plug up a hole inside of the pipe, so you've got some bleeding, some tear in the pipe, and it's all bleeding out. And you send in your platelets, But they won't plug it up so much that you have a clot in the whole pipe, 'cause if you have an obstacle, well, you could die as well. So the concept that I was that something has to be produced that will make something get started, stay for long enough, and then be able to be dismantled. The control in deciding when you're gonna do something like that is so- being made. And judgments, decisions Is it okay to have a Well, if you've got some yes, you have to have a and you're sending your histamine. The white blood cells They open the little and out other things go into So deciding when and where, you've got to have the grand picture, you've got to know something like that. And then you've got all the They were fun to learn as well You know, you've got the from your brain goes to the thyroid, which says, &quot;Please make some thyroxin. Make that go around the body and tell every cell of with growth and energy usage.&quot; And if you don't have enough thyroxin, everything slows down. And if you have too much, it The interesting thing about they're involved in other feedback loops. And so if you say, &quot;Well, let's give us a gene which will So you might increase cortisol here, which does amazing things But it may cause, increased cortisol will So things are so intricate and balanced, and finally balanced that when you, the idea of something it's like putting a stick in the motor of a jet engine, literally. &quot;Oh, we're gonna change No, it won't work. And because it won't work, there are so many ways And then you've got, going back to the, well, Which is an interesting thing, which would probably bring us on to birth if you wanted to have a look at that. Should we go there? You mentioned birth before. - I'd love to. There's probably not one example which says evolution didn't work. But if evolution depends on having lots and lots of goes at that's okay, eventually you'll succeed. Well, with birth, if well, then those genes go nowhere, okay? So just imagine. - And you've had three children? - I've had three children. Yes, indeed. And, yes, let me tell you about relaxin. That is the hormone which which is great to be The bones are too narrow for most average-sized And so if the ligaments are stretched, then everything moves. However, if your relaxin you might find yourself if you are going to be able to survive. So middle child, I was on crutches. And it all came back to normal afterwards, which was absolutely amazing. So even to get the baby out, that is just mindbogglingly complicated because you've got the physiology, you've got all the different And then you've got the mechanics, and then you've got the controlling. Did you know, when the baby's then the nerves of the to the brain, &quot;Do something, which is gonna get things happening. It's like, okay, again, this we've got to design okay, I'm developing a baby in the uterus, we'd like to keep it closed, please. And then at some point, And then we've gotta close again. Those things are in three dimension. And again, if you don't get It's such important decisions to be made. Yes, indeed. - So we were designed. We were designed. And look, one thing I really that I did medicine sort of in the dark with regard to the design. It was like, &quot;Oh, this is It's like watching a lovely You know nothing about it. And then when I started to oh my goodness, everything's designed, you know, there is a designer, well, I wasn't actually for a while anyway. And most people, they go, &quot;I You know, we don't automatically go, &quot;Well, let me meet the designer.&quot; We don't. And we know about that. - Even though we can look at and we know straight away, that's being designed. - And planned. - But when it comes to our I find that interesting that you said that many people can but perhaps they don't want a designer, The Designer. - Why do you think some - Ah, okay. Well, we all wanna be in Absolutely. And there are things that Initially some people were looking at, how do we help adults give up smoking? Now, if an adult has a broken leg and the doctor can go well, you just lie there But smoking is an issue of, it's a behavioral change, and there's positives and And if there weren't any positives, people wouldn't keep doing it. But there are some big negatives. So people were looking at, And they realized it depends So some people are pre-contemplative, which is a nice way of saying in denial or really saying, &quot;I'm gonna Okay, I wanna keep doing it. Either I'm scared, I can't change, or I haven't thought about it. I didn't realize it was possible, or everybody else is doing it.&quot; Then there's people we They're actually thinking about, &quot;Maybe I'd like to change, I haven't really got or I haven't seen enough information to make me comfortable.&quot; Then you've got people who They're in determination. So they can see their target, their goal, but they just need to And then there are people There's the change. And often we go backwards And then there's people in maintenance and then we have relapse. And I work with a lot of people And we help them to see, and we say, &quot;Hey, would you And giving people information And I think it's so respectful that, and I say to my people, &quot;With regard to your stages of change with all of your drug And one chap said, &quot;Oh, I'm definitely in I'm in contemplation for my cannabis, 'cause that's why I'm And, oh, I'm in maintenance for my heroin. I never use that again.&quot; And I showed him what we do to help people move along those stages. And the first thing you do is you make a relationship with the person. You see them as they really are. And often people haven't been seen, they haven't been validated. They've been told what to do. And you can get change from But you're more likely to get change if it flows from inside. But that's harder to control because the person has a choice. - So that's about them actually wanting to change. But not only just wanting, but being able to be And we talk about which is just a fancy word which is interviewing, and motivational is towards, And we do a little And we say, &quot;Okay, what are for this particular option, or the other?&quot; And then we let the person, usually they feel anxious because it's easier to stay the same. We have this homeostatic And even giving information which shifts that is uncomfortable. So the person has to be able to tolerate the uncertainty of what or what if I can't stay where I am? And that's the anxiety rises, which basically does which is go back and And I was like that. You know, I didn't wanna You know, I had this fixed up there with a big stick and, you know, He didn't really like me. And if I spoke to Him, I didn't think He'd really care anyway. So I didn't even wanna face And again, if we can give &quot;Oh, I'm in that stage of change,&quot; and the Creation Ministries where my eyes were open, I was clearly in contemplation. I was looking for something. And a really good friend, who's he was in pre-contemplation. &quot;Yeah, yeah. I can see that. I can see how I could, you know, change.&quot; For people who are smokers, if they say, &quot;Well, might or I don't wanna change at all.&quot; The most important thing is to go, &quot;Okay, well you are a human being. You are designed. You are an amazing person. And it's your right to stay there.&quot; I mean, I'm not your I didn't create you. So I don't have the right But again, you can invite &quot;Are you interested in the information?&quot; And if they are, that's great. And if they're not, still love them. Well, I was looking, and I'm really grateful that you have been And I've learned probably more science, more medicine of the certainly more genetics And, you know, the website, and the fact that these they care about the minute detail of truth and some of the ideas to talk about some years ago when it was found that those or there was some reason They'd say, they tell everybody, &quot;Don't use that as evidence.&quot; So once you actually and you meet God, and you go, but then doors open and you start to learn a whole lot of other stuff, which has just been really amazing. - As we're finishing up, Dianne, you've decided to speak but that puts you in a in some ways. Does it not? Look, I understand that when any new idea, even if it's true, comes along, normally people will ignore it. They'll deny. Then they'll probably ridicule it. Then they usually shoot the messenger. And then if the truth keeps people start to look. Some will never wanna And then sometimes people will adopt it. And I keep, remember Semmelweis? - Who's he? he was a doctor in Vienna, 1800s. And he realized that if people, the doctors were going to the autopsy, and then nobody washed 'cause they didn't even know about germs. Then they go and deliver babies. And these women get Then they die. And then these ladies end And then they're examined why did they die? They did not know about And he'd figured something to do with if you washed your hands in between or you washed your knives, and anyway he was saying that people ought to wash Yeah, I mean, we're - We take that for granted, the knowledge that we have. Oh, the same rollout. The homeostasis was, well, doctors can't kill It was something like, you know, &quot;Bad things can't be transmitted literally was what they said. And so at first everybody ignored it, then they ridiculed it, and then they shot the messenger. Well not quite. You know, he was certainly disgraced. And then eventually some and then eventually became normal. But I think the way the you've got to be respectful. You've gotta say, &quot;Hey, I've found something here, and I think this is very important. And I'm offering to But if you don't like it, that's okay, because there's, relationship So, you know, I know I who don't agree with what I believe in and I don't agree with But we get on well as and we continue to be able in respectful and productive relationships regardless of what we believe. And that's what we want is for, what is it, you tell the truth, but with gentleness and respect. - Okay, so as we learn about particularly the ones you've about how the body has - Yeah. and people can choose how they respond. Yeah. Yeah. Because that was the If I'd been beaten over the head with it, I would've pushed back and dug my head in the sand. And, yeah, so we just offer it. And you've got lots of resources on offer. - And if you want more you can sign up for our email newsletter. It's called INFObytes, and the link will be in Dianne, thank you so much Thank you for your time. - Mm, my pleasure.