Microbes are everywhere, on your phone, in your water bottle, on your hands before you wash them, on your hands after you wash them, and literally everywhere else on top of you too. Microbes are omnipresent at any moment, So, millions of years ago we made a pact, we give them shelter and food, and in turn they work for us. But the more we learn about this partnership, Inside our mother's womb, When we are born and traveling billions of our mother's bacteria cover This is an essential part of human health. Children born via C-section have a immune diseases and even leukemia. So our bodies do not only accept the invasion Over millions of years, we co-evolved to Mother's milk for example, contains special sugars that are certain groups of microbes, work as a decoy for others, and help to modulate the It takes up to two years, until a healthy Every human has their own unique microbiome, viruses, fungi and other organisms. We have three categories of guests, One: Quiet passengers that do their own thing, By being there, they take up space and keep Two: Guests that harm us, But with whom we've learned to live, for example, bacteria that literally create if we don't brush enough. They want to take up as much and we don't want them to. But, we can't get rid of them entirely. Three: Friendly fellows that our bodies most of them are a community of from up to 5,000 different species, These gut microorganisms help us digest food, and pull additional calories from things Unfortunately, our gut is also the so it's guarded by an aggressive army, our immune system. To survive here, our microbiome to be able to communicate The most important part of that is to ask But, they also have a real motivation so some of them produce a that help to educate the immune system, and others stimulate the gut cells But, over the last few years. Evidence has emerged that the goes much much further. It might even talk directly to our brain. We've observed a few curious things, 90% of our body's serotonin, an important messenger substance is produced in the gut. Some scientists think the to communicate with the vagus nerve. The information highway of our nervous system. Other examples are bacteria that so they send a kind of alarm Here, it activates immune cells that help Since the brain decides what we eat, the microbiome is interested A new field of science is and we're just on the verge of complex systems inside our bodies interact. But we are starting to see how actually influences us and our behavior. Take depression for example, Healthy rats fed microbes from the began showing anxiety-like behavior, and symptoms that look like depression. And in early 2017, a study linked the by connecting a certain set up with better motor and language skills. But it might also influence our daily lives. Tests with fruit flies, showed that their microbiome, influenced This could mean your microbes are which food it should get them. Although, this is not a one-way street The seed for our microbiome but how it develops and changes, is the organisms in our gut feed some like fibers and leafy greens, others go for sugars and starches, and some love greasy fries and butter. Our gut is like a garden in which what will grow and blossom. If we eat healthily, we breed bacteria If we eat a lot of fast food, then we Life is hard, so we can get trapped You have a stressful time, and eat lots This is awesome for fast food bacteria, they multiply and multiply, and take up space But even worse, they send signals to the this makes you want more Which breeds more fast which makes you crave fast food, This kind of self-reinforcing cycle, could play a huge role in obesity. But, it's important to stress that you and reverse it, by eating healthily and Beyond weight gain, our microbiome serious diseases like autism, schizophrenia, and cancer. One of the earliest symptoms of Parkinson's, If your body is overrun with there is often only one solution. You bring in an army of good guys. That's very easy, You just transplant some healthy poop. You do that by literally transferring poop, into your gut. This method is already used, that's caused when C. difficile bacteria, But we just don't know enough about For example, a transplant from an overweight but contributed to her obesity down the line. This caused some ways and another Poop transplants from slim people gave them a more diverse microbiome, and made them less sensitive to insulin. Both things that also happen when We need to do a lot more science, how our microbes make us But, whether we like it or not. We need our microbiome, and it needs us. We'll never have our bodies to ourselves. But we have gained a powerful ally, if we can just keep the peace.