Osiris-rex has been in orbit around the asteroid Bennu for around a year now! Bennu is the smallest object ever orbited. and as a result, an Osiris-rex orbits only several hundred. meters above its surface. Being so close to the asteroid means it can examine its entirety in minute detail. So what has it discovered and seen so far. and what does the mission still have to do? I'm Alex McColgan and you're watching Astra and together! we will explore the surface of Bennu's talk about any special findings. that have come up so far and Investigate what's coming up next for this special mission? As I mentioned one of the most unique things about this mission is the fact that Osiris Rex is orbiting Bennu. which is only 500 meters wide a 500-meter wide object barely has any gravity at all 11which means one orbit of Bennu takes 62 hours at an altitude of 1.75 kilometers However, orbiting Bennu was necessary to map. it's surface accurately as the spacecraft orbits and the asteroid Rotates as Osiris Rex is scanning the surface creating the highest resolution map of any celestial body to date!!! This detailed examination is to find the best landing site for Osiris-Rex, which is actually a sample return mission Scientists want to retrieve 60-grams from the surface of Bennu and return it back to earth in pristine condition. While there are a lot of meteorites that land on the surface of the earth and we have many many samples. These meteorites pass through our atmosphere! Heating up to incredible temperatures, which alters the delicate materials in the meteorite Upon impact, they are also then exposed to the surface of earth making it hard for scientists to distinguish. what was there from before and after the impact a sample directly from an asteroid! protected in a box from contamination which occurs during the re-entry process Can give a much greater insight to the nature of asteroids than anything we have observed before With this sample. Scientists will be able to search for organic compounds like amino acids! Hydrated materials like clays, and other substances that would otherwise be hard to detect. But has Osiris Rex found anything interesting during its preliminary scans? Osiris Rex isn't just taking photos of the asteroid, but it is also mapping the global properties!! Chemistry, and mineralogy, of this primitive carbonaceous asteroid to characterize its geologic and dynamic history! to provide context for the returned samples. It's doing this to help pick the best site for the sample return part of the mission! Scientists are looking for the most geologically An interesting site that can provide the most interesting sample. Spectroscopic surveys have already revealed that there are hydrated materials or in other words. clays, on the surface of Bennu. This is significant clays, contain water and Bennu was not a type of body where scientists expected to find traces of water Scientists are still of the belief that a body as small as Bennu could never have held its own water! but what this does imply is that liquid water was likely present on the body been who would have originated from and All that remains of it is what been locked away in these clays? Scientists had a rough idea of what Bennu who looked like before Osiris Rex even arrived. Thanks to radar! imaging from ground-based telescopes. However, what they didn't expect is just how much the surface is covered with large boulders. Many asteroids have been described as rubble piles in the past. But I don't think anyone was expecting it at this scale. Just to give you a sense of scale. The largest Boulder on the surface is 20- meters high and about the size of a football field!!! Other boulders you see here are about the size of a horse. This makes picking a landing site a little tricky when ideally you are looking for a patch roughly 25- meters in diameter. Containing particles no bigger than a centimeter. So your sample collector can retrieve a sample safely! However for smaller landing sites were eventually chosen named Osprey. Kingfisher nightingale and Sandpiper. Even though they are smaller sites than originally hopeful the sites are relatively free from boulders. Scientists have had to adjust and refine their plans, to make sure an Osiris Rex will hit its mark as the difficulty of the maneuver is Exasperated by the small size the landing sites, which are no bigger than a few car parking spaces. with large and dangerous boulders surrounding them He won't be long before the final sample site is picked and within a few months of that mission, controllers will attempt the sample collection. All being well, they'll be successful on their first attempt, but they do have the fuel to try again. Should they not get anything the first time and if they don't crash. Considering Bennu is seemingly an inactive pile of rocks floating in space! Then you also surprise scientists greatly when Osiris-Rex spotted some dynamic activity on the asteroid. Occasional ejection events were spotted where some material was flung away into space! Some of these particles were even captured in orbit around the asteroid for a few orbits. before eventually returning to the asteroid surface. this is likely due to the fast rotation of the asteroid. and Osiris- Rex has already been able to detect that this rotation is Speeding up very gradually due to the effect. This effect is caused by the slight pushing effect of solar radiation! Acting on an irregularly shaped object causing it to rotate faster over very long periods of time. The speed of the rotation can already be seen due to the build-up of rocks along the equator through centrifugal forces If the rotation continues to speed up then the asteroid might eventually disintegrate. Altogether when centrifugal forces overcome the gravity of the asteroid. This can already be seen in small events like the one I showed you before So in short when you had a lot of surprises waiting for scientists when Osiris Rex arrived It was a lot more lumpy than expected with giant boulders comprising almost the entirety of the surface it contains plays and other hydrated minerals and Dynamic activity originating from Venu was witnessed up close We still have the sample collection part of the mission to go and I can't wait to see what else Bennu has in store for us Those of you that have followed the channel for a while have probably heard me mention brilliant org I've really enjoyed having them as a sponsor as what they do goes hand-in-hand with the purpose of this channel To educate about the world and the universe around us. They have puzzles and challenges Posted daily and they have tons of interactive content that makes solving puzzles about science and astronomy fun and hands-on Helping you wrap your head around some of the more complex theories using real-life examples and situations So if you haven't already be sure to check them out now so you don't miss out you can sign up for free today by using the link brilliant org forward slash Astro and That link will also get you 20% off their annual premium subscription to get unlimited access to all of brilliance interactive math science and computer science courses Thanks for watching If you like this mission update be sure to check out my other videos on a variety of space missions in this playlist I use Spanish or Hindi speaking. There's now a dedicated astrum channel for those languages and Lastly a big thanks to my patrons and members who support the channel If you want to support Astrum to make more videos like these in the future Check the links in the description!! love you all and see you next time