(wood snapping) (wood clattering) (wood snapping) (gentle ethereal music) (wood clattering) (dramatic whooshing) (mouse clicking) (bell ringing) (gentle ethereal music) (gentle ethereal music continues) - It's literally come to the point where I'm sleeping with an (gentle ethereal music) The last few weeks have because in the last few weeks I've started to realize to do what I do. And I never had to deal with not on this level, but just the fact that it's all happening now is making me rethink this channel, what this channel is about, and the future of it. And this is not click-bait, I'm not being overly dramatic, I think you'll understand. A few minutes ago, a man that I don't know appeared on my property, and he turned to me and he I've been looking for you.&quot; This is a man that I don't know, that I didn't invite here, who came here all on his own to my private property in the mountains where there is no obvious He made his way up the hills and through the fricking To find a woman who's camping on her own, on her private property to I was shocked. I was shocked, and and so scared. I immediately told him that and that I'm not looking for guests. I took my ax and I went This is not the first time that something like this has happened, because a few weeks ago, A few weeks ago I was filming with National Geographic for my new show, when I found out that another that I had zero contact with ever, had been looking for me I wasn't there at the time, of course, I was filming with Nat Geo but the next thing I where we were filming, and he flew from Europe to Africa to chase me down, convinced that we were and that we're supposed to be together, that destiny is bringing us together, and so this man is looking I don't know him, I don't know who he is, I don't know his intentions, I don't... And he found me. It's a really terrifying experience when men that you don't know seek you out and you don't And some of them are delusional. Some of them think that some of them think that you're This guy was about to propose to me without fucking knowing me, without me knowing... This level of... I don't even know what to call it, but these situations make me and I never thought I I've always thought of and independent person, and I wasn't gonna let them grind me down. I'm not going to. But it's terrifying. Having to get restraining When situations like this happen, it makes you feel violated I'm here on my private land. I never released the I never wanted anyone to I never invited anyone This is my sanctuary, so for someone to violate that, to come here without permission and seek me out while I'm feels so wrong. Your home is your home, your it's a sacred space, it's a temple where you get to be yourself and where you shouldn't your own wellbeing and safety. And on that, I'm out here I can't lock myself up. I have an ax. I have another weapon. But a stranger, a strange man coming here feels fucking terrifying. Feels fucking terrifying. Women choose the bear, I'd choose the fucking bear any day. So when things like this that people are out there to find you for whatever fucked up reason they've convinced themselves of, you realize that not not only is your body not only is your privacy at stake, but you also lose freedom. You lose some part of your autonomy. I've been asking myself whether I should even stay here tonight given what has just happened. And I don't wanna give into the fear, but I also don't know if (Eva exhaling) You know, I just wanna feel safe. (gentle ethereal music) (gentle ethereal music continues) (gentle ethereal music continues) (gentle ethereal music continues) (gentle ethereal music continues) - [Person] I say take Vilk and just (censored) head down to your car. I'd drive over to your friend's, just park for the night, come back in the morning - Yeah. Yeah, that's probably wise. - [Person] It's... Especially earlier than later, you know, it's not fun, it's (censored) but, like, if we're just with this situation where you don't know who this guy is, you know, he says he's visiting, you know, it could be another weirdo that's coming to look for stuff, so, like, we just don't know. He comes up with beers, so he starts drinking, and - Yeah, that's true. I don't really know what to do, but my friend's telling and spend the night in the car. Vilk is looking pretty alert. Normally, he's already and I kind of don't wanna but I also don't think I'd be able to fall asleep here tonight, honestly, because I just don't... I don't know, you know? People drink, people get It's so dark, I don't want to go through the forest in the dark. But I didn't feel safe here right now. My gut's telling me to go. (gentle ethereal music) (gentle ethereal music continues) (zipper zipping) (backpack rustling) (gentle ethereal music) (gentle ethereal music continues) (zipper zipping) (loud rustling) I genuinely hate the 'cause it feels like giving up, but I don't really have At least, I don't feel so I'm gonna take this, and I'm gonna go to sleep in the car. (gentle ethereal music) (gentle ethereal music continues) (gentle ethereal music continues) (zippers zipping) Come on, let's go. (gentle ethereal music) And you know what the craziest Is that I know for a fact in these forests right now, as we speak, because I've seen them on my trail cams, because people in the village have lost dogs and sheep and yet, I feel like it's safer for me to go down the forest to my than to stay here and face coming up to me in the (grass crunching) Vilk, wait. Yes, good boy. I wanted to put him on a leash because there might be wild animals out and about right now, and I just wanna make sure that because he is being very watchful as if he's caught some kind of scent. Come on, buddy. Yeah, let's go. It also doesn't help that just today, a local told me the story was out on a walk with his dog, and his dog just ran off they heard a squeak, and the like, within just a few like, right here, in this part... On this part of the mountain. I'm not being dramatic, that people have been telling me. (Eva laughing nervously) Great. (tense ethereal music) I hate this. I fucking hate this. (tense ethereal music) (gentle piano music) (gentle piano music continues) (gentle piano music continues) Okay, this is our spot for tonight. Okay, buddy, you can get out. I'm just packed up in a forest, 'cause this forest feels than anywhere else, and I'm just gonna put the seats down and try and make some space for (laughs) Should be interesting. (loud rustling) (gentle ethereal music) (loud rustling) Okay, but boy, you're gonna (gentle ethereal music) Thank you very much. Good boy. (gentle ethereal music) (gentle ethereal music continues) (car door closing) (gentle electronic music) (gentle electronic music continues) (ethereal piano music) (ethereal piano music continues) (ethereal piano music continues) (ethereal piano music continues) Well, I'm back, and I've decided that I'm just gonna pack (relaxed guitar music) (plastic bag rustling) (relaxed guitar music) (light rustling) (relaxed guitar music) (relaxed guitar music continues) (Eva speaking in foreign language) (light rustling) (gentle guitar music) (Eva speaking in foreign language) (playful orchestral music) (Eva speaking in foreign language) Stay. (Eva speaking in foreign language) (playful orchestral music) Get out. (playful orchestral music) (Eva speaking in foreign language) (stool clattering) (Eva grunting in exertion) This isn't how I wanted but it is what it is. (cloth rustling) Thank you, beautiful, cozy little tent, for keeping me safe and warm. I'll miss you so much. (Eva exhaling) Can't wait to be back here again one day. (gentle piano music) So you may be wondering, &quot;What's next?&quot; And honestly, I don't know, there's a few ideas that I have. On the one hand, a part of me but there's another pretty &quot;I just know that I'm okay to feel a little bit vulnerable right now, and maybe the best thing for me to do will be to just get some space, get some distance, some perspective, and think about what feels I just really need to feel safe and I think that's reasonable to ask, so I may not have all the answers yet, but next week, I'm gonna and figure it out, so yeah. (indistinct) Wow. (gentle guitar music) (gentle guitar music continues)