Ladies and gentlemen, But could I ask everybody to sit down? We're about to get started. My next, my next guest. I am so impressed by this person. Three reasons. First reason is there are only a handful of entrepreneurs, founders that started a company that literally touched the lives of billions of people around the world invented services, Two. Very few entrepreneurs, founders, founded the company and led it to over $1 trillion of value. And three, a college dropout. All three things simultaneously true. Ladies and gentlemen, How's it going? Welcome. Mark, welcome to your first Siggraph. All right. Can you believe this? One of the pioneers of computing. A driver of modern computing. And I had to invite him to Siggraph. So, anyways, Mark, sit down. It's great to have you here. Welcome. Thanks for flying down. Yeah. No, this will be fun. I hear you've been going for, like, Well, yeah, sure. This is Siggraph. You know, there's 90% PhDs. And so the thing that's really great this is image processing, artificial intelligence And some of the some of the companies and revealed Adobe, Epic Games. And of course, you know, NVIDIA. We've done a lot of work here. This year we introduced 20 papers of artificial intelligence and simulation. So we're using artificial help simulation, be way larger scale, way faster. For example, differentiable physics. we're using simulation to create, simulation environments for synthetic data And so these two areas are really coming We're really proud of the work you guys have done amazing AI work. I mean, one of the things that, writes about how Meta has jumped into AI this last couple of years, as if, you know, the remember, the work that you do in computer the work in language models, real-time groundbreaking work. I guess my first question for you is, the advances And how do you apply it to either or introduce new capabilities Yeah. So a lot to unpack there. First of all, really happy to be here. you know, Meta has done a lot of work you know, eight years. So, I mean, it's a, you know, we're noobs But, I know, I think it was back in in 2018. You're dressed right, but this is my hood. I just, you know, it's I mean, well, I think it was back in 2018. We showed the some of the early for our VR and mixed reality headsets. You know, I think we've talked a bunch codec avatars, the photorealistic avatars to drive from consumer headsets, so pretty excited about that. And also, a lot of the display systems So, some of the future prototypes the mixed reality headsets to be able pretty advanced optical stacks systems, the integrated system - I mean shown here first. So, excited to be here. You know, this year not just talking all the AI pieces, which, as you said, the AI research center. you know, back then it was Facebook. Now, Meta. Before we started Reality Labs. I mean, we've been at this for All the stuff around it's an interesting revolution. And I think that it's I think all of the different products you know, different I mean, I kind of go through - you can look at the big product lines so things like the feed and Facebook where that's gone from just being about and, the ranking was always important you know, following friends, you know, like your cousin had a baby or something, You'd be pretty angry at us somewhere down in your feed. So the ranking was important. But now, over the last few years, it's Is just different public content The recommendation systems just a few hundred or thousand there's millions of pieces of content a really interesting And with generative AI, I think we're going to quickly where not only is that you see today on Instagram, just recommended to you that's out there in the world whether or not you follow the people. I think in the future, a lot of this stuff Some of that is going to be creators Some of it, that's either created on the fly for you, or kind of pulled together through different things So that that's just one example of how kind of the core part of what we're doing And it's been evolving for Well very few people realize that one of the largest computing systems is a recommender system. I mean, it's this whole yeah, it's It's not quite the kind of gen AI hotness but I think it's And it's a similar thing of just Embedding, embedding Yeah. I mean, one of the big things is, you know, it used to be that you'd have a different model So a recent example is, you know, and recommending reels and another model for ranking And then, you know, take some product work so that the system can display, But, you know, the more you kind of just create more general recommendation it just gets better and better. I mean, part of it, I think, is just like economics and the broader of a pool that you can pull from, inefficiencies But yeah, I mean, as the models get bigger that gets better and better. So I kind of dream of one day, you can almost imagine you know, like a single AI model all these different content types that actually have different objectives Because some of it is just showing you, you know, what's the interesting content that you want to see today, but some of it is helping you build out Right? People you may know or accounts And these tend to be much better at recognizing And so one of the things that people that AI has been so deep in your company, running these large recommender systems We're a little slow on it Yeah, I was trying to be nice. I know. Well, you know too nice. I was trying to be nice. You know, you're my guest. When I was backstage you were talking about, like, owning You don't have to volunteer it I think this one has been well tried. Yeah, it's like I got raked over the coals for it. As soon as you got into it, Let's just put there you go, there you go. Now, the thing about, about generative I feel like I'm collaborating I love Imagine. I'm sitting here typing as I'm going. I go back and I change my words. It's generating other images. Yeah. You know, and so the one that old Chinese guy, enjoying a glass of whiskey at sundown with three dogs: a Golden Retriever, And it generates, Yeah. Yeah, we're getting there. And then now you could actually load and it'll actually be me. Yeah. That's as of last week. Yeah. Yeah. Super excited about that. Now imagine me. Yeah. Now I'm spending a lot of time imagining them as mermaids and things been it's been a lot of fun. But yeah, I mean, that's I mean, a lot of the gen it's I think going to just be this big upgrade that we've had for a long time. But on the other hand, completely new things that can now you know, the idea of having, you know, that can help you with different tasks you know, very creatively oriented, I mean, they're very general, to just constrain it to that. It'll be able to answer any question. Over time, like the Llama 3 class of models to Llama 4 it's going to, where it's like you, Then you give it a prompt and it responds, I think it's going to pretty quickly and it actually can go away And I mean, it probably should acknowledge But I mean, some of the stuff you know, compute jobs that take, and then just come back to you and like, And I think that that's Today's AI, you say something, But obviously when we think, or we're giving a problem, you know, Or maybe we come up with a, you know, a and we walk down the decision tree you know, what are the different outcomes of each decision And so we're doing planning. And so in the future AI's One of the things that when you talked I just think that's a home Tell everybody about the creator AI and that's going to enable you to do that. Yeah, so we actually we've talked about it a bit, but You know, a lot of our vision is that I don't think that there's just going I mean, this is something in the industry, they're like, you know, it's like they're building and yeah, we'll have the Meta AI But a lot of our vision all the people who use our products So whether that's, you know, that are on the platform or, you know, we eventually want to just be able and very quickly stand up a business with your customers and, you know, do So, the one that we're that we're just we call it AI Studio. And it basically is, a set of tools so that every creator can build as sort of an agent or an assistant There's kind of a fundamental issue here just not enough hours in the day. It's like if you're a creator, you want to engage but you're constrained on time. And similarly, but it's tough. I mean, there's So the next best thing these artifacts. Right? It's an agent, on your material to represent you in the way that you want. I think it's a very kind like a piece of art or content No, it's to be very clear that it's But I think it'll be another interesting way, on, on these, social systems, Similarly, where people basically create their own Some will be sort of customized utility, that they want to fine tune and and train an agent for, and And some of the things you know, Or kind of have a funny attitude you know, we probably couldn't we probably wouldn't build into Meta AI people are kind of pretty interested And then one of the interesting use cases kind of using these agents for support. This was one thing surprising to me is one of the top people basically using it to role play that they're going to be in. So whether it's a professional situation, I want to ask my manager, like, Or I'm having this fight with my friend, with my girlfriend. Like, And basically having zone where you can and see how the conversation will go But a lot of people, they don't just want agent, whether it's Meta AI or ChatGPT or whatever they want to kind of So that's But it's all part of this bigger, that there shouldn't just be one We just think that the world if there's a diversity I just think it's so cool and you have a style, all of your body of work, one of your models. And now this becomes an AI model You could ask me to create something along and you might even give me a drawing, a sketch, as an inspiration. And I can generate something for you. And you come to my bot for that, It could be, every single website will Yeah I mean, I kind of think that in you know, an email address and a website I think in the future, agent that interfaces with their customers. And some of these things, I think Like, if you think about any company, support as just a separate organization from sales, and that's not really It's just that, okay, You're building up these- Yeah. Whenever Mark needs something. I can't tell whether it's his chat bot It just was my chat bot here, Well, I guess that's kind of, when you're CEO, But, I mean, in your organization, you know, in general because they're kind of optimized But I think, like the platonic ideal of this would be As a, you know, as a customer, You know, you don't want to when you're trying to buy something versus with something that you bought, you just want to have a place and get your questions answered engage with the business in different ways. And I think that that applies I think that's the kind of personal consumer And all that engagement especially their complaints, Yeah. Totally. Right? The fact that is all engaging the institutional knowledge can go into analytics Yeah, yeah. So the business version of this is- has a little more integration and we're But the AI Studio making it so that people and different things, and getting started on this flywheel I'm pretty excited about that. So can I, can I use AI Studio to fine tune Yeah, yeah, And then I could, could I give it, load it use it as my RAG? Yeah. Basically. Okay. And then every time I come back to it, so it remembers where it left off And we carry on our conversation as, Yeah and look, I mean, like any product, The tools for training, It's not just about I mean, I think generally creators have topics So just getting better at all this stuff, I think the platonic version of You almost want to just be able to, and this is a sort of an intersection that we're doing over time. to have almost like with the agent. And I think we'll get there over time. I don't think that this stuff spinning really quickly, so it's exciting. There is a lot of new stuff to build. And I think models kind of stopped now, I think we'd have like five years for the industry to basically figure out how to most effectively use But I actually just think and the progress on the fundamental So, that it's, a pretty wild time. Your vision- It's all you know, Why thank you. In the last conversation, I - Thank you. Yeah. You know, you know, you know, We need a lot of back- Yeah. We're pretty grizzled at this point. I think we're we're the two kind of longest It's true. It's true. I just- And your hair has gotten gray. Mine has just gotten longer. Mine's gotten gray. Yours has gone curly, what's up? It was always curly. That's why I kept it short. Okay. You know, I just. If I'd known you would never would have started. No, I would have dropped out of college, Get a head start. Well, that's a there's a good difference You got a 12 year head start. That's pretty good. You know, you're doing pretty well. I'm gonna- I'm going to be able to carry on. Let me just put it that way. Yeah. So, so, the thing that I love about your vision that, everybody can have an AI that every business can have an AI In our company, I want every engineer and every software And, or many AIs. The thing is you also believe that everybody and every company So you actually open-sourced, I thought that was great. Llama 2.1, by the way, I thought Llama 2 was in AI last year. And the reason for that- I mean, I thought it was the H100, but, you know, it's, it's a chicken or the egg question. That's a chicken or the egg question. Yeah. Which came first? The H100. Well, Llama 2, it was, Yeah, it was A100 yeah. Thank you. And so, but the reason why I said it was came out, it activated every company, every enterprise and every industry. All of a sudden, Every company was building AI, every large company, small companies, It made it possible for every researcher because they have a starting and then now, 3.1 is out and the excitement, you know, we work together to, to deploy, 3.1, we're taking it out to the world's And the excitement is just off the charts. And, and I think it's going to enable But tell me about your Where did that come from? And, you know, And that it is now the framework And, now you've open-sourced Llama 3.1 or Llama And so I think it's terrific. But where did that all come from? Yeah. So there's a bunch of history I mean, we've done I think part of it, you know, just bluntly is, you know, after some of the other tech stuff like the distributed computing And, you know, because of that, by the time that we built that stuff, We're like, and then we'll benefit So we I think the biggest one we took our server and eventually the data center designs And by having that all the supply chains basically got organized around it, which had this So by making it public, and open, of dollars from doing that. Well, Open Compute was also HGXs, that we designed for one data center, in every data center. Awesome. So that was an awesome experience. And then, you know, infrastructure So I'd say we were sort of positively For, for AI models specifically. I guess there's a few ways I mean, one is, you know it's been really fun building stuff One of the things that that has been sort has been kind that we ship our apps So in the one hand, the mobile platforms That's been awesome. On the other hand, having to deliver is challenging, right? And I also, you know, the first version of Facebook And then, as a transition to mobile, you know, now So that's great. The downside is, okay, we're a lot more So, when you look at these generations where everyone just looks because the closed ecosystem, the terms of that. And like yeah, out there technically, but like Apple and like all the profits. And basically Android is kind of following So I think Apple But it's not always like that you know, Apple was doing their kind of closed thing. But Microsoft, which as you know, it company, but, you know, compared on all the different OEMs and different it was a much more open ecosystem and Windows It, basically in the kind of PC generation of things, And I am kind of hopeful that in the next generation of computing, to a zone where the open ecosystem wins There will always be a closed one I think that there's reasons to do both. I'm not like a zealot on this. I mean, we do closed source stuff and not everything that But I think in general for the computing platforms on, there's a lot of value for that So that's really shaped for both AI with Llama and with the work that we're doing in basically making the Horizon OS an open operating system in the sense of, what Android or Windows was we're going to be able to work to make all different kinds We basically just want to return that's going to be the open one. And I'm pretty optimistic that in the next generation, For us specifically I just want to make sure that we have access to- you know, one of my things I just want to make sure that we can build that we're going to be building because there have just been too many and then have just been told, nah, you can't really build that like, we're going to go build and make sure that that- There goes our broadcast opportunity. Yeah. No, sorry. Sorry. There's a beep. Yeah. You know, I've been doing okay for, like, 20 minutes, but... get me talking about closed Hey, look, it is great. I think it's a great world. Where there are to build the best possible AIs, however they build it, you know, as a service. And then. But if you want to build your own AI, So the ability to use an AI. You know, there's a lot of stuff, I prefer not to make this jacket myself. I prefer to have this jacket made for me. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. But so the fact that. So the fact that leather could be open but I think the, you could have great services, incredible Open ability. Then we basically have the entire spectrum. But the thing that's, great was you have 4 or 5B, you could, you could use it for synthetic use the larger models And although the larger models you could still build a smaller operating domain or operating costs Meta guard, I think? Yeah Llama Guard. Yeah Llama Guard, Llama Fantastic. And so now and the way that you built the You dedicated- You've got a world class safety team. World class ethics team. You could build it in such a way And so I really love that part of it. Yeah and I mean, just to finish the thought before I got, I do think there's this alignment where we're building it and we want to not get cut off Right? And, but this isn't just like It's, you know, you need And so it's almost like it well if we didn't open source it. Right? It's not we're not doing this Even though I think that for the ecosystem, and we're doing it to make the thing that we're building Well, look how many people contributed Yeah, totally. Mountains of engineering. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, NVIDIA alone, we probably have to making PyTorch better and scalable and, and so forth. Yeah and it's also just when something becomes standard, So like all of the silicon in the systems to run this thing really well, but it will also work And that's, I think, just one just being really effective. So, yeah, I mean, I think that yeah, it's just going to be a good one I think people still don't quite get it. We love it so much. We build this thing Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I mean, every time we're shipping you guys are the first to release this And so I mean, I, I appreciate that. What can I say? We have good engineers you know and so. Well you always just jump on this stuff You know, I'm a You know, that's what CEOs have to do. And I recognize an important thing, And I think that Llama is We built this concept called an AI factory, uh, so that we can help everybody build, take- you know, a lot of people, build AI. And it's very important they put that into that's how their company's institutional is encoded and embedded into an AI. So they can't afford to have the AI flywheel, the data flywheel So and so open source But they don't really know and so we created this thing We provide the tooling, Llama technology, turn this whole thing, into an AI service. And, and then when we're done with that, The output of it is what we And this NIM, this this neuro micro NVIDIA they just download it, they take it, they run it anywhere And we have a whole ecosystem of partners, GSIs like Accenture Llama-based NIMs and pipelines and we're off helping enterprises I mean, it's really quite an exciting thing. It's really all triggered off Yeah, I think especially the ability from the big model because there's this, just like how at least I don't think that there's going to like one major At the same level, I don't think that there's going to necessarily We have a chip AI, chip design AI, and our software coding because we code We have software AI that understands we have we have software AI and knows how to help us triage And so each one of these AIs are fine and so we fine tune them, we guardrail if we have an AI design, for, chip design, about politics, you know, and religion So we guardrail it. And so, so I think, I think every company will that they have, they will likely have AIs And they need help to do that. Yeah. I mean, I think it's one of the big to what extent are people just using the kind of the bigger, versus just training their own models And at least I would bet just a vast We use the largest ones. And the reason for that time is so valuable. and so we get, right now we're getting 4 And as you know, 405B doesn't And so that's why We have every one of our GPUs non-blocking switch called NVLink switch. And in the HGX for example, and we make it possible for all these, and run the 405Bs really performant. The reason why we do it is because You know, the fact that it's cost effective who cares? And so we just want to make sure is presented to them. Yeah. Well, I mean, the 405 I think is about half the cost So I mean, at that level, it's already But yeah, I mean I think people are doing They're just going to distil it down. So that's like a whole different set That AI is running, and let's pretend for a second that AI for chip You're using, if you're using it constantly and you're sharing that So each engineer probably has an And, you know, it doesn't cost very much. And we pay the engineers a lot of money. And so to us, a few dollars an hour, amplifies the capabilities of somebody Yeah, yeah. I mean, you don't need to convince me. If you haven't, if you haven't hired That's all we're saying. And so, let's talk about, the next, the next wave. you know, one of the things that you guys do, computer vision, one of the models that we use is Segment Everything, and, you know, that so that we can understand the world model. and industrial digitalization and, connecting these AI models into Omniverse we can, model and represent have robots that operate Your application, the Ray-Ban Meta glass, your vision for bringing AI into Tell us about that. Yeah. Well, the Segment Anything model that you're I think the next version of that here Segment Anything 2. And it now works, it's faster, it works with, oh, here we go. It works in video now as well. I think these are actually cattle from my ranch in Kauai. By the way, Delicious Mark's Cows. There you go. Next time we do- So, Mark, Mark came over to my house Next time you're bringing the cow. I'd say you did. I was more of a sous-chef. But, boy, that was really good. It was really good. That sous-chef comment. Okay, listen, And then at the end of the night though, you were And I was like, You're like, really? You know, usually when you say something I was definitely like, yeah, Did you get enough to eat? Usually your guest says, Make me another cheesesteak Jensen. So just to let you know how OCD he is. So I turn around, I'm prepping the, and I said, Mark, I handed him a knife. Yeah, I'm a precision cutter. And so he cuts. He cuts the tomatoes. Every single one of them are perfectly But the really interesting thing to be sliced and kind of stacked up, And, but when I turned around, And the reason for that was because all of the tomatoes Once he separates one slice of tomato from the other tomato, Yeah. Look, man, if you wanted them to touch, That's why I'm just a sous-chef. Okay? That's why he needs an AI that doesn't judge. Yeah, it's like. So this is super cool. Okay, so it's recognizing the cows track. It's recognizing tracking the cows. Yeah, yeah. So it's, a lot of fun And because it'll be open across the industry, too. So, yeah, I mean, scientists like coral reefs and natural habitats and, and kind of evolution of landscapes But, I mean, it's, being able to do this and be able to kind of interact with it and tell it what you want to track So, for example, the reason why we use it, and they've got a whole bunch of is watching everything that's going on. And let's say or somebody spilled whatever accident is about to happen, sends it to somebody, and, you know, And so that's one way of using it, If there's an accident, instead of and then going back and retrieve it just records the important stuff And so having a video understanding is really, really powerful Now what else what else talk to me about- Yes. There's all the smart glasses. So I think when we think you know, we kind of break it down and the smart glasses. I think it's easier for people around that and wearing it pretty much everyone today will end up And that's like more than a billion people So that's going to be a pretty big thing. the VR MR headsets, interesting for gaming or different uses. Some don't yet. Yet my view is that I think the smart glasses kind of always on version and the mixed reality headsets or your game console, for a more immersive session I mean, look, I mean, the glasses are There are Just like you can't do It came at exactly the time when all of these breakthroughs Yeah. So we basically for smart glasses, from two different directions what we think is sort of the technology holographic AR glasses and we're doing all the custom silicon work, like all the stuff that you need to do in their glasses. It's not like a VR or MR headset. They look like glasses. But, they're still quite a bit far off from the glasses I mean, those are very thin, but, that we that we make, you couldn't into that yet for kind of full holographic And over the next few years It'll still be pretty expensive, but The other angle that we've come at this is let's start with good looking By partnering with the best glasses maker They basically make You know, it's Ray-Ban or Oakley or Oliver Peoples Yeah, it's kind of all Essilor Luxottica. The NVIDIA of glasses. I think that, you analogy, but, I mean, who wouldn't So we've been working with them We're on the second generation. And the goal there has been, to just something that looks great. And within that, understanding the kind of ideal of what it'll, but at the end, And at this point we have so you can take photos and videos. You can actually livestream to Instagram. You can take video calls on WhatsApp what you're seeing. You can, I mean, it has I mean, the speaker is actually really, It's open ear so really a lot of people find it you can listen to music and it's just like That's pretty neat, people love that. but then it just turned out package was exactly what you needed So that was sort of an accident. If you'd asked me five years ago, AR before AI, Right I mean, it's just seems like kind of the graphics progression on all the virtual and mixed reality stuff We're just making continual progress That's right. And then this breakthrough And it turned out that and getting better at a really fast rate So it's sort of this inversion I mean, we're we're fortunately well positioned because we were working But I think what you're just a whole series of different potential glasses at different price points with different So I kind of think, based on what I would guess that display at like a $300 price that, like tens of millions of people or hundreds of millions of people So you're going to have super Yeah, visual. You have visual language you have real time translation. You could talk to me in one language, Then then the display but it's going to add and it's So I think for who want the kind of full But there are also going to be you know, they want something that eventually like really thin glasses and- Well for industrial applications and for some work applications, I think, for consumer stuff too. You think so? Yeah. I mean, I think, you know, it's I was thinking about this you know, during Covid when everyone It's like you're spending all this time like it's great that we have this, but, but in the future we're like, from being able to have a virtual meeting you know, it's like, It's just my hologram. Yeah. And like, it just feels like we're there We can work on something But I think this is going to be With that application I could live with, with a, a device Oh yeah. But I think we're going to get Yeah It'll be, I mean, within glasses there's like thinner frames and there's like all these styles. But so I don't, I think we're, we're a while away in the form factor of your glasses, but kind of chunkier framed glasses Sunglasses are face size these days. I could see that. Yeah. And you know, that's Yeah, sure. that's very helpful. You know, it's like I'm trying I'm trying to make my way into So I can, like, influence this before, you know, before the glasses Well I can see you attempting it. How's your You know, it's early. Yeah? It's early. It's early. But, I don't know, of the future of the business kind of stylish glasses that people wear, this is something I should probably start That's right. So, yeah, we're going to have to retire the version But I mean, that's I think it's, you know, it's unlike, or phones, like, people really do not want to all Right? And it's like, a, it's a platform going back to the theme towards being an open ecosystem, because I think the diversity that people are going to It's not like everyone is not going to want to put you know, whoever else designs like, I don't think Yeah, I think that's right. Well, Mark, it's sort of incredible where the entire computing stack is being You know, what Andrej calls software And now we're basically in software three now. The way we compute, generative neural network The capabilities, the applications we could develop And, and this technology, generative AI, I don't remember another technology that that in such a fast rate, influenced consumers enterprise, industries and science. And to be able to, to cut across, all these different fields of science to, biotech, to physical sciences, in every single field generative AI is right in the middle of that, And in addition to that, generative AI is going to make You know, the products that we're making. And one of the things that I'm earlier, is there going Well, that's exactly the creative You know, where we just build our own AIs with all of the things that I've written the way I answer questions and hopefully, over time, you know, it becomes a really, For a whole lot of to, you know, ask questions or, bounce ideas off of and, that as, as you were saying earlier, You're not afraid of being judged. And so you could come and interact with it But I just think, I think that And, you know, we write And how incredible is it Now, these are the basic themes of what to write about and write in my voice So there's just it's really I know that, I know that, it's not easy building a company, from desktop to mobile to VR to AI, all these devices, it's really, really, And NVIDIA's pivoted many times ourselves, doing that. And, you know, both of us have gotten a lot, plenty over the years. But that's what it takes to, So it's really great watching you. Well. And likewise, I mean, it's like, it's I'm if you keep doing the thing But it's but you add to it. I mean there's more chapters And I think the same thing for, it's I mean, the journey that you guys we went through this period nah, everything is going to kind of move you know, it's just going to get And you guys just kept on plugging away at this you're going to want these big systems You went the other way. Yeah. No. We went and instead of building smaller and smaller devices, we made computers A little unfashionable. Super unfashionable. Yeah, yeah. But now, now it's cool. And instead of, you know, we started and now when you, when, you still call it Hopper H100, Zuck calls H100s, I think you're coming up on 600,000. We're good customers. That's how you get the Jensen Q&amp;A at Siggraph. Wow. Hang on. I was getting the Mark Zuckerberg Q&amp;A. You were my guest. And I wanted to make sure You just called me one day you're like, hey, you know, in like a couple of weeks, I'm like, yeah, that day. I'll fly to Denver. Exactly. I'm not doing anything But the thing These systems that you guys build, they're giant systems. Incredibly hard to orchestrate, And, you know, journey later than the most. but you're operating larger and it's incredible to watch. And congratulations And, you are quite the style icon now. Check out this guy. Early stage, working on it. It's uh- Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you. Hang on, hang on. Well, you know, you know, that we got together, after dinner, Mark and I were- Jersey swap. Jersey swap, and we took a picture and and, and. Now, I thought that he I don't know, is that my look? It should be. Is that right? Yeah, I actually, I, I made one for you. You did? Yeah. That one's Mark's. I mean, here, let's see. We got a box back here. It's black and leather and shearling. Oh! I didn't make this. I just ordered it online. Hang on a second. It's a little chilly in here. I think I'll try this on. My goodness. I mean, it's a vibe Is this me? Get this guy a chain. Next time I see you I'm bringing you So fair is fair. So I let you know. I was telling everybody that Lori bought me a new jacket Siggraph is a big thing in our company. As you could imagine. RTX was launched here. amazing things were launched here. And this is a brand-new jacket. It's literally two hours old. Wow. And so I think we oughta jersey swap again. All right. Well- This one's yours. I mean, this is worth more Let's see. I don't know. He's like, the guy is pretty jacked. I'm in. You too, man. All right, all right, Mark Zuckerberg have a great Siggraph.