Transcriber: Jaime Ochoa In my past life as a soccer coach, once you won a national championship, everyone wants to come play for you. Really not true. Once you paid them everybody wants And parents would always &quot;Okay, my son or my daughter what is it that we have to do? You know, what are you looking for?&quot; And being the Socratic I say, well, what does What do they do really well And typically their answers are, They're really good. They can see the entire field. Or, my daughter is the fastest player, Or, my son's got a great left-footer. Really great in the air I'm like: &quot;Yeah, not bad; but to be quite honest with you, those are the last things The most important thing? Self-confidence.&quot; Without that skill, and I use without that skill, we are Because when you lose sight we're done for. I use the definition to be the ability or the belief to believe in yourself, no matter the odds, no matter the adversity. The belief that you can Some of you are saying, I'll never do that, bla, bla, bla.&quot; And you start to drag But, I use the word skill because I believe it can be trained. And I'll show you a couple Hopefully I won't run out of time. I don't use any slides because my speech always goes So we'll see which way we get to. The easiest way there's no magic button. I can't say: &quot;Hey, this plane who can fly? Put your hand up.&quot; &quot;I can, I'm confident!&quot; (Laughter) Repetition, repetition, repetition. Right? What does Malcom Gladwell call it, There's no magic button. I recruited a goalie from Colombia, Big, tall 6'3&quot; man. You know, he had hands like stone. I thought he was like Flipper. Everytime I threw him the ball, I was like, oh my god, Simple solution: get to the wall, kick a ball against kick the ball against His goal was 350 a day He came back, the moisture on his hands he is now playing in Europe. Magic? No. Repetition, repetition, repetition. The problem is, we expect but we can't be unless the skill, or the task we're doing, is not novel, is not new to us. We want to be in a situation where we have so and what I mean, cause we want to be in a situation where &quot;hey, I've done this I did my speech, and I practiced in front of a mirror: Hey I'm sounding good. And then I went I said, oh gosh, Then I'd get in front of Glenn Gould, Oh my goodness, By the time I get to the ACG, where 2,500 people, Twenty-five hundred people, where twenty-five hundred I won't have a single because of my ability to practice. Right? Over, and over, and over, again. The problem with repetition is: how many of us bail How many of us bail after Edison was on that video, and it depends who you ask, there's anywhere from 1,000 to 10,000 tries 1,000 to 10,000. J.K Rowling should be on that video. Do you know how many publishers I believe the number was 12 or 13... I am pretty confident but I'd be like: &quot;damn it!&quot;. After six or seven, Definitely after nine or ten I'd be looking to be a soccer coach or something else besides an author. (Laughter) Right? I mean, twelve times somebody said no. But, practice, practice, practice, Maybe it shouldn't be repetition, maybe the answer Because we all repeat something but So that's one way Get out there. Do what you want to do The other one is self-talk. We all have a self-talk tape Anybody go shopping and If you're a woman, the first thing that always comes: &quot;damn I look fat in these pants!.&quot; And if you're a man, &quot;Oh god, I got no muscle, Right? We all have this tape As a student, it was like: &quot;Oh, gee please professor I'd look down. Right? If you're in the b...when I, and the VP of business adminis. but when they hired me I sat in an architect's meeting, and I am as dumb as a post when it comes to anything to do And they are like: the fundibulator valve of the architectural, uh, what do you think doctor Joseph? Uh, let me look into that for you (Laughter) Right? I was in a, oh god god, please don't We all have this negative Guess what? There's enough people that That we're not good enough. Why do we want to tell ourselves that? We know for a fact that We saw it there with the video We know that our why do we want to say that We need to get Muhammad Ali, what was I am the greatest! Who else is going to tell you? There need to be quiet quiet moments when That we need to reaffirm: &quot;I am the captain of my ship That is my affirmation. I came from a school I lived in a town of one thousand there's no reason that I should be building maple leaf gardens. But I am the captain of my ship If I don't say it, no one else will. How do you build self-confidence? Get away from the people There's enough of that. Muhammad Ali, I am the greatest! There's a difference between It's just reminding yourself I put it down on a list, it's right beside my mirror, right? about all the things that Because I make enough mistakes, and the newspapers will recognize it, and people around me and they'll tear me down, and pretty soon There was a time when There was a time when I took this job when I came from Iowa, I don't know if I could do it. I had to bring out A letter I wrote to myself Ivan, congratulations on Congra...I am 40, under. (Laughter) Congratulations on winning Good job on raising three good kids I wrote a letter to myself, it was my own brag sheet. My own letter about Because there are moments, and we'll all experience them in our job hunting, when we are not feeling good about who, and what, and where we are. And I had to bring out that letter for a period of about two weeks, It was important. Stop the self-talk, If you watch you'll see some athletes or a little brand around them. Lance Armstrong is a perfect one. What's his self-affirmation? Livestrong isn't a brand, Live strong. He would move that from when doubt and fear Live strong, put it on there, let's go. We'll all have it, we place it. Two ways to build self-confidence. I'm worried about my time I'm gonna tell you of one way you can build We are coaches and educators, we are teachers, we are people who will create value in the world; and in doing that, we are critical I am a coach, The ball went over high. &quot;Thank you coach, I know that. So what do we do? I need you to put your elbow here, I need you to put I need you to follow through. Boom. Land. Great. Notice, I never made it (Laughter) What can we do? We fix mistakes. When I'm fixing that mistake: &quot;Johnny, this is terrible, you need to bend your knee, What have I done to Johnny's Bend your knee, Next thing you know, Ignore what Johnny does wrong and find Bob or Sally Great goal Freda, I love how you followed through, Great job! Johnny: &quot;Oh?&quot; Great! Johnny's not demoralized. His confidence isn't shot, and what I've done is, Imagine how we could change Instead of: &quot;get that glass off the counter, (Laughter) If we catch the mother, good. Great job! Great job. Thank you Alice for taking It sounds simple but Or as educators, if we manage to praise the positive behaviour that We forget it. Catch them when they're good. We forget it. It's simple. Here's what they did. There was a study They did video, and we all do video. And we show the video of them &quot;Um, this goal happened because we didn't rotate here, right? We needed to do this And, if that's the baseline, improvement of the Kansas Then, they said they ignored all of that and they just showed them The times they did it perfect. That presented no goals, improvement went like that. It changed and revolutionized interact with our student athletes. We can apply that to the business world, we can apply that we can apply that Easily: catch them when they are good. Last and certainly not least. My son is really good at this. Self-confident people interpret feedback the way they choose to. I ask my son who is gets it from his dad. (Laughter) The game's... How's the game? Oh great! I scored three goals, I'm like: &quot;I did not see him But he has his own perception of how he did! (Laughter) I love it! (Laughter) Right? I'm the...I'm that guy! I'm like: &quot;I remember when I was taking when I met my wife, &quot;Paulie, would you like Ladies? Tingly, tingly, tingle.&quot; (Laughter) And she goes: &quot;Ah, no.&quot; I asked her again. Cause I think that she just (Laughter) Maybe, that's not the wrong shirt on. Right? Cause I'm interpreting that Finally I asked her out again. She gave me this one comment, right? Cause that's the way &quot;She wouldn't date you unless there was the last person on Earth, hell was freezing over, there was a small chance Some people, it's like, I'm like: &quot;You're saying (Laughter) Right? Because that's how If I could give you it is: no one will believe in you unless you do. Listen to the words of that video, here's to the crazy ones, the misfits, the rebels, the troublemakers, the round pegs in the square holes. We're supposed to be different, folks. And when people look at us, believe in yourself. Thank you. (Applause)