(suspenseful music) (sleigh bells ringing) (Shiloh gasps) (Elijah gasps) (Mary yells) - Yeah, yeah, yeah, we know. She's about to report it. (Shiloh inhales deeply) - [Everyone] Where? - Someone drew mustaches on (group gasps) - This is worse than the year when mom had us wear matching PJs. - Guys, I think someone is (group gasps) Does anyone know who's sus? - Everyone should know he's all jolly. - Oh, so it was cool when - Yeah, he looks like Santa Claus. - I say in the spirit (group chattering) - Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. We actually have no evidence, let's skip. - [Everyone] Skip. - Mom has us at the Christmas cabin and we need to get our Also, there are three new roles. - What do the roles do? - I actually don't know, but (group grunts) - And, there are three imposters. - Imposters during Christmas? That's worse than getting - I like socks. (upbeat music) Nobody starts singing any Deck the halls with boughs of holly Fa la la la la, la la la la - Isn't it great? (upbeat music) - It's snow! - David? What are you doing in there? - It's snowing, snow is it's beautiful. Ah, snow angel, snow - - He really loves snow. - Gotcha. - Ah-ha. (upbeat music) - David, we need to do our tasks. - You can't make me. (David laughs) - Are you safe to hang You're not gonna fall, right? - Please, I think I can do my easy task of hanging up Christmas lights. (Josiah screams) - Did you hear something? - Nope. - Odd. (upbeat music) - For Christmas, I want a - I'm not actually Santa which means I have a special task. So if I check my list twice, - Wait a minute, if you're not Santa, then how do you have a tiny elf helper? - I'm not his tiny helper. - He's an angry elf. - Okay, my task is make a Christmas list. Huh, okay. That's easy. Why is it 11 months a year but when it comes time for Christmas, I can't think of anything! Gift cards. Do you wanna build a snow man - I'm doing my task. Okay, bye - Be honest, how's it look? - kinda like a cat with giant gloves on did a really good job. - How's mine? This task is so easy. (upbeat music) - Remember, we all have the task to put a present under the tree. - Well Josiah, that'll be mine. - Micah. (Micah shouts) Why'd you draw a mustache on me too, I look ridiculous. - I thought it was funny. - We have to work together on this. - Wait, we're both imposters? We've never lost as an imposter team. And I know just who to throw out first. (Judah chuckles) - what are you doing? - My task said make an so who do you see on it? - That's weird, I just see you on it. - Huh? I see me too. Dang. (upbeat music) - There you go. - Thank you. Oh no. (Mary screams) - You're a mean one, Mr Grinch. (Micah clears his throat) - What are you doing? - Nothing. (upbeat music) - Back in the hot tub? Hey, this is nice. - Do a random act of kindness? Oh. Britney, your hair looks than it does most days. - Mm, thanks? - Check. - That was not an act of kindness. - Yes it was. - And our task is take a (camera beeps) - It's going, okay! That camera way, that camera way! I don't know what to do! (Josiah and Elijah shout) (camera snaps) - Okay, now I'm start- What do we do? I don't even know what I'm supposed do. Where'd the trumpet come from? - It's for the photo! (Elijah shouts) (camera snaps) - We both look horrible. - It's perfect. (upbeat music) (Bella shouts) - Micah and Shiloh are the imposters? - Well, we're gonna lose. - [Everyone] Where? - Someone bit off all the heads (everyone gasps) - No, not my ginger brothers and sisters. - Okay, I have a plan. Who here likes eating gingerbread cookies? Well, there goes my whole plan. - Guys, we're actually doing Like, we're almost done. Let's just do our tasks and win. - [Everyone] Yeah. - [Everyone] Skip. - Shiloh, they're almost - Are you ready to use - I'm the Grinch that stole Christmas. (upbeat music) - Oh, Britney. I got you stick of salami. - Thanks, but I don't really like salami. - Maybe, but it sure was random, right? And an act of kindness? - That doesn't count. - Oh, come on! (upbeat music) (Micah gnawing) - You get socks. Ugh, those are hideous, deleted. (Micah grunts) Now, to the tree. (Micah grunts) You know what? Actually, you can stay, it's really heavy. (Micah grunts) - Did the Grinch just steal Christmas? (upbeat music) (Elijah gasps) - Somebody undid all our tasks. - I can see that. - I'm gonna use my power. - What? - I'm the Jack Frost role, I can turn down the cabin's thermostat. (thermostat clicks) (Elijah breaths heavily) (Josiah sighs) - B-but now no one can do their tasks. - But I can get all of mine done. The cold never bothered me anyway Wait no, that's Elsa. We wish you a snowy Christmas We wish you a snowy Christmas We wish - Hurry up. - Whose role is this? Whose power is this? We wish you a snowy (Elijah breaths heavily) - Heater is back on! - I did all my tasks. - We still have to push the button. - Oh right. - Whoa, you wouldn't throw helpers, would you? (William shouts) (horn honks) - Aw, I can't believe they threw out one of Santa's little helpers. - Give it a rest. - Anybody notice all of - [Everyone] Mm-hm. - (indistinct) - Okay, on behalf of everyone here, I have no idea what you just said. - And someone got out William. (everyone gasps) - It's Teddy. - Whoa, why would it be Teddy? - 'Cause look at his eyes, they have the look of - They're button eyes. - I vote Judah. - Me too. - I think Judah's right. - I say we skip. - Me too. It's a tie. That means it comes down to you, Britney. - Britney, have I ever because of something silly? - All the time. - Well not this time, okay Britney? I just need you to trust me. (David shouts) - [Everyone] Ooh. - We missed. - And Teddy was an imposter? - [Everyone] Yeah! Woo-hoo. - You were the imposter? - I knew. I could tell by his eyes. - Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, guys, guys, guys. Does anyone have the slightest idea of who the other imposters are? - No, no, not a bit. - Okay guys, we have to do our tasks faster than the imps can undo them. - Right, right. Go, go, go, go, go. (upbeat music) (crash noises) (upbeat music) - Hey Britney, thanks for maybe you're not so sus. - Aw, thanks Judah. - Yes, task completed. (upbeat music) (Micah sings) (Micah grunts) (upbeat music) - Well this house needs a remodel. (bat banging) - They stole all the presents. - It's impossible to win by tasks. (dramatic music) But I still have my power. - You checked your list? - I checked it twice. - Oh no. (dramatic music) - Why me? - I now have the ability from the naughty list onto the nice list, turning them into a crewmate. - But we don't know who the imposters are. You'd be taking a wild guess in the dark. - We have to. As we speak, the imposters our crewmate buddies. (Judah shouts) (Britney shouts) (grout shouting) - Who knew Christmas (Judah shouts) (dramatic music) (Britney grunts) - Oh. - Ha. - Ouchy. - Wait, what if you use and freeze everyone to find out who it is? - No, 'cause when I use it, everybody looks the Plus, I've already used my button push. - Okay, who to pick, who to pick? Who to pick? (Judah shouts) (Judah shouts) - Wait, what if you go push the button? - There's no time. Who to pick, who do I pick? (group shouts) - Pick Bob, write Bob. - We don't know anyone named Bob. (Mary laughs) - You're right, I don't (group shouts) (Judah shouts) - Who's the one person I want on my side? (dramatic music) (Christmas bells ringing) - Let's get him. - Why haven't I been thrown out yet? (horn honks) (Micah gasps) - Someone threw out Britney. Oh no. - It's Micah. - What just happened? (Micah shouts) (upbeat music) - Uh, I was an imposter can I join you guys? - Why not? Tell the Grinch he can come on in too. (Micah sings) - Cheer up, it's Christmas. (upbeat music)