I'm about to walk into this theater the biggest flop of the year, But odds are one of the year's maybe Dune 2, Inside Out 2. Beetlejuice 2, or another movie that has a 2 in it might actually lose the studio's Take Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, a movie I know you saw. That movie cost $150 million to make, office, yet Warner Bros. claims it's actually lost $167 Return of the Jedi, Yet Lucasfilm, Disney and Fox claims So what the hell is going on? How does some of the most some of which made literally billions They don't. It's a practice commonly aka the estranged brother of normie creative accounting techniques that worked on their films, making it In the old days of Hollywood, actors could negotiate gross pay. Meaning, no matter how the film did. Warren Beatty was able to negotiate 40% because Warner Bros. thought Unfortunately for Warner Bros. it made $70 million, and Warren leading studios to start taking a little The other type of deal is called a net profit deal, a portion of the profits after production This is the type of deal The studio say, okay, we're going to offer so that they're only paid. It incentivizes the actor the movie, It's just good for everybody. But they were all of them deceived, for In the land of Los Angeles, Studio executives and accountants Okay, I'm gonna stop with this now. So the next thing that happens is gross. Let's pay the actor net. Let's take out all of the expenses. So now studios have figured out ways unprofitable on paper. Because if there's one thing studios it's a box office success they have to share. A lot of what we know came out in the lawsuit, Buchwald versus who had written a script eerily similar sued Paramount for stealing his concept. a lot of the insane ways that studios keep But how does Hollywood accounting Who does it hurt? And do any movies make money? To find out we're going to make a movie. And to do so, I'm going to take on a role that some have called An accountant. I'm excited to announce the upcoming Good Work: The Movie from Morning Bros Studios. Step one is to set up an LLC That way we can buy things from I've budgeted that the film is going That's from paying the cast transportation, lodging, Then we'll spend 10 million spots, bus stop placement, sky Looks like I expect the movie Looks pretty good to me. negotiated a net profit deal of 10% And I'll be damned if I give $8 million trench coat. So I'll start looking for ways We, of course, have to give the theaters their cut, And boy, did we go through a lot of paper cups on that set. I better set up a shell company that sells paper cups to ourselves 15 million seems fair That brings us to. $75 million in total expenses. Still a bit to go. We use some of the same lots and equipment we made. So I'll just take, $10 million of its loss and bring it over here, because those were We're looking Where else can we...oh! All that production So we obviously borrowed that interest rate of 50%. And it's been a few years. So that interest has stacked up. Looks like we owe another $20 million. Would you look at that? The movie actually lost $5 million. I'm so sorry, Dan. We actually didn't make any net profits from this one, Now Good Work: The Movie isn't a real film... yet. that studios used to offset There are producers and charge that interest as an expense and in some cases, they're For example, in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, a movie which Deadline leaked the receipts of dubsidiary loaned Warner Bros. money at an exorbitant rate of 30% which over the years of production cost This doesn't just hurt Dan Toomey Hollywood accounting tons of real people, to name Winston Groom, the author of the novel of the net profits of the movie The film grossed over $700 million at the box office but Winston was never granted Thankfully, he was able to receive some undisclosed amount The Tolkien estate never got their 7.5% franchise, a series that generated And according to John Cusack, any of his promised profits from his role Cusack claims that Fox says the film costs $16 million to make, In the 35 years since its release. Things have gotten even tougher Previously, actors could occasionally make some money on the back end or they would get residuals when TV shows But, Netflix movies almost never go to theaters, and streaming Some streamers are toying with the concept to reward the talent but whether that will be a boon or just a cost cutting measure The only cases we hear about with huge numbers and A-list celebrities back end deals that Loads of working performers, who can't afford to hire expensive of accepting profit And in an industry by, so much so that almost every major within the last few years, losing out and being stuck with unpaid back But while actors, writers and directors real change of some good old fashioned TSG Entertainment the production company best known for having a logo as a reference to the Odyssey, accusing them of using Hollywood to cheat profit participants The financier claimed that they invested from Disney and 20th century, who in turn of dollars. Their deal states and marketing costs in exchange As a result of the unpaid their funding obligations for the third The Way of Water, aka and the immortality, and the character But we're going to downplay that and in doing so, they greatly reduced their share and entitled 20th Century Unfortunately for us, as many of these are, so we'll never know But if there are more lawsuits like this actors who happen to have the profile maybe someday the tactics will be laid The thing is, what these studios are doing For now, it's on the talent and their agents before they sign on to projects. Maybe someday these accounting loopholes At the moment, Hollywood ongoing productions, a box office and the series of strikes, it's unclear but when it does, you can almost guarantee to lose money.