- You still believe that Russia-Ukraine is the most important Talk for a couple minutes and where it's going. - I mean, basically, if that's the end of the global order as we have known it for decades. The most fundamental rule was and conquer and annex another country, neighboring country, just This was the case for centuries, It was not the... We talked earlier about state budgets. The reason the average expenditure on the military went down from 50% to 7% and released all these and education and so forth, is because most people, most countries felt that they're safe, that even if they have a strong neighbor, it's just not done anymore. I mean, maybe there'll be some kind of border clash or whatever, but the idea that the conquer us and annex our country, it's not, just not done. And this is exactly what Putin I mean, people talk about They forgot what imperialism means. Originally, imperialism, in the Ottoman sense, in You invade a neighboring country and just conquer and annex it. It's not cultural imperialism. This is imperialism. People forgot because it wasn't And this is exactly what The question is, does anything defense, any country around the world And if the answer is no, then we will see military and more and more military alliances, and more and more wars, because we know the cycle. I mean, you want to make yourself safer, the neighbors feel more frightened. And this is what we've We only understand the meaning of historical events with hindsight. And there is a scenario that we are already living in the midst of the Third World War and we just don't know it. You know, if you think so today, any school kid knows that it started on the when Germany invaded Poland. But if you asked people, let's say, in May, 1941, people in New York, people in Stalingrad, people in- - in Hiroshima. - It's not World War III? - Yes, there is a conflict in Europe. There are some conflict in Asia, but it's not World War III? Only with hindsight we say, &quot;Oh yeah, this is when it started.&quot; We could already be in the midst of World War III that started on the with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and we just don't know it yet. - Now, why hasn't it brought together? I mean, NATO is stronger That's clear. But it hasn't brought the US and Europe. Why not? - I'm not sure. I'm not an expert, you know, on the political dynamics within the United States, within Europe. What you do see very worrying in the US, also in my country, of the kind of suicide You know, for many generations, the democratic game was of conservatives and progressives, like a car with the You press this, you Going too fast, going too slow. And suddenly, conservative are committing suicide and turning into radical The basic idea of to conserve institutions, It's the progressives who Let's change things. Let's destroy institutions.&quot; And the conservative says, &quot;No, no, no. Let's calm down. We don't understand the world very well. You think this institution but, actually, it's important.&quot; And now the ones who are and traditions are the conservatives, and it becomes the job of progressives to protect and conserve And they are not good at it, because this is not their job. I mean, they're the ones who are supposed to press (audience clapping) And it's, it's, I don't really know why it's happening. But you think about, for and the kind of, the mythological moment of is the storming of the Bastille. When Burke says, &quot;You know, this is a bad idea. It will end badly.&quot; And this was the kind, and this is kind of the, the creation story of conservatism. And on the 6th of January, you have all these conservatives cheering the storming of the Bastille. So the progressives are basically doing what they've been doing for decades. What I don't understand is of conservative parties. And again, you can, in the US, you can try and of local dynamics, but because you see it around the world... - But is, I mean, if I wanted right, which is in New (audience laughing) But, you know, you have a lot &quot;Well, you supported globalization, and it hollowed out our working You know, &quot;You supported but what about, like, You allowed all this So I mean, many of them would argue that conservatism is trying to, like, focus on the historic values. - But why, why... Perfectly okay. Why the attack on institutions? Why the attack on the Why the attack on all the, all the, all the civil servants as deep state? I mean, this is not conservative. - If you believe those or support the people or the values- - Then you become revolutionary, yes. Again, I, this is the narrative. - That's the narrative. I'm, I'm, you can, we can argue It's true, it's not true. I'm just making an observation. This is a revolutionary narrative. It's a narrative saying, or most of the institutions of the country are dysfunctional. We need to destroy them This is the French Revolution, this is the Bolshevik Revolution, this is not Conservatism. So you can say, &quot;It's still true. We still need to do it.&quot; But, and the other thing you know, narrative of globalization. Maybe it's true of the what about India, what about Poland? So many countries that and you still see analogous processes. So I think globalization and it's too, it's an easy solution, but it doesn't cover what we see globally. (upbeat music)