The Sith are the main villains of one of the The most iconic member of the Sith Lords is go by the name of Anakin Skywalker. Anakin was a promising Jedi apprentice trained of the force due to unresolved emotional issues Palpatine, who secretly turned out to be among Sidious. In many ways, the Sith ideologically oppose The Jedi represent selflessness, tranquility, peace in the galaxy. The Sith are selfish, passionate, and seek Star Wars generally portrays the Jedi as the But we find shades of grey in between both The altruism of the Jedi has its downsides. And there's something to be said for the The ideas of the 19th-century German philosopher to Sith philosophy. And they are critical of the kind of existence would have considered an unnatural, self-denying What's the difference between the Sith and What resemblances do we find between Sith And can we use Sith philosophy in our daily This video explores the philosophy of the Please note: this essay is an exploration and interpretation. It's not "advice." Also, this video contains Star Wars footage Disney. The Force is a mysterious energy field created together. We're all connected by the Force, which The Force is central to the Sith and Jedi's and possibilities through manipulation. An all-surrounding energy field connecting also called the "breath of life," which and cohesion. An explanation of the Force and how the Sith philosophy. After all, the Force is vital to the Sith's As with the Taoist concept of Yin and Yang, the dark side of the Force. The light side of the Force is generally used The Jedi order devoted itself to the light such as protecting other people, justice, galaxy. The Jedi sought to maintain balance in the forms. They consider themselves guardians of what's Among the Jedi are Luke Skywalker, Obi-Wan The Sith, however, devote themselves to the fear, lust, greed, and aggression, aimed to suffering. One uses the dark side to develop strength But the Sith's hunger for more is insatiable; Hence, there was always competition and bloodshed their power. An essential difference between Jedi and Sith The Jedi see the Force as spreading fire: Force. "As we pass the flame - our light spreads," The dark side of the Force works differently: The more Force users the dark side has, the As written in the Book of Sith by Darth Sidious: No, the Force is venom. If it is poured into many cups, it loses its merely an irritant. Yet pour those cups back into a single vessel, dragon's heart. End quote. Thus, to maximize the power of the Force, - ideally, one Sith. However, if there's only one Sith, there's one perishes. So, Sith Lord Darth Bane created the Rule two Sith at a given time: a master and an We take what we desire because we can. We can because we have power. We have power because we are Sith. Like the Jedi, the Sith live by a mantra that known as the Sith Code. The Sith Code is a negation of the Jedi Code, while identifying passion as the only force According to the Sith, freedom is not achieved emotions as a source of strength to achieve Before we can understand the Sith code, it's as these 'mantras,' so to speak, are related. The Jedi code goes as follows: There is no emotion, there is peace. There is no ignorance, there is knowledge. There is no passion, there is serenity. There is no chaos, there is harmony. There is no death, there is the Force. We can interpret the Jedi code in different Firstly, the "there is no" parts of the what the Jedi oppose and should be absent. In a Jedi's life, there's no emotion; There is no ignorance, there is knowledge. But we could also read these lines as a reality serenity. When there's no chaos, there's harmony. And thus, it reads as a series of hypotheses absence of phenomena like emotions and passions These interpretations find support in Yoda's the dark side. Anger, fear, aggression. The dark side of the Force are they, easily End quote. Furthermore, Yoda's words imply that a Jedi as they lead to the dark side of the Force, being carried away by them. The last line of the Jedi Code reads as a as death, as in, a permanent ending of life. When we die, we simply transform into another Some Jedi even learned techniques to keep died as 'Force Ghosts.' So, there's no need to fear death; it's The Sith Code seems to be a variant of the very things the Jedi avoid their goal. The Sith Code goes as follows: Peace is a lie, there is only passion. Through passion, I gain strength. Through strength, I gain power. Through power, I gain victory. Through victory, my chains are broken. The Force shall free me. Unlike the Jedi, the Sith embrace passion, power, victory, and ultimately experience They use the Force to empower themselves and What characterizes the Sith Code is the belief There are different definitions of freedom. In the Jedi sense, freedom is inherent to emotions, chaos, and the fear of death. Through peace, knowledge, serenity, and harmony, Such freedom may not equal freedom within freedom - freedom of the mind - an ideal religious traditions. The Sith don't buy this. They aren't interested in 'freedom of Hence, "peace is a lie," they say. Peace gets you nowhere in life. From birth to death, there's conflict. Even the Jedi, despite their teachings, experience in it for the sake of maintaining balance The Sith propose that passions allow us to us. We can use anger to destroy our enemies. And desire as fuel for achievement and growing An example is Darth Vader, who channels his powerful. According to the Sith, freedom lies in the strife. We must conquer ourselves, our enemies, and we must fight ourselves out of bondage, become and crush the ones who try. Then, we can do as we please, which is true Remember why the Sith are more powerful than to feel. Where the Jedi pursue peace, harmony, reason, wildness, impulse, and self-indulgence. Interestingly enough, the conflict between Apollo and Dionysus in Greek mythology. In his first book, The Birth of Tragedy, Nietzsche He believed that Greek tragedy was the unprecedented forces, which led to the fullness of the human In his later works, however, Nietzsche embraced he stated in his autobiography Ecce Homo: I would rather be a satyr than a saint." End quote. But what do the Apollonian and Dionysian stand And how do these forces relate to the Jedi In Greek mythology, Apollo and Dionysus are other by nature. Apollo is the rational one that pursued order reason. He's the God of oracles, healing, arts, from evil: duties and characteristics resembling In terms of ancient Greek philosophy, we could on the Apollonian. Stoicism revolves around living a life based Its goal is to reach a state of flourishing the absence of passions, and living in harmony So, Stoicism and the Jedi share many similarities. As with the Stoics, 'peace,' 'serenity,' though the meaning of these values slightly Nevertheless, like the Stoics, the Jedi follow logical, and based on the mind. In the Phantom Menace, Qui-Gon Jinn tells your anxieties, Obi-Wan. Keep your concentration here and now, where End quote. This line fits the Stoic aim to be present A life without passions seems antithetical through which they find strength, power, and The Sith would reject the Apollonian principles ranks. Opposed to the averter of evil, the most beautiful the God of wine, vegetation, fertility, festivity, Where Apollo is rational, moderate, and serene, passionate. The Sith are not interested in peace and view contradicting the very thing that empowers In the Star Wars prequels, we see how Darth position of chancellor to reform the democratic and declare himself emperor. While the Jedi see such lust for power as galaxy, the Sith view it as a road to freedom: others doesn't chain them. Author of the book Rule of Two Drew Karpyshyn Evil is a word used by the ignorant and the The Dark Side is about survival. It's about unleashing your inner power. It glorifies the strength of the individual. End quote. The Dionysian is the affirmation of life. It's embracing everything life offers, including Curbing one's emotions for peace is a denial Instead, the Sith pursue conflict as it forces According to Sith Master Uthar Wynn, conflict or death." Philologist Walter Otto stated that "the are equally terrible in Dionysus." The Sith seek as much power as possible but their own). They always put their lives on the line in It's all or nothing. It's either the absolute top or annihilation. Such extreme lust for power is madness from d'etre of the Sith. It's a life of maximizing experiences and self-realization, and the strengthening of It's not about acceptance of the world but destroying what's in your way. It's not about summoning help from the Force "True power can come only to those who embrace The Sith walk a dangerous path rejecting safety and passion. They say "yes" to the full spectrum of for life-affirming experiences. Hence, Count Dooku tried persuading Yoda to Tell me what you want, and I will show you Do you want friends? The dark side can compel them for you. Lovers? The dark side understands passion in a way Do you want riches - endless life - deep End quote. Contrary to the Jedi, but resembling the ideas They're passionate, chaotic, and based on urge, which Nietzsche called the will-to-power. It's feeling over mind. They thrive on passions like hate, anger, Still, the Sith have Apollonian features as (we just have to look at the Empire). They protect people, as we see when Darth However, the protection of others always stems Equality is a myth to protect the weak. Some of us are strong in the Force, others Only a fool believes otherwise. A central theme of Nietzsche's philosophy master-slave morality. According to Nietzsche, the master morality and the Roman Empire and was based on pride, The slave morality was a response to master became a dominant force. "The masters have been done away with; the said Nietzsche, referring to the triumph of Looking at the relationship between the Sith between Nietzsche's master-slave morality Wars factions. The Sith value the virtues of the masters, Those with master-morality focus on gaining following ambitions, and being determined The structure of the Galactic Empire is a principles which characterize master morality. The strong must rule while the weak don't is the primary tool for keeping the subjects The strong rule; the weak are meant to serve. This is the way it must be. End quote. On the other hand, the Jedi value traits resembling altruism, obedience, and humility. For example, in the Obi-Wan Kenobi series, himself to help others; self-sacrifice is As opposed to the selfish Sith, the Jedi are The Jedi disapprove of what drives the Sith, According to Nietzsche, those with slave morality their own virtues that turn what the masters Pride becomes humility, boldness becomes meekness, Those with a slave morality tend to view themselves with the Jedi: they consider themselves the opposing the dark and "evil" Sith. The twist here is that those carrying a slave voluntarily adopted values like 'humility,' But according to Nietzsche, this isn't the Impotence gave birth to slave morality. And instead of overcoming their impotence, others to do the same. Nietzsche argued that those with a slave morality not transcending their position. But in reality, such an attitude leads to Unsurprisingly, the Sith deem the Jedi qualities and pathetic. And from a Sith point of view, it makes sense and "narrow" in Star Wars: Episode III There's more to the Force than restraining - or in Nietzsche's terms: keeping the morality. The Force grants access to strength, power, aspire to. The Sith code offers a way out of slavery, Through strength, power, and victory, a slave's According to Sith philosophy, he turns into from which freedom ensues. But those with slave morality will not attempt and even tighten them in the name of goodness. Darkness is a friend, an ally. Darkness allows us to understand others, to else is looking. It allows us to be honest with ourselves, in the light. Is Sith philosophy valuable for daily life? It depends on what you want to accomplish. If you're an Apollonian type of person who probably isn't for you. The light path might also be better suited than worldly success. Although Sith philosophy as a whole seems it contains elements that could be useful The path of the dark side could lead to self-preservation, who try to exploit us. It also allows us to question the values intrinsic An interesting example is how a character of charity. She argued that seeking to aid everyone suffering you aid. I quote: If you care for others, then dispense with in letting them fight their own battles. And when they triumph, they will be even stronger End quote. In this perspective, Sith philosophy brings wrong by carefully looking at the consequences For example, when we give money to a beggar, Or, when we protect our children, do we do self-reliance? And do peace and serenity generate happiness Another potential benefit of Sith philosophy characteristics, which we could use and thus developing our dark side instead of repressing "The brighter the light, the darker the The more one tries to be good, the more he But as a consequence, we fail to, as Dark we would disavow in the light." Jung believed that we need to explore the traits and qualities that can enrich us if Disparaged features like 'pride,' 'selfishness,' be used to improve one's position, exude It could help us discover our inner Dionysian Eventually, developing our dark side or, in may strengthen our position in the material Sith philosophy has pitfalls as well, without The Sith show little concern for other people's They oppose equality and charity and don't The strong must survive, and the weak must So, the Sith compete against everyone and Some exceptions aside, they either dominate There's no trust among Sith; any weakness It's a very intense, dangerous path. If one follows the way of the Sith, making are impossible. Even the 'bond' between a Sith master and mistrust. When put in positions of power, the Sith tend Without mercy, they'll destroy their enemies Also, these positions are incredibly fragile. History shows that tyrants rarely last. When everyone despises you, it's just a which could be anyone considering you have The constant threat of the Sith apprentice then destroying him to replace him shows the Their freedom comes with profound bondage, if they fail, destruction follows. From a Stoic point of view, we can conclude in the external world, they are not free. They'll always be subject to Fate, which So, Sith philosophy could benefit those who go-getters who value achievement rather than It's a way to strengthen the individual Paradoxically, the path of the Sith is as This duality places them among the ranks of of life and violence of death are equally Thank you for watching.