Hey there guys, Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video we're a typical single phase electricity supply into a domestic property. We're going to look at and transformer, the phase neutral and earth, the main fuse, the electricity meter, the isolation switch, the consumer unit as well as the RCD's and MCB's. Now this is a common design India, Australia, New Zealand, et cetera. There are some slight variations and these components may between the countries, but essentially it's very similar. However, North America because they use two So we're going to look at that in detail in a separate video. You can still follow along in this video, to understand the basics though. I'm going to be using for this video, that may be different from Remember, electricity is You should be qualified and competent to carry So electricity is generated The electricity leaves the power station and the voltage is increased where it will then be distributed over long distance transmission lines. We generate and distribute because it is more than DC, direct current. Once it reaches the town, the voltage will be reduced in a substation step-down transformer. If you want to learn we've covered this in a previous video, do check that out, links in the video description below. From the substation the electricity will either be distributed locally, through overhead or underground cables. Depending on the local design and the voltages being used. A home might be connected located close to the property, or alternatively, a group of houses will The electricity is but in this case, we're looking at a which means the property is connected to just one of these three phases as well as the neutral. We've also covered how in a previous video. Do check that out, links in the video description below. Now, each house in the street might be alternately or different streets might be This is just to try and balance the demand on the transformer. A smaller service cable comes and will feed the property. This service cable will again be overhead or underground depending The service cable contains the phase and neutral wires. There's also a metal protective in most cases, especially The surface cable comes in, the electricity is going pass through the main fuse, then through the electricity meter, and then into the consumer unit. The service head or cut out, holds the main fuse or service fuse. This fuse provides and ensures only a set into the property. For example, in the UK it's typical to have a fuse rated The electricity distribution company may also remove this fuse They may do this for example, to replace the electricity meter. The phase and the neutral then which quantifies how much You may find that this meter or even a digital smart meter. There are a lot of variations The phase and the neutral will then leave the electricity meter and enter the consumer unit or fuse board. The consumer unit or fuse board varies in size depending on the size of the property, and how many circuits Inside the consumer unit, we first have the main switch or main double pole isolation switch. This controls the supply of electricity to the rest of the consumer units, and therefore, all the This switch is not automatic and must be manually This switch will disconnect both the phase and the neutral line together. The cables typically enter the main switch via the top terminals. At the bottom we find the neutral wire, which will connect to the We might find one or more phase wires coming out of the bottom of If there aren't RCD's being used, then a bus bar will feed but we'll look at that again shortly. The phase line enters the RCD or residual current device. Again usually entering by the top. This RCD switch is constantly monitoring the electrical current. It's checking if the is equal to the current If these two currents are not equal, then there was an electrical fault and the device will quickly and automatically cut past the switch. Typically, an RCD will break the circuit if it measures a as anything above this If you touch a live wire and electricity flows then the current is so the phase and the neutral The RCD will notice this to reduce the risk of It's now increasingly common to have two or more RCDs in a consumer unit. In such case, the RCD to the circuits connected So the other RCD will still be powered and only some parts of the The RCD will trip when it even for a fraction of a second. It does need to be manually but this does not solve the problem and you should locate and or fixture. From the bottom of the RCD, We have a busbar. This is just some conductive metal which the electricity flows along, and connects into each of the MCB's which just makes the installation easier rather than having a lot of cables. The MCB or miniature circuit breaker controls individual smaller circuits. For example, connected to one RCD maybe we'll have one MCB one for the upstairs lighting and one for the kitchen plug sockets. On the other RCD, maybe we have one for one for the upstairs lighting, and one for the downstairs plug sockets. These switches will quickly and automatically trip to cut the power, but they also need to be manually The MCB protects the circuit in two ways, overload and short circuit. The MCB is rated to handle passing through it. For example, 32 amps for the plug sockets. If this value is exceeded on that circuit, for example, by gradually then the MCB will trip and cut the power to protect itself. The other protection it offers In the event of a short the live touches the neutral then the circuit is bypassed and there may be a large and instantaneous increase in current. This will create a magnetic which will cut the The phase then Leaves and will flow through the circuit for example through some lamps. It then returns via the neutral cable and into the neutral block. All the circuits do this with the phase coming out and heading off around the property, and the neutral lines coming back and meeting at the neutral block. The neutral block is which checks if the current flowing in is equal to the current flowing out. The neutral then flows from the RCD to the main neutral block, and from there back to the main switch, which is connected to and the service head. So, electricity can then flow from the main distribution phase line, up through the service head and the main fuse. It then flows through and into the consumer unit main switch. From the main switch it along the bus bar and into the MCB. It then flows up around The electricity can then come and into the neutral blocks. It then flows through the RCD and back into the main block. From there back into the main switch, and then the electricity meter. Will then pass through the and back into the neutral line of the main distribution cables. Now you may have noticed that with green and yellow stripes. These are called the earth cables. These earth cable will usually and neutral wires into the fixtures such as light Some appliances will for added protection. Typically, if the device The earth wires will into the neutral block All the earth cables for each circuit then connect into the Another earth cable will then connect from this earthing block in the consumer unit, over to the main protective which is typically located somewhere near the electricity meter. Other earthing wires will connect from this main earthing terminal over and onto metal pipes and the gas pipe work. That way if a person touches a live wire in a metal pipe in the property, the electricity will flow and should be detected by the There are a few ways the main is connected to ground. The first option is shown here with the main earth to the neutral wire of the service cable, within the service head. This means that the phase to now a face to neutral fault instead. Another option is to use around the service cable So the main earth terminal is and this carries the phase to earth fault back to the transformer. The other option which is doesn't provide an earth path. So instead the main earth to an electrode road which and provides a direct earth path. Okay, that's it for this video, but if you want to continue your learning then check out one of and I'll catch you there Don't forget to follow us on And of course, TheEngineeringMindset.com.