So my plan is So I'm going to try to find a good spot. At first, I was thinking about there's way too much clay and stuff. So it's not really a good building, So I kind of hoping the, ground is much drier here. So I'm going to try digging a hole here. Seeing how the ground is Or back here I mean this is a higher point. Hopefully there is sand here. So this is looking really promising. Yeah. The clay starting. All right, so this looks good. I'm going to make some A little bit more there to see that So I got some sticks I just going to mark out the digging area with this. I kind of just eyeing it in right now. That's 11m (36 feet) There's crazy with mosquitoes right now So this is the measurements. So it's 11m wide and 16.8m in length. So I just going to clear the ground It's not really that many trees So that's good. But I still need to dig out, All right. So it's a little more So I gotta put on additional material on this, But, yeah. So this level I'm at right now. So this is where the. The entrance is coming. So I'm thinking, as it is right now, this is pretty much On finished floor And with the material and everything. So I kind of need to go down Since It's kind of wet. Well I guess the finish could Maybe something like this, Yeah. So. And then let's go up 60cm (2feet) from here Okay. It's still going down. Yeah. All right. So this is how much I need to dig the entire thing out? It's not really. Well, it's going down quite a lot here, so it's just here So I think we're putting this on time getting it done. All right. But I still need It's sloping quite alot it's So the edge of the building is coming here. So I got a need to move this pile. I'm not really sure how I should do this. I'm thinking about making a temporary road here just to overpass so I can come in The real road for this is supposed to go there. It's. Yeah, it's already culvert pipe. There. So you can drive over the ditch. It's kind of small, though. I gotta need to widen that, but I don't know if I should. Mess with that now, or just make a temporary overpass here. It's easier coming in there. Yeah, but I got to start So I gotta keep doing that. I. I need to move this. Yeah, I need to get this more. There. I might as well just take that This material here, it's. I mean, it's kind of fine. Yeah. Well, it's good Yeah. I mean, it's good for filling. I'm still going to use this later on when filling around there. I mean, this is pretty good. It's really good at this right now. So I'm going to leave it like this. This is just fine. This is a high point here, And it's leaning down here So it's going less material there. More material there. So I'm going to start So I can get some material in here. So it's going up there. All right. So I've been going back and forth with. If I should make that the unloading area I might as well just make that. It's way easier I mean, the overpass there is kind of small, and everything I'm going to spend the time So I'm going to make a temporary So I just got that from the forest. It is kind of soft here. It's starting to dry up around here. But yeah, you can see here it's kind of muddy, but I just got to throw out some fabric. yeah. Yeah. Yeah, in my head, that pipe more speed, actually. Yeah, let's get this back here. Thats good. All right, so I got to go and get some gravel. Third load. So fourth load, I'm taking a little bit of So the reason for that is that I mean, the filling from the culvert pipe gets kind of high, so it's hard getting it stable with just that tiny material there so. So there's sort of a thunderstorm Which means they're going So I gotta try to throw out so it doesn't get blown away. I mean, it doesn't it isn't really windy right picking up this thing. All right, So that thing is really neat. So what takes them one hour, takes me four hours. too haul in So I ordered three loads. So I'm going to start pushing this out. So the last load was delivered So I got to get this out. And then I think there's enough material After I put out this material, I got to go and get a little bit of finer material. So it's been raining quite a lot. You can see here, it's kind of holding the water. Yeah. So this water hasn't So I gotta dig a ditch here after I taking out the material here, there is kind of a slope, just behind that tree there. That that goes. kind of down so So let's see how much filling there is. Right. That's pretty much 40cm of filling here. So let's see if it's the same all over here. So this is pretty good. Plus/minus three centimeters on some the spots. But other than that it's pretty good. So I gotta go and rent a compactor And at the same time, Finer material. All right. So this is the highest point here. I just gonna set it a few centimeters over this point here, so everything is kind of leaning. That's way But that doesn't really matter. So it's just going to be more material Less material here. I am going to put sewage pipes inside here in the middle, but every draining pipe, sewer pipe is on order and I haven't got them yet, It's not really So this is perfect level. Here I just gonna put this onto here It's way easier So, this is correct now All right. So that's good. So I just shot a hose in this. I'm not really sure where it is. but its dripping from underneath there. Oh, it's a bunch of hoses here so So I got to start this to see which one it is I'll need to take this of first So i just gonna find some temporary hose to use. I should have something similar. I think this is going to work. So I'm just going to flush this hose out I don't know what's what's in it. So guess we can do it like this. That's good. There were some dirt in that. So now it's pretty much more accurate. Marked out here. So this is the outside So this is how big it's going to get. So next step now is I got to start removing I need to do that I kind of want to keep as much as possible But yeah I got to. Need some space here when building the walls. So. Yeah, I need to pretty much take this line here. 1, 2, 3, 4 Four trees. Make it lower. and this thing here. So I gotta move that dirt pile there. It's going to need to go way further back. The concrete truck is going to come here park in here. So I'm going to take this leftover gravel. Just put that there, so it can stand Yeah. There Just so you can drive around this complete area. without any hassle. Yeah. So we need drainage Sewer I'm not really sure if I'm going but I'm got to make the piping ready the indoor drainage. I'm going to make this small drainage It's 12m long. I don't know the English name for that I gonna start removing that pile now maybe going to get some material going, and stuff like that. Well, I don't know. I guess I could eat something Let's have a gas station snack. Well, let's Let's see what I got for today's special. All right, schnitzel Yeah. It's about to start to rain. So next step So i just gonna take the excavator to the clean this up, and then I think and get sand. I don't think I'm going to go and haul I might as well just get the sand. That's actually pretty, pretty good sand. Will be perfect for filling here. I might do that. so what I'm waiting for concerning the actual building here there's I. So the edge element that's coming here is custom ordered, so those are actually under production So there's going to be a few days I gotta start with the drainage now and the sewer. So yeah let's let's start with that. Yeah. So let's go check out there. So the height difference is, Yeah, pretty much this, I think I going to fill up then it's pretty much a natural fall all the way to here. I think it's going to be good here. I think. So I'm not going to go any further here The thing is that I got to install and I'm not really sure Because that pipe and there's no need digging this So I'm going to wait with this backside Until I know more, but I still got to finish all the way here. So I got to go back up again. And I don't know if said anything about that before, but so about these pipes I'm burying right now. So this is pretty much a perforated pipe supposed to take that's coming in here. That's with the gravel too. Just so water can flow freely here into And this pipe here, or surface water. Not sure. But yeah. So this is going to be connected So all that water that comes from the roof is going to be led into this closed pipe I mean, you don't want, well, you could connect the roof water I think that's just going to. Yeah. Make the ground weaker. I mean, that's the amount of water that's going to come. It's just going to get pushed out That's why I'm using two pipes. So yeah I'm going to keep going up there. Finish that Then I'm going to take this filling this area I could use this for something else. I guess I could put a new one first. So I just got a call from the airport. I need to go and do some tower service before collecting my Sand so. Jon13 ready for depature, rwy 11 Jon13 Wind One eight zero degrees, one zero Runway 11 free. And there they go. Airborne time, we got 28 So now we're going to wait 15 minutes. Then I'm going to close this thing. And then I'm going to back to Airborne 28, contact sweden controll at 131,055 Leaving for sweden at 131,055 jon13. Good bye Okay, so I just got this in the mail. Idk it wasn't that expensive, like EUR70. Just going to try to get this contact in now. Yeah, I think that's in. Let's see if this thing works So you can see this Sand. That's really good when draining I kind of could have used this But it's a little bit too fine for that drainage pipe I used. So. So if you wonder about that thing. Why, I don't use that. Well, the main reason is that to a solenoid. Meaning So I gotta check on that later on. and it's kind of slow compared So, what I'm doing right now is just that. Oh, well, I got to wait Yeah, I might as well just put some here, too. So I have a little working area, and. Yeah, the reason for using sand is that it's cheap and it's close And it's still going So yeah, the plan is to I don't know and put road based material here, or if I just gonna put the material on top. Well, we'll see about that. Maybe I use fabric fabric is not cheap but not expensive at the same time. Yeah well, So we put some water on the sand. Then put it here on the finer silt sand. It pretty much stays there. So. Yeah. A kid just walked by and threw a rock. hits straigt here. And then, well cracked the windscreen. I don't think he was supposed He was just walking past, and Yeah, well, kind of hit here. So I gotta need to replace that. It's just a pain cleaning this up I might as well just go and get the vacuum Guess thats easier So it's 4 in the morning, and, I'm on my way So it's a trip off 400 kilometers. And at the same time, Yeah. I gonna need to fuel this up. Im running out of diesel here. So this was approved! next one is within a year. And the cost for doing this was. So in Euros, that about 320. Something like that. So yeah, let's keep going. Oh, that's actually the same kind of Well, I can't help but wonder what this thing are. So what are these things? It's floating here in the water. I don't know, could this be some kind of. Yeah. It has to be something for the fish Okay. Now I just need a place to put them. So actually, the trusses is coming So. Yeah, I need to. Let's go clear up in the yard here instead. So the trusses are on its way. Soon. Be here. So I had to go and borrow the.. Hopefully this will reach The skid steer doesn't reach so. I got to go and get the gravel.. The gravel bed I'm kind of in a rush. They closing I got to get a find a material now. Just, a little bit finer. Get the concrete to lay flat. So here it is. And there's the wood processor also. Boggie down. So the next step So the thing I need to do before Is that I need to install the sewer pipes and the electrical pipes. So I order myself So I have them I think I like EUR2 per coupler, something like that i got a good price on them And then we have the drainage. This also arrived these are going to get, well, casted inside the floor what else do we have now? So all the floor heating stuff also arrived. So this is the hose that's going to get. Cast inside the floor. That's for the electrical, And this is also some more But let's go get the excavator so i can dig out the sewer pipe and then start messing with these. So there's going to be an alarm that gives you a warning So the electric hose is going in this. So i gotta need 5 of these 4 is going for the seaheat one is going for the electrical. Do I need this? I don't know. 1,2,3,4,5 You know what? I think I gonna skip this. I don't think I'm going to need There is plenty of room for cables So i gotta try too, Bury them like this. It's natural bend "Shall we tighten the other to make sure that they fit" "Here we want in quite alot" "Okay, here it's good" "Are you happy with that" "Yes, im happy here" "we also check on the other side so we can be sure" "Turn it like that, so we can press it in at the same time" yes, like that 1cm.. good! So my friend took a lunch break. So I can maybe do some narration. So these things are really nice. It's really easy to set with these. So that's my friend's own invention. He got tired of the traditional way So he made these. Saves a lot of time. When putting the line So yeah, this is going to really good actually So this is coming in perfect. There. And then these is coming. Some where around here. I don't know what putting this so short. I mean this is still need to stick up when the element is coming somewhere, here. I can push them, So this is going to be kind of exact, but It's just that I could have done that from the start. but.. Well it is what it is. So this is the. drawing i got with the elements which section is which. So it's just marked as A section B section F section and so on. C section, D section door. It's fast putting these up "Check this angle" "This is perfect" The whatever in. "Ready?" "Yes it's in" I just gonna put on a fine layer of this Now, onto this. So the drainage is actually coming on So I really want to have that straight. So I just gonna push this out and just use the laser to getting it So the Swedish king in a few hours so. I got to go there and roll out So it's kinda fun All right, so they're 1 5 nautical miles away, and. My sticks are ready. And the red carpet! well it's red on the, on their side so "Rwy 11 free swedforce 625" I need to buy new sticks These kind of plastic doesn't really like the cold winter. Well, if you kind of drop them. They just shatter, cheap things just "Swedforce 625 on ground 1 9" 625 "Are you gonna use the APU before start up or do you want the GPU?" "We gonna run the APU" "Ok good. I gonna leave the red carpet here for you. "Thats sounds good" "Do you have to walk straight on it?. Of course you can't cut across" All right, Next step is to pick up some roof sheeting i just got. So I got to take that with me while I'm still in town. So. Okay, so that went well. So this is stuff So this is the complete sheeting and the I forgott the english name for that Just a shame that it's hurt here I mean, for the price of paying for it, packing this stuff better than that. I wounder if i can push this on Kind of can work It's kind of 50/50. Something's going to crack here, So this pipe is going Here in the middle somewhere. I think somewhere here. Yeah. Maybe here, but I gotta go and get the drainage and put that out first So this is going to start from the middle two meters in. which is here This is the last thing where the where the pipe is coming in here. This is a kind of a sand catcher I think the wind is going to pick up in a while here, Yeah. I got to keep working on this So I realize I kind of messed up here. So when pushing that block So I didn't expect that to happen. I mean, this thing weighs around I just going to use the saw So I got to put on a second layer Now, the thing is just that I got to leave it for. For the drainage here. So I think I gotta leave around Yeah. I mean, like, this much on the side so the concrete The finished floor level is coming just just above here. So I think. I'm going to make it lean if I leave like two centimeters So I can just get a little bit of guidance for the water. I kind of want to keep the floor flat and maybe this much, before I got these things for holding, So when you're putting the second layer You leaving And the reason for that is that, well, the length of one is the width times two. So pretty much you're going to come to this edge here. And if you have edge to edge there you're going to end up edge to edge here. So you kind of want to have a overlap here because otherwise you've got, every second you put in you're going to line up with the crack there. So that's the reason why I want to leave Ask me how i know. Yeah I kind of made that mistake. I was thinking, why do you leave a gap? Well, I seen that people actually leave a gap. but I didn't really think about it, so. But yeah, I quickly realized that yeah, you supposed to leave a gap. So I have that now. So the middle is pretty much here. Here. So that's the mark. Where it's supposed to come. But. So the plan was initially to come here which is 11.5m. But I got to shorten this. I'm going to shorten this by two meters. That's two sections of that. So this thing comes here instead. The reason for that is So I actually thinking it's kind of nice having a flat surface here, not coming in with the drainage. That's just going to be in the way here, tables, maybe. There's no need for drainage So I'm going to shorten it A problem. I just realized So this sand catcher is actually going So it's going to get dug down down here. The problem is just that. The incoming And this has to be at the highest point. And I can't really adjust that since the drainage is coming in on a certain level. Oh well we're going to see. IDK, I'm going I need that to lean kind of relying on luck there, but I think that's going to work. So this line is now set to match with this. So this is how high it. It's coming with the right side. So. Yeah. So I got this. I will put on Well, I will put it like this instead. I just gonna use the laser Let's set this to zero here. The thing I hoping for now is that not up. Yeah. Yeah. So I got this much play, so it's going to be perfect. Now I can stop worrying about that. So let's just. Well this line is a little sloppy I need to tension that Yeah. So I gotta let that dry before So I don't do anything stupid. Now. Looks like I got a little buddy here. I think this is called a, "Karrspindel" in Swedish. I don't know the English name for it. spiders we got so. All right, I'm gonna keep on building here. So the gate is coming here, which is six meters wide. It's going to be 4.5m in height. It is kind of big when you see it like I just have the line there now. So that's why I keep it for now. So that's a door coming there. And then there's another door So this has been curing So it's it's solid now. This is some stuff that came with it all the instruction so I don't know what they say, This is actually going in here. you can lift this up and Empty it from sand. I guess that's supposed to sit like that. Okay, I. Oh. That's better. So this is just going to get straight. There's no lean(slope) in this. Yeah, it's So this is the end piece. So which way is. Up? I guess that's up. Okay, thats on Let's do it like this So this has been curing So this is pretty hard. I've been away on some. What is it called? Air traffic safety, electronics training. Something like that. I got myself a new saw Got kind of tired using the hand saw. Think, this is a nice to have thing I did rebuild this. Yeah. So I had to go and buy another coupler so I can get this lower. So this is going down, So i just going to cut 4 centimeters off So that's perfect. Well, I gotta keep going with the insulation I think I'm gonna throw to keep this in place so it doesn't move. I think that could be a good idea, insulate first. I don't know. if you jump on this, will you get the correct marks? Yeah well, kind of. I guess a gasoline saw is kind of the way to go So you can just go like this. This is a little bit too weak for that. But i don't really got that much to cut out so, The reason and not foam, I actually think it's gonna break the insulation when putting concrete on Gonna be such a overhang so It's gonna kind of collapse. I think that's why. I mean, It's just insulating If you walk on it, So I think we're going to go to a time I just to finish this off with the floor heating, im kind of curious doing that, i never done it Well I've never done this either.. So I need some more of this. So this is the drawing yeah well this is the correct, But I'm not really going to go. as It drawn here as it's drawn here. It's supposed to come up here I'm not really sure I think I'm gonna expand this room It could be good Also, just to keep the noise level down. All the hoses is coming up here instead I think I'm going to do that. Other than that, I don't know. I just going to start putting up the the plastic clips that hold this. It's supposed to look kind of like this with this orientation. So I guess this is the support when the hose is coming up from the floor. So. Yeah it's in the middle here. So when the hoses are coming in. They're gonna turn here. and the turn radius. It's going to get bigger and bigger. So I got to. Yeah, I gonna focus on the, out side here first so I can start putting the hose out here. And then I just gonna put some more here in the middle. So I see the radius So I think the distance between these shouldn't be more than 1.5m. I heard somewhere. idk Guess, we can keep that distance. So it's just going to crack Let's try it here Pressure and return. Guess we can mark this So how far should you left this hose? The distance between these are 30 centimeter. One foot. I guess in the English terms. Okay. So. Almost halfway. Halfway there. So. Yeah. I gotta go to the city now and, I got to replace the back That the kid broke there, so. All right, so that's done. Let's go find something to eat. All right, as kebab. Haven't eaten on the whole day, what is the clock right now Yeah. so. Yeah, I haven't eaten on Pretty much 18 hours. So this thing is gonna taste good for sure! (And it sure did) It's got winy today. Well, better that than rain. So I encountered sort of a problem here. This hose kind of needed to go one length more, but it's not long enough So I need to change it out for that. And that is too short So I need to buy some more hose. So even though I change the, valve, instead, I'm pretty much on the meter. So it's actually says 57m, 2nd 75m and so on. So I'm pretty much on the meter here, so this complete floor So i just sent in the drawing for this garage And then they just draw out how the hose is supposed to go and, Yeah, sent me the stuff i needed. So I guess the guy calculating had his morning coffee Well, yeah. I mean it's not really a big deal. Everyone makes mistakes. So I just going to go and buy another. So this is the thing Right. So I did find a another piece of hose. I had to go to another town to get this. But this will be enough. And I also got some water hose. And some other. So not only that, I also made a good deals on some table salt. paid It's 12.5 kilo. This is going to last me a life time So it's been like 4 or 5 minus the night You can see the ice crystal forming It's a clear reminder for what's coming. So I'm just going to make the last, last go here. I just gonna put this in place and then I'm going to start with the rebar. So my friend is coming to help me So we're gonna try to get this ready today for casting. It's not long So this is the warm I guess it's not the best near to the floor. Heating here, it doesn't take a lot of flushing I mean, this is going to heat up that doesn't really matter. So this is. The distance for the next layer off of rebar. So the next layer So there's a little cloudy today. It I mean it's So it's not that bad. But the sun is on its way up. So it's gonna take away this mist soon, or fog! Okay, so I need that with the. "Is it there?" "Yeah now. Ok so what can it be, maybe a half centimeter to big" That's eight millimeters. Then there's the six millimeter. And this is 12mm. That. Straight one that strenghten the sides here, So I got these things. I got to try to cast them in this is to be able if I ever need that inside the garage. So I got to try and cast them in. So this laser is now set to finished floor level So this is supposed to be on the spot. so this is completely straight So the floor is coming here. That's was really exact. So it's 4.5 hours to to the concrete pour. Just going to the airport to handle I am hopefully off half an hour before the pour. but yeah. Oh, we'll see about that. So the sun just came up theres alot of leaves blowing from the tree right now. I should have shaken them before. Well, this was a little wrong but I guess it's better This is a pretty good filling here, so I pretty much got the base ready. when doing the next layer here. So this is getting insulation on top I kind of thinking That's a later issue. So it's the morning after. Now, I got to cover this with plastic I'm not really sure. Maybe it's going to be a cloudy day, so this turned out really good. I mean, look at the finish on this. It's like a. I mean, it's like those rocks you find in a river. That's the water been pouring over for a thousands of years These are the anchor points. Perfect height so I got to make, Yeah. Some kind of a flat surface bolt here. Just cut off a bolt and make a groove with a, grinder so I can get it flat here so you don't, Yeah. So it's not in the way here. Just easier getting the plastic to stick Moist on the surface here So I gotta leave