Good morning, everybody, and welcome back TV show that can't run, but can definitely Uncharted 2 is the inevitable sequel to Uncharted Jones ripoff, but also being a good one. Just like Indy, the only way forward is murdering can't help but notice Nate is slightly more How about we rewrite this script? Can You Beat Uncharted 2: Among Thieves Without No I can't Miss Gamerchamp! I don't like playing video games without shooting! I can't feel happiness without shooting and/or Wow, what a coincidentally relevant objection! This video just so happens to be sponsored Dead. That's right, I've somehow managed to trick game with this show, a marketing strategy Though honestly simultaneously on-brand, because From the makers of Dead or Alive and Ninja shooter hack-n-slash, where you seamlessly slicing it right back out. Not only is the action intense, the inaction You get to play a retro arcade shmup! You get to play an evil cheating crane game! You get to cheat the evil cheating crane game! You get to eat ramen! Eating ramen is a rhythm game! Eating ramen is a rhythm ga- There's a karaoke For the last year I've known the game exclusively cop with cat ears. I have discovered after some more research on Easy mode. This is one of the greater moral dilemmas If you do go for the less moral Hard Mode first level, and have no idea how bad Japanese an intense challenge, you're getting one. I personally missed out on the game when it not regret jumping in now. Both the PC and console versions of the game with more updates coming in the future. Dive into this hybrid hack and slash shooter pinned comment and embrace the potentially and the Epic Games Store, PS4 and PS5, and Now that we're done having fun playing video The rules are nearly identical to last time: shots as possible, and with as many chapters A lower shot count is always better than a a chapter on Crushing with the same number Unless noted otherwise the difficulty will &quot;Shots&quot; are incredibly conveniently tracked Since statistics are completely untracked that difficulty is banned. There is one important change from the first In Uncharted 1, I tried to craft a save file took total on the counter. That meant any time a chance to shave a shot process of reloading a backed up save file That was stupid and dumb. This time, while the in-game Shots counter final total shot count for the run will be chapter. With the rules set, let's get this run started. Immediately uninstall the game. You heard me. You need to uninstall the game. Once that's done, go download another game. Then a second. Then a third. Then about fifty dozen, however many it takes Oh, and don't actually download them, or at process and immediately pause it. If you're confused, we're doing the run on 4, the devs of which unfortunately saw fit A few of our gunless strategies rely on the do. Now, if you had a physical launch copy of and play offline, but if you're going digital Luckily, there's a quirk in the PS4's operating You'll have to follow a very particular procedure, drive space to make the download fail, then After reconnecting the PS4 will download and Just make sure to turn off your PS4's internet install the patch against your will. Trust me, I speak from experience, the &quot;don't do jack. Finally, we can boot the game and enter Chapter After a brief climbing tutorial, we're immediately with shooting a padlock to open a door. Mission Failed! Or is it? If you've seen the Uncharted 1 episode, you'll dev-intended ability to phase through solid the game, including an identical padlock tutorial. Unfortunately, Naughty Dog got better at making the sequel, so the same glitch no longer exists. Luckily, they didn't get that much better. Just before the padlock is some waist-high If you wiggle at the edge of waist-high cover further forward. If you don't believe me, here's a before and As you can plainly obviously see, Nate has position. Surprisingly, this doesn't get us anywhere repeating the shimmy a couple more times. After a minute or two, you'll understand why time consuming, gives Nate back his ability After around 10 minutes, you'll reach a breaking traincar. Theoretically we should be able to walk past currently out of bounds, and the walls that Despite visibly appearing to be in the alley locked out of it. There's no waist-high cover out here to repeat After a couple hours banging my head against and beat Chapter 1 with 1 Shot. Now we move into Chapter 2: the museum heist. Halfway through the heist Nate is given a Instead of murdering people, tranquilizers Despite the obfuscation this still counts as a tutorial: you're required to shoot multiple Naturally, we'll go for an invalid alternative, I should mention now we'll be abusing a bunch the run. I'll only be giving the basic rundown here. If you want to learn specifically how to do speedrun guides, linked in the description. Time travel back earlier in the stage, before At this specific checkpoint, just after beating We're gonna try to jump to the far ledge, However, if you hold the Inspect button while legally be in a grounded state, capable of We're absolutely not supposed to be over here, but don't worry, it's still there and you In order to properly traverse this OOB area, climbing up this ledge, Nate's current height lower than he actually is. This somehow means that he can jump really Navigation will require a lot of trial and you can shimmy back in-bounds near the end use of the tranq gun. The game is in a broken state and won't trigger up to this ledge triggers a checkpoint. Restart Checkpoint essentially reboots the game we're supposed to be here and allowing Chapter 3 puts us in our first true gunfights, At the beginning of every battle, you should in this first gunfight, that leaves two guys you if you try to climb up. I was hoping to let Sully handle them singlehandedly, game. That is nonviable here: most of the time, and incapable of dealing a killing blow. By waiting on the ledge to recharge health Soon after is a big arena battle, far too Enter the Journal. The Journal is simultaneously the least important If you pull out the Journal while Nate is The most powerful and most dangerous crap Hold forward, change your currently equipped inbetween where one gun is holstered and the Nate will bluescreen and cease responding walking directly forward for the rest of eternity. This effectively softlocks the game, unless through a cutscene trigger. After the cutscene, Nate reboots and gameplay Or at least, mostly normal. Restart Checkpoint reboots Sully and we complete Chapter 4 begins with a giant arena. Walking into the building on the far side again not be participating in. Kill the first handful of guards and move the ledge we'd eventually leave the area from. When Nate loses his balance on a ledge and he'll interpret gravity incorrectly, rise He's briefly capable of jumping after the bid Sully a fruitless farewell. There are no more firefights for a while, Chapter 5 begins Crash Bandicoot style. The chasing truck must be defeated, indicated point in the corridor. Otherwise, Nate will automatically get run I made a few good faith attempts, and have in melee combat is nonviable. We have no choice but to shoot. Minmaxing is simple since the truck's health after exactly 15 bullets. Blindfire until your ammo reaches 45. If the truck explodes, you've gotten away Stealth kills now give a big, important bonus: drop bonus ammo, which sometimes includes In a minimum gun run, grenades are your sole carry four at once. We'll be getting maximum use out of them in Go full stealth, taking out each guard while finally take out the rooftop guard. Drop down the ladder and announce your presence three guards nearby. Now we play the waiting game. If you see multiple guards huddled together, If a single guard comes near, head to the takedown. Riot shield enemies are extra resistant to behind them, which is rarely feasible, your If you need more grenades, wait for a lull 2. Once everybody's dead, raid the field for second wave, which will take care of itself Once the cutscene's over, re-raid the area reset and can be grabbed a second time. After some scripted climbing, you'll arrive up, but resist the temptation. Chloe is behind the locked door, and grenades The guards, meanwhile, will shoot the lock With Chloe joining the brawl, rush over while and hide to the right of the stairway. Once a guard walks down the stairway, run If Nate attempts to melee an enemy who is below, he'll skip the standard animations With every grounded enemy taken down, there and ledges. You're completely immune to bullets under throw some grenades and finish the battle. After climbing up the walkway yourself, there's destroyed to proceed. Blow them up with a grenade, then about face There's no sense going forward with one less Upon entrance of the next combat arena you'll This next arena is a giant one, and will be required to begin by stealth killing the RPG announce your presence. I hunkered by the truck for a while, but enemies I noticed, since I'd spent so long on the their attention there, leaving the left side I ran over to the left, and got up to the The many entrances and exits of the building, perfect for stealth and instant takedowns. Once enough guards are eliminated a truck marking a halfway checkpoint. Since the game is reset to a default state kills off all remaining enemies from the first From the new starting position, throw out up, deliver a knuckle sandwich to the gunner, finish the battle Batman style. There's a bunch of simple mini close quarters boarded doorway: be careful not to misaim center of the earth. We're also introduced to the Armored enemy While armored guards are technically more in the gunless run since they're still mostly will take a bit more time to take their helmet After climbing up this stairwell, you'll be side of a raised bridge, the bridge only lowering To make the grenades a bit more effective, side. More boom means more boomed. Immediately after winning that battle, you'll combat against the helicopter, which is resistant The devs intend on us making use of the plentiful sure you already realize grenade launches I initially assumed vanilla grenades wouldn't long as the helicopter is within the explosion Problem is, not only is timing an arcing grenade enough grenades around to take out the chopper. With no other options available, I decided I hadn't mentioned before, but there's an of Chapter 5. I'd opted to play the chapter normally at particularly difficult, but the helicopter Stealth kill the first couple guards for their You can do a massive Journal Launch off it We'll be doing an airwalk across most of the kinds of distances, even a slight variance We'll also be doing a modified grenade airwalk: the grenade button. Nate will be mostly bluescreened like in a still capable of both aiming and throwing Another important note, for very stupid nonsense which Nate has never attempted to aim. Attempting to aim a fresh grenade has a little any subsequent aim. This input delay is key to the glitch. After a couple dozen failed attempts at the detail. If the skip is done successfuly, the player rooftop battle directly before the boss battle I just wasted an hour trying to skip to the Maybe I should watch the guide to the end At least the time spent forced me to learn used to skip across the buildings just barely Release the grenade just far enough to not animation reboots Nate, giving us back full With a few jumps, you'll land back inbounds Climbing over the wreckage of a certainly a cutscene and complete Chapter 6 with 0 Shots. After a short firefight at Chapter 7's opening, very simple slightly late propane tank tutorial. Normally you'd shoot the propane tanks, but grenades. Despite very definitely entering this area have 0 grenades. Naughty Dog apparently realized players might Rather than preventing the player from using swept the grenades out of reality and hoped Well, I noticed, and I think it was kind of Luckily, airwalking across the broken bridge Nate will hit a checkpoint on the stairway, This checkpoint is a standoff against a wave It would be really easy to get a multikill TO BRING GRENADES. Begin by doing a couple ledge takedowns on Then rush over to the upper right side of Watch for your opportunity to instant takedown Use these on both the walkway and gunner nest Four more enemies will spawn at the stairway allies. Quickly stealth them from behind before they to clear the encounter. There are no more firefights for the next 0 Shots. There are 3 grenades to grab at Chapter 8's Grab all three, complete the ancient Simon Checkpoint. Since Restart Checkpoint resets the area, us grab a fourth to fill our inventory. Walk through the ruins until reaching this Spoilers, upon reaching the fourth tile from a deathtrap. Instead of walking onto that tile, walk over This skips the rest of Chapter 8, completing During some monkey shenanigans you'll be forced I was originally worried this would cost a the panel respond to grenades, the game explicitly sequence, presumably so the game wouldn't had exceptionally terrible aim. With the help of infinite grenades, we complete You'll now have to leave this same room as Head to the outer wall and transfer cover Cover transfers are straight up magic. Nate is functionally invisible while performing visible he appears to be. If an enemy is approaching a set of transferable into the most optimal position for a somehow The chapter's finale is an arena battle with Ignore the snipers and constantly dodge roll ground; you should have enough time for one home in. When the snipers are the only ones remaining, Chapter 10 with 0 Shots. Plot twist, the only moral character, Jeff, You'll have to escort him across the city pistol. To compensate, Elena and Chloe have swapped capable of killing enemies. Take it a bit slow and they'll clear the way If you're in a situation where you simply trick to keep yourself moving fast: when Jeff your gun to tell Jeff to stop being a baby Partway Chloe is grabbed by a guard. My entire life I believed this was a quicktime leave Chloe hanging long enough and she'll Plus a couple extra for good measure. With Jeff safely delivered to the nearest Shots. Beginning Chapter 12, this first fight can If done full stealth, every single guard will inventory. In the next climbing segment you'll be forced until completing a firefight, during which Instead, simply walk across the gap. Don't worry about leaving Elena behind, she The next firefight is an incredibly scary have to crank down the difficulty for: we're increasing number of enemies swarm outside, possible hidey hole. I tried running away from the traincar in fruitless. Once you get too far away, you'll hit a trigger instantly. Eventually, I tried the path of least resistance: Wibble wobble back and forth across the traincar, themselves. This segment is on a hidden timer: once that initiates, automatically completing Chapter Chapter 13 is the first of two lengthy chapters A hundred or so of our fellow passengers want for its brother we didn't kill. The chopper alone would require a lot of shots, ride. Climb on top of the first traincar, get in and shimmy, just like we tried back at the After shimmying for a couple minutes, Nate away. Literally. Nate isn't here any more. Do your best not to try to move Nate, lest Just relax and enjoy the show. I should note, however, that you should not As you ride along, the camera will oscillate each oscillation, eventually becoming genuinely If it gets to be too much, press the Aim button. This teleports the camera to Nate, who turns miles back down the tracks. Basically what's happening is Nate's current position. Sorry to spoil the illusion, but the train in a gigantic circle. Meaning, if Nate floats in one spot long enough, We'll be hitting trigger points from the end we're supposed to, and in reverse order. For some reason, that means eventually the in those few minutes of sitting around we Chapter 15 consists entirely of one big arena Unlike most big battles, the exit is fully random happenstance, every single time I go coming suddenly run up behind and shoot me I was hoping I could be clever and threw a before they coincidentally exist, but alas, coincidentally suffer a heart attack. Take out the first wave of guards in Batman train car. The second wave will spawn in from where Nate Don't be stingy with your grenades, there's taken away after this chapter anyway. Be extra patient and you can clear Chapter Chapter 16 features the hardest challenge Hidden throughout this village are 4 Yaks. If you press the interact button, Nate will If you fail to pet all 4 Yaks, the run is After shotlessly completing Chapter 16 with After a lengthy, free scripted climbing segment, segment. The player is locked in this little room and If that weren't enough, a Yeti ambushes you Yeti cannot be safely meleed, so I'd very Thankfully, there's a trick for that: directly up one of the pillars and jump up to a pathway the Yeti fight. We're then immediately presented with another on the upper wall to drop a rope down. We don't have a long gun to switch to, so Instead, we'll be journal launching off the This launch is exceptionally difficult, taking thus clear Chapter 17 with 0 Shots. Chapter 18 consists entirely of platforming the end. But &quot;fight&quot; is in quotation marks. Stand on the outer edge and they'll barely When the elevator arrives, jump onto it to Unfortunately, during this cutscene, a Yeti which entails shooting him with your gun, the counter. This cutscene is what triggers the end of we have to fire some shots. Where specifically you shoot the Yeti doesn't be won until Nate gets punched, so wait until The precise number of shots changes based 18 with 2 Shots. Reboot Chapter 19 on Crushing, and head in At the first checkpoint, run forward, punch An armored guy will be coming up the stairs When he gets into position, perform a Corner Don't worry about the grenade that just landed Killing the armored guy triggered the second the way for us. The next area has a mounted machine gun on Ignore everything other than the guards immediately a grenade in the building along the way. If you get far enough forward, you'll hit You will absolutely die after, and respawn disappeared. Backtrack to that area for more grenades, and takedown the rest. I managed to finish this segment with 3 grenades the building leading to the next arena. You're absolutely going to want those grenades. This area features tons of guards, including lines of sight that are too open to get in Begin by jumping across the rooftops, taking goal of dropping to and punching out the first Once he's dead, turn your attention to the taking him out with a grenade. With the grenadiers gone, go back to defensive Chapter 19 with 0 Shots. Chapter 20 is one giant battle across the Once again, we'll be rushing for checkpoint At every checkpoint, give it a few tries ignoring cheese. This is surprisingly effective until the end, inbetween, unless you fire an RPG at the tank. When the tank is hit with an RPG, a new checkpoint However, I did a little testing. While using the checkpoints I ended up having Ultimately, I decided to just destroy the Run directly into the first building: if you're tank. Take out his two friends, climb the outdoor on the rooftop. Get in cover on the table in the second building, off, and climb the indoor ladder for a secret a few guards. Platform as normal, grenading the final RPG last building. Aim carefully with your remaining grenades: of the enemies before ziplining down. Once they're all dead, the hard part is over: the building. Only an RPG fired by the player is capable is unchanged by difficulty. We use the conveniently placed infinitely 3 Shots. Chapter 21 seems scary at first: a convoy shots at the surrounding vehicles. Surprisingly, that didn't turn out to be the You're basically just waiting on a time limit near enough to jump on. Survival is also easier than expected: melee and once the enemies on your truck are dead, Nate's protests, is 100% safe. Eventually, though, we encounter a rail shooter Similar to the rail shooter in Uncharted 1, the enemies and pretending they don't exist. To my surprise, this is actually genuinely Up until the point the guards run Elena off In addition to being a rail shooter, this Two trucks try to kill Elena, requiring 5 Easy. But what if I told you the speedrun doesn't Halfway through, turn to the right side of falling back. The player isn't technically supposed to be out. I will note you're probably going to want the guys in the Jeep to give me a ride on There are a couple ways the glitch can turn an overhead view, which is the better result When you see a black rocky cliffside come and jump. Off-screen, Nate will jump onto Elena's truck, cutscene, completing Chapter 21 on Easy with Chapter 22's opening battle can and should a giant mob. This is actually three separate encounters The first encounter begins with us in full of it. Perform corner and cover takedowns on the to the nearby balcony to drop the fourth. Jump back down where you came from, patiently the two guards wandering the center. Finally, takedown the guy resting at the flaming It is now impossible to take out any more Both the armored guy across the way and this eachother and never fully turn, making it the other seeing. There's still a way to cheese around that: him get a glimpse of you, and take him down. But the moment he's dead you will instantly to do the spotting are dead corpses. Like I said, full stealth is impossible, because I opted instead to blow stealth by taking to the safety of the right edge. Elena will run in to keep the guards distracted. Watch for the moment anybody becomes vulnerable Once you push the cart on the bridge to the On the right side of the bridge, a mob will a ledge. This is extremely exploitable. Once they're all Batman'd, jump back to the left side. This puts you in the perfect position to grenade With a couple more takedowns you'll reach the devs very much intend on you manning the enemies storm in. That machine gun is obviously not an option, of stairs. If you wait on this ledge in particular, the line, dying painfully and horribly from the With everybody on our side of the bridge dead, too far to hit with grenades. Make the extremely tense trek back across, If you manage to heal back to full, the rest As the devs intend, the next sequence of battles a sequence of buildings to reach the monastery featuring a half dozen snipers who will automatically But once again, this has been solved by another Before the first enemy encounter, perform building. This skips the spawn trigger for the first walking around the second building, you can Grab a grenade along the way, and when you airwalk. As you might notice, the bridge does not exist. In the next room you'll have to pause the yourself loose. You're now in a combat arena from later in If you attempt to backtrack from this room will trigger improperly and softlock the game, With a journal hover jumpy thingy you can to be grab-onnable, then climb them out of With one last properly angled airwalk and you'll reach a checkpoint near the end of with 0 Shots. Celebrate with a bonk. The next combat encounter is one of the harder and tons on top of the unreachable right wall grenades for. After stealthing the first handful of guards, and should allow yourself to be spotted. Retreat onto this wooden structure. Most of the time, two guards will try to ambush Then, send out a few grenades to take out wall, particularly the guards mounting the I counted four total, but I'm not completely Either way, with the wall cleared, retreat, and begin Batman shenanigans. With everybody dead, look around one last next encounter, in a thankfully much more Right at the beginning, you can hop onto the backwards. Once it's done, you'll have officially completed Almost the entirety of Chapter 24 is a glorified where you'll need to survive an ambush from But if you hop onto this particular ledge, turning the entirety of Chapter 24 into a Shortly into Chapter 25 is a gigantic problem: Guardians, like the Yeti they've been disguised automatically harming Drake if you dare try. They also have tons of health, requiring two so happen to be three total Guardians and They rarely ever bunch up, and unlike most when they notice you've thrown a grenade at I tried shenaniganing around the edges of but the shenanigans were fruitless. This includes ignoring the Guardians; if you path, Elena will coincidentally suffer a heart We're not without options, though: there is set of Guardians: right at the beginning of Rush to throw a grenade in the dead center You won't actually know for certain if it off. Patiently wait for them to pull out their to stand still for a while. Once the first Guardian is dead, take the the last grenade is up there, and you don't is around since they throw deadly explosive Bola Guardians stand still more consistently, his friends. With the battle over, you'll reach a checkpoint, the grenades. Blocking us from proceeding further is a wall These vines will only go away after you shoot grenades are not a valid substitute. In order to proceed as the devs intend, we Screw the devs. By performing an airwalk in a very particular If done juuuuuust right, you'll arrive in takes place. Unstick yourself with your grenade to magically 0 Shots. When you begin Chapter 26, your inventory Once you walk down the pathway, you begin we extremely thankfully have an excuse to Time travelling forward a bit, after the boss game, whose shot requirement is difficulty-dependent. But even on Easy, we've got some minimizing Lazarevic doesn't have a traditional health once his health is low enough, only player-exploded phase. Unlike the resin seen previously, boss battle won't be an issue. As for damaging Lazarevic, melee attacks trigger them, will always deal some damage. I'm not sure exactly how much, or how much I meleed him ten times between each phase Sorry about that, Nate. There's still one minor math problem: we go grenades to pick up in the arena, and Lazarevic Putting all these complicated numbers into more grenades, and x is equal to not 0. It is technically possible to make Lazarevic said only player-exploded Resin can deal the If Lazarevic blows up the Resin, he will whine I got a stupid idea though: what if we found From the first stairway, perform an upward where we would have done the Chapter 25 finale This walkway holds exactly two grenades, giving However, I couldn't find a way to survive I spent a few hours attempting to land on but never managed it. Eventually, I gave up on doing it myself and this run's most powerful tricks in the hopes speedrunning Discord. Near instantly, these gods of uncharting gave Nate's inventory resets again after the boss stupidly pointless. Probly shoulda checked that. With all options exhausted, take out your off Lazarevic. Adding on 5 shots from the previously mentioned with 6 Shots. Thus ends the Uncharted 2 Minimum Gun Challenge on Crushing. If you're a fan of Uncharted, I do recommend surprised to see just how many takedown opportunities Melee may not be a safe option, but it is chaining together instant takedowns on these And once again, if you do go for it, the speedrun Special thanks to all Patreon backers, including: Anon42 LivelyLeader SaltySweet Nevermind! I can't come up with something better. Game Champ says Trans Rights are Human rights! CrustaceanCreep and unwelcome forward to WH facts. The offline, on paper board game movie. Nathaniel Coleda britfaic says YOU THINK CHANGING THE VOCAL rcombs NowIOnlyWantATriumph Attempted Wholesomeness and doesn't go to bed on time. Reblog if u 2 are gay and or don't go to bed Plesiosaurs may have given live birth to well who lived in pods sea and the sky And all I ask is a tall ship This is your reminder to take regular breaks doodlesack12 Robjection's words of wisdom for this week F Amadon darknitte - frequently a doofus, occasionally brizgee Ian Beck Hey is anyone missing an underscore, I found Fluff System Chloe Surett Sophia Has Transed Her Gender Cody Merchen Madison Touchtone Bananaphone Kyzerk says to please take care of yourself Everyones favorite Clan Ghost Bear Mechwarrior MoominBiscuit - Trans rights are human rights KenofRedLions Morgan Duna Nichs Love Story Gaming TTV Celica Raydanger Awsongames MacaroniCat personally endorses running away Harri Stovell NeO SaNdMaN4040 I shall ponder a replacement, and return to Haelerin wants to know where the Luigi Fanfiction JinxedShadow internet and should not, under any circumstances, Kimberbly the Gay Mer Gamer Bee says you should DayBreak the Over-Ambitious Dumbass Nicole the Gamer Girl &amp; Gay Mergirl Tourbit GamingMedic Zeta is pretty and valid Joshua Bennett Albruna Amity Blight MinePlanet84 Halo Lucky Grivel StarfishAtLarge Ella little things and will continue to do so until Nobody can block the emerald splash, excluding who have shown that they can Johnny Von Tungeln that trans rights are human rights right Malachi Atkinson Pennycollecter1 skyboundyuri Alexander Soria Detective Chiyo how you pronounced it last time, no easy mode The Arueshalae Table Building Society Aoi Tachibana just wants to let everyone know should wear them ur#1fan Quagsire is the best Pokemon, this is not genuinely stating the truth. Awesoman9001 sings worse than a Piranha Plant Alizard K Ema_Not_Emma screen DerpHaven The_Pokeman_52 pronouncing the underscores AWarlockOfUnimaginablePower Georgi Lyubenov WORD FACT Gruntled means Satisfied or Content Toni Conge Jetstream Jackie wants you to know that her Remilia Amber (Like the resin, but without Mosquitos, Annabeth Blue Bee Lucy Graser SaintLesbian in Sillyworld Lodestar hewwo Gamechamp- Kalzea The Firaga lit by Thundaza wreathed in and GayBastich and idc that that not how that is that that fujoshiurinal They're called Transformers, not Cisformers! Reya the God of fate but in a different reality Lula Lockhart (Likes 'Literation) Duncan Hike Let me know how much this video sucks and We technically never saw Jeff die on-screen 5, and get out of my house.