What if you could plant just once and then harvest effort?! Well you can, if you grow perennial superb culinary qualities and often good 'hungry gap' - that time of year when the winter aren't quite there yet. So come on, let's get bold plant whose thrusting eruptions of glaucus You can start them off from seeds but better to I just love this plant because it's so attractive of ground that gets plenty of sunshine and that much now but these grow into absolute whoppers! So leave about three feet or a metre between plants a little bit of aftercare of course: Keep the and especially during their first year, while mulch around the area to keep weeds down and to cold region you might also want to cover the crown sort of straw or compost to protect it from the buds that are harvested, once they reach about The buds can be steamed or boiled till tender. off and dipped into a sauce before sucking then left with the tender heart- the real get a second cut of flower buds after harvesting because honestly this is probably the most The bees absolutely love it and it's endlessly Another perennial vegetable very similar to the the same conditions: plenty of sunshine and a the flower buds you're eating but the stems. can be used in the same way as celery: baked, And if you're looking for a bold statement of a you really can't beat rhubarb. We did a video I'll pop a link to it in Now, come and have a look at these! a type of perennial leek which I'm told has into pots of an all-purpose potting mix. You can but I'm starting them off indoors so I can keep wet in their first season and also stop my dog leaks for some reason! So they're going in about I'll grow them on to plant out in spring. (that's 15 centimeters) apart, to form a really alone in the first year following planting so they spring you can begin harvesting the stems, cutting continue to grow. In early summer they should will contain lots of tiny bulbils. These weigh the stalk down so they make contact with the soil, these will start growing, also further Other perennial alliums to give a go include: the and the tree onion or Egyptian walking garden using its top setting bulbils that Another perennial vegetable I'm making room because it can reach epic proportions - almost the to a reasonable height through regular harvesting. resilient too because it easily shakes off any all is that it can be harvested almost year-round, the garden. The best way to introduce perennial side shoots. Big, chunky cuttings like these which They came by post already trimmed. If I bring you them. The bottom here has been trimmed just below stripped off (to reduce stress from evaporation), to plant so let's get on and do that! I'm planting mix. I'll keep the potting mix nice and moist a nice, bright spot. And then they will go out This type of kale is Taunton Dean kale. Others Ethiopian kale (which is a great choice for warmer roots in the crofting communities of the far north Now what if I told you there was a root crop suffers from few of the pests and diseases be oca - also known as the New Zealand yam. Oca baked, fried. But they can also be shaved raw into zest is also in the leaves too so you can cut Oca isn't frost-hardy so to get it off to a planting them into pots and then planting about 3 foot (that's 90 centimeters) apart. won't form their tubers until the autumn, You'll then harvest them, usually when frost. Just dig them up, dry them off and then in a cool dry place. Keep over some of the Another really popular tuber is the Jerusalem These ones are from the grocery store and I bought the size and the feel of them. It's autumn but in the spring I'll plant these about 3 inches foot apart (that's 30 centimeters). And then water sunflower family and grow just as big and tall back in the autumn (next autumn), you can then dig Have I saved the best till last?! I reckon is that royalty of veg, asparagus! Asparagus sunshine. You'll need a little patience to grow establish an asparagus bed is using dormant roots As soon as you see them, buy them straight away To plant them, dedicate an entire area just for once they're planted. Prepare the soil and incorporating plenty of well-rotted manure 30 centimetres) wide and 8 inches (that's 20 little ridge within the trench and then splay about 18 inches (that's 45 centimeters) apart. that the same distance apart 18 inches (or 45 At this stage you can add a mulch of well-rotted feed that crown as it establishes. You'll then for at least two years to give plants time to harvest as they appear for up to 6 to 8 weeks left to develop their ferny foliage which will You'll need to watch out for asparagus beetle them to grow crooked before setting to work on them off into soapy water and be sure to tidy Other than that they're largely pest-free! There try and many of them are flower boarder favorites, or how about daylily flower buds?! All but please do your research first to stay safe. to miss our next episode when we'll be growing easy to do and very rewarding so you won't want is to subscribe and make sure you've turned on you