Hello everybody! Today we will talk about that he is not afraid of you, can sit on your hand, on your with you. If you are interested in this topic, you can leave long process, so you will have to be patient. last from several months to several years. to me around the third year. Why do I say &quot;almost it is taken from the wild. And it At first, of course, she was very, very scary. even just entered the room. Cleaning the was a real stress for her. She rushed around the cage, jump into the hole, fly away. But gradually, after after 3 months, she calmly sat on the pole, when cage. Already behaved quite calmly and did and talked to her. Dasha, oh you are my little girl. By the way, it is very important for the bird to get used to your voice. So that she like a predator in a wild forest, but just trying to period you should not forcibly take the bird in your arms and because the bird will get very stressed and will or it will be very difficult for it to get used to a person after and cannot be accelerated and imposed by to your presence near it, near And in order for her to get used to you approach the cage several times a day At least once a day you go fresh food. What a beauty you are, Dasha, what a way, the bird gradually gets used to you and already Next, when the stage of getting used to it has been passed, we start, sushi stick and put a drop of water on it Of course, at first the bird will worry and But gradually, after a week or two, if bird will get used to the stick and start drinking from it. For the parrot's beak with a wet stick so that he understands Eventually, your parrot will start collecting these drops himself like a certain game for him. The main thing at this time is not to forget the opportunity to drink water on its own when it when there is no water in the drinker and the bird receives water and the bird develops a strong thirst, it will and this will be a rather strong blow to its By the way, drinking from a stick is a very useful bird mild medicine. For example, recently my her the calcium gluconate solution she needed so my parrot did not even realize that it was the bird in my hand and feed it from the pipette. And this is completely For domestication, it is very important to deal with the least three times a day. If you it will not have any success. Decided to bite my nails, huh? Dasha? Look, I can say from my own experience that I to my bird in the morning before work, during my in the evening immediately after work and at the end of the day. For 5-10 minutes at first. It will be necessary to go replace the water in the drinker, pour fresh Next, when the parrot is used to drinking from a stick, you It is necessary to bring the wand to the abdomen and lightly this way, the bird will understand that it is possible to will not be the first time. At first, your parrot maybe even biting it, and later he will it will take several weeks and a lot of your bird, because the bird needs to regularly leave the has healthy wings and there is no stagnation in the internal around the room, it will be difficult for him to find his way back a stick, it will be quite easy to return the bird back In this way, the parrot can be released a week, and then calmly return But it should be done under your supervision when you especially gnaw the corners of furniture, make holes in they can do you a lot of to deliberately harm, but because they have such an For this, there should be a piece of chalk in the cage and at the same time get the necessary trace elements feeling a little more freedom, will not immediately want to happens, it's normal. Just show more Where Timofey got tired of running away Once your budgie is used to the stick, it same way, put your palm under the belly and the bird will have to wait the first two or three weeks, give the bird time to it is living warm flesh and is very scared at first. In and then replace the palm again, and so my golden girl, it's time. biting? Come on, go. You don't want, you don't Then you can try hand feeding. You can you can simply pour food into the palm of your hand and give it to afraid of you and will start to sit on your head, parrot itself will determine the moment when you approached. This will happen quite quickly talk to her often. Most likely, for her this is the most safe place on your body, first few times she will sit for when she realizes that sitting on your head is she will start doing it more often. Eventually, he will even you on the top of the head, start sitting on your shoulders, and better dialogue, you can regularly turn on music loud. The bird will gradually get used to this music my parrot sat on my shoulder for the first time should also be taken into account that parrots poop everywhere. it is impossible to accustom a bird to a tray, like a dog or a cat on your head or shoulder during the game, it will definitely it is better not to let your bird sit on you, in which you walk your parrot will have to Because parrots litter a lot, scatter all falls on the floor around the cage. Next, if you so that she trusts you more, gets used to you more every day, play with her, buy for example, really likes to play with peanuts, I throw to her from time to time. She is learning it, it is a At the moment, my bird is so used to me that it calmly goes to my hands. at the same time she does not try to break out, and But still, sometimes there are periods when At such moments, she does not want to play, does not when she is sick. On such days, it is better to give her the necessary treatment. The until she gets stronger. And in general, even cannot hold it in your hands for a long time, because overheats in your hands. And this can seriously This is our beautiful girl, our beautiful parrot yes, live? You look at the boys. Oh, Do you see how interesting the boys are? all for now. I will provide more information in future issues so you don't miss any future videos. Before She pooped right on the boys' heads, didn't she?