. (Dreamy music) (Music increases.) Where rugged rocks rise above gentle mountain pastures... and traditional hospitality pampers you with delicacies, where charming towns invite you to take detours... and tempt you with culinary delights, that's where the Dolomites lie. UNESCO World Heritage Site and a true paradise for nature lovers. (Idyllic music) And for people who find their purpose off the beaten track. (Idyllic music) (Music becomes more powerful.) We meet modern nomads who aim high with their sheep. (Italian:) You have a feeling of freedom here that doesn't exist in other professions. At the rose garden we follow two hiking friends and their mountain guide. When you stand at the top and have conquered the mountain, it's just a really great feeling. In Val Gardena we treat ourselves to Ladin specialties in one of the oldest farms in the Dolomites . Cooking creates community. (Robustling music) Near Trent, a young entrepreneur shows us how he makes innovative loudspeakers out of old wood. And in the middle of the mountains, a vegetable farmer comes up with unusual ideas. This is kind of a botanical edible garden. This is my playground, you can do whatever you want and you can try and live. We accompany a couple of artists who portray mountain farmers from remote Dolomite valleys with a camera that is over 100 years old. (Music becomes more dramatic.) And we're there when vets save a true king of the mountains. (Italian:) The fascination for this place and these animals will accompany me throughout my life. (Soft music) The Seiser Alm, a gentle plateau framed by the Schlern and Sassolungo massifs. For centuries it has served farmers as a summer pasture for their livestock. Today their huts attract tourists from all over the world. Shortly after sunrise, Maria Rauch prepares the hut for the daily rush. When we put up the flag in the morning, it means it's time to go. Of course now in summer it is even more beautiful. There's no one there yet, you can only hear the birds now. And our neighbor's cows in the summer. We also like to show our colors; here in South Tyrol we are proud of the flag with the Tyrolean eagle. We may be Italians on our ID card, and we like to be Italians, but at heart we are South Tyroleans. The Rauchhutte is located at 1,850 meters on the eastern edge of the Seiser Alm. With a view of Sassolungo and Plattkofel. (Devotive music) Maria's father, the hut owner Andreas Rauch, likes to pursue a special passion on beautiful summer mornings. So, before we mow, you obviously have to make sure you have a good cutting edge, and that's why you need a good whetstone made of natural stone. You really have to do it with a lot of feeling. (Loose music) Today, of course, most things are done with machines, but in the past it was purely manual work. The farmers here mowed the entire pasture all summer long and shaped it into the wonderful landscape we have today. (Loose music) For South Tyroleans, the morning Wiesmahd is also early exercise and meditation. It's really an amazing smell from all the flowers and herbs in there. You see this small grass, slowly growing grass, which is of course medicine for the animals. So now I'm going to take this to the horses. (Idyllic music) As a passionate rider, Andreas likes to spoil his animals. He grew up in the Dolomites. (Idyllic music) (horse snorting) And up there, if you look back towards the Sassopiatto, there is an alpine pasture in between, I actually grew up there as a little boy. My father managed this alpine pasture back then. People used to make cheese and butter. Then, when I was seven or eight years old, I brought the milk down to the valley in a horse-drawn cart. That would have been unthinkable at that time. (Casual music) The smokehouse opened its doors in the 1960s. At that time it was directed by Helga Rauch's grandmother, who is now the hut's landlady. I'm a bit of a girl about everything. Anywhere you need me, a bit of kitchen too, making dumplings, flowers, garden. Well, we also need an umbrella. It's going to be warm today. (Relaxed music) And now I have to get the rhubarb into the garden. (Relaxed music) Pure postcard idyll. The Rauch family attaches great importance to products from the region and from their own garden. And I grew up here and I couldn't imagine anything else, nothing more beautiful than life here. We live with nature, we live in nature. So, we go up the mountains here, we go hiking, we go collecting herbs. Everything has a different rhythm here, it's a different life. The day starts earlier, but it also ends earlier. So, we are already far away from all the hustle and bustle, from the city, from the hustle and bustle. So, our everyday life is simply quieter. (Relaxed music) But this doesn't work without planning either. Before the first guests arrive, three generations meet for a business meeting. (Baby babbles) Yes, that's fine, or what do you say? Mmm, Sundays are always the busiest. The weather will be fine tomorrow, it'll be fine, most people will probably sit outside. Yes, fine. (Relaxed music) (Baby babbles.) It started in 1965 when my grandparents built the hut. My grandmother was a cook, she made dumplings and bacon for the guests who came over. At some point it became more, then my father came along, my parents. It was something we were all born with, and the joy of cooking, the joy of being with the guests, that's a lot of fun. (Relaxed music, they are talking.) My role is actually quite simple. I'll wait to see what the women do to me in the morning and then I'll do it. Mowing the lawn, taking care of the meadows and everything around is a bit of caretaking. (Upbeat music) In the late morning the tourists conquer the Seiser Alm. Hello, greetings. - Hello. How many are you? - Two. (Upbeat music) While Helga welcomes her guests outside, the pans inside are glowing. There are traditional things on the menu and modern variations. Vitello Tonnato. - Okay. And the Tyrone steak with it. (She speaks in Italian.) The weekend is a bit more stressful, but no, that's okay. Always with a smile. (Soft music, quiet hissing) Good ingredients processed with a lot of love. This is the smokehouse recipe. Now our herbs and flowers are used a bit as decoration. (Soft music, noise of people) This is local meat, all from the area, mostly from the gray cows. And they are just generally a bit smaller because they are simply a bit more robust, smaller and a bit more sturdy for the mountains . That looks pretty good. I'll put it in the middle like this. Have a good meal. (Upbeat music) A dish is absolutely a matter for the boss. Now let's make our classic Kaiserschmarrn. A must on the Seiser Alm. A must in the mountains. Plenty of eggs, flour, milk and a pinch of sugar. That's all you need for an original Kaiserschmarrn. Except maybe a handful of sultanas. And one more thing... in here. So! After just ten minutes, Helga's Kaiserschmarrn is ready. (Upbeat music) Is a very simple dish, This is what the farmers here used to eat in the afternoon while working on the hay. Eggs, flour, milk, you have that at home, everyone has that in their basement. It's not a lot of effort, not a lot of work. And yes, it fills you up too. (Upbeat music) Classic Kaiserschmarrn has sultanas inside. But of course you can put a lot of different things in it. There is an apple pancake, you can also add nuts. So you can play there. It's already the right color. (Upbeat music) And then we'll bring him out. (Harmonious music) So, the Kaiserschmarrn. Wow, thank you very much. - Have a good meal. Wow, delicious. It's really delicious, it's so slightly caramelized, it's really a dream. So, sucky and not tasty. - Such nonsense! Such rubbish. (Harmonious music) We grew up here on the mountain pasture. In the summer, when there was no school, we were here all day helping and working. We wanted to help. That's why it quickly became clear to me that I liked that too, and the contact with the guests - there are new faces there every day. No day is the same. It's always something new, always an adventure, I say. (Curious music) Maria loves taking care of the wine cellar at the Rauchhutte. We now have a lot of guests who come because they know that you can drink a nice wine with us. I now know the guests and know a little about their tastes. A varied climate and rich soils allow first-class grape vines to thrive in South Tyrol. (Curious music) We are lucky, we actually know everyone from South Tyrol personally, the cellar masters. That's great, then you have a little story about each wine or you've already been there and know each other. (Music fades away.) (Quiet music) In the late afternoon it gradually becomes quieter again on the Seiser Alm. At five o'clock sharp it's time for the day. So. Nice day, great day, great atmosphere, great guests. It was fun. And again tomorrow. (Loose music) Andreas Rauch is drawn to nature at sunset. This is now the most beautiful moment of the day. After work, sit on my horse, take a few nice canter jumps across the mountain pasture. Let everything sink in and then of course recharge your batteries for the next day. (Loose music) When the sun casts its last rays onto the rocks, the Dolomites develop an almost magical attraction. (Music fades away.) (Quiet music) The Dolomites, once known as the pale mountains, lie between the main Alpine ridge in the north and Lake Garda in the south. They essentially extend over the two northern Italian provinces of Trentino-Alto Adige and Veneto. (Soft music) The Dolomites are not just a paradise for people. Despite intensive tourism and mountain agriculture, they still offer sufficient habitat for many plants and wild animals. (Soft music) Including relatively unknown species such as the pine jay with its preference for pine cones. And something as iconic as the marmot, which unabashedly presents itself along many hiking trails. (Soft, waiting music) With a bit of luck, you can even see the secret kings of the mountains as they climb down from the rock faces to graze. (Quiet ringing of bells) (Idyllic music) Ibexes were released back into the wild in the Friuli Dolomites Nature Park in 1985. The biologist Marco Favalli was there at the time. Today he and his team have a very special mission. (Italian:) We want to catch an ibex whose horn has grown unusually. And we have to remove a piece of this horn, so that the animal can survive. Because the overgrown horn threatens to drill into the ibex's skull if it continues to grow. (Waiting music) The team of biologists, rangers and veterinarians now face a three-hour climb. (Marco:) The nature is spectacular, but few tourists get lost here. You can spend entire days in the park without meeting anyone. This environment is truly incredible. (Casual guitar music) (He gasps for breath.) At this point you realize why there is so little tourism here. 1,300 meters of altitude on narrow paths lie ahead of you to reach the kingdom of the ibexes. (Music fades away.) (Italian:) It's my first time here and I didn't expect it to be so tiring. But I hope that the climb will be worth it later. (Quiet music, quiet sound of water) (Marco:) This time of year is simply the most beautiful. September, with its clear, fresh air in the morning. It is truly a unique feeling to be in this park. The ibex have retreated into the cool shade of the rock walls. It takes experience to spot them here. I can see an ibex, but it has two horns and is not the one we are looking for. (Waiting music) Let's wait up by the shelter. We can eat our snack there. Maybe he'll come down to see if some crumbs fall for him. The team has almost reached the goal. A plateau with a tiny refuge at almost 2,000 meters altitude. This emergency bivouac has nine beds. It's a bit narrow but a good base for hikers. And for a hearty snack. (Relaxed guitar music) You'll see, the bastard will definitely come to lunch on time because he thinks he'll get something to eat. But today Capricorn doesn't seem to have an appetite. (Relaxed guitar music) There is another trick to attract the Capricorns. You have to pee, that's the secret. When you go to pee, the ibexes sometimes come because urine contains mineral salts and they then lick them up. (Waiting music) The ibex usually only climb down onto the grassy slopes when the shadows become longer again. For now, only a single chamois braves the midday heat. We have to be patient. The two rangers climb towards the ibexes. (Italian:) &quot;There are other ibexes.&quot; &quot;I'll stay here and watch.&quot; &quot;You can see the upper part of the wall quite well.&quot; Let's wait and see, but it will be difficult if Capricorn stays up there. I don't know if he'll come down in the evening. Egg, egg, egg. After all, Marco and his team discover two other ibexes. One is older, the other is a young animal. (Soft music) The cub was born last year and is already quite independent. Nevertheless, it still stays close to its mother. In the late afternoon the sun gradually sets behind the peaks. Veterinarian Stefano Pesaro prepares the tranquilizer gun. There isn't much time left today. He has often stunned animals. However, it never becomes routine. (Italian:) It's always very exciting to get so close to an animal. I can touch it, examine it and look at it up close. This is something very special. However, it is also a very risky moment for the animal and you have to really concentrate every time. There's a bit of fear there. At the same time you are flooded with adrenaline. So it's a rollercoaster of emotions. (tense music) The veterinarian has to dose the anesthetic correctly with the help of his assistants so that the ibex does not suffer any harm. We loaded the dart with the syringe containing the anesthetic. Now the rifle is ready and I can shoot the animal. From now on the weapon is virtually armed. So we have to be particularly careful with it. (Tense music) The tension rises. But the ibex is not yet in sight. Stefano tries to climb up around the back so he can drive the animals a little down the slope. They tend to flee upwards. Always up on the rocks where no one can follow them, not even a predator. This is the typical escape strategy of Capricorns. (Quiet music) Then the time has finally come. The first ibex appear around the refuge. These animals have survived for millions of years and it is not for nothing that they are considered kings of the mountains. (Quiet music) There is no other animal that can climb such steep rocks as the ibex. And no animal that can survive in such an unreal area even in winter. (radio message) Suddenly everything happens very quickly. The ibex with the twisted horn comes down the mountain. We've waited a long time, but now he's finally here in the last light. (Music increases.) (Music fades away.) The vet now has to find a good shooting position. And he comes very close to the animal that hikers are used to. (Quiet, tense music) Perfect, that was a perfect shot in the thigh. He's very calm now. Maybe he'll take a few more steps. But he probably lies down right there. Let's wait a little longer before starting the procedure. When he's completely asleep, we go and fix the legs. The team has just under 45 minutes for the operation on the horn. 83 and 52. He's breathing well. (They speak in Italian.) The most important thing is that he breathes. (Huring) The vet uses the flex to cut off the crooked horn. Otherwise it would have drilled into the skull. The ibex would have died miserably. (They speak in Italian.) The incision site is bandaged in a sterile manner. The animal is stable, everything has worked so far. I would say the right time to wake up. (Soft sounding music) (Hopeful music) We did it, we really did it. Fortunately, the mission was successful, because such interventions are always very peculiar. But this time it went really well. We are a super team and I thank everyone. (Hopeful music) Thanks to the emergency operation, the King of the Mountains will continue to go on snack patrol around the refuge in the future . The passion for this place and for these animals will accompany me throughout my life. I can't imagine that one day I won't be able to come to these places anymore. (Upbeat music) A little further to the northwest, Monte Pelmo towers above the remote Val di Zoldo. A Dolomite valley with a particularly sweet reputation. (Playful music) Bienvenuti en la valle de gelato! Welcome to Ice Valley! Many Italian ice cream parlors in Germany have their roots here, in the Valley of the Ice Cream Makers. It's not for nothing that some people are called &quot;Dolomiti&quot;. (Music fades away) Here you go. I can speak German so well because I was born in Germany, in Miltenberg am Main, which is in Bavaria. Because my parents had an ice cream parlor in Germany. And I did kindergarten there and I was in Germany every summer until I was 17. (Quiet, relaxed music) Carlo Piva also had an ice cream parlor in Germany in the 1980s . Then he returned to his homeland. (Soft music) He runs the &quot;Al Soler&quot; together with his wife Vally. Translated: In the sun. Ciao, people! I wish you everything! - Buongiorno. Buongiorno. I kiss her, be careful. (Laughter) (Playful music) Carlos' Gelateria is a meeting place for locals and tourists. His grandfather moved from the Dolomites to Vienna to seek his fortune as an ice cream maker. Many families followed because there was hardly any work in Val di Zoldo. While in Austria and Germany you couldn't get enough of the ice cream. (Italian:) When is it from? - 1996. (Soft, playful music) Look, a picture of your ice cream. (Upbeat music) And so Carlo is still standing in his laboratory in the basement of the ice cream parlor and is working on the perfect recipe. According to his business philosophy... (upbeat music) And to ensure that Carlo's price-performance ratio is really right, there are always unannounced quality controls in the ice cream laboratory. (Music fades away) Mmmmh...wonderful! (Cheerful music) (Cheerful music) Carlo always liked it cold. In the winter months he closed his ice cream parlor in Germany and worked the slopes of the Dolomites as a ski instructor. (Quiet music) Ice cream makers like him who commuted between Germany and Italy with the seasons were called "migratory birds." (He sings a yodel.) (Fast folk music begins.) (Music slowly fades away.) (Happy music) Upstairs, Carlos' wife Vally and his employee Ilena look after the guests from near and far. A lot of Italians come to us in August because they all have their holidays in August. In September and October we work a lot with Germans and Americans. Because they come and go, they migrate. On the high path or in the Dolomites. (Happy music) The winding pass roads of the Dolomites also attract many motorcyclists to the Eismacher Valley. We have been here in the valley several times and have tried various ice cream parlors. We were lucky, there was always good ice cream. (Quiet music) At lunchtime, Carlo likes to go on trips to the surrounding mountains. Homesickness for the Dolomites once drew him from Germany back to his Val di Zoldo. (Music becomes energetic and stops.) (Quiet music) One of the most famous massifs in the Dolomites is the Rosengarten. It tempts with mountain tours for every taste. Mountain guide Thomas Zelger wants to lead two young women on their first via ferrata today. Position your backpack well. Because now it takes us an hour and a half to get there. We can already see the summit at the top, the Rotwand, 2,806 meters. (Sparkling music) Felicitas and Sonja come from Munich. The two mountain friends often go on tours together. But it has never been so steep before. Yes, first via ferrata, I'm a bit nervous. I'm also a little nervous, and I'm also a little afraid of heights. I'm curious to see how it feels then. (Lively music) Mountain guide Thomas leads guests in the Dolomites all year round. This area, the Rosengarten in general and the Dolomites have been a playground for youth for me and are my home mountains. You have a special relationship with it. And basic geological knowledge is also included. Down here we have older layers of sandstone. Totally crazy because it's all the way down here. - Yes. You can see exactly how the water has sunk, the water level, yes, because at the top it is more of a longitudinal structure. Yes, that is sandstone and that is dolomite. Basically, we are on the ocean floor here. So climbing is actually also a water sport. Water sports for late risers. (Laughter) The rugged rock formations were once coral reefs. About 30 million years ago they rose from a primeval sea. They were once called "the pale mountains" because of the color of their rock. At the end of the 18th century, a French geologist named Dolomieu discovered the special composition of the dolomite rock named after him. (Quiet music) Mountain guide Thomas and his proteges approach the rock face. Of course you don't know how they will react on the via ferrata. The height, the rocky terrain, that's why it stays exciting until the last moment. And the weather could change at any time today. How high do you think the wall is from entry to exit? Maybe 200 or so? Is it completely wrong? - Double. 400 almost. - Okay. Oh, crazy. - Yes, and it hangs 50 meters above. When you see climbers, you see how small they are. Like ants. (Lively music) Today we don't want to go through the steep face to the Rotwand summit, but along the mountain ridge. The snowfield we cross is not particularly steep. We're just crossing it, so it's not dangerous. Just take small steps, tread flatly. And walk carefully, then we'll pack it without any problems. (Lively music) The rose garden actually offers an experience for every level, for every person. It doesn't matter whether you hike below the walls or whether you climb up the walls, there's something about it. (Quiet music) A special feature of the Dolomites is that there are an incredible number of via ferratas here. You could almost say they were invented here. (Lively music) And the iron paths called &quot;Via Ferratas&quot; in Italian are becoming increasingly popular. Because they also provide beginners with spectacular perspectives. Crazy, look. - Wow. What is madness? - Now it's getting serious. Do we go up or do we turn around? - We'll do it now. If it stays like that, it's good. I can't promise it exactly like that, but similar. But mostly rock or also steps? There are no artificial kicks on this site. Then on the descent. The climb is only secured with ropes. No artificial steps. - Okay. Via ferrata level approximately AB. (Exciting music) Make sure that the belt fits perfectly. So, tighten it at the top first. Fits? Sits. As you can see, both via ferrata carabiners are always hooked into the steel cable, right? Very important, when you come to the next hook, you always have to make sure that you attach the carabiners individually. Someone always has to hang. - Okay. Then with one hand. Exactly. And take it easy here... go up. I'm really surprisingly calm right now. And above all, totally motivated, so I want to go up there now. Yes, I'm motivated too. (Exciting music) The three of them have to climb almost 300 meters on their way to the Rotwand summit. Due to the uncertain weather there is hardly any activity today. (Wind roar) That's fun, I like the wind up here. And, um... the view is amazing. Sometimes I have a bit of coordination difficulties, but otherwise it goes quite well. On sunny days there can be backlogs and oncoming traffic. The via ferratas in the Rosengarten are particularly popular with those new to via ferrata. This is definitely one of the more exposed places here, right. One of the airiest. (Lively music) So, last piece. Now pay attention again here, a small climbing passage. Are we almost there yet? - Yes. Ah, cool! - There's a cross around the corner. (Moving music) 2,806 meters, the summit of the Rotwand in the Rosengarten. Wow, great. I really enjoy going to the mountains. You get out into nature and constantly overcome your own limitations. Do things you might not have thought possible before. And the feeling when you stand at the top and have conquered the mountain is just really great. (Moving music) As a reward, everyone can sign the summit book. What do we write? - First via ferrata. And the best mountain guide. - Well, if you say so. (Laughter) (Moving music) I think the mountains in general have become more attractive to people lately . Life is so hectic and people find refuge in the mountains, I think. On the other hand, of course, when more people go to the mountains, the mountains lose their loneliness again. But I think you can get a lot of peace and strength, that's the beauty of the mountains. (Moving music) (Music slowly fades away.) (Soft music) Hiking. Breathe in the mountain air. Good food on one of the countless alpine pastures. There are many reasons to visit the Dolomites and their peaks. The first guests from the north discovered this northern Italian paradise at the beginning of the 20th century. But with the economic miracle there were soon more and more. And the locals' business acumen fueled their hospitality. Mountain farmers became hoteliers. Tranquil pass roads were transformed into highly frequented race tracks. (Lively music) Today the Dolomite region counts over 30 million overnight stays a year. With just around 500,000 people living here. No wonder, with this mix of Alpine tradition and Mediterranean flair. (Music fades away.) (Quiet music) Above Bozen, with a view of the Schlern, lies a very special refuge. Far away from all the hustle and bustle. Harald Gasser is an organic farmer. He starts the morning with his animals. Let's let the tap out. The Indian fighting cock. My children gave this to me for Father's Day. This is quite a rare breed. But I like it extremely much. They lay very few eggs, only 30 or 40 a year. And that's why it's very difficult to continue breeding them. That's why... (crows) you actually find them very rarely. Go-go-go-go-go-gog. Go-go-go-go-go-gog. This is actually the breed that suits me. This is suitable for me, firstly because they scratch little. And secondly, because they just follow me in the field like a... dog. (Loud crowing) (Lively music) Harald's farm is located on the western slopes of the Isarco Valley. His father once practiced conventional farming. Until the son did everything differently. (Donkey screaming) I never listen to what they want to say. The cattle are so-called Zebus, an Indian breed. When I took over the farm, I was looking for a breed of cattle that was resilient and strong and didn't need a vet or medication. And then you just look for wild cattle. Other wild cattle were all much too big. And that's just a very small one. I have a small farm, so I have small cattle. (Quiet music) Less is more, that is Harald's philosophy. However, with one important exception. Over 600 different types of vegetables grow in his garden. That should probably be a South Tyrolean record. Yes, well, this is a black tomato. The great thing was that the first time I had a black tomato, I made a tomato salad. Then my father looked at me and said: &quot;Well, are you going to poison me now?&quot; No, these are the black-skinned tomatoes, they look beautiful on the plate and... so it's pleasing to the eye. (Casual music) Harald taught himself vegetable gardening. Out of pure passion. 100 percent organic. Every year I make... 80 types of tomatoes. And if possible, always new ones. Because there are 13,000 varieties, and I would like to have tried 10,000 by the time I'm done with life. Now I'm maybe at 1,500. That's why I still have a lot to do, a lot to do. (Casual music) With creativity and special varieties, Harald gets a lot out of his small garden. This is kind of a botanical garden. But a botanical-edible garden. This is my playground. It's an experimental garden because it's simply free. You can do whatever you want, you can try and live. Harald earns his money by selling his exotic goods to regional restaurants . If he can find her. It's a request. That's why I like to call them South Tyrolean truffles. We have one there. Such a beautiful one. It tastes like a green pea. That's crazy, isn't it? Official name: tuberous flat pea. I'm already thinking about how it tastes now. Then eat it - and then it tastes completely different. And that's what I like. Humans currently eat 30 species. It's almost disrespectful to nature if we only eat 30 types of tomatoes, and there are 13,000 types of tomatoes. Yes, I think that's extremely unfortunate. And we have one disadvantage: taste. We no longer know the full range of flavors. And it's literally too hot. The root tubers can be roasted like chestnuts or cooked like potatoes. It's like, I always say, like a drug. You start and it goes from strength to strength. And even crazier vegetables and even crazier colors and tastes. And that never ends. Harald was a social worker and looked after dependent young people before he inherited the farm. Today his wife and two sons support him with gardening. (Casual music) That's the hawthorn, I'll put it out there to dry. The chefs do different things with them. Some even let it ferment, others make a jelly. This is actually a fruit with many uses. (Lively music) Reinterpreting traditional things is what appeals to Harald. Accept the gifts of nature, in small and large ways. Yes, the Sciliar is a very important mountain for our entire family . It has always been a mountain that we all looked over. One look in the morning, one look in the evening. Today, as you can see, he has a hat on. And there's a saying: &quot;If the Sciliar has a hat, the weather will be good.&quot; &quot;If he has a saber, the weather will be miserable.&quot; The Sciliar is certainly also a weather interpreter for us. It shoots up as high as a huge stone, there between the forested mountains. That's why it's...somehow powerful. (Upbeat music) Now we have put together a small variety for a chef who would like to try a few things. Harald's treasures are sought after - and rare. Because he only delivers what the season currently offers. I first started working with top restaurants in South Tyrol. Now I say this: Anyone who wants to try things out and try out new flavors can be my customer . Some were overwhelmed by the great diversity. When I sent the whole variety, he would call me and say, no, that's too much. He can never classify it, he can't cook with it either, he only needs ten products, not a hundred. But there are chefs who use a hundred at a time. And these are my favorite chefs. (Upbeat music) A stone's throw from Harald's farm is Bolzano. Johann Wolfgang von Goethe stopped here on his Italian journey in 1786. He stayed right in the historic center. Directly at the famous fruit market, whose pears and peaches Goethe praised. (Energetic music) To this day, the stands attract locals and people from all over the world with Alpine specialties in a southern atmosphere. (Quiet babble of voices) (German with an accent:) If you're already here, you have to take advantage of the culinary qualities. Lean bacon, Schuttelbrot, cheese, you can find everything here. And of course we have to try it. (Lively music) In addition to culinary classics, the market also offers: fruit. Much more than the famous South Tyrolean apples and grapes. The fruit market is open all year round. With the exception of Sundays and public holidays. Of course, the Etschtal metropolis is always a bit about seeing and being seen. (Lively music, babble of voices) The narrow streets make magnificent catwalks. If you don't let your eyes be distracted by all the delicacies. Or from the Dolomite peaks that peek out here and there between the roofs. (Music stops.) (Quiet music) East of Bolzano rises the Latemar group and the rose garden. It is one of the most famous Dolomite massifs. At its back lies the Fassa Valley, in the east of which rises the stone queen of the Dolomites: the Marmolada. (Lively music) The Fassa Valley has a Ladin influence. To this day, many locals still speak this ancient language. Barbara Holzknecht knows this area well. She is on a casting tour. Today I'm out and about in the valleys of the Dolomites, looking for people who have spent their entire lives in the Dolomites. Worked there. And of course also being able to tell exciting stories. And we also want to capture these stories through their portraits. This means that their faces usually tell a lot about their hard lives, but also beautiful lives in this environment, in the middle of the mountains, in the middle of nature. Barbara and her partner Kurt Moser have a mission. In collaboration with UNESCO, they portray characters from the Dolomites. To do this, they use an old photographic technique called ambrotype. (Moving music) Today a new work of art is to be created in the studio. And Barbara picks up the "model" from home. Yes, I'm always very curious. And I always have a positive attitude towards everyone I meet. And I think that every person is exciting. And...yes... has something beautiful in it. Today's portrait model was a passionate mountain guide and alpinist. He is now 80 years old and lives at the foot of the rose garden. Hey. - Ciao, Barbara! (Italian:) I'm late as always, but I'm coming. That's fine, better late than never. Let me see your hat first. This is the typical hat that is part of the costume of the mountain guides of Fassa. Oh, from Fassa. Are there different hats? No, they all look like this. Before we leave, who is this daring six-year-old? Show me. - This one is me. The one with one leg over the balcony railing. And up there we have the Larsec group. And the Torre Rizzi. (Trapping music) As a mountain guide, Gino once led guests to the most rugged peaks in the Dolomites. Today he accompanies Barbara to her photo studio in Etschtal. (Trippy music, quiet conversation) Tell me, what happened to you back then? At the top of the eleven? In the winter of 1973 I climbed up there in January. And when we set up the second bivouac, it snowed 30 centimeters overnight. And we had real difficulty getting back down. It was cruel. And I remember when we got home all the skin fell off our fingers, because we had frostbite. (Quiet music) A close connection to the local mountains. She honors all of Barbara and her partner Kurt's models. Her studio is south of Bolzano. (Italian:) Nice to finally meet you. I've heard a lot about you. - Ah, thank you. Come on, let's go in. - Grace. (Solid music, quiet conversation) So, look here. Here is the camera. Mamma mia, what a device. (Barbara and Kurt laugh quietly.) She's older than my father. Much older, I guess. (Exciting music) Kurt is a trained cameraman and is fascinated by historical imaging techniques. This is an optic from circa, circa 1880, 1890. And the camera is from 1907 and is really quite brutal. There is neither a shutter nor any aperture in the optics. It's just glass. And that's what we work with. Before the elaborate photo shoot, the so-called ambrotype, begins, there is a sip of wine in the kitchen next door. To encourage. (Loose music, quiet conversation) (Italian:) We first focus the camera. And then when all the lights are on, you have to hold your breath for about 15 seconds. So that you can sit completely still. It's best to think of something beautiful, a mountain pasture or a woman... Wise words. But the wine will help me sit still. (Laughter) This is better than coffee. (Loose music) The tension still rises for Gino. (Casual music, quiet conversation) I just hope this thing doesn't explode. We hope so too. I assume that this will be a really exciting picture. The wrinkles he has, the charisma, the beard. I'm assuming it will be a really, really nice picture. I'm excited to do this. (Quiet music) Kurt has already set up his old camera out in the mountains to portray the rock massifs of the Dolomites. UNESCO supports the project that Barbara and Kurt call "Lightcatcher" . (Lively music, quiet conversation) Please sit down. - I hope it's not electric. No worries. (Laughter) Now let's prepare well. Allora. Fixation is important to avoid camera shake during long exposure times. Higher or lower? That's fine. - Okay. Then I'll fix it. I'm a little proud to be sitting in this apparatus. I feel like she will capture my soul. (Quiet music) In the ambrotype, a glass plate coated with silver is exposed to ultraviolet light. Then they sit in front of this huge camera with a whole bunch of light in front of them for a very long time. A lot happens to these people. Interestingly, it's usually much easier with people like our protagonist than when we have managers sitting here - they can't keep quiet for a minute. It's more difficult there. With the mountain farmers, they have no problem saying nothing and not moving for half an hour, then it's really easy. They are actually very calm and calm in themselves. (Quiet music) (Italian:) A little more in that direction. Just a little bit. - Don't turn. Tilt. - Tilting forward? Turn it back again, now you've completely twisted it. Either way? - Okay . Okay. Stop. Stop. (Soft music) From the beginning of this project, it was a baby for us. Because it's a project close to my heart. And because we gave our hearts to this camera. And not only, but also a lot of time. (Quiet music) Yes, it's incredibly exciting because you only take one photo and it's completely unique. We don't even dare to call them photos because they are really special. And the whole thing adds up... is always an experience for me. (Soft music) As soon as the exposure starts, the stopwatch starts ticking. (Kurt speaks Italian.) (clattering) It took Kurt countless attempts to get a feel for the right timing. The light catchers complete their artistic work in the in-house darkroom . (Dreamy music) Wow. I think it looks very good. (clattering) (quietly:) Just a second, I'm soaking wet. (clattering) It's still in the fog now. So, now the picture is slowly appearing here. (He chuckles.) This is actually the most exciting moment ever. It's like magic when you see it appear. That's why for us every time it's like a small birth or like a really exciting surprise what comes out of it. (Soft splashing) Okay, I think we can get him, that's fine. (sighing:) And please leave the door open. When you see the results, it's always like &quot;Wow, it worked, wonderful, another picture.&quot; And I think that's how we both found our motivation to continue this project. My goodness! (Italian:) My goodness, what do you mean? I don't even dare to look. Who is that guy there? (Laughter) Where do these wrinkles come from? (Italian:) They were already there. (laughs:) In any case, I have nothing to do with it. Once you reach a certain age, you should stop looking at yourself in the mirror. So this is what I look like when I look inside myself. (Quiet music) I don't want to overuse this concept of looking into the soul , but you can see a little bit of a person's character. You definitely get the look, and I think you can see that in the pictures. (Music fades away.) (Thoughtful music) Isolated in the central Dolomites near the Valles Pass lies a true paradise for sheep. (bleating) Today a herd sets off on the arduous trek to summer pasture. Under the leadership of this woman. Alice Masiero is a shepherdess. (Italian:) We have 190 sheep and 16 donkeys here. And we're now bringing them to the other thousands of animals that are already up on the mountain pasture. A real challenge that requires helpers. (Dog barking) (Music ends.) Nothing works here without dogs. We give them commands like "keep running" or "bark" or something like that. And the sheep then gather together and follow the dogs according to our instructions. (bleating, panting) Brrrrr! (Dog barking, bleating) There are a good 500 meters in altitude ahead of Shepherdess Alice. Her husband Fabio and the rest of the herd are waiting for her at the top of the mountain pasture. (bleating, bell ringing, calm music) It's best not to run too fast. The animals are already quite sure-footed and are happy to meet the other sheep. They also don't get out of breath as quickly as we do. There are only a few tourists in this area. The narrow paths leave little room for evasive maneuvers. (bleating) This passage is a bit dangerous because the sheep keep kicking off stones. (bleating, exciting music) (dog barking) When there are people there, like now... (calls out:) Hey, you down there... we're sorry! Attention, stones! Better wait a moment. (Exciting music) The lambs wear markings so that they can be assigned to their mothers more quickly. (Music ends.) (bleating, ringing of bells) The sheep are very happy. They like the mountains, even if they are very steep. But later we come to an area with rolling hills, where they are doing really well. Also the lambs and little donkeys. They have fresh water, delicious grass. They don't lack anything here. (Soft music, ringing of bells) (bleating) (dog barking) After a good two hours, Alice and her animals reach their destination. A lush mountain pasture high above the village of Falcade. (Music fades out, dog barking.) So, here we are. Luckily everything went well. Everyone arrived today, even the little lambs and donkeys. (Peaceful music) The onset of rain does not disturb the sheep or the shepherdess. (Thunder) In the mountains you have to be prepared for anything. One minute it's raining, two minutes later it's snowing, and five minutes later it's bright sunshine again. So no matter whether warm or cold, heat or snow, we are always ready. (Relaxing music) Then Alice's husband Fabio comes down the slope. The two haven't seen each other for over a week. (She speaks Italian.) They have been a couple for more than ten years and have a five-year-old son who stays with his grandparents in the valley when they are at the Hochalm in the summer weeks. (Lively music) Fabio in particular rarely sees his son because he always stays upstairs with the animals. (Music fades away, bleating.) (Italian:) I've been up here for over a week, soon it'll be two. I'll probably stay for the next one and then we'll see. Depends on what the weather is doing. (Taping sounds, bleating) When Alice is not with him, his dogs keep Fabio company. This one is called Turco. He's still quite young, around four or five months. That's Moro there, he's almost eight years old. They are my friends. But you have to keep them at a distance because they have to obey absolutely. You can't play with them too much, otherwise they'll become too confident and stop listening to you. (Relaxed music) Working high up in the Dolomites is lonely and often difficult. But it also has its advantages. (Music fades) This job gives you a sense of freedom that is difficult to find elsewhere. Even if it's a strange freedom because you're ultimately up here 24 hours a day. In short, maybe you just have to like being alone, not having so many people around you. (bleating) (she finishes her sentence in Italian.) (loose, cheerful music, bleating) And you should be rather unpretentious. A tiny wooden hut serves as the couple's home on the mountain pasture. It is both a bedroom and a kitchen. (Lively music) (Hissing) Fabio usually fries eggs, potatoes and bacon. Depending on when he comes home, I sometimes make him some meat and vegetables. But sometimes the sheep don't give us any time to eat. Then you just quickly have a filled ham roll from the pan. (Peaceful music) It's a simple life up here in the mountains. (She says something in Italian.) (Laughter) A few days ago we were almost dying of heat. And now it's super cold here. (Relaxed music) Well, Fabio, what are you planning to do now? (She laughs.) (Splashing) Even though they appreciate the simplicity up here, at least Alice misses one thing. (Splashing, music fades away.) The only thing missing is a shower. Because I don't think you can swim in this cold. To be honest, I didn't expect a life like this. I grew up in the city, but I don't want to complain. (Slow music, dogs barking, bleating) Fabio gives his sheep a portion of salt almost every day. This is good for the digestion of ruminants. And it creates trust between humans and animals. Being a shepherd takes a lot of passion and you have to have an eye for the animals, but that comes with time. All sheep may be white, but they are all different. You just have to know them, always observe them closely and take care of them. (Quiet sounds, bleating) The sheep and with them Fabio stay on the high mountain pasture until the first snow . (bleating) Admittedly, we're looking forward to leaving the high mountains again at the end of summer. Because then we are together in the valley with the whole family for at least a month . We can then do things together, do some work, maybe even go out for a pizza together. Everything you don't do up here. That's why we enjoy the time we spend with our child even more. Especially Fabio, because he doesn't see the little one often. (Spherical music) Freedom as a shepherd and shepherdess has its price. But it also gives Fabio and Alice unique atmospheres on the mountain. (Music ends.) (Quiet music) Almost 100 kilometers further southwest lies the metropolis of Trento on the banks of the Etsch, on the very edge of the Dolomites. From here it is barely an hour by car to Lake Garda. (Music fades away.) (Loose, upbeat music) Trent has been considered the gateway to the south for centuries. In the historic streets and squares of the old town there is already a Mediterranean flair - mixed with Alpine charm. (Loose music continues to play.) Where the bishops of the Council of Trent met in the middle of the 16th century , today visitors from all over the world enjoy the temptations of the Dolce Vita. Culture, cafes and shopping. Plus the proximity to the mountains. This mix regularly helps the city to take a top spot among the most livable metropolises in Italy. (Waiting sounds) To the west of the historic center lies the modern district of Le Albere. The Italian architect Renzo Piano built the Museum of Natural Sciences here. And this is where the city's young creative people meet. (Italian:) Le Albere is my favorite district of Trent. Here I feel most like I'm in a modern European metropolis with a vision of the future. The buildings are built with wood from the region. And I find this architecture very inspiring. I recharge my batteries here with incredible energy every time. (Waiting, rhythmic sounds) Frederico Stefani founded his start-up here after previously working at NATO in Brussels. Now I'll show you what I'm working on. This cube is an all-natural speaker made of spruce on the outside and larch on the inside. It only smells of resin, without any chemicals or varnish. And now I'll show you how it works. I have a song that I'm sure everyone knows. (Music: &quot;99 Luftballons&quot; by Nena) (Music gets louder.) You can clearly hear the difference. (Loose, rocking music) Frederico's idea was born out of fate five years ago. (Music ends.) In 2018, a hurricane swept through parts of the Dolomites and uprooted millions of trees in one night. Vaia was the name of the storm. And Frederico named his company after him. (Quiet sounds) I remember driving up here for the first time after the storm and we couldn't get through because the road was blocked by fallen trees for days. The storm Vaia has permanently changed the face of the mountain landscape. Bark beetles and climate change are also affecting us the forest in the Dolomites today. Now we're about to reach a pretty unique place. His name is Pitoi. This is where the idea for the Vaia speakers was born, with which we want to revive this area a little. There are only five houses in the small village. I practically grew up in this house. It is the house of my parents and grandparents. And this is where the best memories of my childhood lie. Because in summer we often set off from here early in the morning for the mountain forest. As soon as you open it you can smell this extraordinary scent of wood and natural stone. That makes my heart open. (Thoughtful music) The storm Vaia fell all over the slope above the house and Frederico remembered his roots. This wooden stick means a lot to me. My grandfather carved it for me when I was little. And to this day, almost 25 years later, I still feel its strength and love when I lean on it. I remember very clearly watching him carve. And his passion inspires me in my project today with the storm wood. He would definitely be proud of that. (He finishes his sentence in Italian.) (splashing, thoughtful sounds) From the balcony the view falls directly on the destroyed forest. I simply no longer recognize the refuges of my childhood. And that hurts me deep in my heart. (Thoughtful sounds) Frederico now turns his pain into hope, and the fallen trees into loudspeakers. It's about making something out of this valuable raw material and bringing the people of the mountain villages together. Whether lumberjacks or carpenters or the entire community. Everyone wants to give the area new added value together. (Relaxed music) Ciao, ragazzi! Ciao, Giorgo! Frederico was able to inspire several carpenters in the area for his idea. He has the loudspeakers made there from the storm wood. So Giorgio, are you ready? (Italian:) Well, sure. We've built almost 90,000 now, right? Yes, 90,000. Very nice. Then let's now look at how to clean the gap. Giorgio wants to make each speaker unique and draws inspiration from the trees that the storm knocked down. He had this idea to make each box a work of art with an individual gap and to tell the story of the wood. (He finishes his sentence in Italian.) (Loose music) Frederico markets his loudspeakers over the Internet. And for every box sold, he has a new tree planted in the Dolomites. It feels good to sit here in front of this little larch tree. This is one of over 80,000 that we have already planted in the Dolomites. And in 60 years this little one will grow into a giant and hopefully protect the mountain. (Harmonious sounds) The Val Gardena at the foot of the Sassolungo was spared by Vaia. One of the oldest farms in the Alps nestles on the slope near St. Christina: the Paratonihof. It is now managed by the Insam family in the tenth generation. Klaus Insam's day begins almost as it did 800 years ago. They're a bit nervous today. Most of the time they are milked at five or half past five. And today it's a little later. (Relaxed music) At 80 years old, the senior still helps in the stable - which can only fit three cows. They come to the Alpine pasture later in the summer. (Tapping music) The family uses the fresh milk to make traditional Ladin dishes. Because the Paratonihof also has a small restaurant. Klaus' wife Gemma is the guardian of the culinary heritage. Gray cheese is actually traditionally a poor man's food. The people, the farmers, did that with skimmed milk and without any additives, no rennet, no ferments. And you can then make various dishes from gray cheese. You can make dumplings or gray cheese soup. (Loose, relaxed sounds) The farmer's wife also pampers guests with these Ladin classics. She opens the Hofschank in the historic parlor three times a week. An old farmer's wife once explained to me how to make it. And then she always said that the curd shouldn't be too dry or too wet. And that is experience. You have to feel that then. This is not easy to explain. (Soft sounds) Many locals have given up traditional agriculture and now live from tourism. (Music fades away.) I keep looking at the landscape. So I find it really uplifting. I can't stay for long, but Sassolungo and Sassopiatto are close to my heart. (Soft music) An outlook that is increasingly changing. Today, in addition to rock, more and more concrete is shaping the landscape. There is a lot of construction going on in the valley, especially in recent years. Let's see if these houses that are being built today will last as long as our old house, which is now almost 800 years old. (Waiting sounds) The couple restored their listed farm in 2012 with great attention to detail. Generations ago, Klaus Insam's ancestors sat together here, ate together or played music on long winter evenings. (Soft music) Some of the wood in this room is practically 500 years old - including this beam. And we actually just dismantled it and cleaned it here in the square with curd soap because some of it was completely covered in soot from the smoke from the kitchen. Ten people once shared the historic rooms. This was the parents' room, where the parents slept. And here next door is the small room where, practically , five girls slept in there 80 years ago . And the room will be about seven, eight square meters, no more. (Waiting sounds) Today the old room serves as a guest room. In the evening the innkeepers want to spoil their guests with a Ladin menu. (tense sounds) Gemma cooks mainly with the farm's own ingredients. What I love most about cooking is creativity. There are so many things you can change and do and try out. And the end product is also important, then you can enjoy it together. Cooking creates community. Gemma actually works as a teacher. Cooking is her passion and has become her second job since the Hofschenke opened. (Lively sounds) The gray cheese is now added to the glassy onion. And the gray cheese gives it a really hearty taste. (Cozy music) Yes, if you want something really hearty, it tastes really good, really spicy. (Cosy music) Cooking is well-rehearsed teamwork for the Insams. Both run their restaurant out of pure passion. We planted these flowers that we have here especially for the kitchen. We need them for our salads and salad plates. We have pansies, then there are comfrey and symphytum flowers. (Peaceful music) Klaus' ancestors probably once placed less value on such stylistic subtleties . His wife Gemma takes all the freedom to be creative with her culinary skills. Typical of Ladin cuisine are the simple ingredients, not many ingredients, but then creatively processed. Simple but imaginative. (Upbeat music) These are nettle leaves. They are lightly salted, sprayed with oil and then baked in the oven at 180 degrees. They are very crispy and have a strange taste. (Upbeat music) (Music ends.) So, the records are ready now. I'm quite happy, I think they look good. (Relaxed music) When the setting sun turns the pale mountains red, it's time for the aperitif. Well, good evening from me. (Clinking, quiet babble of voices) A total of 20 guests can be accommodated in the historic dining rooms. The five-course menu begins with a Ladin snack platter including ham, gray cheese and a soup. (Music fades away.) My husband is a trained sculptor. And you can also see his artistic streak when he arranges the plates. Nobody has as much precision with flowers as my husband. (Upbeat music, sizzling) In addition to the Ladin snack platter and salad, the gray cheese dumplings and South Tyrolean tutres are on the menu. These are fried dumplings with sauerkraut. (buzz of voices) (clattering) Finally, there are crispy apricot pouches with lemon sorbet. Mmm, wonderful. (Inaudible) So well done. - Thank you very much. (Bubble of voices, strumming) (Living music) (She begins to yodel.) (Music fades away.) (Quiet music) The Dolomites. A place of longing whose valleys and peaks hold a magic that is difficult to escape. SWR 2024