Today I'd like to correct a mistake made by one of They make topnotch motorcycling content, I watch a to make it very clear that this video is in no way or tarnish their reputation or whatever. Because, and secondly we all make mistakes. Universities, To err is human but I believe it is important to identify, in mind let us continue and see where the problem is, in the process, because they are very interesting. with Fortnine's recent video on 270deg offset where they make the following claims. Number 1 balanced, specifically they have a better secondary &quot;meaning a perfect crossplane twin in terms of secondary claim that because of this balance Phil Irving, engine originally proposed the 285deg twin and what Phil Irving envisioned 60 years ago that's what we're being given today&quot; And finally number is more expensive and that KTM is the only company afraid to spend money and charge money in the all of these claims are wrong and to understand I've explained engine balance many many times grasp of it then you can skip to this point balance then I do not suggest skipping because to primary and secondary engine balance. So primary secondary engine balance is created or imbalance occur simultaneously in the engine but they must engine balance. First up let's start with primary Dead Center the Piston accelerates downward, it then is 75 in just a few moments. It then decelerates it changes direction accelerates upward again again decelerates towards top dead center. Now is hopefully constant and as we know force is then the forces generated by the Piston which dependent on piston acceleration. And as we can top and bottom dead center. This is very intuitive is not confusing because if you take an object, move it rapidly up and down like a piston you will the top and bottom of its travel path when you the forces generated by a piston on a graph where degrees is the x axis we get something like this. dead center and Peak downward Force at bottom dead engine up and down as it's running and to restore offset by 180deg from the first piston. The forces this is the logic we find behind a 180deg inline twin engine. This is the confusing one so pay attention. The imbalances of an engine is the connecting rod angle, it angles as the engine operates. We have the rest of the engine to understand secondary means that the relative length of the connecting and the crankshaft changes. The absolute length the same, the connecting rod is a fixed metal observe the engine in operation we can see that is fully upright. At 90 and 270deg of rotation the fully angled is shorter in relation to the piston the engine rotates from zero to 90deg the connecting which means that the rod is becoming shorter in rod shortens, this relative shortening of the rod, distance. This little distance has its little its angled position it accelerates the Piston by Piston achieves Peak velocity at 75 and not at 90deg so logic tells us that Peak velocity should be little bit of additional acceleration as it angles, bit and so the Piston reaches Peak velocity acceleration and the Piston has a mass we have doesn't create as much acceleration as the main stroke of the crankshaft but it still creates a some Mass gives us a little Force. Secondary forces secondary vibrations are about one quarter of the magnitude frequent, because the rod changes its angle its fully angled, from fully angled to fully upright, from fully angled to fully upright, and the piston occur twice for every engine rotation. they occur four times for every engine Revolution, position. Now if we were to plot the secondary lengthening of the rod they would look like this. and 270 and they point up at top and bottom dead angled at 90 and 270. In other words it pulls the Piston up as it becomes upright or lengthens we combine these two, the primary and the secondary the engine. As you can see when we observe primary rod, peak velocity is indeed at 90deg but when we primary and secondary forces then peak velocity acceleration created by the rod which we just all confusing knowledge of primary and secondary Let's start with primary balance in 270deg twin we have piston one is a top dead center piston 2 is at 90deg maximum upward Force whereas piston 2 is at Peak maximum upward force on one side of the engine. In top dead Center the other piston will be 75deg after In other words the other piston is not at zero This means that the engine as a whole produces an of the 285 engine because the other piston is of different magnitude but equal direction stack compared to the 270 engine. Next, secondary balance is at top dead center Rod is fully upright so we is at 90deg, Rod fully angled so we have a downward and opposite direction cancel out leading not perfect because the forces are offset by a but for Simplicity let's just ignore that for top dead Center and exerting an upward secondary a maximum downward secondary force. In other words to fully cancel out the force of piston 1 and we twin does not have better secondary balance than it is important to understand that primary and also a good idea to compare the total forces of So for the 270 engine we have piston 1 at top dead force on piston 1 and a small downward force on peak velocity. The small downward force of piston piston one. The result is that we have less overall If we plot both pistons on the graph they both of the pistons then we get the total Force In the 285 engine we have maximum upward because it's at the point of peak velocity. The of the engine but we have a greater overall force canceled out. If we plot the total forces of both like this and then if we add both of the pistons looks like this. If we plot the total forces of the 285 has a higher peak force so it's worse in 270 has forces on both sides of the engine. We so that's worse? Not really. In terms of overall each has its advantages and drawbacks in terms the overall in terms of balance the 285 is worse rid of that secondary vibration completely we twice the speed of the crankshaft but of course balance shafts are never employed in motorcycles. small that it's pretty much unnoticeable understood that the primary imbalances of both balancing shafts that move at the speed of the And these primary imbalances vibrations can one or two balancing shafts. Now on to issue number the Cross Point twin why did he suggest 285 over a 360 twin but also a much more regular firing regular firing interval than a 270 twin. A more smoother in operation. Because the engine has less flywheel or counterweight mass to balance assembly then the engine revs up, it spins more But also because the engine has a more regular even slightly more smoother than a 270. Especially interval are more apparent. Now I believe that firing interval where not yet observed in the was all happening, Phil Irving, in the 60s. Now 30 Phil Irving's idea into practice by modifying a Triumph who analyzed Phil Irving's ideas to great detail than the 285. The only advantage of the 285 is that engine. Now Dick Cookson was building nowadays, with factories and very very accurate we really do not have a problem with this rocking we know the 270 Yamaha CP twin which has a single motorcycle engines in existence today, probably something about how this rocking is not an issue. the 285 twin has a advantage in that it has a to say here is that when piston one is a top dead top dead center or bottom dead center the other So the result of this is that we do not The crankshaft rotation speed is very continuous and however the difference here between the 285 and but it is quantifiable. And now issue number because &quot;manufacturing an oblique offset requires Now to me this doesn't make sense. I may with how inine twin cranks, crossplane cranks I know about crank manufacturing it doesn't make completely different manufacturing process. I think they are die forged or neither of the and not just one of them. The footage crankshaft, as we can see five small narrow Inline three, inline five, inline six all of these as because they have these offsets, but V8 crankshafts, twisting after the forging so either both or and twisting. So I don't think there's If somebody has firsthand experience with I would very much appreciate your words in to this is that KTM are the only not afraid to basically ask big money and because I think that KTM manufactures 285 cranks because and when you pay special money then you expect a different from your plebian friends Yamaha and a slightly different balance leads to a slightly for the KTM engines. They are not superior in significant performance advantages due to their in the comments section of the fortnine video many so smooth&quot;. No. It may be perceived Yamaha cp2 has one balancing shaft, the KTM has a slightly less irregular firing interval although I I was scrolling through the comments in the in the comments pointing out the issues - I found of the audience in this channel because if I 50% of the the comments would be: &quot;you're wrong!&quot; So the audience. Before we end the video, uh I just to one of my subscribers who who you can find on that underslah (underscore)? He sent me video he sent me an email I was stupid enough to and forth through emails I realized he was right to be corrected here. So once again a big thank you in any inherent way better than a 270, not in terms for watching and I'll be seeing you soon with