The singing in Splatoon is iconic. It sounds if it could sing! But how does this squid-style take you through the journey that Nintendo took to singers behind the characters, to writing lyrics the voice until it sounded like, well, a squid. In Splatoon 1, there are two idols: Callie and the first step in the process of getting these we need to turn to Shiho Fujii, a composer every single Squid Sisters song. Now, by the concept of the Squid Sisters had already been So, she started out with the concept but her early attempts sounded too reminiscent of the unique atmosphere of the squid world". So, most obvious aspects of Japanese folk songs into adding in what she described as "undulating pitch up and down and up and down to create "by introducing undulating tones, I made the So then it came time to write the lyrics. And world of Splatoon, no words or phrases in these lyrics. Instead, Shiho well, nonsense! Completely made up sounds lyrics of Splatoon. Shiho Fujii and the rest that sounded good. As Fujii explained, "I stick in your head." She elaborated, "I made actually singing them myself to check how But there's one last factor that which real world languages they sounded like. lyrics right now: &quot;Shuhbuh da buh buh buh buh different to what someone at Nintendo English speaker, and they're Japanese speakers. the kind of made up words you come up with are this to their advantage. For the Squid Sisters, folk tunes, the made-up lyrics were meant to which was inspired by rock and punk genres, the lyrics are nonsense, but they are based on And so, with the words finished, it was figuring out how these characters - Callie and team ruled out completely synthesised voices - actual, human-recorded vocals and process them to recorded Callie and Marie's songs though, composer this demo hasn't been made available, but like Calamari Inkantation would've sounded if So with the direction decided on - taking human hiring a pair of singers to provide Callie held auditions in Japan to find these singers. The WHAT they were auditioning for - they knew it was was involved at all. They also didn't know that When auditioners arrived at the studio, they language lyrics written on it, along with a sing it. To sing these made up words! Among the singers called keity.pop and Mari Kikuma. And given a piece of paper with a mysterious spell but I couldn't understand it. [...] In the end I Keity.pop said something similar, "I had never to speak and sing as they said, 'I know you don't everyone who auditioned, Splatoon's staff picked Sisters. Keity.pop was to voice Callie, the more voice Marie, who was a little more refined. But first recording session for the game! And if that were told that for their first session, they As keity.pop explained, "When it came time words I didn't understand again (laughs). On the Now, neither keity.pop nor Mari Kikuma which is a completely different skill set. They've voice acting was really, really difficult singing they did later on. "I felt I had never used before, and I was But after a long day of recording, the and the exhausted singers slash It was about a week later when the pair came back songs. A few days earlier, they'd been given sheet Again, these lyrics were total nonsense, described the two singers had no choice but to memorise But thanks to all the preparation work session went by without too much difficulty. her first song for Callie, her very first Meanwhile, Marie's songs included an extra Marie was supposed to sing in an enka style. and it's this sort of fusion of traditional pop structure. Anyway, Marie was supposed but Mari Kikuma had no experience at all with she began listening to enka music all the time and sing while washing the dishes! And so, by the totally nailed this enka singing style. She was so keity.pop, who said it sounded like she'd Things moved really quickly during this recording back to back, all in one day! They said later recording the characters' speaking voices And so, now the final stage was to apply Now, Nintendo haven't talked publicly about but the process took a little while to Splattack, during the game's reveal in June 2014. And then, listen to the final The singing doesn't quite sound even right up 'til the game's release, Nintendo So, at its core, the effect is achieved using pass filter cuts out all of the high frequencies which sounds like this... Into something which Now obviously, this muffled voice and that's because there's one last step. We filter is filtering out, back and forth and back But increase the speed and suddenly it sounds of other effects you can put on the sound to make But at its core, it's this low pass filter which creates the squid-like sound heard throughout And when Splatoon was released in 2015, the So popular that Nintendo held live concerts where stage. And, when the voices behind Callie and they started crying. It was so moving, on stage in front of a packed audience! Now, there are other singers in the world features vocals from other, fictional The male vocals of Squid Squad were provided by a lot of the new bands' vocals were But when Nintendo began work it was decided that they'd introduce a new pair making up the band Off the Hook. And that meant Again, nobody at the auditions was told were just given a song to sing, and shown However, one person at the audition, called Rina picture, she had a feeling that this audition passed the audition, getting the role of Pearl, Marina - the more mature of the two character's And if you listen to one of Off the Hook's songs, Interestingly, when the singers behind Pearl and they of course felt a lot of emotions. But actually felt jealous of Marina up on stage! She the one getting all the applause! What a strange So now, in 2022, Splatoon 3 is about to be been introduced: Shiver, Frye and Big Man, who video, the identities of the singers behind But listening to their music, it seems like So next time you listen to take a closer listen to those squid-like vocals. Because now you know a little more about how they Hey, thanks for watching! I am so excited for Premiere Splatfest, so not to brag, but my team my terrible Splatoon skills though... Anyway, behind the scenes stories about Nintendo games