For thousands of years, the lands known today tribes and mysterious Bronze Age cultures. The only record they left were their graves. In the great open grasslands of the south, huge mounds called kurgans. The Ancient Greek historian Herodotus called Their lands were overrun by the same nomadic The land was then settled by Slavs. They shared some language and culture, but Vikings from Scandinavia, known in the east on daring raids and trading expeditions. According to legend, the East Slavs asked prince and unite the tribes. He accepted and made his capital at Novgorod. His dynasty, the Rurikids, would rule Russia His people called themselves the Rus, and Rurik's successor, Oleg, captured Kiev, making A century later, seeking closer ties with the Great adopted their religion, and converted He is still venerated today as the man who Yaroslav the Wise codified laws and conquered His reign marked the golden age of Kievan It was amongst the most sophisticated and But after Yaroslav's death his sons fought Kievan Rus disintegrated into a patchwork just as a deadly new threat emerged from the The Mongols under Genghis Khan had overrun Now they launched a great raid across the princes at the Battle of the Kalka River, 14 years later, the Mongols returned. A gigantic army led by Batu Khan overran the Cities that resisted were burnt, their people The city of Novgorod was spared because it Its prince, Alexander Nevsky, then saved the at the Battle of the Ice, fought above a frozen He remains one of Russia's most revered heroes. The Mongols ruled the land as conquerors. Their new empire was called the Golden Horde, The Rus princes were his vassals. They were forced to pay tribute or suffer They called their oppressors 'Tatars' - they Alexander Nevsky's son, Daniel, founded the grew in power. 18 years later, Dmitri Donskoi, Grand Prince the great Battle of Kulikovo Field. After years of infighting, the Golden Horde Constantinople, capital and last outpost of Turkish Ottoman Empire. Some hailed Moscow as the 'Third Rome', the and Constantinople had fallen. Meanwhile, the Grand Princes of Moscow continued and forging the first Russian state. At the Ugra River, Ivan III of Moscow faced Russia had finally cast off the 'Tatar yoke'. Under Grand Prince Vasili III, Moscow continued His son, Ivan IV, was crowned the first Tsar He would be remembered as Ivan the Terrible. Ivan conquered Tatar lands in Kazan and Astrakahan, and the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. Ivan's modernising reforms gave way to a reign his violent paranoia. Russia was still vulnerable. Raiders from the Crimean Khanate were able But the next year Russian forces routed the Cossacks now lived on the open steppe, a lawless They were skilled horsemen who lived freely, to fight as mercenaries. Ivan the Terrible's own son, the Tsarevich, rages - bludgeoned to death with the royal The Cossack adventurer Yermak Timofeyevich Tatars and subjugating indigenous tribes. In the north, Archangelsk was founded, for it to western Europe, though it was icebound Ivan the Terrible was succeeded by his son It was the end of the Rurikid dynasty. Ivan's advisor Boris Godunov became Tsar. But after his sudden death, his widow and throne seized by an impostor claiming to be He too was soon murdered. Russia slid into anarchy, the so-called 'Time Rebels and foreign armies laid waste to the famine and plague. Polish troops occupied Moscow; Swedish troops The Russian state seemed on the verge of extinction. In 1612, Russia was in a state of anarchy. They called it 'The Time of Troubles'. The people were terrorised by war, famine Foreign troops occupied Moscow, Smolensk and But then, Russia fought back. Prince Pozharsky and a merchant, Kuzma Minin, out the Polish garrison. Since 2005, this event has been commemorated Day. The Russian assembly, the Zemsky Sobor, realised and elected a 16 year old noble, Mikhail Romanov, His dynasty would rule Russia for the next Tsar Mikhail exchanged territory for peace, His son, Tsar Alexei, implemented a new legal It turned all Russian peasants, 80% of the - their status inherited by their children, master. It was a system that dominated Russian rural The head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch the church between Reformers and 'Old Believers'. It's a schism that continues to this day. Ukrainian Cossacks, rebelling against the Tsar Alexei as overlord in exchange for his It led to the Thirteen Years War between Russia Russia emerged victorious, reclaiming Smolensk A revolt against Tsarist government, led by anarchy to southern Russia. It was finally suppressed: Razin was brought The sickly but highly-educated Feodor III He abolished mestnichestvo, the system that nobility rather than merit, and symbolically But Feodor died aged just 19. His sister Sofia became Princess Regent, ruling Tsars Ivan V and Peter I. After centuries of conflict, Russia and the of Eternal Peace. Russia then joined 'the Holy League' in its Sofia's reign also saw the first treaty between between the two states. At age 17, Peter I seized power from his half-sister, Peter became the first Russian ruler to travel He toured Europe with his 'Grand Embassy', and learning the latest developments in science The war against Turkey was successfully concluded Azov from Turkey's ally, the Crimean Khanate, Peter made many reforms, seeking to turn Russia He demanded Russian nobles dress and behave He made those who refused to shave pay a beard Peter built the first Russian navy; reformed trade and education. In the Great Northern War, Russia, Poland-Lithuania the Baltic, Sweden. The war began badly for Russia, with a disastrous But Russia won a second battle of Narva... Before crushing Charles XII's army at the On the Baltic coast, Peter completed construction The building of what would become Russia's was a remarkable achievement, though it cost The Great Northern War ended with the Treaty made it the new, dominant Baltic power. Four years before his death, Peter was declared of All the Russias'. Peter was succeeded by his wife Catherine; aged just 14. Empress Anna Ioannovna, daughter of Peter for her decadence and the influence of her During Anna's reign, Vitus Bering, a Danish expedition to chart the coast of Alaska. He also discovered the Aleutian Islands, and Russia and America. After Anna's death, her infant grand-nephew, daughter, Elizabeth. Ivan VI spent his entire life in captivity, during a failed rescue attempt. Elizabeth, meanwhile, was famed for her vanity, But she was also capable of decisive leadership: led Russia into the Seven Years War against The Russian army inflicted a crushing defeat but failed to exploit its victory. Meanwhile in St.Petersburg, the Winter Palace It would remain the monarch's official residence, Peter III was Peter the Great's grandson by as a consequence of childbirth. Raised in Denmark, Peter spoke hardly any Frederick the Great - so he had Russia swap from almost certain defeat. Peter's actions angered many army officers. And he'd always been despised by his German Together they deposed Peter III, who died His wife Catherine became Empress of Russia. Her reign would be remembered as one of Russia's In the early 1700s, Peter the Great's reforms European power. But it was his grandson's German wife, Catherine, of Russia, who oversaw the completion of that Like Peter, she too would be remembered as Catherine was a student and admirer of the with the French philosopher Voltaire. She reigned as an 'enlightened autocrat' - her of reason, tolerance and progress: Catherine became a great patron of the arts, Schools and colleges were built, the Bolshoi Academy of Fine Arts, while her own magnificent of the world-famous Hermitage museum. Catherine encouraged Europeans to move to German migrants to settle in the Volga region, Their communities survived nearly 200 years, east at the start of World War 2. Catherine's reign also saw enormous territorial In the south, Russia defeated the Ottoman of Azov and Kerch. But then Catherine faced a major peasant revolt The rebels took many fortresses and towns, were finally defeated by the Russian army. Catherine then forcibly incorporated the Zaporozhian the Crimean Khanate - a thorn in Russia's Russia's new lands in the south were named Sparsely populated, they were settled by Russian Potemkin, Catherine's advisor and lover. The Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, exhausted was carved up in a series of partitions, with Poland did not re-emerge as an independent Russia inherited a large Jewish population live only in the so-called 'Pale of Settlement', In France, the French Revolution led to the Catherine was horrified, and in the last years the liberal idealism of her youth. Three years later, Catherine died, ending history. She was succeeded by her son, Paul, a man and opposed to all his mother's works. Russia joined the coalition of European powers Marshal Suvorov, one of Russia's greatest against the French in Northern Italy, but Meanwhile, Paul's reforms had alienated Russia's a palace coup. He was succeeded by his 23 year old son Alexander, for a more modern Russian state. His advisor, the brilliant Count Mikhail Speranksy, Emperor refused to back his plans for a liberal Ultimately, it was war with France that would France had a new emperor, Napoleon Bonaparte, and her allies at Austerlitz, Eylau and Friedland. But at Tilsit in 1807, the two young emperors Russia attacked Sweden, annexing Finland, the Russian Empire. But then, in 1812, Napoleon invaded Russia. At Borodino, French and Russian armies clashed of the age. Napoleon emerged victorious, but the Russian Napoleon occupied Moscow, which was destroyed And when Alexander refused to negotiate, the through the Russian winter, and was annihilated. Napoleon had been dealt a mortal blow. And Russia, alongside Prussia, Austria and in the capture of Paris and Napoleon's abdication. At the Congress of Vienna, as part of the Then, with Austria, and Prussia, he formed further revolutions in Europe. Meanwhile, in the Balkans and Caucasus, Russia the Ottoman Empire, Persia and local tribes. The frontier had been pushed south to incorporate of modern Georgia, Dagestan, Azerbaijan, and But the peoples of the Caucasus bitterly resisted Russia's attempt to impose its authority on conflict, fought amongst the mountains and years. Alexander was succeeded by his brother Nicholas, But parts of Russian society had now developed - including certain army officers, who'd Napoleonic Wars. They saw Nicholas as an obstacle, and the military revolt. 1825. Victory over Napoleon had confirmed Russia's But there was discontent within Russia amongst had formed secret societies, to plot the overthrow When Emperor Alexander was succeeded not, by a younger brother, Nicholas, one of these a military coup. But the Decembrist Revolt, as it became known, were hanged. Others were sent into 'internal exile' in This was to become a common sentence for criminals Nicholas went on to adopt an official doctrine - the state was to rest on the pillars of - a clear rejection of the values of European In the Caucasus, border clashes with Persia victory. The Treaty of Turkmenchay forced Persia to Russia, and pay a large indemnity. Russian support for Greece in its War of Independence and the Ottoman Empire. Russian victory brought further gains in the A Polish revolt, led by young army officers, Alexander Pushkin, Russia's greatest poet, from his wounds. Nicholas sent troops to help put down a Hungarian The Emperor's willingness to help suppress Gendarme', or policeman, of Europe. Russia's first major railway was opened, connecting Alexander Herzen, a leading intellectual critic where he continued to call for reform in his He'd later be described as 'the father of The Ottoman Empire, now known as 'the sick provocations by declaring war. The Russian Black Sea Fleet inflicted a crushing But Britain and France - alarmed at Russia's of Constantinople - declared war on Russia. The Allies landed troops in Crimea and besieged a gruelling, year-long siege. In the Baltic, British and French warships Russia was forced to sign a humiliating peace, put on hold plans for further southern expansion. Nicholas I was succeeded by his son, Alexander The Crimean War had exposed Russia's weakness rivals in industry, infrastructure and military So Alexander, unlike his father, decided to The most obvious sign of Russia's backwardness According to the 1857 census, more than a their masters' land, with few rights, restrictions to their children. They were slaves in all but name. In 1861, Alexander II abolished serfdom in He was hailed as 'The Liberator'. But in reality, most former-serfs remained Alexander's reforms would continue, with the with authority over local affairs, including In the Far East, Russia forced territorial to the founding of Vladivostok, Russia's major Another uprising by Poles and Lithuanians by the Russian army. In the Caucasus, Russia's long and brutal their leaders swearing oaths of loyalty to In Central Asia, the Russian Empire was gradually Russian armies defeated the Emirate of Bukhara, Russia had conquered most of what was then of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Imperial rivalry in Central Asia between Russia 19th century version of the Cold War. Centred on Afghanistan, diplomats and spies extend their own influence, and limit the direct military confrontation. Russia decided to sell Alaska to America for Many Americans thought it was a waste of money much later. Leo Tolstoy's 'War &amp; Peace' was published, works of literature. The late 19th century was a cultural golden and outstanding composers. Russia, in support of nationalist revolts to war with the Ottoman Empire once more. Russian troops crossed the Danube... then, vital Shipka Pass. Then they launched a bloody, five-month siege Russia and her allies finally won victory, itself. But at the Congress of Berlin, Russia bowed gains, in a settlement that also led to independence Bulgaria. Meanwhile, within Russia, radical political II's limited reforms. There were several failed attempts to assassinate But as he prepared to approve new constitutional a bomb thrown by members of the People's Will groups. This act of violence would lead only to a In 1881, Russian Emperor Alexander II was Today, the place where he was fatally wounded Saviour on Spilled Blood. Alexander II had been a reformer, hailed as But his son and successor, Alexander III, dangerous forces within Russia, that ultimately As Emperor, he publicly vowed to reassert of our great grief, the voice of God orders with faith in the strength and rightness of The Tsar's secret police, the so-called 'Okhranka', groups. Those found guilty of plotting against the exile' in Siberia. Alexander III was a pious man, who supported a strong Russian national identity. Russia's Jews became victims of this policy. They'd already been targeted in murderous rumours were spread that they were responsible Now the government expelled 20,000 Jews from the country. Over the next 40 years, around two million USA. Concerned by the growing power of Germany, sides promising military aid if the other Sergei Witte was appointed Russia's new Minister His reforms helped to modernise the Russian - particularly from its new ally, France. French loans helped Russia to develop its Work began on the Trans-Siberian railway. Completed in 1916, it remains the world's from Moscow to Vladivostok. Alexander III was succeeded by his son Nicholas His coronation was marred by tragedy, when celebration in Moscow. China granted Russia the right to build a When China faced a major revolt known as the Manchuria, under the pretext of defending This brought Russia into conflict with Japan, The Japanese made a surprise attack on Port the giant Battle of Mukden. Russia's Baltic Fleet, meanwhile, had sailed where it was immediately annihilated at the Russia was left with no option but to sign Theodore Roosevelt. Meanwhile the Tsar faced another crisis much In St.Petersburg, a strike by steel-workers demonstration. Tens of thousands of protesters marched to the Tsar, asking for better workers' rights But instead, troops opened fire on the crowds, 'Bloody Sunday', as it became known, led to The crew of the battleship Potemkin mutinied, of the ship. To defuse the crisis, Nicholas II reluctantly the supervision of Sergei Witte. It promised an elected assembly and new political welcomed by most moderates. Russia's first constitution was drafted the For the first time, the Tsar would share power the Tsar had the right to veto its legislation, Sergei Witte finally lost the Tsar's confidence, The Tsar's new Prime Minister, Stolypin, introduced severely with Russia's would-be revolutionaries. So much so, that the hangman's noose got a But having survived several attempts on his at the Kiev Opera House. Meanwhile, Grigori Rasputin, a Siberian faith circle, thanks to his unique ability to ease Alexei. Despite sporadic acts of terrorism, Russia Agricultural and industrial output were on Most ordinary Russians remained loyal to the Russia's future seemed bright. In 1914, in Sarajevo, a Slav nationalist assassinated throne, sparking a European crisis. When Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia, to mobilise, to show his support for a fellow Austria-Hungary's ally, Germany, saw Russian Europe's network of alliances came into effect, to war. World War One had begun. Russia experienced a wave of patriotic fervour. The capital, St.Petersburg, was even renamed An early Russian advance into East Prussia the Masurian Lakes. There was greater success against Austria-Hungary, Russian losses forced the army to make a general In 1916, Russia's Brusilov Offensive against successful Allied attacks of the war. But losses were so heavy, that the Russian In Petrograd, Rasputin, whose alleged influence Russian aristocrats, was murdered, possibly The war put intolerable strains on Russia. At the front, losses were enormous. While in the cities, economic mismanagement In Petrograd, the workers' frustration led Troops ordered to disperse the crowds refused, The government had lost control of the capital. On board the imperial train at Pskov, senior he must abdicate, or Russia would descend Nicholas accepted their advice, and renounced Duke Michael, who, effectively, declined the 300 years of Romanov rule were at an end. Russia was now a republic. A Provisional Government took power, but could military chaos. Meanwhile, workers, soldiers and peasants The Petrograd Soviet was so powerful, it was as discontent with the Provisional Government The Bolsheviks, under Vladimir Lenin, attracted for an immediate end to the war, the redistribution In October, they launched a coup, masterminded Bolshevik Red Guards stormed the Winter Palace, arrested its members. Lenin and the Bolsheviks were now in charge. Russia had been thrown upon a bold and dangerous party, it would now seek to create the world's But first, it would have to survive the chaos civil wars. Thank you to all our Patreon supporters who Please click the link to find out how you future topics.