- I want to tell you about the universe. What it is, how it came to be, what its building blocks are. I want to tell you how the which then creates the future. But first, I want to You might be surprised isn't an expensive piece of glass or a chandelier in some fancy dining room. The word crystal simply means Look at this checkerboard pattern. See how it continues to spread out infinitely in each direction? That means it's a periodic pattern. So that's a two-dimensional crystal. This is another two-dimensional crystal. This is another. You can also have By the way, this 3D glass its atoms are actually arranged So, see how I'm projecting to a two-dimensional image on the sand? See how the 2D projection looks distorted because of the angle of the projection? That 2D image also has a pattern but it isn't periodic But there's a deep connection on the sand and the 3D mother crystal. This distorted 2D pattern A quasicrystal in a certain is a projection of a crystal in this case, 3D. A group of physicists in on a new physics theory where yep, that's right, an is projecting to 4D at which forms a 4D quasicrystal they derive a 3D quasicrystal, is the fundamental This 3D quasicrystal has a a tetrahedron, which equilateral triangle. The size of each edge on possible length that can exist. This is called the Planck length. It's 10 to the 35 times So you know how your TV into building blocks called pixels? A pixel is the smallest of the 2D screen, so think but in 3D and think of the the smallest possible The tetrahedra in the tetrahedra using complex to fill up all of the Each tetrahedron only in which it can exist at any given moment. And because of the rules to each other, if one tetrahedron this dictates the states of many other tetrahedra throughout all of space. But here's the weird thing. If a certain tetrahedron can be in any one of just a few possible who or what chooses the state it should be in at any given moment? Well, for such a choice to be made, we need to scientifically, bring in a new element into physics. And that element is consciousness. If you're not a scientist, to learn that nobody actually knows the exact value of the speed of light. We have a close approximation, The closest we can get to measuring it has to do with the but no matter how we will never be able to without a theory that tells and none of the current - [Woman] Oh look, Professor - [Einstein] Do I look pretty here? - Yes, yes. that's my bad side, what if I go? - Yes, that is good. my tongue like this? - Good! - Our best physics theories, and Quantum Mechanics both use the speed of light as a starting point. In other words, they use of the speed of light what it is, or why the universe even has a speed limit in the first place. We need a new theory. And such a theory is what the of Quantum Gravity Research They call it emergence theory and it will, really for the first time ever, provide an explanation and the other constants, and the fine structure content. Basically what is needed a theory that explains the very fundamental aspects of reality. String theory, which once for possibly being a successful has not made any successful of predictions, the theory of everything, it's just the speed of light or the other constants. Quantum mechanics and general do make good predictions, the fundamental constants either. - [Man] Professor Einstein, have the exact value that it does? - [Einstein] Well, to put - So what clues does nature offer us for what a theory of We've identified seven. Information, causality consciousness, pixelation, E8 A growing number of physicists are saying reality is made of information. What does that even mean? Well, information is meaning A language or code provide this kind of information conveying symbolism. A very different type of symbol is one that represents itself. Geometric symbols can do that. A cube can represent love, represent, really, with Could there be a language or What type of information Quantum physics theory indicate that reality and there is no evidence of anything other than information. Many physicists agree But those that don't of information have no If it's not information. Gentlemen? - [Man] Reality is made of information. - [Man] Nope. - [Man] Yes, it is made of information. - No. made of, if not information? - Energy. - That's stupid. for a particle to change its position. Potential is information, - Nope. - Mm-mm. - Not information. - [Man] Not information! - Reality is geometric. A geometric language in the the type of symbols that might explain how a geometric reality can be made of pure information. Information implies meaning, Meaning is a comparison, but we do it so fast, we we look at something and from our database, we that is a building, not a not a building, so meaning is relative to something is subjective and requires choice. Can we get some dramatic music here? (dramatic music) Because meaning is subjective, it needs to be perceived or measured by some form of consciousness. Einstein showed how exist simultaneously in So all time exists all the time. Let me say that again, all I know that sounds kind but we have to kind of and accept that mathematically, physics formulas we have, So, let's visualize the geometric object that Einstein spoke about as a block. Remember the tetrahedra, pixels of reality I told you about? Now imagine the entire everywhere, in one frozen moment in time. Like a single frame in a all of reality everywhere appears frozen in this one position. Let me give you an analogy. In a movie shot on 35 millimeter film, there are 24 frames a second. There's no actual movement in a movie, there is just a sequence of frozen frames. Now remember how I told of space, which is the Well there is also a Planck length of time and it is much shorter In fact, it's 10 to the 44 Okay, so back to our The entire universe in one but instead of a frame in a movie, it's a frame in all of reality. Now, imagine the next frame. Each frame is different just like in a movie. See how all frames exist in Einstein's space-time all at once? Okay, now here's where things We assume that the past That's how we appear But when you look at this block, why would one side be the past Why go left to right Why can't the future influence the past? Take away the names past and future if that helps you think of this concept. So what if the past influences influences the past in So then the question is, is influencing which part of and the answer is all all the time. - Is this even possible? Can me 20 years from now influence me now just as I influence her? So can me five minutes from now just as me 10 minutes ago just as me as a baby This is too weird to even grasp. But everything we know Am I stoned? Okay, so if every moment is both forward and backward in this massive neural network This type of network would quality than anything it would be its own creator. But the fact that all does not mean that the and we're some kind of programmed (cheerful music) That's what they used to believe, though. Years ago, it was popular to believe in the somewhat bummer a deterministic program The famous double slit Look it up if you've never and is one of the cornerstones But for now, take my word for and ushered in a new or basically, free will. So how does free will work? One of the most surprising is that reality only that literally particles do not exist until they are observed. Famous physicist John Wheeler, with the term black is made of information, which The observation must be made, he says, by something conscious. And Nobel prize winner Frank Wilczek said that quantum theory is and that it will remain that within the formalism of a model entity whose states correspond to a recognizable caricature An entity, an observer, so talking about an entity, not or an animal that is capable of generating information by observing and measuring. But what would that conscious entity be? Well we definitely know in the universe, I mean, at I mean, I'm conscious, you're I think. (cheering) - Consciousness relates deeply to physics in ways not yet fully understood. In fact, consciousness is understood things in all of science. Nobody knows exactly what it is. Weird, right? So if reality is pure energy, matter, thought, then it becomes clear into consciousness in some stuff of reality is somehow consciousness. Did consciousness and in a causality feedback loop? German physicist Werner equations of quantum mechanics using a type of math called matrix theory. He deduced that space into indivisible three-dimensional just like the two-dimensional pixels on your computer screen. The mathematics indicated this. I love mathematics! - Your pizza, professor! oh, I love pizza, - [Marion] And interestingly, experimental evidence for smooth, in other words, not pixelated, space-time. - [Werner] Mm, pizza. (crowd shouting) We are NOT PIXELATED!!! - [Einstein] We are not pixelated! - Yes, you are, morons. - Space is smooth. and the mathematics show it is pixelated, so it must be pixelated. bullshit. - [Einstein] Bullshit, - [Marion] On the other that a length can be no which suggests reality is pixelated. - [Einstein] There is no length shorter than the Planck length. is pixelated. I'm not! you're kind of being a little who deny evolution the fact their ancestors were monkeys. Are you a monkey, huh, - We believe that until of pixelated space-time is discovered, the issue will remain What type of geometric code would describe a pixelated reality? 80 years of smashing accelerators such as the in Geneva have given us a strange clue, that all the fundamental convert into one another, from one to the other called gauge symmetry transformation, and all of these conversions and not just any shape, an Now this shape forms a crystal. Now remember crystals of a certain shape, like that checkerboard is a 2D crystal made up of squares, so this crystal is of a and this crystal is (jazzy music) To generate that 3D quasicrystal, the substructure at the we project this 8D crystal to 4D. And then we convert that to 3D. Now, just like the basic cell is the cube, the cell is an 8D shape with 240 vertices. We call it the gosset polytope. When the gosset polytope it becomes two identical The ratio of their sizes also known as the golden ratio. (explosion) The golden ratio may be the It is a ratio that is equilateral triangles and in the universe, appearing everywhere from the quantum to celestial scales. Ever so interestingly, it - [Einstein] I don't want I wish I never theorized your existence! (burps) - Okay, let's get serious for a second. Here are three quick facts The golden ratio is the precise modified specific heat changes and it is part of the equation for the lower bound on black hole entropy. The golden ratio even relates parameter to black hole entropy. Why does this support the is the fundamental constant of nature? Because a theory of everything must unite general relativity with quantum is where these two theories Okay, so bear with me through right now and I'll reward of John Malkovich getting There's a type of mathematics No, not that type of matrix. (upbeat music) Matrix math is the type of math that quantum physics uses in its formulas. Without getting too technical, this is an example of a matrix. A matrix is just a group of numbers that are arranged in columns in rows. And there's a certain for these numbers inside the matrix, like if a matrix has there are 24 different for those four numbers. Quantum mechanics uses so they only contain various Each of these combinations It's called an eigenvalue. Some eigenvalues are called trivial. These are values like one, two, and zero. And some are called non-trivial, and those are all sorts of so here's the interesting part. Where's that interesting part? Oh yes, here, the highest eigenvalues that show up ready for this? The golden ratio and minus So we now see a deep and quantum mechanics appears deeply in both black hole physics and in quantum mechanics. Okay, good job bearing with John Malkovich getting a pie in the face. - No, I won't, no no, - Pie! The golden ratio appears in many other ways throughout the universe in scales both large and small. It is so prevalent that its existence simply cannot be looked In the past, the appearance of this ratio has usually been ignored by scientists because they had no way to was considered the stuff But now, for the first time, theory is being developed which predicts the golden ratio's existence So what would a theory that answers these seven Information, causality consciousness, pixelation, E8 (KLEE) So we think reality is a at the smallest scale of reality possible which is called the Planck length. Particle accelerator data and forces relate to a higher-dimensional crystal But reality appears to be of this E8 crystal down to 3D, which produces a and that allows these to the ordinary world of particles and forces that we see around us. Now this geometric language has rules but it also has syntactical and that requires some notion of a chooser to choose the free steps in the language. Now, the notion of randomness when it comes to codes because Besides, there's no decent for randomness in nature A universal collective but that sounds new age and religious. Nowadays, a good number of physicists discuss the idea that our a code-based simulation in quantum computer in another universe. Now, if true, then by the same logic, that other universe, the simulation of our universe be a simulation in another universe, so the idea is a little shaky seriously by a lot of credible people. But it turns out that a consciousness of some sort Now we don't need to or make it religious or spiritual. To follow why, let us start with the idea of the collective behavior each a single-sized A long time ago, only life form existed here on earth. These little guys were not what direction to swim reproduce, and run from dangerous things. They made choices with of environmental awareness Then they self-organized into as a group and had more environmental awareness than the individuals. Eventually, animals Sophisticated forms of now float on an ocean of self-organized as a human being. It is specifically the laws of physics that caused electrons and into 81 stable atoms and from there, into human consciousness, and on the amount of energy and matter that can self-organize - Physics allows the in the universe to eventually convert into a single conscious system of other conscious systems, a massive, technologically-based Given enough time, will eventually happen. By this axiom, this system has already emerged of space-time ahead of us. Because it is possible, it is inevitable. In fact, according to the time loops, that inevitable right now, just as we are co-creating it. When humanity discovers it will usher in a new age of prosperity. For example, clean, cheap energy leading to the eventual elimination of poverty. As a nonprofit, Quantum Gravity Research relies on crowdfunding to Even a $5 donation is meaningful and moves this mission forward. To participate in the adventure, visit QuantumGravityResearch.org and click on Support Our Work. And please spread the word this video and follow the journey on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Visit QuantumGravityResearch.org