I found a Minecraft build that and me and my friends are going to to a ton of other builds starting with this one block build. It's just a chest. It's like a box. Oh, look at this. Wait a second, this is more than one block. I'm giving it a zero out of 10. I'll give it a one for the one I'll give it a two, because I like it. But will it beat this 10,000 block build? Ooh, it's a Pokemon Center. What? That's Pikachu. I don't know if I like Squirtle. The Squirtle looks traumatized. It has some interior, not much furniture, but I feel like for 10,000 blocks I like this. Keep in mind, Tareq, the final build is 10,000 Yeah, yeah, yeah, this is cool though. I think I'm going to give this a seven. I feel like this Squirtle I'll give it a six. All right, well, And for whichever one wins, we're But will it keep its lead compared to the 1 million block build? - Oh my God. Dude, it's an ancient Colosseum. There's a dragon and a "cenotaur". Is that what they're called? I feel like I'm there. Look at the tail of the dragon Dude, This is like art. I've never seen any build like this. Look at the detail on the ground. Wait, there's a dragon's egg. Dude, this is sick. I'm flying around the This is so cool. Whoa, look at this place. The details, there's just emotion in this. But is it enough emotion I think it's time to vote. This is the coolest This is a 10. What? All right, Tareq, Okay. I think this is deserving of an eight. This is not a 10? I think it's a really good I know there's going to be so I'm going to leave Oh my God, Sorry, Pokemon Center, but will the dragon beat out - Oh my gosh. Dude, this is beautiful. Do you see this cosmic I don't even know where to start. Where do you even look at? Do you see this giant eye creature in Yeah. Dude, look at these starships. Dude, if you think about it, the first build was literally This glass pane could Wait, before we get any further, No! If you're confused, because he doesn't Unfortunately. Everybody comment telling Check out this space cat Oh, that's awesome. Wait, is he fighting this tentacle? Guys, I think this dragon is Oh, a spaghetti planet. Look at that fork. The fork is so big. Meatball moon, This person thought And then in between all they have enough blocks where they can just scatter it to really build the environment. Oh, all of these planets so that they could use those blocks that Oh, look, the pirate ship is It's like a whole story. There are so many This is the most chaotic solar I think we've looked at it enough guys, and I think it's time to rate I mean, this is definitely I'm going to go all the I like this build a lot. They put a lot of time in it, but I don't so I'm going to give it an 8.5. I'm going to have to agree with Tareq. I feel like this is a lot Is it five times better than the Coliseum? No. And for that reason, What? As cool as this is, Currently the Coliseum's in the but will it beat the 100 Oh my gosh. Guys! I mean where do we start? This is like a full society. Guys, keep in mind this took 100 times Yeah, because dude, look, I mean, this is stunning, dude. I'm starting to see what you meant about Yeah, exactly. Because this is what the story looks like. This is the type of build I and just explore for literally days. I feel like I could Look, they have battleships and stuff. Oh my gosh. They have a navy. The beautiful bridges. Dude, look at their water systems. Look at this. This is what society should be like. Look at this theater. Are you kidding? I like how they included mountains Walk down this with me for a second. Look how gorgeous this is. There's constantly self to explore. I like this a lot. All I'm going to say is the buildings are starting to You do have a point, Karl. These houses do look very similar. It's a city, but also at the same time Wait, where's the king's palace? Is that in the middle? Oh, wow. It is. Oh, I will say guys, I like the outside, And I want to let you it took him 500 hours and No way. One person did this? Dude, I know my score. All right, then let's rate it. Tareq, what are you going to That's a 10. Tareq, a 10? I think this is more so I'll bump it up a little Just because of the fact that there I do have to dock it a point. I think that this is an eight. Hey, nobody's perfect, baby. But with a score of 27 points, it's in How are these builds I don't get it. I don't see this getting better than this. I'd be surprised. And now, the grand finale, 1 billion blocks, New York City, bro. - Oh my gosh! They made a one-to-one Stop, this is actually cool. They're still actively working on it, but it's been 1 billion blocks so far. Dude, this is Times Square. This is where Spider-Man And just so you guys know, As tall as you are in this game, Dude, really? This is so cool. Wait, is this a real building in New York? It has to be, right? We got permission to film this in They've been working So, they're not even done? No. This is a team that has the goal of I can see the buildings where I can see their future plans over there. Check it out, Oh, that's so cool. Whoa, my game just crashed. My game literally could not handle this. Guys, I'm still in Central Park. My game just crashed. Oh, both of you guys have crashed? I'm standing strong. Well, there's not much else It is literally New York City. It is time to vote. Is this better than the ancient city Here's the thing, New York City in Minecraft is so cool to me, so I'll give it an eight. I can't help but agree with you, I feel like it's bad if I Go Rangers. I love New York, it's my favorite city, but just like purple said, so I'm going to have to give this a nine. And because of that, the ancient city officially wins the Don't forget to subscribe and