BRANDON: Guys, you get me back this week. CLASS: [cheering] week we are doing Q&amp;A from the things you week we will start into character. We'll do weeks on the business of writing, and there's in there. I don't know how many weeks we have of the class after this one? BRANDON: Thirteen, so there's six left? Ish. there is no final in this class. Don't worry pizza for final, but then it just ran afoul that we stopped doing that. I'm sorry. BRANDON: Aww! And then they have, like, don't want to get in trouble, right? BRANDON: We're all law-abiding citizens. I All right let's go to your questions about in here that aren't on world building. I usually general Q&amp;A at the end for things we don't and stuff that, theoretically, we will get First question asks, &quot;What flaws do you have good question. I'll try not to be insulted. looking at this sort of thing does really things like that. I think naturally, as a one of my greatest flaws, which is often the characters that way, it is usually a good fast and my eagerness to work on new projects. is it pulled me through a lot of books. I words, that writers often have when they're I wrote 13 novels in 10 years. This was a It helped me build momentum. learn revision. The biggest thing that held to take an okay or good story and turn it important skill. Sometimes as a writer who-- like me. You are overachievers in regards One of the dangers of this is taking bad habits much harder to break you out of those bad things like that. Writing with flabby prose, over and over again, writing using cliched into that habit and you write two million you out. I kept thinking, I'd get feedback on a book be like, &quot;Wow, there's so much wrong with one next time that doesn't have all these of looking at it, at least after I entered After I got my first couple of bad books-- and the books that you're writing aren't terrible. can't learn about constructing a plot and get some fluency with writing endings. For stories till you start to get a feel for how you're writing. And then learning to take really handy. little mini lecture on revision, to talk about it different strategies for that, like I did All right. &quot;How do you create a magic that This is actually a really interesting question, you have a magic system, even when you don't term magic, I'm also referring to most technology also kind of talking about the fundamental You might say that a lot of spy thrillers of regard them as happening in &quot;spy world&quot; where it's like, the way that gadgets work, I've talked about this idea. Like, there's magic system for me. feel like a magic system? One way is you make exceptions of people who really knew their not actually going to be real science. It's So let's talk a little bit along these lines. this, internal versus external consistency. right. I probably spelled them differently one of those ones that I have set in my computer sort of the same thing. I've never had to just fixes it for me. Like, villain? That actually are. external consistency. Or logic. I should just Internal logic, internal consistency, is usually all stories. In fact, some humor stories make being haywire, and that's a feature rather we talk about internal consistency, this is and is consistent with itself. If this character then you can extrapolate that this character again. This is being consistent with your This is generally really important for even but even important for soft magic that you Even if your soft magic is we're not sure stay consistent of, we don't know what Gandalf Now you can move along that line. You can almost every fantasy story slowly moves along it can do. But you're just trying not to break Now people mistake this with external logic, to explain why the things are happening in physics and the laws of our universe. better, external logic is when they say X-Men is an attempt at external logic. They're saying, some of the X-Men movies they're like, &quot;Sometimes And they're trying to give it some external Don't mistake those. Oftentimes I will mention to be very hard magic systems, particularly &quot;Hard magic system? Superhero magic doesn't has a healing factor. He always has a healing It's hard magic. You understand what he can Internal logic, it doesn't matter that Superman an attempt at external logic. is this important. Well, some genres really is hard science fiction, for an example. you to give people an ability to make the leap logic, applied even to a fantasy book, can a bit. like I do, I usually add in a little bit of this is the characters discussing the laws then pointing out the hole, and this is how so the reader can suspend disbelief. like a magic? A lot of that's going to depend you convince them that it's not a magic, that sometimes have a magic system that's built We don't necessarily question that in spy them look like other people. Well, sometimes call that a magic system really. But that spy thriller where no one had had a mask up a lot of times in movies, the audience is I'm okay with them adding that, even though way that Sanderson's First Law says they should, it. blood and gets their energy back at the end most readers are going to be like, oh, yeah, to kind of have a magic system that you are magic, is if it's playing into the genre conventions fluency in that genre is going to expect it &quot;How do we give enough exposition to make mystery and twists?&quot; That's a great question. own writing, or have you seen it in other books with a lot of science fiction and fantasy remove that? How did that work for you? Yeah, STUDENT: I feel like this was achieved really BRANDON: OK. Well, thank you very much. Your STUDENT: Not spoiling it for people, but at and there's an explanation of certain aspects so that the reader buys into it. Like, OK, for them, the characters and the reader, to BRANDON: The &quot;Oh, no. We were lied to,&quot; to A couple ways to do this is to-- the easiest stage term. I don't know where it came from. say, &quot;These two things don't look like they That's you saying to the reader, &quot;Hint, hint. But a lot of times you can do it more subtly that don't jive together, to the point that where these things aren't in harmony. Then an explanation to stretch for why special yet, or something like that. Like, where's up, the reader's like, &quot;Oh!.&quot; That's a way But you can also, generally a good way to one little segment of the world you're going other things that people are doing. You're going to learn these three spells. But don't are doing.&quot; And that kind of, like I said, balancing, in the Harry Potter books, this She does not maintain internal logic between That's where J. K. Rowling had-- When someone for this? Why don't they use a polyjuice potion to be really solid. You get this sense that the characters can solve problems with the is gone. It just breaks apart a little bit benefit of the doubt. I just say to myself, can't use a polyjuice potion here, or why to them because they're dumb kids, and things I allow myself that because J. K. Rowling of a given book, that in some ways it's too internal logic of Lord of the Rings, which have to read a lot of The Silmarillion. It published books. Lord of the Rings is a gold I talked about before. have any ways that they have maintained mystery STUDENT: I was just going to say, and this kind of just a variation of it, but focus things from their perspective, and that allows it's around you. third person limited. In case those online knows and seeing the world through their eyes, and mystery, while still having them have situation. A third limited is just wonderful Yeah? it starts off with him on the island with makes basically a list of Borne. Look at all him just mentally [___]. So you know that where or how he got them. repeat that. In the first Borne movie there's all these cool abilities you have, but we This actually answers the question before. that's not a magic system. Because the magic memories and why they get them back. If you &quot;Hey, if you do this you'll start getting Fulfill this thing, do this thing, get this his memories back and learn why he was able strongly into why he lost his memories, what of converges on a single kind of character a magic-less magic system. &quot;Do you change or modify rules based on the one I know that's later in the list, which your rules?&quot; Let's talk about modifying rules. Sanderson's Laws, or do I modify how I use age groups. Generally, I do not. There's this an audience and writing specifically toward Generally-- let's just put this on the board in the publishing industry, children's books fiction, it includes YA. That is a difficult to that terminology, because YA, not children. books. When a publisher has a division between 18 and below. about age 13 and up -ish. A rule of thumb: age group you're intending the book for. That's People will generally read about someone older someone younger than them. Rule of thumb. is a great example of something just kind them. They get shelved in three shelves in put it. here, there's a very big divide. Down here line right here that's different based on reading books that gatekeepers give them and That's usually seen as the fuzzy line between That's why you just kind of think about-- Like, middle grade, it's like romance needs little hint here and there. They are curious a romance in their stories most of the time. romance. There's no actually romancing going secure that these two have now formed a couple. Those are kind of your two big things, and underneath it are, and there's some transitional chapter book sort of thing. Then underneath you to a different teacher to talk about the and the easy-to-read books and things like Yeah? BRANDON: New adult has not become a thing. at creating a new thing here that was like children's publishers looking to have another You might be able to find people online who last five or six years, publishers just stopped make it a thing. really getting vague, at the upper end YA. in the US and in adult sci-fi/fantasy in the this is where we think it goes.&quot; You see that this line? Trying to put another line is there but your mileage may vary. There may be publishers publisher, when I asked them about new adult, So good question. written underneath middle grade. Middle grade, example. It starts in middle grade and then is middle grade. Just kind of some touchstones You do have kind of an important division Some editorial lines do edit for content. are going to edit for content. But most editorial they do not edit out swearing, sexuality, that YA is edited for content. They mean middle by most publishers, which means that they of an R rating, if you've written an R-rated Yeah? try to have you put more graphic content in? a lot. Have I ever had editors or publishers or sex? No. This does not happen. It happens erotica. They may come in and say, &quot;We need happened. You will occasionally get, if you're an action scene.&quot; have outside the publishing industry about the way the publishing industry works. They that style of book. The editor's job is going book. I've never had an editor even mention or things like that. at TOR, he's like, &quot;Are Vin and Elend sleeping audience that doesn't want to imagine that out.&quot; He's like, &quot;Oh, OK.&quot; Like, that's the Good question. grade, they will edit for content and they happen a lot, but sometimes they'll be like, word.&quot; You can use challenging words here much like they have to get out the dictionary use a more clear word here?&quot; been like, &quot;Let's streamline this. Let's focus down. And let's make sure that your magic doesn't mean the situations can't get complex, I think. If you write down to your audience, and kind of the complexity that comes from stuff. That we don't want to do. try to streamline and try to keep the world much shallower. YA very rarely had that. Though my YA editors is to ask me to give the reader are feeling. Where in adult I often have them overboard on the emotion. Just let the reader my adult editors and my YA editors. My central character is 8. STUDENT: What are the dangers of that? Why BRANDON: Yeah. Why don't we see more adult one, they're hard to write, and number two, market them. But, I mean, Ender is 8 through he when he's in battle school? He's still STUDENT: No, he's 11. is a perfect example of a book that really grade by age of the protagonist. But it's adults, right? But it's usually read by people This does happen. Most of the time you're if they decide to publish it somewhere else, example. His Dark Materials, where Lira, it's Is it not? Nobody really knows. Q&amp;A, we just go on tangents. Remember that genre, are marketing tools. This is why we in a bookstore. It is a marketing tool. That whose books naturally fit into one of these fit, it can be harder for you. That isn't to try to do a little bit of the marketing an adult book with a child protagonist like how to market X, Y, or Z. OK.&quot; it's really hard in romance because you have True Blood mystery with vampires go in fantasy, In the few places that still have horror sections cover marketing and blurbs to solidify it in the bookstore, even if it's a pretty bad This is why you'll find Neal Stephenson in a lot of times. They're like, &quot;We think the crowd that likes Margaret Atwood, who will really looking for interesting prose as well. they'll get it.&quot; But half the other time you'll people are rightly saying, &quot;Hey, the father fiction.&quot; STUDENT: This is back to the internal/external BRANDON: Yeah. where they may conflict? How do you choose BRANDON: Internal logic is almost always your conflicting, most of the time it's because logic, some weird sort of-- to be a weird example, but it will relate. it was John Keegan's History of Warfare, where in the classical era had not been bred to back, which was part of why chariots became complicated anthropological discussion. But Horses pulling something rather than having smaller horses and things like that. the horses because it would break a horse's How can they not have tried riding a horse? cultures saying this stupid thing?&quot; It took people couldn't ride these horses because had in their head that horses are something logic of this thing, even though it was actually That was something that taught me, if you're you need to put extra work into it. You generally it, it gives you control over your story. than the external logic, but you do have to to be upfront with a little more of your world Basically your best choice is to find shows that will really imprint in people's brains. a horse's back and it is hurting the horse. happens,&quot; rather than just having people say You run into this if you are using real world have, real world mythology you have to pretend a vampire is. When we were talking earlier stuff like that. People are like, okay, vampires and crosses, yada, yada, yada. If you aren't longer you go in your book without explaining to be to disabuse people of their expectations to forget, even after you've taught them, is important to do because it's probably going But you have to realize there's just more you see the fantasy books that'll use things have a different name. So it's like, these elves, but there's one thing that's very different, else and try to reinforce to you what that Yeah, let's go to the next question on the of my books. as soft magic in a book?&quot; the readers interfacing with a story element you've got a-- for instance, Anne McCaffrey. insisted her entire life was science fiction added a bunch of external logic to explain She worked very hard to explain this as science of them as fantasy. the story is actually more important than totally okay with Anne being like, &quot;No! These you want. You can tell people all you want is way more important than any of that. a soft magic, you've got to treat your book book. Though you can obviously make that transition as people find out the things that were illogical, hard magic. are very fun stories, it's been a long time in these books is a bunch of people from earth technology go to a planet where there are find out about these gods through secondhand through the series, realize, &quot;There's a reason mythology, is the people who are these gods to go play god on a planet.&quot; Again, it's been entire lore there. it's like it's not magic, it's science, but law is that? It's Clarke's Law? Any sufficiently people who don't know about it. system as a soft magic system. Just realize a soft magic system because that's how the &quot;How do you prevent world building from feeling Most of the time when people ask this, they to you, write your book and don't stress it. building things you actually need to expand told a little bit better. Do all of your world If you're feeling like world building's a excited to write your story. you'll be like, all right, I really need to But most discovery writers will have filled they get excited by seeing through the character's so to speak, where you add all this stuff then doing more books in the series and you're the first book. idea is very daunting to you, make sure you don't understand yet, that you don't understand upon in the next book, so you have that same after you finish the book, you get some early do your world building to fix that. you use to arrive at a published book, readers won't be able to tell what your process was. with Cory Doctorow once where he said, &quot;It's can't tell which chapters took me six months I wrote in an afternoon and they were great of publishing and revision is built around having a consistent quality, and the things rough in your first drafts get smoothed over of art. some weird hybrid between, which really most makes you excited to write the book. Finish what does this really need in revision to STUDENT: How do you do this if you're a hard but you're like, well setting and details, kind of thing? these things really easily. Try to pretend I bet there are a ton of people out there and don't world build at all until they're of have to make a few decisions based on what much world building and lore do you want there for your book? very much time on the lore world building Gemmell-type gritty, or the kind of modern it's like, who cares about the thousand years a story about this one person going and doing you can just say, this isn't a selling point else. I'm just not going to do it. I'm not that's advised. Do what is exciting to you. are wanting more of, and you don't always OK, they're confused here. We need a little the tools to write the story you want to write. of artwork needs to be an incredibly realistic, do with three brush strokes things that feel put into that painting. It's hard to say, don't know if one is more art than another, Create the type of art you want to create, for you, then write books where you don't like you need. For the rest of you who are and don't let yourself spend too much time your stories. A little off topic, but I think fan fiction I didn't come up through that community. I don't read the fan fiction based on my books. of the writing community. Once in a while fan fiction and sell 40 million copies, or If you don't know, 50 Shades of Gray was a was a Twilight fan fic. Yeah. It was. Very, then she changed it around to not be a Twilight All right. &quot;How do you know if your magic How do you know if your magic system works? like every other part of writing, a magic goals, and you have to decide what your goals do you want it to do? philosophy on art. I feel like sometimes, in specific, we have this sort of pretentious of art. I'll often align this to visual mediums, that's OK. Nothing wrong. Now once in a while, about how you cook a steak. It does happen. what? I prefer this flavor of ice cream to like, &quot;Oh, that's too bad you don't like the has different tastes.&quot; of this is valid, and some of it I'm like, than another art. But it comes- you have to That's kind of what we do all the time. It's It's not like we shouldn't do it, but as the creating a piece of art and a piece of writing, piece of art to achieve? What is my goal with that art based on how well you were able to do that, then there's other levels of certain But at its core, the first thing you should to do? In that case, use the magic system How do you know? You find your audience, somehow, for. May just be your family. It might be for a large segment of the fantasy-reading or whatever. You give the book to them and for readers to say their emotional response Because sometimes you will have a book that character ever put to the page. Then the character hates this character. You have done something writing a character that you just want to uncomfortable, and another segment of the people detest Mr. Bean, and some people laugh That is not wrong because half the audience of the population hates it. It is targeting that audience is and see if you're-- there's Jar Jar Binks, where one was intended to do one did exactly what it's intended to do. to do in your story, for the audience you this, and then use the magic system as a tool want to achieve. Easier said than done, I Let's see. Let's see. &quot;I'd love to screen No. Well, one. Go to a screenwriting class. I have written one and a half screenplays. at screenwriting, but I am very much not an the thing. I am only barely an expert in how Because I broke in 15 years ago. Anyone who different experience from people breaking when I broke in, the more difficult it is right now. That's something you should always on breaking in, because the market and the When I was trying to break in, there were write short stories.&quot; These were the old guard, short fiction for the magazines. I was trying guess what? The magazine market had dried They paid a lot less. good at short stories were really good at is not something I'm really good at. I could novels. I enjoyed novels. And so the advice advice for me. In fact, I think it was terrible break in in my era, because they didn't subscribe short stories, so they didn't know how to In the same way, I can't give you advice on You've got to go to somebody who's done it I can tell you, this person asked, &quot;Is editing OK, let's talk about becoming an editor. OK? planning on becoming an editor as a backup are fewer editing jobs than there are jobs jobs are a little easier to get than breaking are way fewer of them. So if you have a dual valid to pursue both at the same time, just novels it'd be perfectly valid for you to But if you're like, &quot;Hmm, I'll just become to become an editor of sci-fi/fantasy. There editors, and I don't think Lisa Mangum is Chris Schoebinger is going to quit any time could be exaggerating. They might have an cycles through. editor, you are going to need to move to New little percents that are not in New York are Boston at Houghton Mifflin, and that's about going to London, which, yeah. OK? You're just going to have to be dedicated expensive. You're going to be competing against in editor from Columbia, who live in New York they have editing programs at NYU and at Columbia, competing against. at BYU, Stacy Whitman, managed to break into got a master's degree at a prestigious university and Boston, managed to get a job at Wizards own imprint at a children's publisher in New one who did that from my age group, and I've full time as writers. I guess you can count Manga route and went and got a job at Tokyopop, But it is just really hard, OK, really hard. really excited by it. But don't use it as become an editor.&quot; It's really tough. If you talking to editors about how to do it, how And good luck to you, because people do do before me, is a senior editor at Ace. So there's become a professional science fiction/fantasy She's the only one, I think, who did that. Someone from this class, Ben Grange, became There's a few more jobs, I would say, as agents. make money based on your authors, and if you won't make any money. But we'll talk about Did that make sense to you guys? Any other editing program. You can go into that and lots more jobs if you are willing to not edit trade manuals for hearing aid companies, there's &quot;How can you make limits or weaknesses appear Ooo, boy, contrived. Here's the thing. Everything lives in real life is coincidental. Coincidence is a set of coincidences. This, on one hand, win $10 million in the lottery is no less $10 million in the lottery in real life. It However, there's this sense that if you make then the reader sees the author's hand. You even though it absolutely is coincidental is a good question, asking yourself how do seem contrived. internal or external logic. Superman's powers alone is like, eh, that seems really contrived. And when he lived on it he didn't have powers, Oh, that seems less contrived. It's exactly it's not. That is usually one of the worst powers for reasons. limitation on the One Ring, Sauron can see to do this. Every reader accepts that, because it a reason and inched toward external logic would somebody create this? Oh, a reasonable the limitation, the flaw, makes sense. If try to juggle your consistency, your logic, of sense in the book. disparate magic systems together into a given I say, use these things also. I developed systems for two different books. Feruchemy and being an insomniac, and this was not a day and then tried to go to sleep at night could store up my sleepiness in some sort to go to bed. And then when I don't want to this thing and be awake.&quot; Wouldn't that be That was the foundation for what became the books. When I added that into the books, I adding this magic system to this one where it. How do I make it consistent? Oh, we're use metal to put-- you can't just have anything. different metals do different things in one magic.&quot; And so suddenly it feels like they're were developed completely separately and don't anything to do with one another. building your magic systems. Come up with play with it for a little while. See what to buy in. It's not as hard as it sounds, All right. &quot;What does Brandon think of The Wars stuff. it. It was just fun. I liked the beginning can probably tell that from the type of books arc, rather than the mini episodes in the middle was really great, so some of those So thumbs up, good job, John Favreau and friends. do you guys watch that, watch the different like, &quot;Wait a minute! Wait a minute! Hey!&quot; movie, and you were buddies over here.&quot; It and were like, &quot;We're going to make a Star How do you say his name? The director of Thor: STUDENT: Taika Waititi. the droid in the finale. He directed the finale like that. I'm like, &quot;You guys are just having money to have a party.&quot; And I'm totally behind enough fun for a while, and that felt like All right let's see. &quot;How do you decide that you add it smoothly without turning it into That's an excellent question, very good question, me messing this up. There's another question absolute?&quot; I guess I didn't make this clear this class is, nothing is absolute, and I Sanderson's Laws have worked very well for magic systems I like to create in books, and to storytelling in general that are worth this helps people. But I am sure there are completely ignore any sort of Sanderson's that creator's vision. Doesn't have to be But how to, in my way, add a new magic system Well, number one, you make sure, if you're that this will happen, that when you're writing in the magic. This is really handy, particularly and you don't know exactly what you're going what? We don't understand this aspect of it. Example of this in Mistborn is when I have use it mostly offscreen, and I have him use of Sanderson's First Law. if you haven't read that is happening, and rather than suffer her. reason. Back then I didn't even really know still have done this sequence the same way. The purpose is not to give you a satisfying new at the magic, and it's mostly Kelsior's anyway. She does not deserve to pay the price And so I don't feel like it's pulling back, her other surrogate father figure in the series, fail. to Sazed having powers that we don't understand book and very relevant in future books. So was more important to me than making Vin get because it was well beyond her ability to whole sequence, which is violating Sanderson's in the &quot;satisfying.&quot; &quot;It's not satisfying&quot; rules. But it does something else. What it other magic system that we're going to explore But another great way is to foreshadow things they do this all the time in superhero comics, new power. We have them start to do it early Wars movie. They knew they needed to have with the Force later in the movie that had before. So they put in a wounded snake. STUDENT: It did in The Mandalorian. Mandalorian was made after this movie. It but it hadn't been in the movie cannon. So the movie cannon early in the movie, so later it has been used a couple of times.&quot; You put you can always do that in post. I haven't asked this, but there's a piece movie done and they're like, &quot;You know, this should really add a scene where someone uses And they're like, &quot;Yeah, giant snake.&quot; And That's a separate-- they are the same continuity, viewer experience should not have to depend Regardless, it happens all the time in comic trying to shoot their web slinger, but it is this not doing this like it's supposed becomes a plot point, and then they figure problem. If you don't want to violate Sanderson's groundwork ahead of time, or in post. love this. Any Bill and Ted fans in here? in something that I know I should have foreshadowed, put in brackets &quot;remember a bucket.&quot; Because captured and they're like, &quot;We've got to remember up there.&quot; Then the bucket falls, and they're the bucket, and then when I'm doing revisions All right let's talk briefly, for 10 minutes, a little different this week as well. it. I know there are people in here who love like, &quot;Revision is so much easier than coming to work with.&quot; Which I can understand. a sculpture than non-writers might think, sculpture is like, &quot;First I get the general work a little bit here.&quot; And each pass you like a face. revision-- the job for me in my first drafts emotional beats, and just to make sure that and payoffs. And so I am not looking for anything like remember a bucket, I'll just write something. more important for me to keep momentum than I'll just change it for the next chapter. been there. But revision is this process by Now, I need to play devil's advocate for a there's a writing philosophy and a group of not revise. This philosophy goes something I want to give the argument the best that your writing skills and trusting your instincts. first draft, rather than making excuses for these people say, when you revise you're not it different, and so you shouldn't revise revision, or I won't buy it. This is a philosophy I don't know how strictly he kept to them. there is a small but vocal group of writers You can Google about this and find this. Your mileage may vary. I have found that revision making it great. This is partially because, I can't keep everything in my head at once. you haven't read the Stormlight books-- I If you haven't read them, there's things called It's almost like these sprite things that'll in the form of pools of blood at your feet. in the Stormlight books. I don't put those my mind. and find any time I mention emotion, and then would be drawn by that thing, and then I will, effects to a movie, I will go through and I am so focused on character arcs and making I am not thinking about any of this. straight through. My 1.0 draft is I go beginning a revision guide. This is like an outline I've just finished it, and I'm usually taking fix, and in the 2.0 I'm going to be looking arc problems. Because that was what my main I get wrong. There will be things I change. that I know I need to pull out and fix. I will do it by making a hierarchical list the way down to little things I want to change will often say things like, &quot;foreshadow that of handcuffs three times.&quot; I'll just give kind of the middle section, anything I can in the bottom section is things that are specific anything on the top, there's just too many pervasive through the entire book. the lines of when I told you about Oathbringer revision, but it's like this whole plot cycle is pointing readers toward the wrong thing. plot cycle, so the promise is working. That And then when I do my revision, I start on next to the document on the screen, and I on the things I've put on here. I will actually revision, if there are things I notice I need only these things on this list. I can only So let's make a targeted list. The 2.0 is At that point, I give the book, ideally, to come back, and I'm going to make a revision this will be stuff from my editor that'll I'll be like, &quot;All right. I'm going to try chapter, and if I like how it is better I'll &quot;I don't think this is the solution.&quot; Or several But alpha read makes another revision document. get in the first revision, because my focus get to the middle or bottom. I will add those add on new things that I came up with. Then I'm going through. reads. Again, for me, alpha readers are business and how to fix it. Beta readers are generally are readers, those two. But the idea is that are my audience. How is my audience responding beta read, if Jar Jar Binks is driving every &quot;You know what? I'm really to keep Jar Jar the wall.&quot; I might decide, &quot;Oh, wow. I have I need to do something.&quot; I'm just looking Personally, this is to prepare me for how it. If I get a good cross section of my readership and be surprised by the reaction to it. I based on what I think will better target my had the Millennium Falcon get blown up at test audiences, and they hated it. I don't this one he showed, and he's like, &quot;Huh, let's know what? There was much rejoicing because Then my 5.0 is my polish. Now, I've been polishing read that. Polish, yeah. I've been polishing doing some. But this is my last one where to try and kill every instance of passive things active instead of passive. I'm going verbs. All the stuff that makes a book more the one that I send to copy edit and proofread. revision is something that you hate, try to a revision on your book. from this crowd over here, that we'll kind the same chapter 20 times. They go to writing same chapter, and each time they try to revise the chapter's not getting better. It is just Don't let your revision become that, from to make it goal-based and try to learn something We'll see you guys next week. We'll talk about