So, the other day I was made aware of a creating I saw a clip of one of the tips in that video watched the entire video and my god. Many of the so-called tips are actively harmful over them and explaining why you should not Enjoy! Waboo: Trick #1. If you place a filled circle object a lot cooler and give it a lot of different Jeyzor: This does not work when playing the level You can get it to work kinda well on a loud part with 0.4 scale big circle and 1.45 small But it won't be perfect. Waboo: When you enable don't fade and don't look a million times better. Jeyzor: This depends on the style. Some styles like modern usually look much can look better without it. Don't enter only affects these things and and Nhelv by SrGuillester. Waboo: When you make a small piece of glow One of these things is you being able to make Jeyzor: This is unreliable and can cause lag. Use the gradient trigger instead for large Waboo: Enable normal music in editor. This allows you to listen to your level's Jeyzor: You need to buy that option in the Also just use a start position. Waboo: Instead of a boring triple spike, you Jeyzor: Huh? Waboo: You can also just make the current Jeyzor: No, just add decoration to the spikes. Waboo: Just click on the plus next to the while seeing the background change. Jeyzor: Actually a good tip to finetune the Waboo: By placing different letters on top looking chain. Jeyzor: I don't know about realistic but Just make sure you use a blending color for drop shadow on it. Waboo: A standard block looks ugly, so how First, make it 0.9 times the size of its usual Now, add some lines and you have a way cooler Jeyzor: There is already a square object with If that's not round enough for you, you the corners to make a more rounded version With just one more object you can make the a square properly, as shown here. Waboo: You can make your level more interesting inside your level. Jeyzor: More variation is good but you should Waboo: To make an object have a shiny effect, If you place one of them on a block, copy You can, without adding glow, get a cool effect Jeyzor: Or you can just use any block for the same effect. Waboo: Fill a saw with black objects to make Jeyzor: Use a circle to fill it with a single You can make it rotate really slowly when speed, together with your rotation lasting Here's the end results. Jeyzor: Just press edit special to change without any triggers. The saw's speed and direction is random sometimes go super fast instead of slow with Waboo: You can make a good looking lamp in his art piece. Jeyzor: Don't steal from others. You can use other people's creations as Waboo: Inside the level, you very smartly the whole level. Jeyzor: And how did he do that? Make the speed of the particle trigger 0 and In general the particle trigger is great for Waboo: You can rotate unrotatable objects Jeyzor: No, you can't. In the editor the hitbox stays the same and original rotation. Waboo: What about making a flower out of two It looks... actually kind of mid. Jeyzor: Why even include this if you acknowledge There's a flower object in the game you Waboo: This block right now looks hella boring, Jeyzor: Worse. Waboo: It looks so much better. Xaro: Me when I copy paste the block and put Waboo: Go to your settings and put the buttons Now your editor looks like this. Jeyzor: Personal preference but yeah. Waboo: You can make leaves with clouds. Jeyzor: You can also use the new particle to add even more variation and make it fit Waboo: This door looks like it takes hundreds Jeyzor: No? just two or three max. Waboo: You can make an easy conveyor belt like they're moving. Jeyzor: Yeah, I, for example, did that in Waboo: Let's give our object color 1. Click on copy color and put an ID of another Now go to color 2 and put the ID of color Boom! You now have a flickering object. Jeyzor: You can do this very simply with a Place a color trigger and copy the color channel Change hue to +1 and make sure the object Press OK and open it again and change the Now you have a rainbow effect. Waboo: Make this small circle really big. Then make it black with an opacity of 50% Jeyzor: If you want to place something behind in the saw tab. Waboo: I made it turn red whenever I need throughout my entire level, I can just place Jeyzor: That not only takes more effort, but Use normal jump indicators and make them go Waboo: This mod adds BPM information about to easily add pulses on the beat. Jeyzor: There is a BPM trigger in the game. You can use that instead of downloading a Waboo: These wave objects look cool, but there's By making them blue and putting them below the side, create a very simple waterfall. Jeyzor: Good tip. Now with particle triggers you can even add even more convincing. Waboo: By stretching this fire object, you same quality. Jeyzor: You definitely need more than just Waboo: What if you make a level where people to an unescapable prison or even worse. Jeyzor: That's a terrible idea. Waboo: Okay, that was a joke. Waboo: Add 10 glow particles next to each previous one by adding one extra glow object. You can easily choose your brightness like Jeyzor: This is not a good idea. You should spend a bit more time to change easily hue shift them according to color theory Waboo: If you make the base color, which is you get these custom shapes that you can place Jeyzor: That's actually pretty cool. Only useful for small details though due to Waboo: I talked about jump indicators a while And an even better way to show these in your effect for your indicator, which is one object. Jeyzor: Honestly, that's a good tip. It's highly customizable too. Waboo: This right here is a structure, I'm we add structures inside this structure, all Jeyzor: Wow, three good tips in a row. I'll be honest, I struggle with structuring Waboo: Use Ctrl-Z to rapidly undo your mistakes. Jeyzor: Would be much simpler with select Or do you not know select filter? Waboo: Use different buttons to move your Jeyzor: Q and E rotate it. You can also use shift to rotate 45 degrees Also shift with WASD moves a small step. Waboo: You can make blocks slippery by enabling Jeyzor: There are also options for a grip among many other things. Waboo: Place one of these objects down in they look like buildings. Jeyzor: I don't even know what to say Spend more time to make an actual building Waboo: By warping two of these bushes to the you can create a more detailed cloud. Xaro: That- That- What kind of cl- Have you Bro, if I s- if I look up in the sky and see trilogy is about to f-ing enter. Waboo: If you go to the delete section and an object selected, you can from now on only The rest will stay intact when deleting stuff. Also with this feature, by enabling the select one swipe. Jeyzor: So you do know select filter. Waboo: You can turn slopes into better looking Jeyzor: Sure but you also need to add a hitbox Waboo: Put animated objects to one frame so them into your level. Jeyzor: Quite often you want the animation Waboo: Add random grass and bushes into your Jeyzor: In general adding small details will Waboo: You can make a custom ladder with a Jeyzor: That's a really clever trick by GirlyAle Waboo: An easy fix is by adding black glow Jeyzor: It would be better not to stack them If you have to, make it semi-transparent at least. Waboo: Enable link controls in the editor options. This will add a weird chain button on the By selecting a structure and clicking on the Jeyzor: It doesn't count as one object but will select all the rest as well. Fantastic tool. If you need to edit a specific object within Waboo: With two of the particles looking away You can make a starry night background in These are the settings you need to use for it. Jeyzor: You only need one particle trigger Here are the settings I used for my level but Waboo: When you want to make your object look But don't make the mistake of making the glow Instead, make it a slightly different darker color. Jeyzor: Darker is not always the answer. Also should hue shift it according to color Waboo: Turn on ignore damage to playtest your Jeyzor: That's good, just make sure the Waboo: With the image mod, you can import Xaro: Don't do that! That is literally just tracing. You're literally an art thief, if you do this. Whooohhh... So how about you start tracing? Jeyzor: You should steal art. Xaro: You should steal art and start tracing. Waboo: Check the green line. If it looks a bit choppy, place the portal completely smooth and everything will flow Jeyzor: This has nothing to do with the flow. You could easily put the wave portal right It all depends on how it actually flows and Waboo: To quickly place down objects, you you're spamming objects on the screen. However, with the option hold to swipe, you Jeyzor: On PC you can also just hold shift Waboo: By placing a smoke effect down and turn it into a good looking cloud. Jeyzor: Add some variation with different Waboo: A simple way to check if your level the game mode to platformer for a bit. You can stand still and carefully inspect Jeyzor: Or just inspect them in the editor? If you have something that isn't really 0.1x speed to give you more time to see it. Waboo: Typing a colon in the standard gd font. Put two of these symbols opposite to each it looks like a circle. Jeyzor: What are you even supposed to do Using squares for this makes it at least usable. Could also try with different objects to make Waboo: You can just copy the structure and This will immediately change all groups to all the annoying work for you. Jeyzor: Build helper is amazing, definitely There are also buttons for looping and aligning Waboo: The moon can be used in a level as If you extend it and make it small, it can like this kitty that has been made out of Jeyzor: That kitty was not made with moons They most likely used this crescent shaped These particle objects can be used to make I definitely recommend messing around with them. Waboo: For a cool gameplay effect, you can click, you do a giant jump. Jeyzor: You can also jump in the air an infinite Instead of the orb just lower the gravity Waboo: What about the simple water reflection Place it on the water you made, make it a but amazing reflection. Jeyzor: A single animated object won't cut for a cool water ripple effect. Waboo: Copy this scythe five times or more very dangerous. Jeyzor: Same thing as before with the saw. The speed and direction is random. Instead set a specific speed and copy paste Waboo: If the ship part in your level looks level that fill up the space really quickly Jeyzor: Or maybe, you know... actually build Waboo: I made my level way too hard, but I What should I do? Jeyzor: Nerf it. Waboo: What you can do is add a very sneaky Jeyzor: No! Nerf it! Just nerf it! Waboo: You can use this fire animation right Make sure it's static first, and then just Jeyzor: Again, with variation that's a good Waboo: A good way to choose the colors of First, make sure the structure will have just Now, make each tint of colors +6 hue and -8 The different things look like this, and with designs, which work for every single color. Jeyzor: Funnily enough the given color example This is basically an attempt to fake color Learn color theory and your creations will Waboo: These colors and block designs talked So if you really struggle with it, start by Once done, make it tinier with the warp button, looks good. Jeyzor: 221 objects for this. That's terrible, don't do this. Build it normally so you have a better grasp Smaller scales should have fewer details. Waboo: Two tips about the saw. Try placing them in the ground with only a slow, it'll look way better. Jeyzor: And what if you need the saw above This is nothing but a gameplay choice, not And making the saw slow was literally a tip Waboo: Grab this object and rotate it so it Jeyzor: This won't work because that specific You can also do it with a single object. If you need a different size, you can use and use 3 of them because they're slightly Waboo: If you're making a level with an insane Jeyzor: Which you would with these tips. Waboo: Stop before ruining your life. Jeyzor: Well, you said it. Waboo: Begin instead of the start from the To avoid lag when using a start position to Jeyzor: Sure but you have to be certain of Making transitions from the end to the beginning recommend this tip. Waboo: For a cool effect, you can add a block with a move trigger effect. Jeyzor: Uhh... umm, yeah? A rule of thumb I've made is that if your ease in and out, unless you want bounce out It will make the level feel much smoother Waboo: When using a bulge trigger, you can It still interacts like the cube, but just Even though it's not useful, I still Jeyzor: That's a terrible tip. It also distorts the area around the player. Use the Shader trigger to change the layer Waboo: Did you know that you can recreate With these two objects, you can make his icon Jeyzor: Why did you make him cross-eyed? Just place a square behind the main icon to Waboo: A super smart idea is the following. Jeyzor: Ooh, exciting, a super smart idea! Waboo: Create a black canvas out of these specific Now go to the Delete section and turn on the From here you can start carving out the nice really cool if you spend some effort on it. Xaro: Wait, I wanna see how many objects he Jeyzor: Oh my god! Xaro: That was like 13 thousand. Cha- chat, I'm literally saying chat at This is gonna kill a phone. Waboo: With this particle object, think about Jeyzor: Which you can do by setting the static Waboo: Yeah. It looks exactly like a scratch by a monster Jeyzor: Use other objects too and not just Waboo: This is the color button, used to change But when you have your object selected, you also click twice on it, which makes an HSV Now you can easily change the HSV of an object a color and then changing it. Jeyzor: Personal preference but yeah, it's Waboo: The first one is this orb consisting here from left to right. Put all of them on top of each other and you Jeyzor: You don't need that many glows and pulse in game but the swirly things won't. Waboo: This laser beam can be remade in Geometry Any animated object works. Just extend it vertically and boom, you got Jeyzor: Why did you turn off preview animations Is it perhaps because this effect will not look Waboo: Our third design hack is using these leaves that you can put on blocks or custom Jeyzor: I wouldn't use that but rather one of Waboo: And what's also cool is a rainbow effect the hue put all the way to the right and then next to each other to keep the effect going. Jeyzor: This is a very ineffective and time Just create a pulse loop with the create Waboo: You can upgrade this boring looking By adding three black boxes in it, like this, Jeyzor: No, it looks worse. Waboo: Which also gives you an optical illusion. Jeyzor: What optical illusion? Waboo: The final design tip for today is you placing two black bars on the top and bottom and making them move with the player. Jeyzor: Probably not a good idea to use this could be really good. Good tip. And the final tip was to sub to their channel I post every once in a blue moon so a big PyroBurnem for being here despite that. I also have a Discord server, link in the But that's it, thank you for watching, I'll