(jazz music) - When I hear Charlie Parker, is the epitome of what We're talking about an We're talking about a guy that is able to express himself so purely. (jazz music) - The beauty of his sound, it's very beautiful, very lyrical, and his clarity in his from his mind through the connection sounds and feels complete. (jazz music) - I would put it like where he really is a future teller, it's there, sure, documented in 1947, but really it's like so There's an entire universe that exists inside of what he presents even less, to be honest. (jazz music) - You Google great alto saxophone break and what comes up is what he did when Dizzy Gillespie and him A break in the salt, that's they give you two bars or four bars, sometimes even eight (scat singing) Three, four. What he did in them four bars, everybody is still talking about him. Google it, don't listen to me. (jazz music) (jazz music) - Charlie Parker was at 852 Freeman in Kansas City, Kansas. And it was a two bedroom And his grandmother lived up the hill and his half brother lived up the hill and they'd get together and He called his half brother Ikey. And he lived there until 1927 when his family moved to (jazz music) - Bird had those experiences elementary school band, those things, music was and that's part of being in Kansas City, having a strong instrumental program. - Charlie first picked up the saxophone when he was in fifth grade, when the Kansas School District in Penn school. And his mother bought him and Lawrence Keyes described as being ragged as a pet monkey. He grew up in the heyday when he was coming up, Bennie the Moten band was at its peak. (jazz music) Kansas city was a hotbed for jazz because the Pendergast prosperity, the government fostered And there were clubs to out South in the County to 75th street. Mary Lou Williams recalled usually between 12th and 18th street and vices of all kinds were available. On 15th street was the red light district to stretch for blocks. From downtown 12th street Dave Dexter estimated there in a single block. We were also gambling in the front windows and any kind of vice you wanted, marijuana was readily And so musicians from the came to Kansas City where - It's inconceivable to being born in Oklahoma or and being able to nurture And not that there wasn't or a lot of other places, but here in Kansas city at that time, when you have all this row of clubs and they're going all night long, seven days a week. - And he began playing as a teenager when he was 15 years old. his first group was later the 12 Chords of Rhythm, a group led by Lawrence Keyes, it played well right across in the Lincoln building at Lincoln Hall. And it was a kid band but they made more because they played for the door. And it was a very popular hall for Lincoln High School students. And so they would pack the place and that's really where he (soft music) (jazz music) (jazz music) - I've been listening to well, ever since I can remember, he was a friend of my So he used to drive us where the cherry blossom and the Hey Hey Club, he used - His favorite roost was a balcony above the Reno Club bandstand from the Basie Band smoking would waft upstairs. - This was their heyday, they tell us about the and the Reno club where and stuff, that's part of the menu. (jazz music) He came from an era that And I know that just from and his friends talk about me. And so, I mean, I didn't get a free pass with my dad and his friends Either you saying something or you not and I'm sure Charlie Parker's era because these were the guys of his era, that were molding my way of thinking. - In spring of 1936, he at the Reno Club where and he faltered while forgot the changes and Joe Jones - Do you know, everybody wants to talk about when Charlie Parker but the part that you don't realize is he was back the next And he had done that Joe Jones said, &quot;I can't But it don't mean that he can't come back, it just means, &quot;Okay, we've &quot;got to go.&quot; - He was publicly humiliated, to go to the woodshed to practice his horn. So he retreated at the Addie's house and he played his horn And he said he would never So Joe Jones actually did him a big favor by humiliating him publicly. They like WHDH - [Paul] Another thing in your playing is this that nobody's quite equal to. I always wondered about that too, whether that came behind practicing or whether that was just from playing, whether it evolved gradually. - [Charlie] Well, you make because I can't see whether about it at all. I put quite a bit of study In fact, the neighbors threatened once when we were living out West. She said I was driving I used to put in at least - [Paul] Yeah, that's what I wondered. - [Charlie] That's true, yes. So I did that for over a - If you listen to the precision, the specific nature of you can't do that without in a particular isolated space and thousands of hours of or whatever type of wide communal That's the only way you get to that level. Natural talent only serves you so far, hard work is the thing that really is like the germinating factor for the seed that you're - [Charlie] Study is absolutely It's just like any talent it's just like a good pair of shoes when you put a shine on it, you know? Like schooling brings out that happens anywhere in the world. Einstein had schooling, but he has a definite Schooling is one of the there's ever been. - Everybody knew Charlie Parker back then they used to now they call it Parade Park. Back in Persale Park, he'd be practicing his just in the park practicing. Him and my dad were real good friends, he used to come my father, Sir James. He used to go swing by and Charlie Parker wouldn't miss a lead, he'd still keep practicing. (scat singing) And so he'd be riding in his convertible with my mom and Charlie Parker playing and in my mind, I'm like, oh my God. (jazz music) That was just an example of how you always knew what He was always playing. So he's at the park, practicing all day, sitting in the park all day playing and then at night he was or Jay McShane or anybody, anybody that's got the hidden bands. He'd go from place to place all night long. And so he lived it and of artists living it. I mean, and he said that, he said, &quot;If you don't live it, it (jazz music) - There a number of watershed He was on his way to a gig which was five miles and the car flipped over and it killed George and threw his buddy, Ernie Daniel, 60 feet into a plowed field. And it broke Charlie's and it destroyed his horn. So Mr. Musser bought him a new but it also gave him a habit because they prescribed and he developed a taste for heroin and he struggled with - And I feel like that other side is what people target a lot when they speak about Charlie Parker. All I know is that what is this wonderful body of work. Genre wise, whatever I it's only important that everyone knows it would not exist if it (jazz music) - It's so authentic, it's it's perfect. Even though it squeaks in because that's what life is. The scars that we get, they and Charlie Parker, you hear the scars, you hear the laughter, you hear the pain, you hear And there are very few as obviously and as profound. And he's not even a singer, he does it with an inanimate object. When I reference my horn, I say, &quot;I'm gonna go spend versus, &quot;I'm going to And that changes everything because the relationship and my instrument in it's just that, it's The instrument knows when you love it and it will beat you up and you try to come back, You don't call somebody for two weeks, you're supposed to call and they know that's the You didn't do what you I mean, this horn has taken me all around the world, all the time, because the one thing that exists all around the world for sure are jazz festivals, jazz I can go anywhere in the but if I have this horn, I (jazz music) Love you, Bird. - Ultimately, all of this is supposed to be an extension of you. The ultimate goal is to express yourself, whether you're doing it with a trumpet or a saxophone or a piano. In their time, it had no &quot;I sound just like Duke Ellington &quot;or this guy here sounds &quot;or he's just like pops.&quot; That has really no of what jazz is about or any art. I wanna hear you, I wanna get to know you. So if you can paint just like Picasso, at best you can only become (jazz music) (audience claps) - Our power is moving the Listening to a record But being in front of the live music in a room where the air and the molecules are being that's an experience, you know, live. (soft music) - And then the third is the summer of 1937 when he back to Musser's Ozark Tavern. And you know, that's an where shunned down communities, where African Americans better And so they stayed on site And Charlie spent all - Charlie Parker is somebody that was born basically right at World War I. He lived and died only and white only everything. So he never knew anything (soft music) - That's the way it was and It's not so overt and for a black person trying to keep your eye on what's real and hesitating to judge people and struggling to trust people while being on the lookout for the elephant in the room. I think our biggest problem I like to say racism, To call somebody a racist, that has a definition. But racism shows itself in many ways without white people ever knowing. - [Director] I grew up here. Why didn't I learn about - Okay, let's have some real conversation. I grew up in Kansas City, had I wouldn't even know about the One of the greatest jam in the history of jazz, took around 18th and Vine street area, between Coleman Hawkins and Lester Young. All of that was erased. I think that the people in deciding the image that wanted to erase that whole Pendergast era, the whole 18th and Vine Street, people going partying all I think, they wanna be known and they wanna have a on the Country Club Plaza. Now I got nothing against but the bottom line is that, who has more to do with Charlie Parker or Winston Churchill? What image do people think of worldwide when they think of Kansas City? Do they think of jazz or do Again, it's hard to not be somewhat blunt. I think because a lot - Because it was black it's that simple. We're influenced by what I mean, I wish I could I don't have to get angry, I don't need a podium because When people come to the but you still have an to make them reminisce, to make them forget. That's our job and that's our calling. And that's what I heard from Bird, and as we circle back that's all in Bird, what I'm talking about. The jazz musicians, the that's why when they got that was a beacon of hope and light. And you can see all that, and their triumph over - When they asked me about Bird, I hear triumph over adversity. And it was in all of them. Some people like to step You gotta go through because no one just You got to come through something. - Back to Musser's Ozark Tavern, Charlie spent all that summer practicing and he began experimenting and different harmonic approach He learned all the chords when he was down there, and returned to Kansas City, (jazz music) (jazz music) - He was one of the fellas and even the way he got that nickname, that tells you who he - In 1930, there was a stage and Charlie and the other kids the other boys were up And the band director, &quot;Hey, you little yard birds,&quot; &quot;get in here.&quot; And Charlie who loved And so he began referring And in the fall, I think it was of 1940. The McShann Band was on up in Lincoln, Nebraska. And they were traveling And the Charlie was riding and he begged the driver to come back, to go back and retrieve the bird. - You're riding in the you say, &quot;Whoa, whoa, stop, I want that. &quot;One man's road kill See what I mean? They hit a chicken, he decided And when they get to where they're going he got the lady to cook it for him, that was why they started which eventually got to be Bird. (jazz music) - In those big bands, they were primarily playing for dancers. Duke and Count Basie, a lot of their gigs, in fact, all their gigs, (jazz music) And so that means people were And I think the difference between that era and the bebop cats, they wanted people to not just feel the music, - I think that's why so many intellectuals and beatniks, hip cats and artists. Because it was an original And it forced you to listen. You know the whole thing If you heard Bird, he would and you would immediately focus on him because of what was (jazz music) - The tempo went up and then the melodies like for instance, this is like swing era. (jazz music) You know, and then Bird then and he sped it up and he put so he wouldn't have to pay royalties. So then you get like, I think it's &quot;Scrapple from the Apple&quot;. (jazz music) That's the difference right there. The tempo and the melodies And then they were original material. They wrote a lot of original - Charlie was playing Claude Williams and James The older musicians, there and he was really the pioneer. And the older musicians There's a couple of recordings of him performing one called &quot;Honeysuckle that was probably recorded in 1938. It shows him moving in that direction. And recently we came across &quot;I'm Getting Sentimental Over where he goes in and knows all the tricks of the it was quite a revelation. (jazz music) (jazz music) - He'd been smoking reefers and drinking for a number of years. But when he got that taste of heroin he- And heroin was readily available. A musician called Bud Calvert talked about how he would take Charlie down to Columbus Park, Kansas City was wide open, And I think one of the reasons he left is because he left about the and sources of heroin dried that's one of the things (jazz music) - Everybody had to get to New York, and I think Monk was a big He provided validation, cover and opportunities and freedom for these young folks to play. And they formed a community Miles went there from St. Louis. A lot of people came from (jazz music) - One of the difficult things about getting to the is stripping away the myths that's been wrapped - And it sounds more like like a little bit. You're talking about how he always kept Stravinsky's &quot;Firebird - The house was almost full walked onto the band stand, recognized Stravinsky. So he whispered over to Bird, &quot;Hey, Stravinsky's sitting there.&quot; Charlie Parker immediately called, and it's customary that he would do this. Coco, is built on the Back then that was one of the, that's still like a rite of passage song. Said he played at over So he's (clapping) (scat singing) I can't even hardly hum it. (scat singing) Okay, in the middle of this fast song, Charlie Parker, jumps in his solo and he's going at this breakneck speed and then at the beginning he inserted the opening of (&quot;Firebird Suite&quot; playing) How do you do that? How do you think so fast? Stravinsky's in the audience. Immediately Stravinsky and they said, the people that were there, they said that he knocked his drink all over the people sitting next to him. People were like, you know? But he was so blown away, he that he'd been hearing about. And now to hear him live sitting up there, he's sitting out here at this breakneck speed in the he plays one of his I don't even know anybody that And I've been playing my So it's like, I can do some things and I've known a lot I hear the great musicians of our time and I don't have to name people, And I've been in jam but I don't know very many, I don't know any that could do that. That I can honestly say, &quot;I And he did this, this is just one story. There are many stories that Red Rodney has told, all of his peers have that he did in the middle that made all of them say, &quot;What?&quot; (jazz music) - He had an addictive He flew very high for a and so his third wife, brought him back to Kansas City after the Memorial service in Harlem. And he was buried here According to family members, so he'd always be in the shade and wouldn't be hot during the summer. And she wanted to be I mean, she loved Charlie. She doted on Charlie and he called her every Sunday, And so in a lot of ways, it was right that he came back here. - But here in Kansas City, you can't find it. There's no proper marker at that cemetery, I've been out several times. There's a tenor saxophone instead of an alto saxophone, If you go to Pere Lachaise, go and look at Chopin's grave site. It's like a whole, it's it's literally like a small church itself. You know what I mean? But it's just this tiny, And I feel like we don't take in which we could. We could be better. (jazz music) (jazz music) - There's music before Charlie Parker, there's music after Charlie Parker. Like Mozart, he's a transitional figure. And he not only influenced the subsequent generations of musicians, he influenced writers, poets, dancers, he influenced all art. - There would be no Jimmy There's no Donny Hathaway There's no Basquiat it doesn't exist. It's clear, like no one It's hard to get people to because I think that you realize that there's no isolating him without looking at the broad - He's easily the biggest I mean, when I started traveling, when I mention I'm from Kansas City, the first thing they say is, &quot;Oh Charlie Parker, Charlie Parker.&quot; - It's like it didn't matter Charlie Parker, he has reached a level that we all want to attain as artists. - Hi, my name is Eugene I love the album, &quot;Charlie so much that I named my son Parker Cole. - I remember as a young teenager, listening to Charlie &quot;Charlie Parker With Strings&quot; I was just hooked. I've listened to that just lovely, just lovely. - Hello from Manchester I am Sam Q, a jazz saxophonist I first got started playing saxophone when I listened to a record from the great, great His skill and dexterity was immense. Without Charlie Parker, jazz would not have gone He's a pioneer and a great - The first time I knew was when I started my And he was just an experience every time. I listened to &quot;Lady Bird&quot; that Charlie took media &quot;Make it Just So&quot; is not just it's to speak with an (foreign language) - I don't hear any of those bebop guys and I like all of them. None of them swung quite and that, that's a Kansas City thing. Yeah I said it. (laughs) I said it, it's a Kansas (jazz music) - [Director] I gotta get a picture of you. (jazz music)