And so the enemy pilot dies the death that his stupidity deserved. If you must charge towards an Greetings all, I'm Nicholas Moran. I commissioned as an and then converted to M3 Bradleys. These days, I work as a primarily for World of Tanks. I'm back again to rate tank battles on movies and TV and The Ripsaw, which was for people to drive around in, looks just like it does in the movie here. It's because it had such lightweight and such a high-powered weight ratio, the thing is incredibly which of course, attracts the well, hang on a second. We've got this vehicle really, really quickly. Can But the variant that the of late is actually a I believe it's the RCVM, as the M5, and on the top, much like is shown in the clip, He's driving on ice, and those Believe it or not, there's more grip on a tracked vehicle on ice. It's anything from snow chains, to these days, you can have grousers that you knock out a few track pads, and you put basically This thing is going quite fast on ice, and that's I can think of no reason why a tank would have a The Lambo at the point basically underwater, and than this thing can haul. Well, that's your point for realism. The door came off instead of I'm going to be generous. I'm going to give it one And I'm going to give it one point because it pulled the door so I'm going to give it a two. So you will have seen the on the back firing the caliber .50. The caliber .50 was originally as an anti-aircraft weapon. And the reason that it's at the back is that it's a if you're standing on the as opposed to trying to stick and maybe put it down from the side and you're not even Shermans! One of the things Sherman was when you needed a tank, and they tended not to go They tended to go around in fives and 17s. Yeah, sure, on a tank-on-tank duel, it wasn't necessarily the best. For an infantryman that's he doesn't care if the best as long as the tank which and b) is good enough to deal with whatever the So you'll notice that the any tanks, which was a in World War II, is that their to the levels of American or Russian. So what we have here are a lot of assault guns and tank destroyers. It looks like a Marder there, of one, a Sturmgeschutz, and a Jagdpanther. The Jagdpanther is the only to an allied vehicle. Why didn't the Jagdpanther its extremely tough frontal Well, you could do that, but then you were probably now to the American infantry, who are equipped in the scene with bazookas, The Germans now are flanked, they immediately abandon the This is as good as you're going to get on celluloid or on digits. If there is ever going to be a 10 for &quot;rate a tank battle,&quot; The tanks represent Saint-Chamond. There's only one that exists in the world. It's at the French national Now, the cognoscenti will look and realize that the vehicle is based off a BMP or an MT-LB, which are By this point in the war, we're talking towards the end of 1918, the with tanks, but you'll still for a couple of reasons. One is if the tanks are well, you're going to have and maybe suppress them to the point that the tanks are going Secondly, the tanks were not There was a problem known once the tankers would actually in front of their face with of bullet coming in the gaps in the armor. Finally, it's psychological. It makes you feel a lot better even if it's a gesture of futility. The early tank guns for generally either been or, quite often, naval guns. The big problem you're going to have with getting them close So there is a stop as to how and that determines how close you can get to the enemy trench before you To this date, trench-crossing how many meters of still a criterion. The idea of can you cross well, that depends if you So even as late as the Iraq campaigns, a tank would go up to turn on the spot, and And it's one of those unfortunate tanks have many ways of killing you, and the tracks are one of them. You'd think today a hand grenade The tracks on the for my whole tractor, so as a modern vehicle would be. In fact, the armor on of heavy bullets, they even with an armor-piercing core could go through these early tanks. This is an eight and a half, maybe nine. I could quibble a few things, but it generally gets the concept across. Oh, goody. So Rambo has gotten into his, It's not actually, but the helicopter here represents a Hind. I think it's actually the Mi-24, was a gunship a troop-carrying capacity, of rockets and missiles It's basically a flying tank, So hang on, is he There's only one tank that I can think of that is fully combat-capable and that is the Swedish Strv 103, commonly known as the S-tank. The driver functions and this is why you're supposed to go with anti-aircraft vehicles because their job is to defend So our enemy is in an attack and it's got missiles on the that are effective from And instead, he's firing unguided rockets at the front of the Rambo tank. Why doesn't he just fly the rockets into the engine or you know, some place And so the enemy pilot dies the death that his stupidity deserved. Officially, if you must do it at an angle. He has to not only aim for lead, but also the change in Whereas if you're you're simplifying the problem for the aircraft that's coming at you. He doesn't need to worry about aiming. It has a tank, so I'll give it a one. Fire. The premise of an ambush in an urban setting by but the idea of armor without infantry support Panthers are not well suited They really would excel well, the steppes of Ukraine, for example, nice long lines of fire. That said, they can get because they know that with no infantry. Oh look, you're going except this time he's He's got the turret I'd mentioned before, you don't want to go through a building if you can avoid it. In this case, I guess they couldn't, because they're getting shot at. And if you are going to go and you'll keep yourself safe. And what you can see here, the T-34-85 has a very so it performs two functions. In this case, you can see cranking around, as which, you simply flip However, maybe the gunner because in the movie, Even myself, when I got into and trying to see where is I can't find it. This is quite feasible. When faced with the Panther T-34 crew now has a choice. It can either run away, or Now, I would probably agree with the 34 crew on this for two reasons. One, the Panther was looking And the other thing is Panthers in the world to kill, unless you can get around And in this case, they're so why not engage? But the only thing I might have two or three tank lengths and aim the gun into the engine deck. That would be a more guaranteed kill than trying to aim for the turret ring. So the explosion was than what would really happen. Generally speaking, when a of seconds, and those are that is the difference when you're getting out of a vehicle. Although in reality, the to the crew is academic. They're basically toast. In this context, I don't The movie is set about the It's actually kind of still ongoing. The film was made in Morocco, hence, you have the M60s and of the tanks that you get in but hey, for movie purposes, Certainly there are Western Tank Alpha, attack from the right! Hong Xu! Turn 20 degrees left, hurry! So what I have here is a VIC-1 CVC, combat And the reason you would even if you're inside you're being thrown around, and there's a lot of sharp, that as you're being thrown around, you don't want to hurt your head. And of course, you also because the tanks are throwing You don't have a windshield. If you're doing 40 miles an hour, there's still enough so you wear a set of goggles, as well. It's good to see armor actually work. So what has happened there is a round hit explosive reactive armor. So and what they generally consist of, though this is a gross oversimplification, is a couple of pieces of metal sandwiching a piece of explosive, and it explodes and disrupt or destabilize it to the extent that the main Turn right! Nan Xia, get ready! Fire! You got a couple of problems. Firstly, if the entire then the tank is still It may not look it much, but that he cannot hip-shoot like a tank like that. Secondly, he literally is hip-shooting, and he's eyeballing it. I don't see why he couldn't He can then pull the trigger himself. Sandstorms do happen. In the 2003 invasion that basically shut down the Well, your big problem with a So the sand is going to and clog them up very quickly. However, in this context, a heck of a lot of choice, by a platoon of M60s, they were probably going to die anyway, so why not make for the So I think seven's probably fair. I'm not even sure where to start. I'm trying to think of any that this vehicle could exist in. The US Army has a vehicle, the of the old LAV-100s from Vietnam. It's basically a huge, armored 4-by-4 with a gun turret on the I'm sure they wouldn't So generally speaking, convoys, of roads, you tend to be in like in the shot here. You have a bit of a choice, you have, is how far apart Because the idea is that to be sufficiently far in that you're protecting the So with only three vehicles, as to what you can do, but maybe two up front, then the main asset, and then one bringing up the rear. Cannons are not common, You can sometimes find on tanks as well, but of space and weight, so you In terms of a missile launcher, yeah, missile launchers on This particular elevating probably closer to a but that's actually for not anti-aircraft. But hey, I guess when anything goes. I got nothing. Zero. Sorry. No. The Germans appear to be It was a very good anti-tank definitely a valid threat against an M4. Anti-tank! H.E.! Traverse left. Traverse left! That was a doctrinal fire command. Now, the reason I know this the script for filming alert, target, and command of execution in abbreviated fire command. The fire commands back in as regimented as they are today, but the fundamentals are You have an argument. over open ground as a whole platoon, or do you want to bound in sections? In this case, because of that they're trying to provide cover for, I can see perhaps why they But also, it's a very, so maybe it was necessary to advance on line simply so Another gun, who's got eyes on it? Somebody's going to ask, at such short range? You'll be surprised what So there have been of the 88 is such that it doesn't miss. In reality, they're firing 20 because the stress of combat calm and collected on a gunnery range when you're doing scientific testing. It's, &quot;Oh God, I'm about to die.&quot; Let's light them up. Let's Now, that scene is basically A line of tanks, every machine gun going. A single tank is considered more or less equivalent because you have the you got a co-ax machine gun, and oh, by the way, you've got a cannon. That is a lot of firepower and you can imagine this sheer suppression and psychological effect let alone the lethal effects. I know there were folks that didn't like that I gave the last &quot;Fury&quot; a nine, but I'm giving this one a nine as well. I can't get elevation and he knows it. So this was an actual and it's a mountainous which were designed on the plains of Germany, So what the Soviets ended a variant of the ZSU-23-4 the Shilka, called the Afghani. So they would use those in conjunction with the tanks to provide that close-range, high-elevation security that Daskal here is having a problem with. The actual effect of hitting the petaling like you see What you're actually going that goes through the gun tube, but it's still plenty bad enough that you've disabled the gun. The grenade will not have so I must conclude it was the rocks, but it's not impossible for rocky terrain and maybe a less experienced in such a way when he's turning in between the wheels and the and that throws your track and loses it. This scene is probably So out of the clips that we saw today, if I had to recommend one I'd probably go with &quot;Band of Brothers,&quot; which is more of an infantry-related with the infantry, and it's Well, thanks for watching. I hope you found it If you want more the same sort of thing, add one form, traverse right, and click the video in that box.