In today's video I'll be using 3d printing, interesting maze bolt puzzle. I made a similar bolt last year and it turned to solve. This one will be much more difficult to solve so let's get started. I designed this maze bolt in fusion 360 and And I figured that since I was making one The maze will be cast using a method called The PLA is the plastic the maze is made out liquid form called slurry. I dipped the models into the slurry a total first I sprinkled the slurry with fused silica This helps strengthen and build up thicker At around coat number 7 I wrapped the shells which will hopefully prevent the shells from The shells are done so next I can start melting I placed them inside my kiln and slowly brought the PLA plastic. This way the plastic can melt out of the shells burning it all away. Once I removed the plastic that had melted fired them at 1500 degrees F. This turns them into ceramic that I will be As the shells were heating up I started melting I needed twelve pounds of bronze to fill both I made my own using 92% copper and 8% tin. For a source of copper I mostly used wire, They consist of about 95% tin. I waited for the copper to completely melt and a stir. Once the bronze was at the right temperature any remaining ash with a little compressed Then I quickly poured in the bronze. The funnel shaped pieces that I attached to They act as reservoirs and supply the castings and shrinks. They have to be really big so that they end I let the shells cool down for a little while Removing the shell can be really difficult like with After breaking off what I could I used my I really couldn't be happier with how these The detail is really crisp and the shell even After machining the surface a bit I drilled I wasnt sure how I was going to polish the I felt like it needed something else though sandpaper, I polished the high spots. It's hard to see on video but this really With that done, now I can cast the heads. The patterns are also 3d printed and have I'm using a special oil bonded casting sand It does a great job at capturing detail in it can produce some really nice results. These look great so next I started machining I cast these heads with large sprues that they prevented the castings from shrinking screws that will screw into the bolts. To cut the threads on these, I used a process cutting. Its fairly simple but it was the first time experience for me but it went well and the threads really out nice. It's really incredible to me that you can like this from raw castings. Next I used a dremel to polish the inside Next I started working on making the nuts I started with a piece of aluminum that I I also drilled a 1/2" hole into the center. WIth a pin inserted into the hole I can clamp and easily rotate it to all six positions With the hexagon shape cut I bored out the Next I drilled and tapped a hole on each face I'm sure I could have power taped these holes I really didn't want to break a tap at this Only one set screw will act as a key that others will be dummies. This adds a layer of difficulty to the puzzle is while solving the maze. If you lose track then solving it becomes That's why they're set screws. If you give over. To finish these off I sanded the machining I went up to 2000 grit which gave them a very The brass set screws that I got needed to so I cut them with the lathe. I also cut a little point onto the end of the maze threads. I'm really happy with how these turned out. This was a long project with a ton of steps. of my comfort zone with machining and that's That is after all how you learn how to do I could have made this many different ways I thought it would yield the nicest results These look really nice and I couldn't be And if you're wondering why I made two, well especially if I'm making a video about it. a back up and if everything goes right then If you would like to follow along with the my patreon. I post multiple patreon only posts to any of my 3d printing files including this printing. I'll also have the exact files As for solving them well I haven't yet, keep working on it. Well thanks for watching and if you enjoyed give the video a thumbs up and subscribe for