The Berserker Hypothesis and the Dark One of the most essential mysteries of the to solve is whether life exists anywhere Scientists have tried to answer this answer. There could be life out there, but if If life is something normal in the universe, where is it? Why haven't we found Why haven't we received radio Or could it be that, on the contrary, life and all the life that exists in the Could it be that we are utterly Join us to solve this mystery! observing the universe with telescopes, scientists Although the universe is immense and the number we have not found another place outside It is as if life were something start to analyze things carefully, some Why did life emerge on Earth and not elsewhere? Before, we believed the Earth was an oasis, a that cannot be found anywhere else. Still, since like ours and that each star in the universe As of the creation of this video, we have stellar neighborhood alone, at least a third of Even the most conservative studies host up to 6 billion Earth-like planets. the Earth does not seem to be a unique place in conditions that occurred on Earth could not have galaxy, from any other part of the universe. that the probability of there being another If we talk about life, we come across that inhabits our planet, from the most is made up of practically the same thing. &quot;CHON,&quot; four most abundant elements in a living being. those four elements. 65% Oxygen, 18% and the other 4% are traces of other elements All these elements are formed in the and released into planetary nebulae that In other words, life is not made of rare, to make a living being are relatively easy to find Furthermore, according to probability, there are there will surely be elements like those here. complex materials or special planets, beings? Why does it seem like we are entirely This is known as the Fermi paradox The Fermi paradox consists of the apparent is a high probability that other intelligent the absence of evidence of such civilizations. from inert matter and, eventually, an intelligent some stages of the formation of intelligent life, civilization and completely extinguishes it. the universe for only 2.5 million years scientific and technological advances Among these advances is the technology that we the nuclear weapons. Currently, the to eradicate the entire human race. great civilizations cannot pass, it means that with it, all living beings on the planet. found other advanced and intelligent civilizations too. It's as if once a civilization discovers contain their desire to use them and end up The interesting thing is that even if nuclear war and we devastated the entire to exterminate all life forms on Earth. through much more devastating cataclysms as violent as humans cannot exterminate all of the caves or in the deepest crevices of the have been on this planet for billions of These ultra-resistant life forms will undoubtedly billions of years, but life will prevail even if the radiation would dissipate in the environment. evolving to adapt to each planet's ecosystems. intelligence again and be the planet's new ruler. expands to fill all available ecological niches On our planet, life will continue to exist change that is our star. When the Sun runs out of no matter what happens, whether a meteorite the entire surface with nuclear bombs, life will evolve to adapt to all ecosystems on Earth. in the universe. In that case, it means that if billions of light-years from Earth, these discovered or have even evolved to such us. So... Why haven't we found them? these questions, and thanks to this, we arrived at The dark forest that there are many alien civilizations throughout This is explained so that any spacefaring life as an inevitable threat and destroy any In other words, if a civilization is aware of it will believe that the rest of the civilizations is best not to contact them since they could enter As a result, all civilizations would eventually would be relatively silent, with no evidence as in a &quot;dark forest&quot; full of &quot;armed a ghost&quot; observing without being observed. for signatures of life throughout the universe, we ones looking, and no one emits detectable signals. video so that we can improve Plus, Don't forget to subscribe to our channel by don't miss ANY of our daily videos! In the context of extraterrestrial civilizations, Ships,&quot; also known as Self-replicating Spacecraft. is characterized by being a spacecraft that to create more copies of itself, imitating that would be able to make pre-determined celestial body with valuable materials, begin mining it to create more copies. to the reproduction pattern of bacteria, Neumann machines could be considered a In his short story Lungfish, David Brin touches machines launched by different species could Given a sufficient variety of species, they could some form of artificial intelligence, a society. of generations, slightly changing the objectives There are many variants of self-replicating today is the Berserker ships. variant of the Von Neuman probes programmed and exoplanets capable of supporting life The Beerserker hypothesis arises as a response humans have not yet detected intelligent it is because it has been systematically destroyed probes that were created by an extraterrestrial purpose of exterminating all traces of life they have wiped out life on that planet. astronomer David Brin summarized the terrifying saying that it is fully compatible with all the it would mean that no life left Intelligent responsible for exterminating all life forms in humanity has already alerted these ships of our Something interesting about these types of probably no longer exists. However, the ships exterminating all life forms in the universe, disappeared thousands of millions of years. A vital component of the hypothesis is that solar system. A 2013 analysis by Anders Sandberg Institute at the University of Oxford predicted able to destroy civilizations elsewhere have encountered Earth by now and destroyed In 1981, Frank Tipler proposed that if we assume history of the galaxy we live in, Self-Replicating and thus, we should have found them by this shows that extraterrestrial intelligence intelligent beings in the universe. that we are first. Suppose the human race of intelligence and technological advances. In extraterrestrial species, we will not find them technologies and are unaware of radio waves. several hundred or thousands of years intelligent civilization besides us. lies with you, our dear viewer. Fermi Paradox: The Rare Earth hypothesis Basically, according to this hypothesis, life and of astrophysical and geological conditions that words, we are quite special and unique. we would be in a real messy situation. prevalence of intelligent life in our universe For isotropy, we mean that the universe is the You can understand isotropy thinking of this sphere, and you point towards All of this It's also consistent with that if something is randomly-sampled, it is If we translate this in the the Copernican principle is telling us that We need such an assumption, we need the universe wasn't isotropic it would be very make quantitative studies of the objects we We need it to set up our mathematical If the Copernican principle doesn't hold, then and is in a class reserved for very few planets. Given the fact that we haven't found any in the Universe yet, wouldn't this The Rare Earth argument is The first one is that microbial The second one, states that advanced If we combine these two hypotheses, we understand of events and circumstances that are quite This argument was in response to the inherent the Drake Equation which essentially asserts For example, Ward and Brownlee, authors of "The solution to the Drake Equation includes Most important, it assumes that it evolves toward ever higher planets in the development of culture. That They also say life originated here about single-celled organisms to multicellular climaxing in animals and higher plants. And of life--one of increasing complexity to an result of evolution or even a common one. Mathematically, the Drake equation can be N = R* X FP X NE X FL X FI X FC X L N is the number of civilizations in our galaxy, fp is the fraction of stars that have planets, ne fl is the number that will develop life, fi is fc is the number advanced civilizations, and L is have to transmit their signals into space. of civilizations in our galaxy. Of course, the more precise are our constraints on the factors. are between 250 and 500 billion stars at a rate of about three Solar masses per year. the past few decades has also allowed astronomers planets, and the number of planets that are likely a study conducted in 2013 estimated that there orbiting in the habitable zones of their stars, 11 Nevertheless, there is still a great deal of when it comes to the emergence of life, the rate and everything that follows. were sceptical about Drake's theory. of the equation in their book. N = N* X *Here, N* is the number of stars in the Milky Way, ne is the average number of planets in a star's fp is the fraction of stars in the Milky Way with fi is the fraction of habitable fc is the fraction of planets where complex life that we have to take into account if we want a account the extinction events that could happen Like the Drake equation factors, these are but using Earth as a template and employing how it would be difficult to find planets Ward and Brownlee also listed other and are believed to have contributed For example, there's the presence fundamental to climate stability here on Earth. And they also cited geological evidence that Earth was very cold and covered in ice. This is These epochs occurred roughly 2.2 billion and with key developments in terrestrial life. the Cambrian Explosion (ca. 570 and 530 million species diversification and the appearance of In other words, key events in appear to have followed a Snowball Earth period. Could Earth be an extraterrestrial zoo? North Sentinel Island is a place where a tribe than 60 thousand years ago and who are currently But... Just as we study the inhabitants of North possible that an extraterrestrial race much more as if we were a zoo? Stay to find out! North Sentinel Island is a small island in the is part of the Andaman Islands archipelago, which unique is that it is inhabited by an indigenous isolation and with virtually no contact with the In theory, the island belongs to the part of the Indian union territory of the Indian authorities recognize the islanders' Indian laws do not apply to the Sentinelese, the island can be considered a Indian protection since the Sentinelese of said country and their membership in it. carry out any customs activity or maintain powers that India assumes are more theoretical never agreed anything with anyone. hostility towards outsiders and their resistance attempts at rapprochement by explorers, fishermen, Indian government has established a policy Sentinelese to preserve their culture and protect their population since they have no immunity Due to the danger of approaching North Sentinel the island is one of the world's most inaccessible prohibited by law, and Indian authorities the Sentinelese and anyone trying to approach. It has been decided to leave the island's modern civilization could pose a mortal risk Throughout history, there have inhabitants of this island, some of them are: North Sentinel Island, and the ship's captain a group of Sentinelese were seen suggesting that the gifts were not accepted. led by Maurice Vidal Portman to try to establish was essentially a failure and resulted in the to the main island of the Andamans. However, the decided to return them to their island of origin. occasional trips to North Sentinel in an attempt usually organized at the request of leaders in they left two pigs and a doll on the shore, but spears and buried them along with the doll, These visits became more regular in the out of reach of the arrows and left gifts such as the Sentinelese seemed to make friendly gifts into the jungle and then shoot arrows Apparently, in 1991, there seems to have been North Sentinel, the tribe signaled for them to they approached without their weapons. They boats to collect more coconuts. However, Although the gift-bearing trips continued for some Sentinelese sometimes pointed their arrows at occasion, they attacked a wooden boat with their why the Sentinelese abandoned and then resumed many researchers think it is likely that after and died from catching the flu or measles, and to return to their rejection and hostility. as many researchers began to question the healthy and content and have lived prosperously contact alone had devastating consequences, and almost certainly have had tragic consequences. place. After the 2004 tsunami, researchers that the tribe appeared to be healthy and had tsunami. They also confirmed that the hostilities helicopter, he was greeted with arrows from its not attempt new contacts with the Sentinelese. who have evolved wholly isolated from the to establish relations with us. However, even we do want to know a lot about them. It is likely that among the island's inhabitants, from who dress in such colorful clothes The Sentinelese cannot produce fire, but it lightning strikes and produces fire, they can once it goes out, they cannot generate it again. with our civilization, the youngest members distance from passing boats hundreds wonder how we can catch the sunlight in For decades, several boats were shipwrecked on which, today, is known to have been used This is somewhat paradoxical since although of the island isolated from the rest of them with materials and technologies that, in In the case of humanity, we first mastered more complex processes. Still, the Sentinelese at their disposal without first mastering fire. to evolve and how they see the world. The most look at the sky to contemplate the stars a train of stars that move one after another to observe much more colorful stars that blink They do not know that those strange stars specifically satellites, and airplanes, We can photograph the island from space with binoculars, thanks to modern technology. happening on the island and cameras to photograph the North Sentinel Island is a human zoo? a scientific point of view, it probably is since isolated and under observation, trying as far as or if possible, study it without him realizing it. that guards a nation, where we can always know whenever we want and study their behavior that they are being observed and studied by us. just as we study the Sentinelese without them do the same with humans without us realizing it? are many things in the universe that we do allow us to carefully observe what happens on What if, on the other side of the Milky Way, there scale that is currently in the process of becoming as a zoo to study life for billions of years? designated a sector of the Milky Way as a the stars in that sector, including the which is the property of this extraterrestrial happens on each planet simultaneously. human civilization governs itself, but at the stars with an owner and name; we could be inside A sufficiently advanced civilization could solar system and precisely what happens on our and we would not be able to notice since they do and study us without interrupting our evolution If the Earth were a zoo, then we would be like studied, and possibly even protected by that want to come into contact with us for our safety. could decimate the population an extraterrestrial race would have diseases Alien Police Scenario of the Fermi Paradox The Alien Police Scenario. Predicting what technology will be like is a game of educated guesswork. For no one could have foreseen that a century later, the ability to end civilization would exist. a prediction. On the other side, the notion of to the efforts of Jules Verne, who published From humanity would travel to the moon someday, but barely over a century later. Because we have it is possible that we still have a long way to we can predict, such as Dyson swarms, and those of technology. Entire hypothetical technologies, remain mostly unexplored by humans. We've where we're going. And then there are completely know the science for yet. We still don't know Huge gaps exist in our understanding of the that general relativity and quantum mechanics do This tells us that there are missing pieces We have some puzzle pieces, but we don't imply that there are really harmful have not yet imagined. While travelling the nuclear bomb was not. That requires a trip The World Set Free. So the concept of nuclear war, emerged seemingly out of nowhere and But, thus far, we've only done things that that there are technologies out there that are so if not the entire universe? The answer is that regards to galaxy-threatening devices. The in which someone constructs a machine with and it escapes and begins converting the entire be self-replicating probes with no limit on transforming it into copies of themselves. Another type of cosmic danger would be generalized choose to eliminate all biology, enslave it, or the mysteries of the cosmos itself. As I said in its lowest potential energy state, and if it ever light, destroying all matter in the universe comprehensive enough understanding of physics, for off? The answer is probably no, but it's in such a out just yet. This creates a dilemma. How do you if it is capable of doing so? This brings us to This is sort of a variant of the zoo hypothesis, realize such far-reaching hazards are feasible, and anybody coming into contact with these or be forcibly stopped. Consider it this way: scenery. You'll see police cars patrolling the breaking the law, they won't pay any attention to if you were taking your neighbor's BBQ and your neighbor yelled for the cops, the cops This might be how different galaxies might work. inhabited advancement of growing civilizations. until they notice you doing something or reaching involvement for the sake of the whole galaxy's may be of secondary importance. If you choose to that is not the galaxy's concern, and you are free you will be stopped. It's fun to imagine what look like. To inspire the phrase &quot;good policeman, investigations from various civilizations, some gets to you first. Alternatively, if the first stop and desist order is disregarded, the second you'll be exterminated by a hostile alien all-powerful probe launched by all civilizations standards. It might easily destroy or downshift possibilities that can be possible. Does it seem Another possibility is that, If the offending a conflict on a planet, the probe may act as a entirely, and then adopt a trust but verify there is always a death probe sitting in their it from a different angle. Aside from technical another purpose. It might also serve as a kind to be considerably more powerful than anything can prevent you from creating weapons to match it The question then becomes, are those weapons consider what it is protecting you against. These since they imply the existence of something from it. The probe becomes a sentinel, waiting at which point it will spring to life to protect throughout the period the probe has been around, and the armed probe's creators are long gone, and may be more than a match for the enemy. Consider and understanding the perils and rewards of Imagine they've seen it all, battled other and eventually become the galaxy's police force. life, with one overlord civilisation developing matters, but in interplanetary affairs. communication between planets is handled by this this scenario is that we may be in it without even Another possibility is an idea about von Neumann, can be applied here for a police probe. A probe Us. It could do it passively, say, from anywhere from the moon's surface. If it was suitably equipment smaller than the greatest resolution of merely waiting for us to violate galactic deliberately monitoring us far more closely, and Such a probe may create atmospheric probes to see closely, or it could conduct thorough scientific frequently stated that humans would be like ants be interested in us. But the truth is that we're there are scientists on Earth that specialize knowledge about them. Ants are fascinating, educational and recreational purposes. However, where they are not wanted, such as the kitchen. If the ants must leave. As a result, even if we technical level, they may be quite interested phenomenon or UAP comes into play. The most likely UAP phenomena is the concept of a probe sitting smaller atmospheric probes. Now a point to note and there might be multiple explanations for the rest of time, but at least there are figure out what's going on. However, there is a presence here. The question of whether or if that's the case, what if their motive Zombie Apocalypse - Fighting for Welcome to a journey beyond the stars. Today, we dive into the speculative realms of yet intriguing idea that may shed light on one Now, you might be wondering, why zombies? Well, the origin of zombies is often shrouded in science. But what if we were to explore some find a plausible way for the dead to rise, Could this eerie concept of a Zombie Let's embark on this journey and zombies. No longer mere products of we shall envision them as biological === In the not-so-distant future, the mastery unlocking a Pandora's box of profound humanity. Picture a world where one can dive navigating down to the cellular level At this infinitesimally small scale, the thoughts and feelings becomes not just In the wake of this technological leap, the more insidious form. A dystopian scenario unfolds or worse yet, a despotic monarch, seizes infiltrate our brains. No longer is or propaganda; this is an invasion at The consequences are dire. Minds become rendering the concept of freedom of the realm of propaganda; it's an intimate The term &quot;zombie&quot; takes on a new undead sense, but in the sense of beings their autonomy stripped away This nightmarish scenario threatens the very to think, feel, and act autonomously. The once literal destruction, as our zombie minds are their will, all orchestrated by an unseen Yet, the grim reality remains in the realm of such a dystopian future. However, the warning and the ethical boundaries of what we can achieve future, the line between science fiction and of a world where humanity becomes mere characters responsibility that comes with unlocking the === In light of these considerations, it is a profound to think with our brains and act upon our thoughts creatures. Take, for instance, the bear. ranking among the most intelligent beings on such as caring for their offspring and even when they open closed jars to access the honey like a hidden camera capturing their presence, comprehend the purpose of the foreign object. is that, despite their intelligence and operate primarily on instinct. Drawing a is hungry, it will instinctively pursue we humans share a fundamental similarity Now, envision a scenario where bears could be control could suppress their natural instincts, humans. However, a malevolent influence could for human flesh into the sole purpose of these manipulated bears would cease to mere puppets - or zombies - manipulated Indeed, even though the scenario of unlikely in our current reality, contemplating ethical and philosophical challenges that might Furthermore, as we gaze into the vast possibility that intelligent life beyond of technological evolution, reaching a possible but perhaps a part of their daily the dreams of extraterrestrial civilizations, might have transformed into a haunting reality. envisioned are no longer the architects of their manipulated by the whims of a tyrannical rich tapestry of their civilization, with its has been erased, leaving only the oppressive will However, the situation could escalate further. is under the command of a centralized mind that In this scenario, the extraterrestrial beings consciousness, residing somewhere unknown in these cyborg zombies would be deployed on potentially with the sinister objectives life forms and gathering and The Early Civilization Both the conventional zombie hypothesis could potentially exist yet our encounters with them remain elusive. takes center stage, demanding an answer to Now, let's delve into a cosmic thought that the universe is in a state of expansion, the course of billions of years, the gaps the cosmos unrecognizable from its current form. transformations. Collisions will give rise to anticipated in the impending collision between fast-forward the cosmic clock, the universe will demise of the youngest, largest, and blue-hued rate. Galaxies will predominantly be tinted red, In the quest for sustenance, resources become than ideal for sustainable life, advanced travel, embark on a mission to conquer other zombie hypotheses were to materialize, we might traversing galaxies to plunder resources from seemingly silent and tranquil universe we In a twist that amplifies the eeriness, an civilizations could lead to the unsettling &quot;early&quot; civilization. What does this imply? of life, but it's acknowledged that, at a certain occurred, giving rise to prokaryotes on Earth. transformed our planet. While the process leading billion years, what if this timespan varies on life forms, patiently awaiting the emergence of this scenario, we could be contenders for one of We could find ourselves akin to zombies, contending with emerging civilizations unable to flourish and explore the cosmos, Alternatively, we might have become teeming with civilizations that bear little acknowledge that the universe was and the inevitable fate of every entity, Conceivably, our planet might have left tumultuous fury of the Sun as it reached we might have devised ingenious methods to leave testament born out of human endeavor to === Whether considered a solution or not, pondering unfold is undeniably intriguing. Our upcoming or they might take on a darker and more as a gentle nudge to live our lives to the As we navigate the mysteries of what lies thrill of fictional apocalyptic scenarios like Zombie Apocalypse. So, as you immerse yourself essential companion--popcorn. After all, even in a bit of cinematic enjoyment can add a dash === this video ends here! Thanks for watching! day? Let us know in the comments below.