Woah, jeez that scared me. Who leaves a skeleton here. And why is it black? That's weird. Hello internet, welcome to Wiferoy, the show As you probably know by now Minecraft is no The game's lore and story are packed with answer. And one of these, is the nether fortress. The fortresses are in my opinion one of the of Minecraft. Today, we're gonna try to solve them. And maybe in the process unravel their dark But really quickly if you do end up enjoying A very large % of people who watch these videos end up enjoying the video, then please subscribe. It's completely free, it means a lot to the press of a button. But thank you so much and I hope you enjoy. The nether is without a doubt the most dangerous It houses some of the deadliest mobs in the to summon the wither. The most horrifying and destructive mob in But it's also filled to the brim with mystery. From random fossil remains to crumbling bastions the most mysterious dimension as well. And the nether fortresses are no exception. These massive structures occupy large portions of lava and plateaus of ruin. They are clearly in a state of disrepair, design. They're also home to two unique mobs, the Both of which cannot be found elsewhere. So all of this begs the question, who made why. While it's clear that the bastions are run have a concrete owner. Their two inhabitants the wither skeletons have no real connection apart from their location. However, given what we already know about for creator of the fortress. Wither skeletons, blazes, the ancient race entity such as the endermen. To answer this question we first have to identify As you probably noticed, nether fortresses Nether brick. This block appears nowhere else in the nether. It is not native however it can be made by Previously this would have led to the obvious However because of 1.16 you can now craft being native to the nether isn't that much Additionally there's the clue provided by When you carve blackstone it reveals an image of the bastion. And when you carve nether brick, it gives As if implying the skeletons are the creators But this piece of information alone isn't A crucial clue that points towards overworld Scattered around the structures are chests. These chests are full of a variety of materials Items like saddles and horse armor seem to you have to remember we can't make those The only way to get a saddle in the overworld However that is not the case for iron and Iron and diamonds are not at all native to So their appearance in the fortress seems To my knowledge there's no other way that if they hadn't been brought there from the As a result it's not that big of a stretch the creators of these structures. But now we have to tackle the harder and much If the ancient humans really did build the What is their purpose and what are the wither To figure out why it was built, let's take While very big, it has practically no interior. Strongholds have libraries, jails and portals bed. But nether fortresses have almost nothing. There are hundreds of blocks of just pathways. Sprawling bridges that don't seem to go Balconies and runways and corridors that seem But let's step back from what we don't know. The fortress is one of the more simplistic The lava well room, the blaze spawner room For the life of me I cannot understand what The lava well room is exactly what its name A massive room fitted with a singular centerpiece, This well leads a few blocks out of the fortress why. In a place as lava filled as the nether, why you can just get it outside. Additionally lava has really no purpose. You can use it to burn and smelt things but builders would need a -whole room dedicated This however isn't the case for the other Netherwart can only be found in two different Bastions, and nether fortresses. Both of which are non-natural man made structures. This stuff isn't native to the nether, it's the soul sand. But why? Well the answer becomes a lot more clear when Potions. Nether Wart and blaze powder or rods are the They are both essential items in the potion So maybe the nether fortresses were strongholds The ancient builders made dedicated areas All in an effort to get potions. But that doesn't fully answer our question. Was this whole building just for potions? If so why the strange corridors and bridgers, Something is missing... Another revealing detail is the architectural These things aren't grounded. They're very obviously suspended above lava, Their windows are barred up and gated. This connects heavily to the dictionary definition A military stronghold orientated around troops If you google fortress interior, you're nether version of the structure. Long winding and simplistic corridors. Barred up and gated windows. Vast and stretched bridges and the occasional The name wasn't arbitrary. These builds are not places of home. They're military bases used to defend against In my video on Minecraft's fossils I discussed roam the nether. Maybe these fortresses were used as a defence This would explain their high altitude and These corridors that lead to nothing are a To escape any conflict going on out doors. And the seemingly useless cluster of bridges To fight any withers while having plenty of The chests are mostly full of combat equipment. Swords, armor and saddles. All in an effort by the builders to combat But there is one more aspect of these fortresses One odd feature that surely has importance The wither skeletons. And to some extent the blazes too. These creatures are native to the fortresses, But what is it? The following is more rooted in speculation. I personally treat this as my own head cannon nor disprove this theory. Blazes have always been a strange mob. They're a floating head that vaguely resembles Their audio files provide more questions than The most profound of which is named blaze Which would be odd enough on it's own until (blaze noise plays) The noise is eerily similar To me personally, it sounds like someone breathing (blaze noise plays) Furthermore the achievement rod is as follows: Relieve a blaze of it's Which is an odd way of phrasing this advancement You're freeing a blaze by relieving it of soul inside it. Maybe blazes are souls of ancient builders, Awaiting to be freed. In my mind the wither skeletons succumb to The nether fortresses are not only places Experiments regarding soul energy and nether One popular hypothesis for the extinction but instead a plague. A virus that turned humans into zombies. When the plague struck nobody knew how to Once killed the ancient builders would turn were. At the beginning they were able to handle They constructed igloos, places of refuge the zombification of villagers. However this proved unsuccessful. So they fled to the nether. A volatile and hot environment where the zombies They constructed massive fortresses along Stretched upwards and suspended so that the But the fortresses were not only a place of They were a research facility. A place to test the effects of potions and They harvested soul sand; a block infused them. Over time through experimentation they were Using the crimson and warped roots they were A substance that feeds on the souls of those This was just the first part though. These trapped souls were also used in conjunction The spirits of living beings imprisoned within inferno. They were inhumanely farmed. Forced to keep respawning with their only All in the name of saving humanity. Using the newfound resources of blazes and a cure to the zombification. At least, of villagers. The villagers with more simple and underdeveloped However the same treatment would not suffice Their brain was far too complex, they needed So the builders tried harder. They increased the amount of soul energy, sand were used for a single entity. The skeletons of prisoners, deceased builders Their faces were engraved into the walls as Their bodies were charred black in wells of energy. The massive amounts of souls imported into power of the wither. The power to steal life. Again the experiment did not go as planned. The wither skeletons were silently suffering A place swirling with soul after soul after Trapped within a charred and bony body. Eventually they gained enough sentience to They flushed out the builders, using their In the end the builders had to flee the nether. Relinquishing control of the fortress to the the blazes. Left with little options and a rotting world, Constructing the strongholds. Places to live in a world that was too far They had cells. Cells for zombies who they still tried to But to no avail. Eventually, with their options running low, And you know the rest. The fortresses were left abandoned. A cruel experiment remained unfinished. Charred soul filled skeletons roam the fortress, Souls trapped by inferno still continue to An inhumane never ending process. Truly, a terrible fortress. And that is the story of Minecraft's nether Or at least it is in my head. There's very little evidence for and against The fortresses are just so bleak and devoid go off of. But let me know what you think. Be sure to comment what you think of the video. I really do appreciate it. But with that said. Thank you so much for watching, please consider And as always, peace out, have a good one,