The Domain-Driven Design has just like any opinionated approach to programming. don't think it is necessary to take sides. are so pervasive that we are now using them The division into entities, value objects, and aggregates; CQRS, which is older than DDD Many programmers don't know how many of adopt them naturally in their everyday code. secret that may keep escaping you. Object-Oriented Design. Everything you learned but some of that knowledge now I will first show you the problems we used object-oriented design in a large project. DDD and how they address those problems. it doesn't solve them. It is not a magic wand. and complexity will remain, with or But we can make coping with complexity a whole So, let's begin. domain causes the proliferation of classes. a brain, its surface thinks, but its interior voluminous than the thin surface above. make a project grind to a halt as they vastly That is one pair of pants. Another comes from We recognize two principal interactions with the Queries of one sort are so dramatic reports. We often move reporting aside and can impact the overall system performance. comes from its management. An enterprise is not hive, so its software cannot be a single block. languages, even though they Let me give you an example. Suppose we are connected to many cooperating companies, vendors, numerous online retailers, dealing with pricing That is a hell of a software to develop. Over the years, we have learned to recognize two we refer to as intrinsic complexity. That is the is inherent to the problem we are solving, so The other is accidental complexity, the the intrinsic complexity of the world. design methods. We study computer science to And we always fail to a degree. That is You know, if the software were so easy to land of eternal spring. Soon enough, everybody This imperfect software industry we made is a This is where the Domain-Driven Design comes in complexity in developing complex software systems. possible attempt at reducing complexity. And it will not make the complexity go away. and here is how it does its magic. will have different views on the underlying The idealized book's definition keeps track of and even the issue and edition. None of However, the inventory would want to touch &quot;book&quot; from the abstract model, stripping things as the number of pieces we possess, their The procurement and sales department will borrow the attributes they don't care to know. cooperating companies, and more. the central pillar of the design. Each bounded between the business and the code we write. but mean slightly different things, context has its ubiquitous language. other via mappings, and so we recognize For every concept, there exists a bounded of truth. Every other bounded context is Then, we step into a bounded it in isolation from everything else. problem domain into manageable portions. forgetting about all other contexts and only Problem decomposition is a native part of DDD. is where we encounter particular words from the We separate them into entities, value objects, thing with its state and behavior. They have an Value objects are just values Services are all the rest - all behaviors Services can be stand-alone such as those we know from the Inversion of Entities are proper classes, such as we The Domain-Driven Design adds nothing we didn't the naked concepts of object-oriented design. Look, to model books, we may have the Book authors a book becomes the BookAuthor. issue, bundle, whatever? language! If the domain expert calls it a There could be the Magazines later, abstraction, combining both into one term. design is still valid. There are many ways to change We could update the person's data directly. name if we notice a typing mistake. or editors, again through the book. the publisher, once again starting Complexity... Accidental complexity is pouring in. grouping entities and values into aggregates. operation on a single aggregate. root - an entity designated the root position This revolutionary idea One is transactional consistency, as DDD posits time and commit them as one atomic transaction. The other is, however, removing We know how to join tables how to load the data from a document store. Always store one aggregate as one document. databases - choosing the right joins And document storage just received a proper, That, on the other hand, We always noticed that tendency to to query them in all sorts of unrelated ways. one book. Query all published authors. Query the of initial letters of all published authors. specific publisher. of books by a specific publisher where an Enter CQRS... dedicated to C# and .NET programming. Subscribe That will give you access to the source code from a future video course I am currently producing. where you can ask for help or engage in ongoing All the links are in the description. Segregation, one of the fundamental Let aggregates streamline the commands We may store the aggregates in document storage, No problem, store the data again apply SQL to query them efficiently. It doesn't have to be. You can work with immediate so long as database performance warrants that. Perform updates and queries freely. separation only when the database can You will likely need to separate reporting data However, introducing a proper CQRS with to embrace eventual consistency. That will make a You should not cry for immediate database means your system has become a success, That doesn't change much compared to what The substantial change the aggregate design has of materializing the objects in memory to run the All other things being equal, the Domain-Driven by introducing this concept of aggregates. the complexity will not go away. aggregate is quite limiting. fit this idea will exist, too. did not have a proper answer to those corner He introduced Domain Events, persistent A change in an aggregate could trigger You can also use domain events to feed the Many designs that used to cause trouble had Let me tell you that you don't need Most notably, the full-blown designs but a savior in others. Choose wisely. your code and even improve its performance. queries. Let the user select the operation and its Materialize a single Call a method on the aggregate, save One must appreciate how Even if you only adopted entities, aggregates, your object-oriented designs will That is, I think, the most significant impact DDD has ever made. It has changed the way we