[rock &amp; roll music] There are few cars that create such an emotional cutting-edge design, but today is a cute, the height of practicality certainly compared to modern cars. But by those who sought to recreate it at the turn nevertheless cherishes its British Mini roots. decide to build this tiny car? And why for over 40 years? This might be a very [music] I was going to start this video with the same Crisis when the UK was under fuel rationing, But like the gas shortages following the invasion of out in the fullness of time and prices returned to seen as a much more cataclysmic price shock it was true the UK Government reintroduced petrol and the price shock at the pump was relatively until you realise there have been 3 increases by the time the first running prototype of fuel prices were coming down, and the world was the Soviet Union - the sky really was falling kicked off by the Suez Crisis, but that wasn't the car that had been developed was just so good. had been tempted away to a competitor but by 1955 In 1957, during that fuel rationing he was put in could accommodate four people and their luggage. of tiny fuel-sipping bubble cars, invading the but also Fiat's new 600, a masterpiece of small programmes, such as the Rootes group who It wasn't just Issigonis who was working on the but there was a team of people who contributed yet relatively large inside. The team tested the making sure they had enough room to do the No, not that! Far more boring things there was somewhere in the car to store it. and they once again looked at the Fiat 600 as the had the engine at the rear. BMC's team thought BMC, he'd been working on a front wheel drive could take A-series engine from the Morris It would make the car much smaller, but there It wouldn't fit on the end of the engine. The BMC yet still find room to package the steering. This 600cc Fiat - initially 948cc. BMC even worked made for a smaller wheel arch, which intruded All of this created a car that was 16cm (6") same amount of space. And it hard a larger boot, It helped to have the engine up front and the boot wanted them, something that the rear engined The development of the Mini happened very so the new car was needed pronto. Work there was a running prototype. The shape, the A40 Farina that was also in development. light car was actually considered too fast, By March 1958 there were 10 test cars. Despite industrial action, stocks were [music] "He's back! He's got it! It's super!" The new car launched with a name that BMC another popular Issigonis creation, so as well as being badged as the Austin Seven, the new The response from motoring journalists was that changed the bar for small cars. It certainly still working on their rear-wheel drive Hillman large scale production at both their Longbridge ($614 USD, EUR574, $963 AUD) it was sure to fly out that's just a little more than the cheapest car spiritual successor of those 1950s bubble cars BMC Sales were brisk - it was BMC's highest But it was beset by production issues with this weren't unheard of for new cars, and but it ate into the company's bottom line. set about creating new models, starting with the that had been intended for the original Mini, But for a utilitarian van it was just fine. The van happened later that year. Like many estates it got but just for show. A year later BMC would tear They also toyed around with a beach car design. and Wolseley Hornet. Although some bought and their first car, there was also so the thought was the opulent Riley and Wolseley housewife. But the public wasn't ready for a The same couldn't be said about the main 1961 that saw a 10% drop in vehicle In the 1940s and 50s Britain had the natural exporting the Mini was prioritised. It and production would start in Spain in 1963. It was outside the Common Market, the forerunner of Australia and it was soon the second best-selling lips, back in Britain the Austin Seven would be With a wheel at each corner and a relatively Mini wasn't just a city runabout, it was a lot of unnoticed by John Cooper, who's Cooper motorsports planning to run a Renault Dauphine with a Coventry but once he'd driven the new Mini he was hooked. but he also saw the potential in selling a BMC who loved the idea of collaborating with produce 1,000 homologation cars and BMC would Cooper launched in 1961. With regular BMC parts originally created, but the 55hp (41 kW) engine pedestrian by today's standards, but like and more about enjoying the excellent handling. It battled on racetracks, but found a rally three times in the 1960s. With these Another new Mini launched in early 1963 - the Mini 2CV Sahara as both cars features two engines to There were hopes to sell it to the British but the low ground clearance made it impractical. reimagined as a two-wheel drive light commercial car tax. The British Government were having none and was taxed appropriately! The public fun recreational vehicle. It found a home in Portugal where it was produced up until 1993. fluid suspension from the Austin/Morris 1100, and transmission. That same year the 1 millionth there was a Mini to fit every occasion. Production be joined by assembly in Chile , Malaysia, The Mini certainly was the car to be seen in the of the Beatles - Ringo even had his converted to Sellers had a luxurious custom Mini by Radford. Enzo Ferrari owned more than one. Mary Quant skirt after her favourite car. The Mini was and its iconic status was cemented in the 1960s. Alec Issigonis' new creation, the 1800 had been by 1967 the Mini's parent company made a large management had failed to manage successfully. But Back in 1960 Ford had done costings on the Mini, on every car. That was based on lower Mini sales a shockingly low number of parts that would only making small profits when their cars were a seriously wrong with their accounting. This wasn't happily selling the Mini for a much higher price the Mini was time consuming to manufacture. It maybe making it a bit larger and easier to produce Some cost controls for the Mini were surely in of carpet over all the models. The Hydrolastic with the ride around town, it made it worse at weren't clamouring for it? A next generation, Issigonis started working on it in 1967 - the 9X. but with poor finances it never got anywhere. I detailing all the failed Mini replacements, at the end in case you're interested. refresh. More components were shared with the 1100 down to just one factory - Longbridge. The rear was an updated grille. Regular Mini's also got the Hornet. But as work on the refresh had begun only new parts and 22,000 incomplete cars had to be With the Government pushing for it, it was the Mini and 1100 would be merged with Leyland BL were about as keen to build a brand new the point ploughing development money into a any profit? Better to use what limited money BL scored a coup by hiring Roy Haynes generation Ford Cortina that was now the was a new Mini refresh. He designed a new plus an interior with standard gauges in front of Haynes got sick of working at BL and quickly as the new Mini Clubman, launched in 1969. Door releases were now more than just a piece of they wound up. Kids, ask your parents what wind up door hinges now on the inside of the car, and the the name of reducing costs. But there was only so body would need to be completely re-engineered. The Mini Cooper had been improved throughout the largest displacement the tiny A-series engine That got it to 60 in 10 seconds. But with the Mini Cooper's days were numbered, and it would end by the end they lost PS20 ($24 USD, EUR23, $38 The Clubman also got a fast version as the 1275GT, up with Mini Cooper. No matter which Mini you be seen by the film that became a Mini showcase thanks to British Leyland. They had no interest in 6 cars at trade price and another 30 at full were sitting at the phones getting their cars into for BL's lukewarm response to The Italian Job was times, and it was controversial, especially for shining a light on such nefarious actions, even But it showed BL weren't moving with the times. Maxi. Its name was supposed to link it with the But like the 1800 it was a flop. On the other hand, 300,000 cars in 1971. The Maxi, a brand-new car, for another Issigonis creation, British Leyland 9X would become nothing more than a museum piece. it's at the British Motor Museum off the M40. of the European Union which allowed them to but also meant Europeans imports could sell for cheaper competition - the Fiat 127, Renault the Volkswagen Polo, and in 1976 Ford would join in common - they were hatchbacks. There still which had appeared 16 years earlier was still cars offered more space inside and a more modern they weren't making any money producing the Mini which Or why didn't they increase the price? British time customers, and they were then converted, over a loss-leader that would take years to bear state of affairs where finances at British Leyland Mini increased with the 1973 oil crisis. division Innocenti pushed through an update of the running gear and transmission, the new Bertone everyone was talking about. BL dismissed thoughts expensive than the competition and smaller inside. it was going to be a complete redesign. required money they didn't have. With what little and Spanish production facilities. This didn't duties were lower, and so there was less of a need especially as sales of BLs cars were taking a having to be rescued by the UK Government. of wrong over at Innocenti, and the British said that it was up to the Italian Government the Italian operation and be done with it. That bankrolling Rover in the late 1990s and shouldn't whole thing imploding. Italy in the 1970s was a as the Innocenti Personnel Director was shot their minds. The Innocenti workers rejected a car production drastically in the 20th century. their base in Italy, not the UK, and so didn't in the 1980s and 90s. Instead, the Innocenti before being closed down in the early 1990s. got yet another refresh using interior parts suspension. By 1977 the rear light cluster what British Leyland needed was a brand new Embarrassingly for British Leyland, the Mini selling car in 1973 and would remain so until the The Government agreed to fund a Mini replacement. the Morris Minor, launching as the Morris Mini launching as the Austin Mini Metro, later know the whole story, there's a video link hatchback. But surprisingly production of the One of the reasons was that while being it was now retro chic. What goes around comes as France where they'd rather be seen in an Austin back on sale in Japan due to popular demand. when compared to the Metro, although it it would remain unprofitable. There was a fine for Mini parts from Innocenti in Italy, and in A-series engine were still being used by the new Surprisingly, it took until 1983 for the Production of the estate had ended a year also marking the end of the Clubman front end. 1984, and that same year the fifth generation car Inside it got parts from the current They also did away with the central speedometer. that customers weren't aware the Mini was so a splashy advertising campaign bigged up the endless special editions that tried to pitch the like the Mini Mayfair and Park Lane. The Advantage and the publicity shots were clearly inspired by The plan worked, and in 1986 Mini number All this nostalgia and special editions led step - another Mini Cooper. John Cooper was still for every 1960s Mini Cooper that was sold! It more out of the Mini than British Leyland did! but Austin Rover less so. They felt any sporty John Cooper started producing tuning By the late 1980s the MG Metro had been Austin Rover were trying to sell the Metro less as a with the Rover badge, cheapening the Rover brand was more appealing. They started work with John It used a detuned MG Metro engine running lighter Cooper from the 1960s. In "S" trim it got The success of this limited edition model led kept Mini sales ticking over. By now more and France wasn't that far behind. Mini production, first when the Metro was then when it was supposed to be replaced in the so both the Mini and now the Metro soldiered on to produce the Mini now, as the Metro had swapped wouldn't fit into the Mini's engine bay. So, the Since the 60s, 3rd party companies had to a cabriolet. With newfound interest in the their own open top version. They contracted producing their own version since the 1980s. The so Rover made it a mainstream model in 1993. including an "Italian Job" version - now the film had been made originally. those annoying bubble cars, buzzing around like car manufacturers, BMW, ended up purchasing The final update appeared in 1996. Interiors got have been better than those "luxury" conversions thrown at the car was from new owner BMW. They'd Rover... is "crown" really the best word to describe Mini was a brand worth saving and so made sure the it with a next generation model. That meant the years, so it needed to keep up with more stringent to reduce emissions and an airbag for safety. Pischetsrieder was a relative of Alec There was a lot of love for the old as it was impractical compared to modern cars. The Metro ended production in 1997 but the With BMWs new Mini replacement about ready ended in October 2000, fittingly driven by of the Rover company. It was haemorrhaging BMWs but kept the jewel - the Mini name and the known didn't last beyond 2005, but BMWs new MINI a luxury car maker, correctly determined the MINI smart enough to bring people like John Cooper in And it worked. The original Mini sold around a profit. The new MINI surpassed that number in But despite this, the new MINI will the original car. It's impractical and tiny but the original car has a charm that keeps There aren't many cars that can be called true As I mentioned, I made a video detailing and that video's on the right. And if you want there's a link to that as well. Thanks for