Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. the average piece of currency changes hands about 55 times a year. With that kind of turnover, in the United States out of every 100 one was most likely touched in the last year by someone who within the next year will But how much cash, how much physical currency is there on earth? First things first, how much cash is inside of bank? the average successful bank robbery But that's usually just currency from the tellers tills. In their vaults, the average bank dollars to a 100,000 dollars with some carrying as much as a few million in cash. But what about in our homes? dressers or lost under cushions? accurately figure out the exact number Last year, Lloyds TSB announced that in the UK the average person has about PS14.15 just lying around. A recent survey by VISA and included cash left at home, the office, and in the car. but agree with the US Treasury's that the typical US household has ninety to a hundred dollars just laying around, which means that if just everyone in change and put in one place, they would have 15 billion dollars. 357 more seasons of Arrested Development. But we are asking about how much cash there is on the entire planet. It is called M0. It's an aggregate of all coins and banknotes. DollarDays.org's most recent estimate values this total amount, considering all at just slightly over the equivalent of 5 trillion US dollars. the value of all of the currency on Earth, M0, is huge. it represents less than 10 percent of all of the money we humans have available to spend right away. money is born. one of the ways new money can be born involves a central bank. Now, let's say that in our by Jake from Vsauce3. and he pays close attention to our economy. that an increase of the he can just make more money. It's that easy. to be born. like the Bank of Vsauce. All the central bank needs to do is buy money it just made and now the commercial banks have more born. It involves commercial banks and gets to If I go to the bank and deposit 5 pounds, the bank says fantastic, and at anytime you want, these 5 pounds. banks only need to reserve a fraction of the money that they are given. and it pretty much happens in every country. that if someone else comes along, and he wants to borrow some money, the bank can lend him 3 pounds. spend these 3 pounds. Kevin can spend 3 pounds and I can spend 5 for a total of 8, despite the fact that in the bank. And if we want to count all of the on Earth, we're going to need to include fractional reserve banking creates. we are now talking about a number much larger than M0. Economists call this figure M1. physical currencies, as well as money like money in checking accounts. across all countries and all currencies, M1 is estimated to be the equivalent of 25 trillion US dollars. M2 is an even broader definition of money and it includes things that you can't For instance, savings accounts or CDs under a hundred thousand dollars. is currently estimated to be the trillion US dollars. M3. all currencies, banknotes and coins, savings accounts, small CDs and really In the American economy, the Federal anymore, but as a measure of eventually and if we consider M3 the global money supply that gives us a figure that is equivalent to 75 trillion US dollars. how much of it is yours? over Twitter, Mark Boadey introduced me to dot com. against everyone else on Earth. By the way, you can act just like a central bank and control the money supply yourself. It is illegal, but you can technically by counterfeiting and you can decrease by subtracting money. burning it. you become poorer, but because you've the power of everyone else's money goes up richer. on Earth and the amount that you could your effect will be quite imperceptible. One the largest amounts of cash ever who in the nineties for reasons no one's still quite sure of, burned a million pounds worth of cash. 2 hours to burn all of that cash and on video. by eating it, like the rapper Tyga did. you probably shouldn't do that either is dirty. A study published in Applied reported that the flu virus can survive on cash for 1 hour to 2 days. And other studies have found that about carries viable strains of dangerous bacteria, like those the cause pneumonia or those feces. of germs and those germs might be high. Studies have found that 92 percent of banknotes are contaminated with traces of illegal drugs, typically cocaine. All it takes is for a few exposed bank notes to circulate normally for all of the cash to become contaminated. there's an average of 28 micrograms of cocaine, which means that in 5,000 banknotes, there's enough cocaine for an entire line. These drug traces are nearly so there's little risk of the drugs However, they can be detected by drug sniffing dogs and, on more than one occasion, courts cash, because even though drug dogs detected that's just how cash is. As if that wasn't enough, cash is also not nutritious. but to us humans, cash as we know it today and, for that matter, money doesn't really have any intrinsic value. In a post-apocalyptic world, where nothing was stable and survival was a challenge, food, clean, water, AMO, weapons, antibiotics, machines, fuel, the trade and exchange and gifting of those types of things would be our economy. When what you use as money has an in and of itself, it is known as commodity money. It can also include precious metals, like gold, whose rarity makes it likely to be for goods and services. Now, when you can one place and you don't need a defend them representative money often makes more sense. Store your valuables in a trusted place like a bank and get some slips of paper from them, saying &quot;yeah, I own that stuff.&quot; Now you can walk around and use those to buy the things that you want. We are now closer to what we call money today. I say closer, because almost all money doesn't represent any actual useful commodity anywhere on Earth. This note doesn't or spices or video games I have stocked up in a bank, it just is money. It's called fiat money. it be done.&quot; gives fiat money its value. that it is valuable. Why? Just let it be done. the value a fiat money depends on that the people who make it will that they already do. unlike other commodities, can be erased by force. Let's imagine that you live in Great job. could invade and declare that the US at all. shucks. is a incomplete deck of famous American flashcards. is that invading Canadians could technically erase the value of fiat money. But nothing they said or did could make a commodity, like gold, less valuable. and in return give you their own, still valuable, currencies. or authority or laws or rules can make a any less important to drink or gold any less rare. fiat money depends on our beliefs, what we think. that fiat money is valuable, it is. This happens all the time. what we think we know, can actually to become true. objects, the way the universe works and deities, like Zeus, can exist all by themselves, or believe in them. require us to believe in them And if no one believes in them, they literally aren't true. effect, and the value of fiat money is an But what's really cool is the fact that our convictions can actually destroye the very thing we believe in. the reverse Tinkerbell effect whereas more people believe something that thing actually becomes less and less true. is safe. more people will go out driving and they ironically making driving less safe. in an election your vote matters. will go out and vote and the individual weight of each vote will go down. It took hard work and tools to build civilization and find cures but we should keep in mind that without we are still capable of creation. By merely believing in something we can make it actually truly real. Other things can actually be destroyed, if we merely believe in them. Can you believe that? And as always, thanks for watching.