- Is he holding balloons? - Yep. - Congratulations on Sponsored or not, And this one is sponsored by Cal Digit. I wouldn't normally make a I mean, how interesting could The answer today is, very. This is the TS4 Thunderbolt It features a whopping Oh my gosh. Is this bigger than their old ones too? Okay. Excuse me. 18 ports of connectivity, of power to a connected and another 20 Watts of charging out of this Type-C on the front. As for the rest of the ports, they have more pedestrian let's put it this way. All together, you are that is not only large, Get it? Get it? In charge? It's large in charge. Come on! That's pretty funny! The point is, it's a 200 Watt brick for a freaking Thunderbolt Dock. I've sorted through all the This one right here is a two You can tell, cause it says Not particularly long, but plug into the back of the right there we go, and connect to either the right or left side of your preferred device. Can but I'll talk a little You've also got the power brick as well as a, mhm, standard that goes into it. Cuz this aint no little boy. I said, I'd get to the You can also lay it down flat with these little silicone feet things. I think they've revised over the years, but You just pick any one of the ribs that you like along the bottom. Oh, you know what? I'm gonna bother my OCD and I'm gonna put it on like this. - I know, you put those something like that, or however you prefer, and it's not gonna slip When you go to plug in a we can test that. We can actually validate that. Let's go ahead. Oh, that slips a little. instead of an lttstore.com mousepad. Okay. It could be stickier. The really exciting stuff is for me, it's not about or even necessarily the I use my Thunderbolt Dock at a desktop. For me, it's about the So on the front, you've got your SD card. You've got your micro SD. Yeah. Having both of those natively means no more adapters sitting on my desk. You've also got that So that's to quickly top up your phone or, what I'm gonna use it for, is little stand under my So this will allow me to do that and charge at the same time. I believe this one does You've also got a Type-A Cal Digit does not who still use Type-A headphone And then on the back, this right here two and a half gigabit LAN. Thank you! This is the only dock two and a half gig ethernet other connectivity so fast access to network, shared resources. And the thing is that for transferring small files. It's fine. But today, if you wanna you want two and a half gig It also, conveniently, ports off of it. That's a funny one. I'd actually love to see how because is it like the first two hops of a six device Daisy chain? Couldn't actually answer that one for you. Four Type-A's. You've got a line in like that combo port at but not Thunderbolt this So on this bad boy you can do multiple high Dual 4k's on Windows and up to dual 6K displays on Mac. To be clear, that's not Cal Digits fault, It's just because of the way that Apple implements Thunderbolt systems kind of a little bit better. One thing that it's missing is HDMI but this doesn't bother me because USB-C or display port to HDMI adapters are pretty much a dime a dozen. In fact, they actually I think to show off. Hm. USB-C to HDMI 2.0, does So you put that bad boy on there. Oh. And if you've got rather than dual Thunderbolt monitors. Oh, that's why they've got Cuz that's how they're doing the dual 5k or dual 6K displays on Mac. There you go. All right. Well, if you're not on a Mac of those to a female, whoops then that's how you're Tres interessant, that's super cool. Being a PC guy though. I'm not going to be benefiting from any of those Mac exclusive features. Let's go ahead and hook Shall we? The big thing I wanna see here is two and a half gig LAN. Thunderbolt on PC has I mean, it was always a little better on laptops than it was on desktops but I don't see a two and a Dun dun duuun. Oh, here it is. Now I got it already! TS4 Windows ethernet driver. Does this laptop actually in spite of the fact that Okay. That's neat. I don't know that it'll do it sustained. It might just keep it Power brick for this laptop I am quite disconcerted that this network adapter is Oh, I see what you mean. Yeah, here, Brandon. Check this out. Boy, the way this is labeled is not great. Oh my God. I love.. who is this? I love his bow tie. That is amazing. Good. This is working. Thank you. Okay. Oh, that's super cool. If you don't have Thunderbolt, it'll operate as a regular USB hub. Let's go ahead and plug There's my ethernet controller. Better make sure you ladies and gentlemen, two and a half gig over your USB Type-C on top of everything And that, ladies and two and a half gig ethernet. That is literally two and a half times the speed that you would get with gigabit. You know what the craziest part is? Is there are actually for two and a half gig like aside from just video editing which has been one of our big concerns over the last, well, you for example, if you have you can actually download 250 megabytes a second. Let's download a game. We're managing to drain the battery. We are one minute to full charge cuz we're using up 40% of I love it. Man, I think this SSD Ooh. Okay. I saw it spike to a hundred What are you doing buddy? Oh, that's more like it. Oh, CPU usage is at 80%. Oh man. Yeah, we just, we don't have the horses. All right. Well maybe not on a laptop. Oh, it's an 11 900 H though. If you had a faster laptop, You could crack a hundred megabytes a second downloading games. So there's a use for two and a half gig. Of course the TS4, which Do do they know that already? Yes. Yeah. I'm gonna be using this This thing is so nice, man. Having all this IO on the using a razor dock for a connection on the front which, bless their hearts, in my opinion is not the best way to do that. So having that background to management and then having on the front, that's the way I wanna be. But the TS4 is not the only one that I'm gonna be talking about today. There's also the Thunderbolt This bad boy is just eight ports, but it can do an 8K display. It's much smaller and it can still do that crazy power delivery That's why it still comes that's like bigger than the dock itself. Because you won't have so this brick is only 150 Watts instead of 230 for the full fat TS4. But that is plenty for strong power delivery And three Thunderbolt three ports. There's your Power In, four USB Type-A's. And then of course, the Thunderbolt connection That's actually super flexible. Because these are all Thunderbolt, I mean don't kid yourself. You're not gonna be getting, oh well I've got a 40 And then these are all Thunderbolts, so it's 40 plus 40 plus 40, ah 120 gigabit to connected devices. It just means that you get the capabilities So that means that you can easily convert You can easily break them out into additional Thunderbolt being limited to just USB devices over a Type-C connection. Because it's Thunderbolt, you can plug them into USB-C devices because Thunderbolt four Let's have a look at situation might look like for this boy. Probably go on the And just like that, all the high speed connectivity The TS4, is like, the deluxe one. This is the Elemental one. That's why it's called the Element Hub. It's a little smaller, right? Definitely more tote able. Man, I wonder if the Element Hub can do anything without external power? Now I'm curious. I kind of doubt it. I kind of doubt it. The answer is, no, but that shouldn't come as a surprise Thunderbolt And if you're gonna have this to it, obviously, it's Neither of these come cheap. The Element is $250 but it's nice and compact and tote able. Whereas the TS4 is $380, and you can check them out Thanks Cal Digit for you for watching, make sure you get subscribed.