Contact has been lost with Opportunity since This pioneering rover survived an incredible a global dust storm blocked the sunlight from This video is a recap of Opportunity's entire dust storm, with all the challenges it overcame By the end of this video, I think you'll and that it has contributed a huge amount this knowledge that has paved the way for It answered question like: did Mars once have Did it have huge bodies of liquid water on And, was it once more like Earth, and if so, I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching journey Opportunity took on Mars. Let's start right at the beginning. Having launched on a Delta II Heavy spacecraft, from its sister rover, Spirit, about three Opportunity used a parachute to slow itself before it landed. The effects of the rocket firing are evident by the Mars Global Surveyor. Opportunity first bounced, and then came to Eagle crater, with the heatshield and parachute NASA scientists were so excited by this that although they weren't actually aiming for They didn't even know it existed until they about 25 kms away from its intended target. As Opportunity emerged from its protective around. Opportunity is equipped with a panoramic camera, It saw some outcrops only a few centimetres grain far smaller than the grains typically Opportunity and Spirit were primarily on Mars if Mars was ever a place that was conducive The way they did that was by looking at rocks an idea of what Mars might have been like about their history. Opportunity explored the outcrop closely over discovering evidence that in the past some dip, although it wasn't clear if it was or wind. You can see this in this image as the thin On Sol 30, or Opportunity's 30th Martian and used its Rock Abrasion Tool to drill into As it did so, it found something known to the result of crystals having been eroded The rock also contained hydroxide ions, meaning Next up for Opportunity was to dig a trench It did this by digging its front wheels into in place. After some shuffling about for 22 minutes, deep. Under the top layer of soil were some things pebbles and grains so small this microscopic Over the course of the next few Martian weeks, Opportunity powered out of the crater at an towards the next biggest crater in the vicinity, On its way, it passed by this little tiny It took a photo, but didn't stop for long. On Sol 84, it reached the edge, and had a Mission planners already knew that Endurance and wanted to have a closer look at them. Opportunity circled around the crater, looking be a problem, but getting out might. By Sol 127, mission planners decided to drive get out, as the value of the science that up. So on Sol 131, it carefully edged its way reverse back to see if it could. Luckily, the angle of the rim was only 18 safety margin, so the excursion into the crater Opportunity went on to spend 180 Sols in the It explored an area called Karatepe where It went near to, but not into some sand dunes stuck. It saw some wispy clouds similar to Earth's And lastly, it went to a cliff face called with various layers separated by broken up It finally left Endurance on Sol 315. During the time there, the data collected able to confirm that water didn't just cover in nature, with floods that would have washed At any rate, the water here would have never After that substantial discovery, the next own heat shield. On the way, it came across a rock that was Shield Rock. It was the first meteorite to be identified Opportunity then set a course for Erebus crater. It pressed ahead through a region called the While traversing this area, on Sol 445, Opportunity Things did not look good for the rover; all dune by more than a wheel radius. This dune came to be known as "Purgatory It stayed motionless for just short of 20 tried to figure out how to get it out. They simulated the scenario on Earth and tried to try anything. On Sol 461, the rover advanced a few centimetres predicted. Over the course of the next 20 Martian days, a photo of the progress, and sent the results By Sol 483, Opportunity had successfully escaped ground. It would have been disappointing if it had stuck by a 30cm dune. Opportunity studied Purgatory dune for another on its way to Erebus crater. During its journey, mission controllers uploaded it from getting stuck again, with software experience at Purgatory. With this new software update, it was ready As Opportunity approached Erebus, it came exposed. Mission controllers named this section the As we know, Opportunity's main mission was of which can often be found in the planet's It used its rock abrasion tool to carve circles camera, it compared the different structures You'll notice by here that Opportunity's still the front camera, but sometimes mission even out the wear and tear on the equipment. Erebus is a very old and eroded crater, filled You may not have been able to tell it's it is so shallow and eroded, it only really It is about twice as big as Endurance crater, Opportunity never actually went inside the Instead, it stuck to the rim, avoiding larger Even while carefully manoeuvring around these sunk in. Luckily, the software that was installed only were slipping, and it stopped its drive command. You see, Opportunity is not controlled in There is too much of a latency for this, between proximity of Earth and Mars. So instead, Opportunity is given drive commands. Using these same navigational images you are based imagery, mission controllers command where it will then take a new photo to show The software that prevented Opportunity from could get the rover to reverse out without During Opportunity's time there, it collaborated The Mars Express images the surface of Mars materials. Without actually sampling the surface, the Opportunity, however, can physically interact what the Mars Express data showed was correct observations. While Opportunity was near Erebus crater, of the Sun from Mars' closest and biggest As it was still making its way around Erebus went dark for a few days. Very interestingly, you can see the difference goes from having a clear image to having some Also, dust settles on the solar panels, meaning Very fortunately though, Mars has occasional a dust devil will pass over the rover, blowing Because Mars is so dry, this dust is not at as fine as cigarette smoke, that it doesn't You can notice this cleaning happen over time Look at this fleck of dirt here, and how it Opportunity doesn't have means of clearing relied on these cleaning events happening, year mission, they did. Sadly however, during the time at Erebus, fault; its arm was getting stuck all the time There was a broken wire, although the motor After careful deliberation, engineers decided the arm away while travelling long distances. Over short distances, it would be kept in This replica is being used to test how it position, where the arm is out but it bends They thought it would be better to have the try and stow it away, to find it could never somewhat functional like this. Over the course of the mission up until this with a heater for a motor in the arm that Engineers managed to get away with switching switch would cut power to the heater if the But as Martian winter drew near where there power to have the heater on all night. They fixed this by completely disconnecting This led to another problem, where there would the day and night, meaning the motor would At this point in the mission, this motor stalled Engineers temporarily fixed it by applying a precautionary measure, they stowed the arm permanently stalled. You'll start to notice this in the camera By February 2006, or sol 744, Opportunity called the Payson outcrop. This outcrop of fine layers shows a diverse textures formed billions of years ago. The structures that were observed here were processes. By Sol 766, Opportunity had left the rim of most impressive crater yet, Victoria. It journeyed through large ripple sand dunes, However, Opportunity tried to stick to paths to traverse, and it can stop and investigate These cobble fields are a bit of a mystery, On Sol 833, Opportunity almost got stuck again. Previously, mission controllers were thrilled had been making towards Victoria, but in this dune, which they named Jammerbugt, a Danish Nearly 200 Martian days after it left Erebus, amazing. High ridge walls, a steep slope in and beautiful It had already overcome so many obstacles, So, what was so interesting about Victoria Was it able to provide any valuable information up anywhere else? Victoria was always going to be an important few thought Opportunity would last the 7 km At this point, Opportunity had lasted more lifespan. Victoria is the biggest crater Opportunity It was also the deepest, meaning ancient bedrock exposed to the surface. Exposed bedrock contains the clues to Mars' Also, as you can see, Victoria made for an this otherwise flat plain that Opportunity In preparation for this new exploration site, to the rover, which would enable it to decide its arm in preparation to sample an interesting of the rover to detect obstacles it should These features save a lot of time for mission through hundreds of images and wait through to the rover. At its furthest point, the latency between This is one of the reasons why it took three To test this new software update, mission a patch of rubble, and settings were adjusted was a no-go zone. In reality, the biggest of these rocks is have easily driven over it, but they didn't could actually damage the rover if it went As you can see, the rover adjusted its course so mission controllers could see how the rover Opportunity began to circle to outskirts of It came across a few cliffs, or "Capes" technique called a "super-resolution mosaic". These images have a much higher resolution of, and the way they did this was by taking in post processing on Earth they combined here. On a side note, this technique is used in and astronomy. Scientists say that the layers you see in due to a geological process called cross-bedding. They believe these layers are ancient sand inclined upwards and not just horizontally. From these lines, they predict that this used Desert on Earth. While this science data was very useful, mission down to the crater floor, and they thought Peril'. On closer examination though, it was decided Opportunity investigated a couple of cliffs meteorite called Santa Caterina, before mission back to the original arrival point at the This site was chosen because the slope was the ground was made of flat, exposed bedrock, slippage. On the 28th June 2007, or 1,200 sols into its descent. But just as it perched itself on the top of had seen yet rolled in, decreasing the brightness That's not quite as bad as it sounds, as towards the rover too, meaning it was generating to its usual 700 watts on a clear day. But this is bad news for a solar powered rover, keep the rover going, in fact anything under flat. So, operations were cut back substantially was only commanded to communicate back to If the batteries did run flat, the components to the intense cold on the planet during the Typically, the motors have heaters powered the motors warm, if the batteries run flat, extreme temperature differences between night during the day and -75degc at its coldest at The reason for this temperature variability it is 100 times thinner than Earth's meaning the heat it absorbs during the day. Going back to the batteries, if they reached to trip a low-power fault. This basically disconnects the rover's batteries the rover, putting it to sleep as it tries sunlight there is. Every sol the rover would check the battery systems, and if so, it would then re-establish This low-power mode could mean the rover stays go on for weeks or even months. Chances are that at that point, even if it would be broken and it wouldn't be able Back to the dust storm at the start of July, it would only last a week, but by the 15th These are true colours images showing a time does get very dark. Thankfully, the severity of the dust storm fault this time, although it did get worryingly Eventually, by 21st August, or sol 1271, the could start to move forward again. Sol 1291 saw Opportunity finally enter the before with the previous crater, just after the amount of wheel slippage from the slope. As it happened, wheel slippage did exceed so the rover stopped with two of its wheels After two days of decision making, mission and an extended exploration into the crater As Opportunity descended, it took some time of the exposed bedrock. It also took some images of the cliffs on I think these images showcase just how steep roughly 20 degrees. Opportunity didn't venture too far into towards the base. It spent its time examining this light patch its rock abrasion tool to investigate the It was determined from the data Opportunity so hospitable to life, so mission controllers Endeavour crater. If you thought Victoria was big, look at this Endeavour was thought to contain some clays, started its journey out of Victoria. At this point, on sol 1502, Opportunity encountered No matter how much power they put into the position under the rover. Sol after sol passed, and the joint refused day the joint had the least electrical resistance, the motor switched off during the day. When that time came again, they put as much worked. Not risking ever stowing it away again, engineers safely without risking damage to the arm. Opportunity then began its 2-year trek towards This is Endeavour crater, a huge but shallow But why Endeavour crater? Due to the distances involved, it would take so, what's special about this place compared The most compelling reason, and indeed one find evidence of past oceans on Mars. At this point in 2008, the theory that Mars just starting to get solid evidence thanks Opportunity at this point had discovered that but these places were no more than shallow not a true ocean. On the other hand, the Mars Reconnaissance clays around Endeavour crater, clays being from water being on the surface for extended Could Endeavour have been part of a more permanent And if there really was a surface ocean, are harboured life? Mission controllers had to find out. And so Opportunity left Victoria crater and The mission team were determined to reach while also keeping a look out for anything Opportunity made good time across the Meridiani than 3km. Nothing noteworthy really happened until sol The mission team decided to investigate, discovering Island'. In fact, large rocks seemed to be the only another one named 'Shelter Island', and Marquette Island was of particular interest rock was part of the ejecta from a large meteor from deep in Mars' crust. Scientists could tell because the grains within The coarseness indicates it cooled slowly grow. Had it formed near the surface, the crystals it would have cooled a lot quicker. Opportunity was never alone on Mars. It had a sister rover named Spirit, which at the same time. They both landed on Mars at roughly the same expected life span of 90 sols, at this point Although, just like Opportunity up until this failures too. Most notably, one of its front wheels jammed dragged this wheel along as it travelled. In a way, I almost think Spirit was NASA's got more media attention for the things it However, it was around the time Opportunity side of the planet, attempted to drive over in the sand. Spirit's operators began the long process and testing on Earth based replicas. Meanwhile, Opportunity carried on its long By Sol 2138, Opportunity finally reached a It is only 10m wide, but probably the youngest rubble and ejecta. Nothing particularly new was found there compared in the past, which was simply sulphate rich known as blueberries. At least the crater provided a contrast to Eight months had passed since Spirit got stuck The sand that enveloped its wheels was particularly was exasperated by its jammed wheel. During this recovery process, another of Spirit's worked. The Martian winter approached for Spirit, to power its batteries, until finally, a low systems disconnected from the battery. Spirit went silent. Mission controllers attempted for months afterwards eventually called an end to Spirit's mission. For the first time since it landed, Opportunity Opportunity's long slog over kilometres taxing for the rover. Perhaps overly anxious not to have a repeat decided to reroute Opportunity's course, one. This route would also take it by what was By sol 2244, Opportunity set a new record beating Viking I's mission duration. Opportunity could begin to see the rim of Tribulation, Cape Byron and Cape Dromedary. However, even 100 sols later, it was only It had made good time, considering it has half of that to be safe, with frequent stops dunes. You'll notice the rover's tracks are ahead This is because there is also a navigational it to drive forwards or in reverse to evenly Although, another reason right now was to as I mentioned in the last episode, got stuck On sol 2449, Opportunity finally arrived at It's a 90-meter-wide crater, and was important evidence here of hydrated sulphate minerals. As I mentioned, hydrated minerals can only of time, so this was an exciting precursor around Endeavour, which was still a tantalising Opportunity also stopped here to take a spectacular one of the time lapses showing a transit of Over two Earth years had passed in just this Opportunity had soldiered on well beyond its even outlived its sister rover Spirit. It and the mission team had earned a rest happily examining rocks and unlocking secrets After that, it was onward and upwards for around the rim of Endeavour, an inspiring other side of the planet. After spending 3 fairly uneventful months towards the closest hill on the crater rim, Along the way, it came across a few small ejecta from the impact strewn across the place. But Opportunity didn't stay for long. Approaching Endeavour, Opportunity was finally after years of simply crossing flat plains Peaks and capes started to rise up on the rim. On sol 2709, Opportunity finally arrived at as Spirit Point, named after Opportunity's its mission on the other side of the planet Opportunity had travelled over 30km up until planned mission distance. Mission planners decided not to go into the around the rim of the crater. Bedrock is exposed to the surface there, which it had seen so far on this journey. It was also around these peaks and capes along were detected by the MRO. Perched on top of Spirit Point, Opportunity perspective about just how big this crater From the onset, Opportunity began discovering You may remember from previous episodes that had thus far explored contained countless Around Endeavour, no blueberries were to be Instead the soil looks much coarser, the rocks Mission controllers were so impressed by the landing site that they said that this section a second landing site for the price of one. The first point of interest Opportunity examined It was unlike any other rock so far examined It had volcanic characteristics, but contained It was determined to be a type of breccia; This was further evidence for water. The impact that threw this bit of ejecta likely zinc in the rock. Just a short distance from Tisdale 2, Opportunity that water existed on Mars thus far. Can you guess what it is from this picture? Look closely at the bottom of the image, and this outcrop. A close-up examination of the vein revealed Spectrometer on the rover's arm detecting making calcium sulphate. They named this vein the Homestake deposit, calcium out of volcanic rocks which combined sulphate into an underground fracture that The impact that threw Tisdale 2 likely had If this is the case, it shows that water once Later analysis of the data Opportunity collected gypsum, but also that the water here was much other locations on the planet, meaning it Martian winter was soon setting in, meaning For a solar powered rover that can't adjust the ideal situation. But, for the first time since the mission spend the winter on a slope aimed towards would be confined to an area named Greeley This area was not only aimed towards the Sun, a lot it could examine during these few months. This 360-degree panorama shows the tracks way to its winter lodgings. The fact Opportunity had to wait a few months spectrometer in the rover's arm uses radiation of a sample. However, cobalt-57 has a half-life of only problem for a 3-month mission. However, Opportunity was now 8 years in, and weeks compared to the half hour it would have When it was not examining rocks, it could the rotation of Mars to gain insight about It requires many weeks of radio-tracking the measure changes in the spin axis of the planet, as Opportunity was always on the move. The wobbles they were looking for would indicate or not. Opportunity's wait also meant it could examine a ground perspective, even at a microscopic rover's arm, checking for slight changes Months had passed, and winter was turning On sol 2947, Opportunity moved again for the Haven. Luckily, everything that was functioning from Opportunity headed out to the next point of MRO data suggested clays where present in to find it. A beckoning outcrop was spotted around sol something about it that no-one was expecting. Much like Opportunity's landing site, these observed, however, this time they were very They were also smaller than what Opportunity diameter, and not rich in iron like the landing A few of the exposed blueberries observed structure. Scientists described these blueberries as middle. They are different in concentration. They are different in structure. They are different in composition. They are different in distribution." It was quite the mystery. Opportunity had just one more place to visit the clay patch dubbed 'Whitewater Lake'. On its way there, the Earth and Mars was just where Mars is behind the Sun, which blocks and the rover. This has happened a few times during the course gave mission controllers a bit of a scare, onboard computer reset into a standby mode. Thankfully, communications were restored, carried on to Whitewater Lake. And it was there Opportunity discovered &quot;Esperance&quot;, image, which is about the size of a human This was it; the treasure scientists had been Esperance's composition was found to be higher and iron, more so than any other rock Opportunity Testing found that this rock had a clay mineral Opportunity spent weeks here, making sure it could get done before Martian winter came Sights were set on a place called Solander 1.5 km further south. Opportunity left Cape York on sol 3344, having Mars' surface. It had found the best evidence out of any on Mars. Even though this huge discovery had been made, Mission controllers wanted more evidence of Point, about 1.5km further south from Esperance. Martian winter was starting to come around sunlight, from the length of the day, to the To maximise the generation of power for the it's a north facing slope, meaning as Opportunity be angled towards the Sun too. It was also believed to contain more evidence in the rocks, as spotted by the Mars Reconnaissance 1.5 km doesn't seem so far away, but Opportunity 2cm/s, and it often travelled half that to Scientists didn't want it to crash into would move forward a bit, look around for Along the way, the floor underneath Opportunity It was primarily large chunks of rocks, smoothed the gaps, almost like a random mosaic. Flat rocky ground is the ideal terrain for way to Solander Point. Much like the rest of the mission blueberries two across. By Sol 3390, Opportunity made it to its winter Even while working here, energy production per day. Any lower than that, and the rover would have This was due to the Martian winter, but also solar panels, and there hadn't been a cleaning This low power mode meant that work around Sol 3530 that a cleaning event finally pushed day. Cleaning events occur when wind blows extremely Because Mars is so arid, there's nothing atmosphere is so thin, these dust particles A bit like blowing dust off the cover of a Dust settles on the rover over time, especially big, they can be seen from space. Around Sol 3519, Opportunity spent the day However, embarrassingly, the mesh they use rover was wrong, meaning the instruments on taken were blurry and the Alpha Particle X-ray it was looking at. This was quickly rectified, and the usual control again. A bizarre discovery that was noticed just Island. Opportunity often took days to examine certain some variation between one photo, and another This rock seems to have appeared out of nowhere. Mission controllers weren't so impressed impact, or even Opportunity bumping the rock A flyby of the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter that theory. But mission controllers sent Opportunity on further. This caused outrage online, with people suspecting with us on Earth, or that is was a type of photos. Some people even went to the lengths of suing Pinnacle Island further by imaging it with arm. However, before that really got going, as the mystery was solved. Opportunity had indeed cracked a rock in half, As far as we are aware, this was the first whole mission. But the chances of it occurring were likely less and less mobile through wear and tear. This means that the rover itself now had to objects, instead of the arm simply reaching Another problem that was becoming more and computer randomly resetting. Although Opportunity was always able to turn worth of science activities. By Sol 3749, these resets caused about half Mission controllers narrowed the problem down Flash memory can get temperamental after repeated before they can be sent back to Earth, and drive. This would not only clear the storage, but itself, so those cells can then be avoided By Sol 3773, the reformatting was completed Soon thereafter, Opportunity reached Wdowiak As this was going on, a visitor from the outer Mars. Its trajectory would take it just 130,000km on towards the Sun. This visitor was again not an alien, but Comet The Oort Cloud is found well beyond Pluto in orbits that take millions of years to complete. Because it had such a long time to accelerate its orbit, the trip from Mars to the closest That's 56km per second. However, because of the close flyby of Mars, Mars where actually in a better spot to witness Mission controllers of the various missions that are ejected from the comet travelling spacecraft in orbit around Mars. As such, Hubble, as well as spacecraft around Fortunately, mission controllers had already another comet that passed by Mars only the Comet ISON, however, was 80 times further and too dim for Opportunity to spot. Unfortunately, it was day just as Siding Spring was able to snap a couple of photos of it Can you spot it? Here's the annotated version of the same As it passed by, none of the spacecraft were they did observe from this flyby was completely As it passed by, it plunged Mars' weak magnetic Unlike Earth, Mars doesn't have a magnetic Its magnetic field comes from plasma high weak charge. This is enough to deflect solar wind coming solar flares push past this induced magnetic Comet Siding Spring had a very similar effect Comets are also surrounded by a magnetic field, wind, this time with the comet's atmosphere, A comet's coma can reach out for a million Siding Spring passed Mars, Mars was enveloped This merged both magnetic fields for the duration both objects interacting strongly with each particles to space as a result. However, apart from the image Opportunity went largely unnoticed by the rover. 2015 was quickly approaching, and Opportunity take the odometer reading of Opportunity to Completing a marathon in 11 years? That's a pretty impressive finishing time. In celebration of this milestone, mission with a replica of Opportunity as they crossed But there was more to Marathon Valley than here that mission controllers wanted to investigate. To get down into Marathon Valley, Opportunity yet, 32 degrees. Such was the steepness of this slope, that began to flow off. After successfully descending down the slope, as the Spirit of St. Louis. It's actually a small crater, yet it has Unfortunately, it was around here that the reset again. Although mission controllers had narrowed the flash drive, quarantining this section problem. The solution had helped somewhat though, a few times a day they were getting before the Eventually though, engineers decided to bypass rover in RAM-only mode. The danger there though was that RAM gets any scientific data not transmitted back to the onboard computer turn off. The northern edge of Marathon Valley was a a ridge named Knudsen Ridge. In these regions, Opportunity was again looking on Mars. Mission controllers detected clays on these to these reddish areas seen in the enhanced Opportunity found these rocks to be brittle rocks it had previously observed, as well They were unlike a lot of other rocks in the Although data collection was constant here, The alpha spectrometer on Opportunity's anaylsis that would have taken minutes at days or weeks. This was also combined with Opportunity's really starting to struggle. As a result, it took Opportunity well over It began to head deeper into Endeavour, and A dust devil was spotted on the crater floor. Spirit, Opportunity's sister rover, had a lot rarer for Opportunity. It is believed that dust devils passing over cleaning events that removed dust off the Opportunity's next goal was again found might have been carved out by water. A gully had never been closely examined by were excited by what they might find. But getting there was tricky. On its way down the crater rim, it passed and Clark Gap, down Bitterroot Valley, to On its way down, it took some spectacular sand dunes stretching across the crater floor. Upon reaching Spirit Mound, Opportunity had 12 Earth years. All things considered, Opportunity was in 450 watts of power from its solar panels. On its way to the gully, it would stop periodically select rocks and measuring argon in the atmosphere. Opportunity finally reached the gully in September The gully was named Perseverance Valley. Scientists wanted to know whether it was water, From the shape of the gully, it certainly Opportunity also spotted rocks lining the Could these have been deposited by water currents? As it turned out, Opportunity wasn't able After several months of examining the area, And what better way to celebrate than by taking You'll notice this image is very blurry, focus microscopic imager on its arm. It was only designed for very close targets. In June of 2018, the MRO detected the formation This isn't unusual, Mars has seen its fair fairly regular basis. Opportunity had even lived through some itself. However, within days of its first formation, one. It very quickly spread across the entire planet, for a period of low power. On the 3rd June, Opportunity was producing had dropped to 345 watts. By the 6th June, it had plummeted to 133 watts. Dust caught up by this storm filled the atmosphere, to the point where it would have barely even The worst storm Opportunity had experienced atmospheric opacity, known as a tau value, This is almost enough for Opportunity to not This storm, on the other hand, had a tau value storm. Although operations were kept very basic, and evening, by the 12th June, Opportunity The storm dragged on for months, and with more hope that Opportunity would wake up on Three months later, the storm finally subsided hibernation mode, and efforts were made to By October, the storm had cleared completely, even after 350 attempts. From November on, mission controllers hoped on its panels, that wind would blow a lot later all the way through to February, mission mission dead. The 15-year, or 5352-sol Mars mission had And what a mission it was. Opportunity measured temperatures, atmospheric the real prize was the definitive proof that that it held stable bodies of liquid water While we may take that for granted now, when Shortly before communication was cut off, back one last panorama of its final resting Its famous last communication was poetically it's getting dark", and its final image And there we have it! A recap of the entire Opportunity mission. Thanks for watching! And a big thanks to my patrons and members If you want to support Astrum too, find the Subscribing and liking also goes a long way All the best! And see you next time.