Reviewer: Morgane Quilfen Hi, I'm Lynne Franklin. I have one question for you. How would you like to be a mind reader? (Audience) Yes. Because part of me is thinking, &quot;I bet your mind's thinking, Here's the truth. People's brains process information - And their body language will tell you You just need to know what to look for And it's not one of those her arms are crossed, she's frowning, It's actually understanding and then presenting your information in a way that people can see it, and increase the chances to whatever you're proposing, and also decrease the chances like this. Back in my 20s, before I knew I had a client who was and he would sit and he was always looking down, And I thought, &quot;Okay, He just feels comfortable And then as time went on, I thought, and he doesn't know And finally, because I thought, &quot;Every time he's looking up, and I'm offended!&quot; And there was one point - &quot;Excuse me, I'm up here.&quot; Ooh, yeah, talk about judgmental. Here's the scoop. This guy's brain worked in a way that he was never going And no matter how many times I wanted him to use, all that did was make both of us So, how can you tell? How can you read people's body language We are going to show you right now. And that means I'm going to bring out (Applause) Thank you, James. James represents 75% of the world. You didn't know this about James, but James is a looker. (Laughter) What that means is that James' brain in pictures and images. And here's how we can tell from his body language. First thing, he stands up tall. He has good posture. Second, he's dressed well because appearance The next thing that he holds a little stress lift up your shoulders a bit - Next thing, you'll notice because James looks up and he looks up more often Next thing you'll notice about James Suck them in. And this is a chicken-and-egg thing. We're not quite sure but most of them do. And the other thing about lookers Look at them, look at them, look at them, Thanks, James. James: Thank you. (Applause) Lynn Franklin: Okay, now that you know here are the two things you do The first is that you give because he literally believes if you do not look at him, and you are ignoring him. The second thing you do with lookers is you give them words &quot;I see what you mean&quot; or, &quot;Look at this&quot; or, &quot;Let's picture So, you use the type of language Those are lookers. Seventy-five percent Our next body language model is Marge, and Marge represents (Applause) Marge is a listener. What this means is that Marge's brain in words and sounds. And this is the body language First, Marge - because appearance (Laughter) Sorry, Marge. Next, Marge has a tendency because that's where you look when you're remembering Next thing you'll notice about Marge is that a lot of times, It's called &quot;telephone posture.&quot; Other thing you'll notice about Marge is that she has a tendency Go ahead and mumble. Marge: (Mumbles) (Laughter) LF: And it's not that she's crazy, it's that she thinks in words and sounds, so she's literally talking to herself. Another thing you'll notice about Marge - yep, she's the &quot;pen clicker&quot; These are listeners, Thanks, Marge. Marge: Thank you. (Applause) LF: If you want to appeal to listeners, The first thing, you do not give them It freaks them out. That's exactly what was going on So, what you do is that when they're speaking, And when you're speaking, The second thing you do with listeners &quot;That sounds good to me&quot; or, &quot;Let's talk this over.&quot; That's the type of language so you're using that to appeal with them. Listeners, 20% of the people in the world. And our final body language And Marina represents Give her a round of applause. (Applause) Marina is a toucher. Not what you think. (Laughter) What that means is that Marina's brain in feelings and tactilely. And here's the kind of body language First thing and the biggest whether or not they've ever met you they are ready to hug you. (Laughs) Second thing you'll notice that they are dressed for comfort Next thing is that they have full lips. Give them big lips. (Laughter) Same thing - I know, Next thing you'll notice about touchers because they are trying to decrease between you and them, and build rapport that way. Touchers also have a tendency when they're in conversation with you. And touchers also because that's where you look when you're remembering Thanks, Marina. Marina: Thank you. (Applause) LF: You want to build rapport 5% of the people in the world? Here are the two things you do. If you feel comfortable, (Laughter) Appropriately, please. But if you don't feel comfortable, if you've never met somebody the last thing you want to do is go ... because we've all done that, So, if a toucher's coming at you stick your hand out. Give these people That's what they're looking for. The second thing you do with touchers is you use language that either So, &quot;I want to hear &quot;Let's get in touch.&quot; &quot;Reach out and tell me what you think.&quot; That's the kind of language people who process information I'll read your mind again, and you're probably thinking, Let's figure that out right now. What I want you to do is close your eyes, and remember an important memory. Now, this could be something maybe your 10th birthday party or something that happened So, an important memory. Now I want you to pay attention Are you remembering it like a movie Are you remembering it or describing what happened? Or are you remembering it by how you felt Okay, open up your eyes. How many of you Right, most of you. How many of you or remembering what people said? Right, listeners. And finally, how many of you or how things felt to you? Right, now you know who you are. That's the good news. Here's the bad news. You're going to treat everybody else And you've already seen when you're working who has a different way of thinking. Here's my invitation to you. I want you to start paying attention to figure out how they think. Because here's the magic part of it. Once you start presenting your ideas they will say yes to you more often. But here's the scoop too. I'm not asking you because you can't change It's true, you think in all three ways, but just the way you have a dominant hand, you have a dominant style. You can't change that. But what you can do is accommodate with the people you're with in order to build rapport, which allows you to reach that you're hanging out with. And here's the other magic thing. You don't even have to figure out how their brains work. Interested? Right, all you need to do is listen to So, if you're in a phone conversation, If you're reading an email, People who are lookers People who are listeners People who are touchers You don't have to be in that same space So, here's my challenge to you. Go back and read some of the emails and you'll notice, the kind of language that you're using, and it'll back that up. It happens with everybody. So, 10 minutes ago, you didn't think to read their minds. And now you know what to do. So, practice this stuff or the people at work, and when you do this, and when you use these tools to build rapport with all kinds you'll become the most Thank you. (Applause)