2021 was not a fresh start. A sampling of newspapers' front pages, a a scroll through your trusted news sites all mean a new world, a fresh fourth digit doesn't Rather, 2021 was a year of news stories evolving, Pandemic stories went from panic and uncertainty the vaccine and its roll out; stories on paper-product outright supply chain chaos; coverage of police protests moved from the streets and into the The strongest point of continuity from last of stories burned so bright that they left So, we did it again, we assembled a list of likely missed in 2021. Some rules are the same from last year. We're not covering the big stories--you war, the traffic jam in the Suez Canal, and C-word. In its absence, you'll notice that two other change, and coup d'etats. These themes point to the change in this year's distant from the C-word, this edition's general populace--stories that often revolve and unnervingly unstable governments. The stories aren't all dark though-2021 the heartening and, of course, the quirky. Not only does this people-first focus inform the stories themselves. Rather than going from most populous to least Index or HDI. HDI is a metric aimed to quantify standard and 1 based on three dimensions: a long and earnings. The United Nations compiles this list using as life expectancy at birth, gross national for adults 25 and over. HDI was created to, as the UN states, "emphasize be the ultimate criteria for assessing the alone." Put simply, HDI is the best metric available perspective of everyday people. But not all of the 196 UN-recognized countries Missing statistics in per capita income, life seven countries didn't have a score, but and then go from lowest HDI to highest. We've spent a lot of time explaining, but So let's get started with the first 98. We start this year in the country that the North Korea. The Hermit Kingdom countered its natural disposition with South Korea via the hotline that directly The hotline's existed in one form or another in the past two years on account of the failed exercises between the US and the south. From nations we'd like to know more about an innovative auto company and Formula E team its electric polar exploration vehicle in While the world's been sending vehicles the first that spews zero emissions as it to conduct important climate-related research. While it's been tested on French ski resorts, ready for the southern continent-a mission The news out of Nauru suggested that 2021 agreements but a chance to double down. At least that was the case when the country an offshore processing location for asylum destination. While the extension keeps the island nation Australia, it keeps the island connected to including the UN, have decried as cruel and and reports of abuse. 2021 was an Olympics year, and one of the San Marino, a 23-square mile, 60-square kilometer Olympic medal. Women's trap shooter Alessandra Perilli But it wasn't just her award--now the country, the least populated territory in the world 70,000. Somalia got its first taste of the silver of Somalia reopened for a screening featuring The theater closed in 1991 at the start of by warlords as their headquarters, and was Its reopening, though tenuous and under heavy the flick-loving ones. And we're not even into the list but we're Tuvalu's foreign minister went viral for in water-a strong image that demonstrates rises to 15 feet, or 4.5 meters, above sea He's asking that if the nation goes underwater, and rights as a state even if residents have very non-existential crisis. In a less systemic and more personal response most famous resident donated 15,000 ice-creams snap in a summer that set heat records across While the gesture was admittedly minor, it the local population down on its luck. The Vatican's charity office has also provided and has taken locals experiencing homelessness In what's been a tough year for a myriad of peaceful, democratic transition of power. Once President Mahamadou Issoufou relinquished in the country's constitution--Niger elected While claims of fraud, protest, outright violence, successful transition of power was the country's Just as Niger elected its new leader, the own... which the world found out about over Heavily criticized for the government's it's worrying ties with Russia, and its now pulled their military aid out of the country, government had handed over their resignation Just North, in Chad, 2021 saw both the suspension Association by the hands of FIFA. Citing government interference in Chad's and training grounds, an unsurprising overstep ruling body banned the country from international While restrictions were ultimately lifted, 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. The world's youngest country, South Sudan, as the mobile provider, Digitel, launched Digitel is the first South Sudanese-owned goal is to roll out 4G in Juba at competitive areas--a meaningful step in the country's Important infrastructure developments might In July, the heads of state from Burundi and cooperative agreements aimed to foster trade, Ruzizi River-sized gap between the neighboring Expanding rail lines and electrification along the agreements. These deals signal on paper, what it's leaders their words, a historic "brotherhood." Nonuplets is the crossword-worthy term that in 2021. Backed by nation-wide well-wishes, 25-year-old Morocco in late March to deliver seven babies--or To her doctor's surprise, Cisse harbored Cisse's nonuplets now mark the record for As the world warms, cities are getting hot--sometimes This is the case in Freetown, the capital In the face of deadly heat waves, the city draft a comprehensive heat strategy, raise the city's most exposed. Freetown's extreme heat official is not such official in the world, joining those Inspiration takes many forms. For Burkina Faso nationals, it took the form set a new world record in log lifting. While Western media might have overlooked Scotland, his triumph was big news in Burkina airport in droves. The moment wasn't lost on "Iron Biby," as "a message of hope." On the other side of Africa, in Mozambique, begun ditching their tusks in the name of Once rare, tuskless African elephants have years--largely, on account of poachers. With 90% of the country's elephants killed war, tuskless elephants benefitted from an genes. With poaching down and conservation up in tusks will come back in vogue. If you're looking for a reminder that the no further than Eritrea. Over 300 Eritreans born during Italy's rule In the seven-odd decades since colonial rule, on paternal bloodlines have fallen on deaf Racial rules during the fascist period, current and limited mobility under Eritrea's dictatorial from accessing Italian citizenship. The latest push for recognition, though, shows Elegant, meticulously groomed and arranged would expect along the war-torn streets of But that's what you'll run into when passing into shapes, figures, and animals line roadways. In a region of critical strategic importance, surviving strongholds, this city beautification respite from the country's dragging civil "Dragging" also describes the legacy of of the epidemic that "ended" in 2016 may Researchers suspect that this year's Ebola was triggered by a survivor of the earlier While scientists knew that in the rarest of to 500 days after infection, the finding that years was a surprising and frightening development. Fifty thousand dollars still goes a long way. In Liberia, $50,000, and doing the right thing president. That was the case for Emmanuel Tuloe, a teenage bag on the side of the road stuffed with fifty businesswoman who had lost it. His good deed was praised by Liberians and with whom he wanted to discuss getting himself For the first time, male green sea turtles GPS tags to better understand the endangered Not only is the attention a boon for the in-trouble outside researchers and notoriously protective and worshipped this sacred environment for Researchers have tread lightly and, in turn, and expertise to catch and tag the ranging Finding a middle-ground built on trust and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo as activists and officials made headway in 2021. In the wake of the global Black Lives Matter their plan to return all illegitimately procured from the Congo. This plan marks the first systematic, government-led country's violent colonization on the continent. Across several Malawian cities, protesters prices are too darn high. It seems a fair frustration, as one gigabyte expensive rate of all UN-recognized countries. Malawi regulators have expressed their concern to slow social-economic development. The stories of two prominent headline-makers of the World Health Organization, spoke on In November, the director-general said that "systematic blockade" and that people He also noted that Tigrayans were being arrested From Tigray himself, Adhanom never directly to maintain a neutral position on the civil As part of their seemingly odd and certainly Gambia won an important ruling this year. On behalf of the Rohingya, a Muslim ethnic with the backing of the Organization of Islamic filed a lawsuit against Myanmar in 2019. In September of this year, a judge ordered to the persecution in Myanmar--a big win that social media played a key role in the Sudan's progress toward democratic rule military seized power. Since the ousting of Omar al-Bashir in 2019, direction--that was, until this most recent In response to the backslide, thousands of the US suspended a $700 million aid package governance. The story is still developing though, as the imprisoned politicians and return a civilian-government Democracy is in trouble in Haiti, too. After a deadly earthquake, a presidential violence, chaos and uncertainty are primed been postponed for the fourth time. This postponement comes after the prime minister for organizing elections. The PM has said he plans on naming a new council, move that leaves the spiraling state, well, One hundred and thirty young female footballers take a deep breath. Four months after fleeing Kabul as the Taliban Pakistan, the Afghan athletes arrived in London Their escape was made possible by a litany was the chairman of Leeds United--the ranks. 2021 was a big year for African astronomy--especially as the International Astronomical Union retitled "MaramKaire," no spaces. Not only making the asteroid hurtling between serves as a recognition of the life's work member of the African Astronomical Society, science ambitions. Senegal doesn't hold a monopoly on Western Bureaucrats in Togo took the difficult task head on this year by developing a remarkably With only spotty census data and flawed tax registration to verify applicants before paying the US's look antiquated by comparison. The violence that's gripped Ethiopia for African neighbors either--see the tiny In July, protestors responding to a state-led the landlocked Ethiopia to the ocean. Djibouti's port, through which a whopping key economic driver, and while the rail line's Ethiopia has hampered the reliant Djibouti dollars in lost commerce. It's been a tough few years for the ski Resort proved that while unique in terms of Africa, it wasn't an exception to the struggles. Rather than go under when South African border resort adapted, this year offering incentives for the very first time--while also finding staff employed. Chameleons, by their very nature, are hard A chameleon measuring just 29 millimeters And yet, a group of scientists in northern who are now in the record books as the smallest Like so much in Madagascar, though, the future loss has conservationists scrambling to protect From new findings, to expensive and rare findings, diamonds donned by the Queen herself, has claimants who've accused the mining company and detaining them during their time as miners. While the settlement makes "no admission projects and prevent future incidents. In the Ivory Coast, stamping out illegal cocoa But that could change with the adoption of curb global deforestation. If implemented, this plan would require companies GPS data on the product's origin to ensure For the Ivory Coast, spreading the responsibility protect the meager 15% of its biodiverse forest It's been 15 years since Shell's Nigerian of the villages of Goi and Oruma, and 13 years But this year, a Dutch court finally ruled must compensate the villages for a still undecided pipelines to curb the next disaster. In Rwanda, the crackdown on dissidents under to YouTube creators. Dieudonne Niyonsenga, whose channel, Ishema and has over 15 million views, was sentenced guilty of forgery, humiliation of state officials, He was the second Rwandan YouTube critic to expression is becoming increasingly costly. Expressing dissent with Uganda's 900 mile, costly, too. Citing lack of compensation for land and a and international NGOs are raising concerns National Park and borders Lake Victoria. It seems they're fighting an uphill battle Uganda, and companies from France and China, move some see as a scare tactic. Elsewhere on the continent, people's voices In Benin, a law passed that drastically expands in women's hands. What used to be legal only in cases of life-threatening is now allowed on account of a wide range Globally, this move has been hailed by women's Benin the most progressive country on the In a country that's 90% Sahara, with only by. Facing shortages and inconsistent supply, effort to secure $317 million for a project in the south of the arid country. Counting on several financiers from across to urban and rural users in a bid to minimize the region's agricultural potential. From a country with limited water, to one year for sports fans on the island of Comoros, zero for a history-making run by the national Minnows on the continental level, Comoros and went unbeaten during the African Cup League run that will see the nation make the cup Not bad for a team that didn't even exist As teamseas-ers, we don't condone tossing But sometimes such littering lends itself Picking up plastic along the beaches of a across a message in a bottle that had traveled tossed overboard by an American sailor two In a nation struggling with major plastic the friendly note, but also at the fact that bottle. How young is too young to charge someone with Pakistan faced down this very question when the Hindu child peed in an Islamic school In the incident's wake, police charged the a mob vandalized a Hindu temple. Eventually though, the state stepped in and dropped all charges, and organized payment Charges that are sticking, however, were laid having dinner in Cameroon when they were arrested Later, they were sentenced to five years in the male-dominated prison system. The arrests and high-profile nature of the for trans rights--exemplifies the anti-LGBTQ in African countries, with at least 30 of Technology seems to be a storyline, and this held at the Al-Hawl refugee camp in Syria, in order to receive income and the slim chance The camp, which is home to nearly 60,000 women extremist ideas. Yet, jihadist men reportedly see it as a badge these virtual marriages, even though they For something much more tangible, a Solomon a septic system struck something hard, but Instead, he discovered more than 100 unexploded and a tragic reminder of the devastation the when thousands of bombs were dropped and munitions The ordinances were successfully, and thankfully, In the opposite of underground, Zimbabwe plans in February. It will be used to help organizations and cover and drought, as well as transmit signals Zimbabwe's space program has grown quickly and follows on the heels of other African Though many countries focus on the pressing satellite fleet now stands at 44 as they increasingly investment. Break out those dancing shoes, because the intangible cultural heritage. The Republic of the Congo and the Democratic the official designation, which would protect The rumba was born in 19th-century Cuba, combining melodies of Spanish colonizers. But it's not just of historical importance, too, including the 1960's "Independence the freedom of Belgian Congo. In the same region, downstream effects from felt in a toxic spill that sickened more than fish and wildlife. Waste from the largest diamond mine in Angola reached the Congo river, where large amounts The mine, which is partially owned by a Russian but said that it was just sand and mud, and for the disaster. There's no accountability in this story a country that's increasingly cracking down American journalist Danny Fenster from prison for charges that included incitement of violence The military in Myanmar has clamped down on stripping publications of their licenses and Fenster, however, was the first foreign journalist warrant, and thanks to negotiations by a former Imprisonment in an authoritarian country is fruit bats descending on a condensed swamp But for conservationists in Zambia, it's The bats are key to African ecology because the seeds during their continental migration. Now these environmentalists are fighting a wheat, soy, and corn farm that would be built the bat's habitat, and existence, altogether. In another story about West African instability, in after a successful September coup, marking year. Doumboya's party overthrew former president corruption, but political upheaval continues council has placed economic sanctions and Sometimes governmental overreach isn't always and declawed lion named Hima. He was reunited with his owner after the Cambodian Initially, Hima was seized after TikTok videos Penh neighborhood--something the government But additional posts showed a clear bond between public calls for reunification, the prime Speaking of lions, Kenya is known as a wildlife there was an unknown number until the country Using planes, drones, helicopters, boats, of more than 30 species across nearly 60% one of the world's most unique ecological Using estimates from the past, the numbers up, but black rhinos, just 897, have fallen Kenya counts wildlife, and Nepal counts how Now, they're unhappy with three Indian climbers world's highest peak in 2016. This year, the Nepalese government penalized preventing them from actually trying to get The Nepalese ministry verifies climbs through had the photos, presumably photoshopped, they have feasibly completed the trip. Back at sea level, impoverished East Timor exploring eco-tourism, offshore drilling, boost the country's revenue. Australia has proposed capturing its own carbon nearly depleted Bayu-Undan oil field, which of years. Proponents see this as a creative environmental climate change responsibility from a rich Nearby Vanuatu is a remote Pacific island So why did some 2,000 politicians, business recently? Because for $130,000, they can. The citizenship-by-investment program is legal, to the UK and European Union. But, some worry the increased interest in for nearly 42% of government revenue in 2020--might international mischief. In a move that signals the increasing geopolitical employees on the continent in the country and online freedoms made it an ideal location. The social media company announced it would open an office there once pandemic restrictions For more than 35 years, Eswatini's King flaunted a lavish, luxurious lifestyle. The problem? Sixty percent of the country's 1.1 million his opulence. For months, residents have participated in dead and many more wounded. Neighboring African countries, including South are stepping in to help navigate the movement, there's a brighter future for this developing A plot to smuggle 55 million methamphetamine meth disguised in beer crates was thwarted single drug seizure in Asia. They were discovered in a truck in an area meeting point of Myanmar, Laos, and Thailand, and smuggling. With recent unrest in Myanmar's Shan region have looked to alternative routes--in In another superlative, Pacific Islander Nicole States of Micronesia to reach Challenger Deep--the lies within the territorial waters of the Her completion of the 10-hour journey, which below the ocean's surface, also makes her to ever do it. She's a PhD student studying climate change's most remote places for research is all in On the topic of climate change, in an effort Sao Tome and Principe made an innovative announcement oil kind. Instead, they're engaging in a public-private Conversion technology--the first commercial The floating platforms use the difference temperatures to create green energy out of Another island nation concerned for its future starred in its own version of "House Hunters" square kilometers, of land on Fiji to make somewhere to go as sea levels rise. To use that land in the meantime, Kiribati build farms that would provide fresh produce imports all of its food. Some say this is another land grab by China, for Kiribati. Both of these takes miss what might be the overseas climate refuge in the first place. Garment workers in Bangladesh are more protected international fashion companies that includes inspections at the factories, and contributions The accord replaces one that was created after people in 2013 and was set to expire. Human rights workers praised the move, which and keep Bangladesh as one of the top garment That pandemic coffee habit may be helping economic reports. GDP growth for 2021 was expected to be between double that, with the country's economy This is thanks to increased activity in retail issues, higher prices for coffee, which is If two's a party and three's a crowd, Some states, including the country's most people and would be the world's fifth most two-child policy and sterilization measures Though it still has to be adopted, the proposal jobs to anyone who has more than two children, who gets sterilized. Twelve states have actually adopted similar in a country that's already the second most In the early 1900s, Namibia was known as German with its dark history there, which included of thousands of native peoples into the desert This year, then-Chancellor Angela Merkel reached over 30 years to benefit aid programs in the But, she stopped short of calling the funding "reconciliation" money that would help China continues to expand its presence around subtle. In the past year, satellite imagery shows in a 60-square-mile, or 150-square kilometer, before, when India and China went to head years ago. Because of aligned interests when it comes Bhutan's claims to the contested territory. Across the world, the situation in Nicaragua much better in early 2021 when President Daniel the nation is mired in social and economic That's when he established the National The Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, which Its goal is to develop a space agency that but it quite literally hasn't gotten off When one thinks of palm oil plantations, Malaysia But Guatemala's emerging market makes it oil, however that success, of course, comes More production has led to companies grabbing In response, some of Guatemala's indigenous 17 million residents--are resisting by Native baby sea turtle numbers on the 10-island way. The good news is that nest numbers last year estimates from 2015. The bad news is that sea turtles' gender where the eggs are laid, and, well, the globally-warmed hatchlings are now female, which unfortunately list. When it comes to finding fodder for Central a fun fact: Tajikistan's primary export By September 2021, more than 1.6 million Tajiks These migrant workers then send billions of In 2019, actually, this figure accounted for making the ex-Soviet country still very dependent Anyone who invested early in Bitcoin should make it crypto-rain now that the country became as legal tender. Though some, including major lender the International volatile and risky nature of cryptocurrencies, who can dip into their Chivo wallet app and In the ongoing fight against ISIS, officials capture of the Islamic State's finance minister, The kicker? He's alive. The arrest could provide Iraq and international about the terrorist organization that, although years, maintains quite active in sleeper cells Two residents in Guyana are not staying quiet argue is a fundamental right to humanity's The pair is suing their country for having it violates the government's legal duty to a healthy environment. This David-versus-Goliath fight pits them 8 billion gallons of oil in offshore drilling, extraction site in the world. There's nothing like the discovery of 1.3 point in time seem, well, short. Archeologists in Morocco recently discovered ancestor homo erectus, almost doubling the era in north Africa. What's mind-boggling is that these tools human ancestors, which date all the way back In Kyrgyzstan, Central Asia's only democracy, out in a snap election that put populist politician power. The former Soviet country sits between China, and Russia, to which it still has significant president who has vowed to remain allied with to balance amid his own country's partially There's some positive news about elephants the population of forest elephants--a cousin to be doing better than expected. Previous estimates reported there were about but a recent study shows that number to be regulations and land conservation measures. Athleisure-wearing, latte-drinking urbanites of espresso to deal with their supply-chain like Lululemon and coffee coming from Vietnam, conditions has prompted millions of workers homes. Manufacturers are having a tough time luring chain already in crisis. An Arizona man who conducted a years-long the Marshall Island to American parents was to pay hundreds of thousands in restitution The man would pay around $10,000 for pregnant and then arrange for their newborns to be Officials estimate some 70 adoptions took of free association," which allowed them On the subject of pregnancy, Polish researchers child. Originally they thought the mummy mommy was a small femur bone thought to belong to a Scientists called the find unique, and important been done on females. In not-so-sweet news, Ben &amp; Jerry's announced Palestinian territories, making a very public there, which are not recognized by international Israeli officials called the decision a "capitulation The brand, however, will still be available territory of Israel, which sort of makes this It's banned for poachers to remove succulents hasn't stopped it from being an explosive of the world's succulent species. Specifically, people are harvesting Conophytum, consists of over 100 species, many of which They're then sold to hot markets including once considered low-class have become popular Across the pond, Venezuelans have been fleeing human migrations, and one-third of them head Recently, Colombia announced its decision than 1.7 million migrants who had fled there That means the migrants can work legally for A collapsed economy has created a humanitarian life may find that with Colombia's legal Last year the president of Turkmenistan erected the Alabai. This year, he took it a step further and announced canine. The paw-liday included a contest for the country's guard dog. Alabai now shares the special day with another horse breed. Both are considered important parts of the pastime. Traditionally, the transfer of power is supposed In Samoa, it wasn't. Fiame Naomi Mata'afa finally became the several months of constitutional crisis during refused to acknowledge her victory. The former leader had led the country for down. After a series of legal battles and appeals, making history doing it as Samoa's first In Belize, officials are both making and saving This year a coalition of conservation organizations last pristine rainforests, preserving 367 land from deforestation. This area is part of the larger, which crosses biodiversity hotspot roughly the size of Florida Something that's not going to last forever is constitutionally barred from seeking another Ahead of the May elections, those looking including his daughter Sara Duterte; son and Ferdinand "Bongbong" Marcos; former actor retired boxing star Manny Pacquiao. With candidates expected to perform onstage and dancing abilities, the pool is certainly To the south, the Indonesian island of Biak world. That's because Indonesian president Joko nation, personally pitched the tech giant sits 70 miles or 110 kilometers, south of Facing displacement, the indigenous population Musk has also stayed mum on the issue, but Atmospheric conditions also made headlines Paz hit 21, and that's on a scale that typically The Bolivian capital sits at 11,800 feet, levels of clouds caused by climate change on the UV index. The World Health Organization calls an index at these levels starts to burn the skin. At 21, people just stay inside. More than doubling the age of most of her Uzbekistan took her final bow at the Olympics It was Oksana Chusovitina's eighth Olympics; and capped off with 11 medals won at 17 world Up next? Spending more time with her Olympic wrestling most Olympic gymnasts. In Libya, there's some frightening news A report commissioned by the United Nations the country's civil war may have been carried Allegedly, militia fighters were hunted down did not require data connectivity. Though it's implied, the report doesn't Vagueness here is de rigueur, as the report or killed. The island-nation of Tonga managed to largely with its own epidemic now, as methamphetamine in the country of 100,000. It's so bad that the king made a plea to crisis, which is accounting for 60% of admissions up local prisons. Tonga has long been a stop on the drug route just means that the drugs are increasingly Something else that's stopping is the Parana South America's second-largest river straddles it's the lowest it's been in more than Scientists say deforestation in the Amazon from the forest itself, has significantly As a result, the river is 10.5 feet or 3 meters and businesses of people who populate more Also threatening was two mens' plot to unseat they were sentenced to 15 years in prison. They were aides to the king's half-brother, in 2004. But not to be deterred, his plan using these to oust Abdullah. The twist? Some say all three may have been unknowingly Abdullah as an obstacle in securing an Israeli-Palestinian The king, however, will remain in power and When an immigrant commits a crime in the United Lately, however, the loads have been light on a recent 350-passenger Airbus A350-900 That evens out to about $66,000, or 50,000 These costs have people wondering about the others say it's critical to get convicted Finds that will happily be sent overseas include this year in Botswana. A 1,174-carat and 1,098-carat diamond were mines, which are some of the top-producing Each diamond is about the size of someone's the market which is trying to rebound after and the soon-to-be betrothed. Another unearthing took place in Mongolia, technology to look below ground and map the the Mongolian Empire established by Genghis Using magnetic fields to determine the footprint's determined, among other things, that the city to laborers and craftspeople, while the majority And that brings us to halfway. We'll plow through the remaining 98 entries don't have to wait until then, or sit through today. The streaming platform was made by creators Medlife Crisis, Real Life Lore, and more. We all wanted to focus on content, and not so we made our own streaming site. On Nebula, you can watch dozens of your favorite and ad-free, occasional extended cuts and Of course, we still want you all to be able with CuriosityStream, which has thousands at your fingertips and is a big fan of what So when you sign up for CuriosityStream at included for free. Even better news is that CuriosityStream is benefit: CuriosityStream plus Nebula all for I think we all need some good news after some how about you try watching CuriosityStream's newly-launched James Webb Telescope was designed So, to get your time and money's worth, button on screen or heading to CuriosityStream.com/Wendover, creators while you're at it.