What do you think of when you think of Pirates? Do you conjure up images of fearless sea dwellers, Perhaps you think of the more violent realities crews crossing swords, their captains dueling Maybe you even imagine the ungroomed pirate his time before he unleashes a bold escape How long before you think of Blackbeard? Of Captain Kidd? Black Bart Roberts? Johnny Depp? Those men were fearsome, exceptional pirates, charm to rob the Caribbean blind during the History has made them exemplars of the Golden Beyond the top-rate pirates, somewhere on the English man born under the name John Rackham, Jack. The Pirate Republic The Golden Age of Piracy was well underway in another man's spyglass. This was the "Classical" age of Pirates, robbed the rich coffers of Spanish, French, It lasted around 80 years, from roughly 1650 Every great epoch needs a cultural center, Decades before loyalist settlers escaped the Nassau became an overnight pirate haven, with to congregate on one massive, pirate-friendly Even though it only became a pirate port around end of the Age - Nassau would represent ship, cove, or port. Pirates were a curious lot. They spent their days relieving hard-working their nights trying to drink all the rum in You'd be forgiven for thinking that these with bigger ships and curvy swords, but in pirates could be surprisingly progressive. Many of the pirates that set anchor off Nassau or another, and the system chewed them up They were decommissioned, unprotected, or they turned to a way of life that promised else. Nassau and the crews that operated there became who were committed to the pirate's anti-establishment to share. In the early 18th century, the voices that names survived the ensuing centuries: Charles Samuel Bellamy. Benjamin Hornigold. Edward England. John Rachham [comedic pause] was not one of He was a B-list pirate at best, working as Rackham talked a big game, as many pirates he begins our story as only a lieutenant on Despite his lowly status, relative to the and his peers were enjoying the absolute heights Nassau was pure paradise - a centrally located crew to escape out to sea, rob a few ships, The island itself was heavily fortified, thanks making it nearly impossible for individual pirates that went to ground there. Once on the island, a thriving pirate community could ever ask for. It was a never-ending party, thrown by pirates There were no laws, no rules, and opportunities What could possibly go wrong? Between a Rack and a Hard Place For the first 15 years of the 18th century, War of the Spanish Succession. Most of the great powers of Western and Central throne after the death of Charles II in 1700, sorting out the ensuing conflicts. By the time it was over, pirates had complete in all sorts of shameless piratey behavior When King George the First realized something the Proclamation for Suppressing of Pirates All pirates had one year to turn themselves clemency for all past actions. No tricks. No traps. Pirates could end their pirating and take For an age often marked by near-absolute monarchical a bunch of dirty commoners. It may have even been a tacit admission from better, or provided better, for those who hope as a healthy life. The "King's Pardon," as it would come Pirate Republic. Some felt that the English Crown prioritizing was over. A few may have even wanted to take those democratic country. But the most vocal group were the "pure" the crown. Rackham and the rest of Vane's crew were So when George sent former privateer Woodes once and for all, Vane and Rackham felt obliged greeting. In July of 1718, Vane arranged for a small and fire at Rogers' incoming frigate; he at Rogers in the hope of destroying his retinue Rogers ultimately survived the attack, while the chaos. Vane and Rackham spent the next four months islands. While Rogers slowly convinced pirates to accept was coordinating more attacks than ever. And so it was that protagonist Jack came to In November of 1718 - four months after two months after the deadline for the King's friends set their sights on a magnificent This was a French warship, almost certainly sugar, tobacco, and who knows what else. Rackham and his friends badly wanted to take Captain Vane gave the order to engage, but and their ship's superior speed would not Vane wanted to retreat and live to fight another was appalled by. It was a no-win situation for the veteran fighting a hopeless battle against a massive his increasingly violent crew. Vane was in command, at least for the moment, But after the pirates had safely escaped the mad at the lack of a score. Ever the democracy, Vane's pirates took ready for a change in leadership. Charles Vane and his band of supporters were before, and they weresent away. In his place, the crew had elected a new man, the mayhem and bloody piracy the crew was A Memorable Wardrobe; A Forgettable Pirate Many sailed through the Caribbean developed some captain John Rackham was no exception. Rackham had a habit of wearing eye-catching cloth; thus, Calico Jack was born on the high Unfortunately, it didn't take long for Rackham than he did a captain. It was easy to advocate for bold plans and Jack soon found that designing and executing it looked. Like a modern-day politician who regrets the Calico Jack suddenly had to provide all the Vane. What's more, he had to do it while Governor and cleaning up the region. Rackham started small, targeting low-rent He found modest success, and even executed of Captain Charles Johnson's A General History According to Johnson, Calico Jack and crew and a few men had gone ashore to resupply At low tide, as the sun was setting, a Spanish coastline had sailed into view and spotted This was a powerful ship, that already had The Spanish couldn't mount a proper attack morning, then attack the pirates at first Calico Jack and his Crew spotted the Spanish Rather than try to escape from the port at as everyone fled to shore. As the Spanish ship fired on the pirate sloop captured English sloop, incapacitated the could realize what had happened. It was a nifty move, and one that likely marked pirate captain. But Captain Jack had just as many setbacks In December of 1718, for example, he targeted for, ahem, repossession, but drew up a lousy Rackham liked the Kingston because it was wait to seize the ship at a tactically isolated sight of Jamaica's Port Royal, where the by the ship's merchants. They hired bounty hunters, who caught up with Pinos, off the western end of Cuba. Historians are unsure what happened next - some gone to land and passed out drunk, leaving aboard. Other versions suggest that Jack was a coward, the hunters. Either way, Rackham was in no position to his best capture before he had the chance Calico Jack wasn't disciplined enough to and he wasn't foolhardy enough to launch they may. So a few months after overthrowing his captain decided to give up, return to Nassau, and them a pardon, months after the King's deadline. Upon landing at Nassau, Rackham and his crew Calico Jack informed him that deposed captain You see, none of them actually wanted to be But Vane had pressed them into service, forcing in the West Indies. Once wholesome John Rackham had let a successful sailed straight back to Nassau, hoping to English Crown. It was, quite accidentally, a completely brilliant Governor Rogers had never forgiven Vane for continued to hold a grudge against him. So in 1719, Rogers officially pardoned Calico to live a clean, decent life, free of piracy. Annie, Get Your Flintlock Pistol For all we know, John Rackham genuinely did returned to Nassau and accepted Woodes Roger's However, Rackham hadn't accounted for the anything. It wasn't long back on land before our former woman in a Bohemian pub. Anne Bonny was an Irish lass that immediately The two had instant chemistry and were immediately As Rackham settled back into civilian life, and to hold, as they lived out their days There was just one problem. Anne was already married. Anne must have had a type, because her husband John Bonny had happily taken the pardon and Rogers as an informant on pirate activity. In short, he was a snitch, helping Rogers to justice. Rackham and Anne Bonny tried everything they together. They pleaded directly to John Bonny, with When he said no, they took their case to Rogers, as provincial governor and John Bonny's In a proposal that's both sweet and sexist, as an option, offering to buy Anne from John Nothing worked. With no other options available to them, Calico Life was their last recourse. So in August of 1720, Jack, Anne, and a few Nassau Harbor and returned to the sea. Anne Bonny may very well be the reason we Many sailors at the time believed that having well-respected pirates like Blackbeard wouldn't arms alongside one. Successful female pirates were awfully rare, explains why some sources report that Anne her lover and co-captain. During Calico Jack's second tour of pirate was Anne who was both the brains and the brawn Years of living through a bad marriage had seizing dozens of ships and killing any captives or rat them out to provincial governor. There's plenty of legends that have raised the time she tricked a French crew into surrendering a raised axe. Rackham, by contrast, was mostly enjoying afforded him. He enjoyed his new life with Anne, unencumbered would often invite sailors from captured ships Some even stayed on as new crew members. One such sailor who joined Calico Jack's Mary Read. Anne and Mary became fast friends, with each Both were elated to find some female companionship other. In a bit that might as well be pulled straight jealous of the gabby lad who Anne was suddenly Eventually, Anne had to cue her man in on And for the rest of their days on the sea, thefts, with no one else realizing that two were hiding breasts under their coats. Rackham's Cay Unfortunately for Anne, Mary, and Calico Jack, than a few months. Leaving a relatively calm life to become a your pirate-snitch husband, absconding with every merchant ship from Mexico to the Florida It took all of one month for Governor Woodes Anne Bonny and their crew, and another month on their trail. The walls were closing around John Rackham, this time around. It was only a matter of time before the pirate what happened in the final weeks of 1720. Hunters led by Captain Jonathan Barnet boarded back to Jamaica to be tried for piracy. Mary and Anne mounted a hellish, boisterous were outnumbered. Once again, accounts differ here - some offer a proper defense, while other reports quietly laid down his arms. Whatever the truth, while the women of the breath, John Rackham offered no resistance. He let himself be captured and imprisoned crew watched in horror and disgust. Justice came swiftly for Calico Jack and his Anne Bonny and Mary Read were spared from But the remaining crew - including Rackham later, in Port Royal, Jamaica. Before he died, Anne allegedly visited her He was overjoyed to see her one last time; you had fought like a man, you need not have He was hanged just a few days later, on November As was the case with many pirates of their on display as a warning to other pirates. The Jamaicans chose to hang Calico Jack's - a tiny piece of land known now as Rackham's It's probably fitting that John Rackham's was a monument to his own failure. Calico Jack was not the brightest pirate to In truth, he was an imperfect pirate who accomplished by the company he kept. He was outlived by Charles Vane, his former on an island in the aftermath of a hurricane. He was also outlived by his partner, Anne prison and lived a full life. The prison has no record of Bonny's execution that to mean she slinked away and lived a Her recorded death date is decades later, So Rackham didn't manage to outlive most Golden Age of Piracy. He was never as well-respected, either; men referenced as quintessential late-era figures, Even as a pirate, he fell short - his best him after mere weeks. Perhaps worst of all, his reputation as a and too few fights. He went to his death disrespected by his former Captain Jack was indeed one of the worst pirates But if he was here to defend himself today, fact, heard of him.