Recently, the leadership team decided that their business So they embraced their digital Out went the teams and in came an algorithmic task allocator. Now, instead of people working together, each employee went, clocked in, came back for more. This was scientific standardizing and allocating work. It was super efficient. Well, not quite, because the task allocator didn't know when a customer was going couldn't predict when some crazy kid or when the local high school decided that everybody needed (Laughter) Efficiency works really well when you can predict But when the anomalous kids, customers, coconuts -- well, then efficiency This has become a really crucial issue, this ability to deal with the unexpected, because the unexpected It's why experts and forecasters more than 400 days out. Why? Because over the last 20 or 30 years, much of the world has gone to being complex -- which means that yes, there are patterns, but they don't repeat It means that very small changes And it means that expertise because the system So what that means is that there's a huge amount in the world that kind of defies forecasting now. It's why the Bank of England will say but we don't know why or when. We know that climate change is real, but we can't predict and we don't know which factories It's why companies are blindsided when plastic straws go from staples to rejects overnight, and baffled when a change in social mores turns stars into pariahs ineradicable uncertainty. In an environment that defies efficiency won't just not help us, it specifically undermines and erodes So if efficiency is no longer how should we address the future? What kind of thinking What sort of talents I think that, where in the past we used to now we have to start thinking preparing for events but specifically remain ambiguous. One example of this is the Coalition We know there will be but we don't know where or when or what. So we can't plan. But we can prepare. So CEPI's developing multiple vaccines knowing that they can't predict or which diseases will break out. So some of those vaccines That's inefficient. But it's robust, because it provides more options, and it means that we don't depend Epidemic responsiveness on people who know and trust each other. But those relationships time that is always in short supply So CEPI is developing relationships, knowing that some of those That's inefficient, but it's robust. You can see robust thinking In the past, banks used to hold than they're required to today, because holding so little capital, is what made the banks Now, holding more capital But it's robust, because it protects Countries that are really serious know that they have to adopt multiple forms of renewable energy, not just one. The countries that are most advanced changing their water and food supply because they recognize that by the time that information may very well You can take the same approach Instead of depending on a single they try to be everybody's friends, because they know they can't predict which markets might It's time-consuming and expensive, but it's robust because it makes their whole economy It's particularly a strategy that know they'll never have so it's just better to have But if you're stuck that's still kind of captured how do you start to change it? Try some experiments. In the Netherlands, home care nursing used to be run standardized and prescribed work to the minute: nine minutes on Monday, eight minutes on Friday. The nurses hated it. So one of them, Jos de Blok, proposed an experiment. Since every patient is different, and we don't quite know why don't we just leave it Sound reckless? (Laughter) (Applause) In his experiment, Jos found in half the time, and costs fell by 30 percent. When I asked Jos what had surprised him he just kind of laughed and he said, &quot;Well, I had no idea it could be so easy to find such a huge improvement, because this isn't the kind of thing sitting at a desk So now this form of nursing and around the world. But in every new country because each place is slightly Of course, not all experiments work. Jos tried a similar approach and found it didn't work because Failed experiments look inefficient, but they're often the only way how the real world works. So now he's trying teachers. Experiments like that require creativity and not a little bravery. In England -- I was about to say in the UK, (Laughter) (Applause) In England, the leading rugby team, is Saracens. The manager and the coach there realized and the data-driven has become generic; really, all the teams So they risked an experiment. They took the whole team away, on ski trips and to look at social projects in Chicago. This was expensive, it was time-consuming, and it could be a little risky putting a whole bunch of rugby players (Laughter) But what they found was that with renewed bonds And now when they're on the pitch they manifest what the manager an unflinching, unwavering dedication to each other. Their opponents are in awe of this, but still too in thrall At a London tech company, Verve, the CEO measures just about but she couldn't find anything to the company's productivity. So she devised an experiment a whole week where each employee helpful, imaginative things that a counterpart does, call it out and celebrate it. It takes a huge amount of time and effort; lots of people would call it distracting. But it really energizes the business and makes the whole company Preparedness, coalition-building, imagination, experiments, bravery -- in an unpredictable age, these are tremendous sources They aren't efficient, but they give us limitless capacity for adaptation, variation and invention. And the less we know about the future, the more we're going to need of human, messy, unpredictable skills. But in our growing we're asset-stripping those skills. Every time we use technology to nudge us through a decision or a choice or to interpret how somebody's feeling or to guide us through a conversation, we outsource to a machine and it's an expensive trade-off. The more we let machines think for us, the less we can think for ourselves. The more -- (Applause) The more time doctors spend the less time they spend The more we use parenting apps, the less we know our kids. The more time we spend with people that the less we can connect with people And the less compassion we need, What all of these is to force-fit a standardized model onto a world that is What gets left out? Anything that can't be measured -- which is just about (Applause) Our growing dependence on technology risks us becoming less skilled, more vulnerable to the deep and growing complexity of the real world. Now, as I was thinking about that we know we will have to confront, I went and I talked to whose own businesses had gone when they teetered These were frank, Many men wept just remembering. So I asked them: &quot;What kept you going through this?&quot; And they all had exactly the same answer. &quot;It wasn't data or technology,&quot; they said. &quot;It was my friends and my colleagues who kept me going.&quot; One added, &quot;It was pretty much But then I went and I talked to a group and I asked them, &quot;Who are your friends at work?&quot; And they just looked blank. &quot;There's no time.&quot; &quot;They're too busy.&quot; &quot;It's not efficient.&quot; Who, I wondered, is going to give them imagination and stamina and bravery when the storms come? Anyone who tries to tell you is just trying to own it, a spurious kind of manifest destiny. The harder, deeper truth is that the future is uncharted, that we can't map it till we get there. But that's OK, because we have so much imagination -- if we use it. We have deep talents if we apply them. We are brave enough to invent things Lose those skills, and we are adrift. But hone and develop them, we can make any future we choose. Thank you. (Applause)