Do you often get stuck at Math problem sums? Want to feel more confident in solving them? Well, here's the good news! You can breeze through Math problems easily if you are good at Math concepts! Hi everyone, i'm Teacher Eileen from Practicle and today, we are going to learn a Math concept called the &quot;Gap and Difference &quot; Concept, which is also known as the &quot;Excess and Shortage&quot; Concept. so some of you might have seen such questions appearing your homework or exams. Until today, it remains one of the more challenging and confusing concepts that parents and students have problems with. Before we get started, is this Gap and Difference Concept something new to you? Do you find it easy or hard? Let me know in the comments below, ok? All right, let's take a look at what we are going to cover in this video! First of all, we are going to learn how to identify the type of questions that are testing us on the Gap and Difference Math concept. Then, you'll learn how to solve a Gap and Difference question through understanding. Does this sound good to you? Let's get started! Take a look at the Math question that we have here. Aunt May wanted to give some children a red packet each for Chinese New Year. (That's fantastic, right?) If she gives each child five dollars, she will have $24 left. If she gives each child $8, she will have $6 left. And we are supposed to find the number of children there were. This, my dear friends, is a classic Gap and Difference Math question! Now some of you may be wondering, but how do we know? Don't worry ,I'm going to teach you how! So Gap and Difference questions are actually special, because they often give us two different scenarios. To identify each scenario, we will look out for the magic word &quot;if&quot;, and it will usually appear twice in a problem. and that's why some people tend to call these questions the &quot;Double if&quot; questions too! Are you able to spot the two scenarios that are given? First, let's find the two &quot;if&quot;s in the question. There we go! The first scenario comes after the first &quot;if&quot;, where after Aunt May gives each child $5, she has 24 dollars left. The second one, comes after the next &quot;if&quot;, where Aunt May gives each child $8 instead! If she does that, she'll only have $6 left. Did you find the two scenarios? So, what's so unique about these two scenarios? Well, they will usually result in three types of situations. Tthe first kind is when both conditions lead us to having too much of something. which is an excess. The second kind, which is when both conditions lead us to having not enough of something. That would be a shortage. Finally, the third kind would be one whereby one condition leads us to having an excess, and the other leads us to having a shortage. So what kind of situation do you think we have in this question? Let's see, In the first case, Aunt May will have $24 left. So that means that she had more than enough money that she needed to give out the $5 red packets. Okay, so looks like we have an excess. In the second case, Aunt May has $6 left after giving the $8 red packets. so it's also an excess. Now can you tell which situation we're dealing with? If you said situation one, that's an awesome answer! Now let's learn how to solve this Gap and Difference question, okay? So here's the secret! The key to solving such questions is to think in terms of the quantity that is different between the two scenarios So what do I mean? In each scenario, The amount that Aunt May gives to each child is different. So the thing we need to think about would be the amount of money that she has. With this in mind, let's start solving the question! We'll look at the two cases separately. In case one, if Aunt May gives each child $5, she will have $24 left. Let's draw 1 unit to represent each child and put $5 in it to represent the amount of money that each child received, ok? Since we do not know the number of children, we'll put dots in between to show that the money is distributed to every child. So at some point, all the happy children would have received their $5 red packet money, correct? When that happens, Aunt May have $24 left. So far so good? By looking at the diagram, can you see what's the amount money that Aunt May has? It's actually this whole thing that you see over here! I'll draw a dotted line to make a mental note of it, ok? This is going to be very important as you'll see later. Now let's look at the case 2. It's given in case 2, that if Aunt May gives each child $8, she will have $6 left. Same thing, let's draw the diagram for this! We have 1 unit representing each child, but this time, each unit would be $8 and this goes on until everyone is happy again. Then, a question pops up in our mind. Where shall we draw her remaining $6? Aha! Remember the dotted line that we drew earlier on it? It was supposed to represent the amount of money that Aunt May had, correct? This line is important because it helps us to see things better Anything on the left of this line is part of the money that Aunt May really had. But anything on the right represents something totally different. It represents the money that she doesn't have. So since we know that the remaining $6 is part of the money that she actually had, let's draw the $6 on the left of the line! All right! So what we do next? Let's compare the two models and see what we can learn from it. We can see that the total amount of money that Aunt May had is the same in both cases, right? Fantastic! Now the strange thing is, why is there a difference in the amount of money that 's leftover? Here, we have $24 and then here, we have $6. Can you see it's because she gave more money to each child in the second case? How much more money is that? To make things easier to compare in both cases, let's try to make part of the $8 here the same as $5. Since the number is very small, and we know that 8 = 5 + 3, correct? So let's break up the $8 to $5 + $3, and we will redraw the model in another way. Hmm...that's interesting! What can we tell? Are you able to see that the difference in the amount of money left is due to the extra $3 that's given to each child? As we are talking about the Gap and Difference Concept, this, my friends, is the so-called &quot;Difference&quot; that we're referring to. The &quot;Gap&quot; refers to the change in the amount over here. Of course, you don't really need to know the terms in order to solve the question. The more important thing here is actually to understand the logic behind what we are doing. Anyway, take some time to think about this math question now. How would you continue to solve it? Pause this video and continue watching anytime you're ready. Are you ready? What I'm going to do now is to show you how to solve the problem. Step one, we'll find the difference in the amount of money remaining in both cases. So $24 - $6 gives us $18. Then, the next thing to do is actually to find the difference in the amount money given to each child and we know that it's $3. Finally, to find the number of children all we need to do is to take $18 divided by 3 and this gives us our answer of 6! Problem solved! To recap, we have learned two things today. #1 How to identify the Gap and Difference questions and #2 How to solve them through understanding. Congrats on learning something new! Now you can solve Gap and Difference Math questions with more confidence! If you're eager to test drive your new skills and learn how to apply the Gap and Difference Concept to other situations, do visit our website at Practicle.sg I'll put the link in the description box below. Thank you for watching Practicle Math! if you liked this video and find it helpful, do like it or share it. If you are subscribing to our channel, don't forget to click on the bell icon okay? This way, you won't miss out whenever we upload new Math videos! Once again, thank you for watching and I'll see you soon! Byeee! https://practicle.sg