Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. Neutron stars aren't dark matter--we research is telling us that they may produce the exotic axion, one of the To understand reality we need to standard model of particle physics known particles--the three generations of carry the four fundamental forces plus the a few holes in the standard model that we One of those holes is the so-called strong underrated problem in all of physics. Probably really hard to describe in non-math terms. We gave is that the strong force is expected to violate doing a mirror reflection of, say, a proton started--but in quantum chromodynamics it seems to problem is to introduce a new quantum field that every new quantum field you get new particles--and Axions are especially popular because that's because they're extremely elusive only very weakly. We discuss the prospects of But axions can only be dark matter if they and that's only possible if they were produced bang. Even if these things don't solve the dark exist because of the less famous but still vexing generic prediction of string theory, so if you Now we've trying looking for axions in various electromagnetic interaction. But axions do have an Axions sometimes do this thing and photons sometimes convert into axions--in fields. This could have a number of effects, solid wall by using magnets to flip Various experiments to detect this but that could be because we can't generate rate of conversion between axions and photons to more magnetic field is better. But we don't know a detectable signal. The strength of the fields out at about 10 Tesla, and the current world but piddling compared to what certain space type of neutron star that has cranked its magnetic If axions were not produced prodigiously in the efficient axion factories. But that's only true Let's start with the conditions needed to field--in certain neutron stars we definitely place. Second is a prodigious source of the requirement is a bit more stringent have an time-varying electric field that's is a single quantum of oscillating electric that moves with it. If you send photons into photon's electric and the external magnetic If we want a LOT of axions we need a lot that with neutron stars is with a large-scale than individual photons. Early neutron star field should be generated due to the rotation field. This is related to the effect in rotation of conducting material in a magnetic component of the electric field generated this way Now, we'll come back to the requirement First we should take a closer look at and magnetic field. Why? Because nature resist the electric field becoming parallel want to shut down axion production. First, this electric field we just generated tends to rip electric charges from the surface of rearrange themselves to neutralize the ' high enough, we expect a phenomenon similar to the insulating materials can suddenly become breakdown. When charge builds up in storm clouds, flow of massive currents--aka lightning. Well, also break down until extreme voltates--at least is the production of many pairs of electrons would work to short out the electric field, and so Now nature may want to shut down our axion they may be able to manage it anyway. The neutron star is called magnetosphere. co-rotate with the star--up to several The further we get from the neutron star, the through space in order to keep up with the rapidly those magnetic field lines would have to move and so they don't. The field lines lag behind the resulting in these helical magnetic all of which arise from regions around the Magnetic fields that twist like this will law. So charged particles get lifted from and travel along these helical field lines an excess of charged particles can shut particles lifted from the surface, or generated drain those particles into space, which means So, do we get axions or don't we? Well, we end up with a hellishly complex process just pen and paper. The only way to properly our computers with something called And the answer seems to be that nature fails to vacuum breakdown is extremely bursty--an avalanche field temporarily--but then the field switches back for axion production--a rapidly fluctuating thing is that the electric field oscillations electromagnetic waves. And indeed neutron stars do jets of pulsars. We've never fully understood the may do two things: explain the observed However, once generated, the radio photons Radio waves are strongly beamed--they swivel leading to the pulsations we observe when the by contrast, can shoot off in back into radio waves in directions This actually gets us to a prediction that might can lead to radio waves being launched in random beam, then we should expect neutron stars to glow times. And they don't. Some of the most sensitive in Puerto Rico, Parkes in Australia, and the staring at pulsars for the last fifty years and regular blips of the radio beams. But this of the strongest constraints on axions to date, Even if the axions produced by a neutron conversion into radio waves, there Around 90% of axions created by a neutron some of them being converted into photons with velocities below the escape velocity back and end up orbiting the star. And by the around half the speed of light, so all even These trapped axions build up in this over thousands or millions of years, and that 1) They might explain another nulling, where the pulsar's radio 2) they also might result in bright radio in bright neutron stars. But the radio light a much narrower frequency range that may have 3) when a neutron star's magnetic field eventually these axion clouds may evaporate in a burst of or may last only a fraction models show that these would bear a striking Bursts--distant and stupendously bright radio So there are a few radio signatures and radio astronomers are already working to pin model these processes in more sophisticated ways, for example of nulling phenomenon or fast like the Square Kilometer Array may reveal axionic I should add here that if neutron stars do explain all of dark matter. We'd still need a to achieve that. But if axions are even one matter factories in the modern universe could be To summarize--axions may or may not exist, but that neutron stars pump them out in enormous cloaked in clouds of these strange particles, jets and fast radio bursts. That's a lot of is huge--it'll be a step beyond the standard of the components of dark matter. Definitely to see what strange things are being formed Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. with thousands of interactive lessons Brilliant helps build your critical thinking Each lesson is filled with hands-on problem And if you're into data analysis, Brilliant all of which uses real-world data to train you It's designed for learners of any level to with a fully built out suite of new content, from You'll learn how to parse and visualize massive And you'll gain insight by working with real data sets from sources retail companies, To try everything Brilliant has to visit brilliant.org/spacetime or click on you'll also get 20% off an As you know, one of the long standing never aliens," but the full rule is that case you happen to run into aliens and want to then take a look at our Take Me With the t-shirt and hoodie are UV charged, so glow which is perfect for signaling aliens in we're only able to print a limited number. 31st. Check out pbsspacetime.com/shop to check