Thanks to Wren Snapchat these days is like the cockroach It seems like but they're still there existing in your bathroom. Only coming out Snapchat is where you go Twitter and Instagram, to go on TikTok in your mind I mean, it seems like no one really uses right? Oh, shi- Well, in particular It seemed confusing to me. The daily active users on Snapchat has only risen since 2014. But as of October 2021 first place for the country with the most daily active userbase on Snapchat 65% of 18 to 29 year olds say that they use Snapchat. That's like a little more which is I mean not so great considering I'm willing to bet TikTok on your phone so I found that interesting so people still use Snapchat it's more popular I don't know but so if you've used like five years, you'll probably have noticed a lot of tabloid-esque stuff except instead of Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt, it's clickbait about insert Gen Z celebrity here and paid for Snapchat shows. Yeah, you might have seen it going around that Snapchat talker Addison Wray, He's all that. I just want to say My butt is so sore To create a Snapchat original series. Once upon a time, I was born in Louisiana, they've been doing lately traffic from the U.S. to their app with YouTuber D'Angelo Wallace a while ago. And they have one with make And the reception Home series was less than spectacular and I mean, come on, Do you have anything better I think part of the hate Rae existing and Snapchat being a cringe app. So that's the rundown on Snapchat these days tabloid-esque &quot;news&quot; videos and clickbait in which many overlap. And one of these tabloid stories caught my eye. Let me paint you a picture. Not really. I'm a [BAD] artist. It was late. I was in bed all cozy, and I start getting anxious for no reason, naturally. So my bad habit rat brain went on my social media apps to relax, Awful idea. Instagram was meh, Snapchat on my phone since I deleted And there lied.... There layed... There a Snapchat story called Famously Satisfying. Specifically, The Most Satisfying Thing You Never Knew A bold claim So let's watch it Maybe this, too, and just make you feel good. ok.... This is amazing. I just love doing this. My mom taught me when I was a little girl and this is just now we're actually - OK, so they've set up So far, recipe is rainbow sprinkles I wonder what they're going This is once again you never knew you needed. OK, we're adding Three eggs and a FRICK ton of sprinkles. and another ad. Oh, my God, what do you mean? &quot;Oh, my god, You're filming it. You know what the you know you were you're in the plan, So they've pulled out So many sprinkles. OK, that's perfect. We'll And then one more right on top. Oops, that one fell let's try again. This is when I started to get a little suspicious. I know. Not when they cracked of straight sprinkles This is when I started This is the part how much satisfaction this video could give me because they're also going through it cooking tutorial. They never laugh, giggle at how ridiculous this is. My mom taught me when I was a little girl, and this is just They treat it So I was still suspending my disbelief at this point that this, you know, It could turn out if you will. But nonetheless, let's continue, shall we? Make a little hole right in the center here. There we go. Perfect. Perfect. OK, this is really fast, so I love doing it. So now we just close it. Did you hear that? This is really fast. So I'm excited to see this in maybe like one minute maybe a 30 seconds all it has to do maker and waffle a real waffle only takes like 2 minutes total to cook it in this. But when you put this mixture in the waffle iron together, it's amazing. So it's really fast. It just takes a few seconds. So is it going to come out like a waffle? It's going to Look, oh my gosh, it's the side. This is great. Yeah. We'll just open it OK, well, open it as they said. One second, starting to ooze out, Good! Woah! all right. It's almost ready. It's almost ready. OK, all right. I'm just gonna open it up Yep. OK, ok. A few more seconds. OK, ok. And we're gonna OK, see? Wow yeah. Hurry up. I want to see it. OK. All right, let me see. Oh, my gosh. This looks so amazing. Wow, it looks so good. Oh, my gosh. OK. Yeah, it's ready. I'm going to open it OK, 5 seconds. OK, we're 5 seconds! (5) (4) an ad. thReE OK, three, two. OK, ohmygosh it's All right. Pulses, pulses, pulse. Two. This is just perfect. Perfect. Look at that! I know. (me: twoooo...) it's so pretty. Look at all this. All these sprinkles. All these sprinkles. You're right. That is so pretty. Are you feeling Is this satisfying to you? Do you feel good? So I'm going to rip This goes on for like another 5 minutes of real life time. Watch how much they delay the opening of this flippin' waffle [me skipping thru the stories] [me skipping thru the stories] All right. I want to see it. I want to see. (Six, seven.) They're putting more on. Mind you, like 10 seconds each. Also what happened Like, 10 minutes ago? you were counting down, another layer We want the layers oh, yep. So we have one layer that already transformed transformed... them: now we're gonna have another layer, so- AD So far, there's a CRAp ton of sprinkles I'm going to close it up [SKIPPING] [SKIPPING] [SKIPPING] [SKIPPING] All right. YeS. [SKIPPING] All right, we're going We're going to open it I already skipped [SKIPPING] What happened? To right now? This is the most important OK, you have to let it set and then I'm going So remember, we mixed rainbow sprinkles and eggs and we put it in the waffle iron the result is this going to be All the colors. It's going to be amazing. Really. Your guests Your guests are going If the waffle is of what has oozed over the sides of it so far. Yeah. Yeah, this is satisfying. OK, all right. So I just have to do one We are going to. Just cool Excuse me. So let me get this straight. I know it's going you all watching at home, we've cracked a couple eggs into a bowl of sprinkles. Put it in the waffle another two All right, we're going But then we. Added farmed sprinkles, another egg Then we pressed and pulsed and oozed egg and sprinkles. And now, the waffle maker with a bag of frozen OK, good. So we cool the waffle maker for another count, like 60 seconds really Important Three, four, Seven. Eight. All right, let's go. This is going to be I'm going to open it. Right- OK, are you guys Are you ready for this satisfying ending? You want to see what this waffle is going of sprinkles and eggs? I don't think you are. This is once again the most satisfying thing you never knew you needed. Here it is. here we go. let's go. after the ad Ready? One. Two, three. Here we go. Oh. [audible gasping] [audible gasping] wOOoOWOoOWOoow Are you satisfied? So the product of this satisfying total of way It is so exaggerated to fit as many ads as possible in between what I will exaggerate, how much I'm thankful Seriously. Thank you. If you want to subscribe my patreon link is below, and you get a special Yeah. So this is crazy. This is the epitome of lazy content at the cost of a perfectly good waffle To be fair, other stretched out videos out there like this, on Facebook. Yeah. So literally nothing happens this video exists they stretch it out and this is a lot of content Like this is wild. Literally And they're all staged, of course, this is insane. She only sees him 9 minutes and 40 seconds I feel like after 30 seconds and skip to the end right? You could have just posted the 20 seconds instead of the 10 minutes, but you know, I don't know how you're not to film shit like this. I was embarrassed filming at the Creator Clash and I had a media pass so famously satisfying Snapchats are all like this revolve around food. I don't know why actually satisfying, the way that they do funnier than if it was So if that was the most thing you never knew The other episodes are called when he lifts it, when he lights it when he lifts it, when it stops, when he plates it When he lifts the cup when the Mentos go in, when she flips it... HE IRONED ON THE SPRINKLES? this egg recipe When they she dyed her hair This green eggs and ham will blow your mind. So as you can see, are specifically egg and sprinkle related. I don't know why because eggs are and it seems like But well, ok, I'm looking to get a little temp tattoo. I enjoy some tats and have some myself. Let's see what this So we got our spray just going to spray all along that side OK, now this is just regular chalk paint, OK? And then- me: you got it all over her stomach. you just contain the chalk paint to the stencil? We have just and you're going to see OK, so what we have is me: you're getting it on me: You're not even getting it You want to fully cover the belly. Oh, you want it OK, so to get to where it gets good a small small.... How did we get to baking This is looking. Move the box. Can you see this? I can't see. Move the box. What are you doing? OK, move the box. You're going to see. Yeah, this OK, watch. OK, so it looks amazing. OK. Right there. Wow. Oh, look at that. The colors are all just Oh, ok. Yeah, the stencil It looks great. Yeah, so this is a temporary tattoo Chalk paint, vinegar, and baking soda. You just got it all over, and then you pretend it looks good. OK, well, Now that I have this tattoo, I'm going to need Probably. So let's see. Simple tattoo removal. You know, tattoo and we got to make sure it doesn't hurt to come off. Yep. So make Yeah. See, remember we had that You can see it's not there. remember that piece that you had 10 minutes ago? Remember it? Well, it's not there. Now, look at that. It's completely gone. So you just put on a bunch of cream this is way better Man, if it's this easy, what doesn't every tattoo Just remove tattoos Wait a minute. I'm starting to think was never real. So as you can see, this super long Snapchat stories to fit as many ads as possible. But what I don't understand is the role playing that they come up Like, the recipes are real and that they work. Oh, oh, my gosh. And pretending that that temporary tattoo good. Wow. Oh, look at that. Maybe I'm just I just don't get it. And I did some searching find this specific, famously satisfying brand on any other platform. They're just Snapchat exclusive, and man, isn't that special for us. But they are all so insane. Like, there's one toothpaste on an outlet, remove the outlet, insert batteries, remove the batteries, put the outlet cover back on, and that's it. I don't even know or this one to a cake and pretend Like, who is this for are kids doing this? The age range, age range and range sounds like The age range the most is 18 to 24. Do people get click and learn their lesson editing Gabi here to TikTok so take it This is apparently a wet and messy fe-ish I'm not kink I didn't know while recording this whatever you want man. I just figured at the absurdity if taken literally. they have like 26 episodes means that they at least for one season with who knows how many episodes. Also, they have over There are legitimate, on Snapchat. I just know where they do shizz I know it's but you know, it's fine. I feel lied to watching famously satisfying. I just feel lied didn't look good.. they're pretending that it does. I saved one of my favorite Where they crack eggs on top of a giant bundle of matches and light it. But of course they go pretending to light it until they actually do. And then it just breaks the egg and sets off the fire alarm in their house. Oh. Oh, good job, Keenan. Oh, man. All right. Did I do that? I'm taking off Continuity. Did you think the eggs would Was that the point? Because the title is &quot;When he lights it&quot; a complete disaster. I had thought about but I couldn't find one starting a fire in my house or wasting an entire carton of very expensive eggs But there is better that isn't wasteful. And that's the sponsor Wren. What do you helps offset Use reusable bags, go vegan advocate but it can be hard to know making a difference making yourself Wren makes it easy for anyone and is perfect for people the climate crisis but It's an easy peasy web app for anyone to calculate and offset through That way you can rest easy knowing Except for me, You want to help prevent bada bing bada boom, Wren you want to help refugees You guessed it Wren Wren sends you monthly updates of the projects showing tangible progress For example, they'll send you photos to protect the Amazon rainforest, to me, having lived there So if you want to jump right in, I've partnered with Wren to plant ten extra cheese,?? trees, cheese, cheese to plant ten extra trees for the first 100 people my link that you can see on the screen Guys, thank you so much for getting me to a place where people actually want to sponsor my videos. So I'm a full time If you made it Thank you so much. I'd consider where you can see more Thank you. Bye!