Let's consult a map. Here's Germany. Morocco. And Fantasyland. But beyond Walt Disney World's borders you find a larger boundary. The Central Florida Tourism Oversight District that's been at the center of a feud between Disney and Governor Ron DeSantis. "There's a new sheriff in town." But this district started way before It explains something about the history of Florida... and the lost city of EPCOT. "It will be a community of tomorrow And most importantly, and isn't moving anytime soon. This isn't Disney World, And the key thing is not the park but the surroundings. Downtown Anaheim. A 40 minute drive from Los Angeles. Disneyland opened in 1955. In an internal publication, Disney that the site provided sufficient land Period photos show the area didn't start as densely developed as it is today,. But this 1965 map shows how quickly Everything from schools limited Disneyland's control over its future. Walt Disney needed more... and he wanted to get more from a new park. He wanted his new park to be He needed a lot of land, so dense He didn't want cold. That narrowed things down to Florida. He also didn't want to compete so he skipped coastal locations. When flying over Orlando, he saw I-4, That clinched it. Locals started to notice being made by mystery companies. Soon, Floridians began to suspect The size was immense. Here's the size of Disneyland And here is the land they bought for Disney World as it is today. Even after some land was sold off. Shortly after the land story broke Disney held a press conference and brother Roy Disney "It will bring a new world of entertainment... pleasure, and economic development "Walt Disney." Let's break down this next Walt Disney quote. After you've done something you see with the experience and all of that, what you might do if you were starting from scratch. Disney wanted to get right "Taking a look at the land this morning I say we are starting from scratch." The land needed a lot of work, everything. Just look at this 1962 map of the area. There were some orange groves but this symbol means swamp. The area is called the Reedy Creek Swamp. "But we have many things in mind that would make this unique and different But Disney also had greater ambitions for the land that he would "Here in Florida we have something special we've never "There's enough land here to hold all the ideas and plans we could possibly imagine." To persuade Florida's government Disney released concept art like this... that showed way more than a theme park. Like a giant industrial complex. And a constantly evolving city of 30,000 people. EPCOT: An Experimental Prototype Community "All these varied activities around the Disney World... will be tied together by a high speed, running almost the full length "It will never cease to be a living where people actually live a life they can't find anywhere else But Disney didn't want to wait for permits in his city of tomorrow. To have complete dominion he needed political control, He needed a kingdom. Special districts are common. Tens of thousands of them exist For example, the famous retirement community, just north of Disney These let residents vote on a board which then establishes policies build stuff, or fund public safety This can happen across municipal or other traditional boundaries. Disney wanted a superpowered version of this... with Disney staff as the sole voting They would be able to vote themselves in and make their own rules. The Disney World land is split between Orange and Osceola Counties. It also includes what planning documents list as jurisdictions of the city of Bay Lake unincorporated areas and the city all of which were created for and are largely controlled They had multiple points of leverage "I believe we can build a community that more people will talk about than any other area in the world." All these plans meant promise of for a relatively sleepy area. "I predict that we'll experience and possibly a 100% increase in tourism Disney could also threaten in northern California in Mineral King. They had a parallel proposal that was closer to Anaheim It ended up serving as a taunt to Florida. The result was clear. In the same issue of Disney's in which they announced the biggest surprise of the decade Florida's VIPs were already flying out... to begin working on project problems. Other places didn't grant big powers There was no ski resort because the Sierra Club fought it and the state never approved it. All that is why Disney World In May 1967, the Reedy Creek was chartered as an entity that could like its own government. It could control sewage, generation of power airport facilities, railroads, And Disney used its powers. The company created an for their utilities Each tunnel had spots for ventilation, water They built the monorail and they created The Seven Seas Lagoon. So the parking lot wouldn't sit too close to the castle. They did it all because... they could. In 1966, Walt Disney died The city part of his Disney World dream despite some gestures toward building it. EPCOT became a part of the theme park but it was not a city. The district's comprehensive 10-year-plan shows how far the Disney dream has drifted Undeveloped land is labeled green not as the foundation for some future city. Mass transportation consists of busses rather than the intricate transit network that Disney envisioned. Disney has massive populations but when you look at a map of permanent you see 8 here and 9 here. It's projected to be about Disney ensured that later residential developments Development of Disney's &quot;imagineered&quot; small town began on the district in the 1990s but it was de-annexed from Reedy Creek. The same happened for the Disney-owned in Little Lake Bryan. Being cut out of the district means All of this was just background... until the feud. "Welcome to the Walt Disney Company's "I called Governor DeSantis this morning to express our disappointment and concern." Disney's CEO called to protest Florida's which restricts classroom instruction about sexual orientation. "We believe being joined at the hip was not something that was And promised... "The corporate kingdom finally But the taunting continued. "Second Quarter 2023 Financial Results "So this is plainly a matter of retaliation while the rest of the Florida continue operating basically "Someone even said, like, maybe you need "Who knows?" "I mean, I just think that Still, the state would struggle to actually dissolve the district. The charter gives the district and activities of the district If the district disappeared, hundreds would probably flow to taxpayers in And on the other side, Disney has already made noise about In the end, Disney's district has had and board composition and process But Germany and Morocco The kingdom will probably stay