Pentatonic scales, major scale modes, triads, and arpeggios are often taught as completely It's much more efficient---and much more musically to each other. The CAGED system, when taught When an improviser looks at the fretboard, of roots, nearby chord tones, and scale It's like a pegboard where the roots are pegs and you could snap different musical We could snap in a pentatonic scale, or an arpeggio. Better yet, these and that layering lets you make really smart note followed by the chord tones, the pentatonic Where fret science truly differs you to not even bother memorizing Instead you can learn to recreate them on the This approach has all the goodness of the Here we can recreate a minor pentatonic scale with the roots, or we can swap it out for to be aware of the &quot;warp&quot; whenever one of This method is not only simpler, and it's also more effective at training your The biggest limitation of the CAGED and scales are too often taught as separate to learn when they're taught together, and pentatonics, and modes is a massive enabler This lesson will demystify the CAGED system support improvisation. And on our way which are the DNA of harmony. You'll learn matter where your fingers are, and you'll The Caged system is based on the observation played in open position: C-A-G-E-D. turned into a barre chord and moved around the But before we get further into the Caged system The notes in a Triad are built from two stacked distance and a minor third is a three fret the first note in the sequence is called the root the fifth, and there are four possible ways together to make Triads. As shown here a major If we swap them around a minor third Two minor thirds stacked Triad. And two major thirds stacked Another important way to understand this is where a third is just two notes separated by or Ionian mode over one and a half octaves. minor, and diminished Triads. If we build on The second scale degree gives us a Minor triad. The fourth gives us major. The fifth also gives and finally the Triad built on the When playing a Triad it turns out that it doesn't the fretboard, as long as you play all three a little different, but any two voicings of the than two different Triads would. In a C major of those notes are marked on the fretboard. There are literally dozens of different ways to are just a few of the common ones. We have the shape, the E barre chord shape. There are And three on strings 1-3. We'll come back to this in a minute. Here's an A major Triad on strings 4-6. If the it root position. If you leapfrog the root up to If you then leapfrog the third up to And we can continue this until we run out If we had started in first inversion, we to get second inversion, shift up the fifth If you know your one-note-per-string arpeggios, Now, it wouldn't be a Fret Science video if move them across the &quot;warp&quot; between the G and becomes a D major Triad when we shift up to the fifth goes across the warp and moves up a fret, One last shift and this time the third crosses Recall from our previous video that when we we move along the cycle of fourths, which We can do the same thing starting from an A major With our first shift, we keep the same again changes our shape slightly as have G Major. And our last shift gives One more time for the fans in the back. We start to D major, keeping the shape. Shift again to And finally shifting to C major, this There are three basic major Triad shapes one the warp as we just discussed. This gives bottom row here would be repeated if we One thing to notice in every one of these shapes root or two strings below it. The fifth is always Also notice that as you move toward the bridge, Now, starting from these major Triad shapes, adjusting the positions of the thirds and the thirds down one fret. From minor to get to If we go back the other direction, shifting to minor. Shifting the thirds up a fret And finally Shifting the fifths up a One kind of cool thing about the augmented string set have the exact same shape. Not a At its core, each CAGED position is really about In the C position, the root is under your index on the A string. In the A position, it's under index finger on the A string. You can see how and which finger is on it uniquely determines It's not really all that useful to associate chords they came from but that's how a lot of much more valuable to think about them in terms If we fill in the major third we get the familiar CAGED bar chords. These chords and seventh chords. Let's focus on the A We can move the third down a half step to you can lower one of the roots by two Going back to the major Triad, if you lower major seven chord. If you were to lower it two Now that we know how to map Triads across the and the modes on top. If you haven't already I highly recommend you check it out In a nutshell, every pentatonic scale shape is and stacks. They get distorted sometimes but they are just simple geometric The position of the root inside each shape or minor pentatonic scale. Notice that the minor pentatonic scale. Here are the And the major Triad is fully contained in the Here, I've color coded the five minor pentatonic seventh, we're left with the Minor triad. And you can see we're left with the five Minor with the five major pentatonic shapes, we can also remove the rectangle on stack outlines, So how do we use this in practice? Let's and our index finger was here at to the C shape, and we can place a Placing stacks on either side fills out Similarly, if we wanted to play stack under our index finger, and we can place Now let's say we wanted to play the G Dorian mode and we'll reference the handy five-string modal above). This simple underlying pattern repeats To use it we'll focus on the notes marked 2, scale degree of the major scale. We drop to where our index finger is, and to play pattern. To play down the scale, we and then we simply copy over the patterns for each And now, if we relabel the notes with their that Form 3 of the minor pentatonic scale is right To use the CAGED system for improvising, No matter where your fingers are, the Triad...know how the pentatonic scale Falls modes fall there too. This takes some practice, And the huge benefit is that it gives The notes in the underlying Triad are the most for ending your phrases. You can add in the out your lines. You'll need to experiment to different contexts and which ones give the right The CAGED system puts the tools to make that As another example let's look at an E major the fifth fret of the B string, which is an E The rectangles and stack of the E major and the E mixolydian mode I'd like to do one more example. In my first inside a pentatonic shape, you can easily turn it There are three ways to fill in those notes, only missing mode in this system is Locrian, If the two notes are shifted to the right, depending on which pentatonic scale you're you get the Aeolian mode or natural minor scale major scale inside the major pentatonic. And you get the Phrygian inside the minor So let's see this in practice. We're playing E finger is on the ninth fret E on the G string. and we build a major pentatonic scale by To make this the mixolydian mode we fill in the the rectangle. And to complete the shape, with the five string repeating modal pattern by There was a lot of information jammed into this sheet with all of the concepts you just saw check video helped you on your journey please leave a subscribed to this channel...and sign up for