- This is a $10 million this is a $500 million house. Houses are insane, and in to every single one of them starting with this hundred So for a hundred thousand I bet people in California are like, what? Why is it not a shed? For a hundred grand, not too shabby. This is something your family could own. And this is a $250,000 house. - Wow. That's pretty nice. It's got some really nice interior. It's nothing too crazy though. - Yeah, I mean, this is - Hello there. - Oh, you can see her in the reflection. You got caught, lady. - You got caught. Exposed. - 4K. And this is a $1 million house. Oh my, I paused at the perfect time. - This is beautiful. - Could you imagine - Could you imagine how big that space is? I don't even have enough - Nah, that's a turn off for me. I don't like sleeping on the first floor, especially with glass windows. Someone could just go - You're a nervous guy, man. Just get two really big dogs like I have. People don't mess with you. - And so they pop the window, take two steps and the before they can take two steps? - Dude, before they're even in the yard, my dogs have already woken me up. - This next house costs $3 million. - The architecture is beautiful. - Oh my gosh. That kinda looks like a Poke center. - Yeah, it does. - Imagine you're playing Pokemon Go and you walk in there to steal a Pokemon. He's like, why are you in my house? And then he also comments &quot;That really wasn't that funny.&quot; - He's got a bridge over his pool. - He has his own tennis court. This is making me wanna so I can buy a mansion. - No, keep being philanthropic. - That looks like the clout house. - No, this looks like the clout house if everybody in there - Yeah, true. - I like that telescope They're all just pointed at the ceiling. I love that. I love this house. - And if you thought that was cool, prepare yourself for - It's on the water, Jimmy. - This is a water mansion. - I love water. It looks like a bus. - That's so cool. Guys, is it water mansion, - Or is it house yacht? - Mansion house on a boat. Imagine having to get up to go steer your house. Now we're making a huge jump. This next house is from New - It's Robert Downey, it's Ironman. - Ironman's house better be dope. - It's got a windmill. That's so cool. Robert Downey Jr just oozes cool. - That is Montgomery. - Is Montgomery why the - Yeah, that cat gets to crawl around in a $10 million house. - Now you're probably thinking it can't get much better - Yeah, Ironman's the coolest person ever. - But it does. - This next place is worth $16 million! - What? - This is the small door to the house. - The small door. - There's benches here of walking to the Skittles machine. - Come on. - This dude's just flexing on us. - That's so cool. - We're doing something wrong. Why do we give away so much money? - Jimmy's having a realization. - I could have a $16 million mansion. - That's an insane view. That is just beautiful. - $20 million Texas house. Whoa! Let's go! - What? - You got your own in the backyard? - Just come on, man! - That's not even one water slide. That's three water slides. - Can I be your son? - What's in the backyard will simply blow your mind. - You're correct. - I've already been mind blown. - A zip line. It's got a zip line. - What does it not have? - A lazy river. - What? - Interactive animatronics. - We should seize this house. - I'm thinking if we all get together, we got about how many - On the main channel, we got - I'm thinking if we all band together, we can just take this. Nobody's stopping us. - Or what if all 60 each gave us 30 cents? That would give us $20 million, which we can then purchase this home. - And then we'll let you guys- - No, no, we'll use it. Screw them. - Oh. - One of a kind recreational wonderland. - How many people like work at... - Are we sure we're not on a new house? Is this all still just the same house? - Yo, his son just the coolest - Is there ever a reason to - I would never leave. - This home simply has it all. - It has it all, Jimmy. - Okay, that was just There's a $500 million What the heck? - But they said that has it all. - I am so excited to - I guess we'll have to watch to see it. This is a $32 million house in Hollywood. Let's look at it. - This is- - Oh! Wait, wait. Go back to that view. What the? - Come on now. - Look at that. You can look at everybody below you. - That's bringing tears to my eyes. Wonder how much it - Probably like- - A hundred grand a day? - That movie theater is phenomenal. - I mean, so far nothing crazy though. I mean, it's cool. Way better than my house. Very, very nice house. If I had to pick between water I'd pick water slide house. Come on, somebody beat This is a $40 million in New York. - I need something better Seeing how this is New it's not gonna be a mansion. - It's not. It's gonna be like, ooh, I have a big- - Apartment. - Could you imagine paying You could have bought the instead of just buying this. - If I had $40 million, I would just buy a massive amount of land and and then I would just hire people to help me take care of all the animals. That's a good shot. - I mean, for New York, it's Really cool. - No water slide. - No water slide. All right, $60 million mansion in Miami. 60 million is a ton of money, man. - This looks like something I'm going on a quest - That looks like a very - Ooh, yeah. - What the freak is that? That's a sink. I've never seen a sink like that. - I hope it's just not - No, but it probably recycles the water. - Yeah, but what if you wash - Don't ask questions. - I'm sorry. I'm not rich enough to understand. - Your peanut brain cannot comprehend. - I'm too poor to understand this house. - All right, this is So this mansion has a show - And it's got grass on it. - I don't even know what just happened. This looks like one of those houses where you can press a metal sheets just close. - Secret room, secret bathroom. - Oh, that's cool. - I'm allergic to all the open space. Hold on. - Yeah, sorry about that. It's okay. He gets this way when - Oh, a lot of air in this. - I mean, that is just insane, man. - What? - Pool movie theater. That's insane. We need to react to more Up next is an $80 million mansion. And fun fact, it's actually the guy who made Minecraft's house. - Notch? - Yes. He's great at at making games. Is he great at picking houses? Let's decide. - Imagine making block game and I forget how big Minecraft Like, Minecraft is - And if you thought we're in the big nine figures. There's probably literally only a handful of people in the world that can afford a house like this. Let's give it a watch. - This is the Bezos, the Gates. - Wait, this is Bezos's house? - I was just naming rich people. - I thought you were - It looks like he would live here. - It looks a little too poor for Bezos. - They got a chef. - Is the chef part of the - Is that a video of his - We're watching a video about his house while the people in his movie theaters watch a video about his house. - Wait, and they're watching us react to the video of - And it's in a video of the house. - Well, that's wild. - Are we still on earth? - Look at that. Pool TV. - Oh, okay, now it's really cool. That's a nice basketball court. - Yes. - All right, now we're getting up there. I can understand why it's worth And now we're expanding outside of America for a quarter of a billion dollar house. - What? - I can't even fathom that much money. This is just somebody's house. They got luxury tastes - Dude, this just looks like royalty. - This is beautiful. Big pool. - I just can't even take in everything. It's so what the fuck? - And there's nothing around it either except for like security buildings. - And now the moment you've the $500 million house. - Yeah! Guess where it's from? Sagaponack! Sagaponack? - Did someone misspell - Is that really what that is? - 500 million. Oh my gosh. - That's like a whole country. Nice grass. - I'm ready to see why it's worth 500 mil. Okay, I mean, it looks luxurious. It looks great. Don't get me wrong. - Whole tennis court. That's a very nice tennis court. Okay, starting to understand a little bit. - The bedroom is very open. - It's a bedroom. To me so far, I would say this I don't know where the Is that it? That's a $500 million? - They ask you how you are. You just have to say that you're fine when you're not really fine, but you just can't get into it. - I'm not gonna lie to you guys. I think out of all the the $20 million one with the Subscribe if you haven't already. We're trying to hit 10