(whooshing) - Hey everyone. I'm Teela with Deep English. Thank you for joining I'll be giving you a few tips understand a native English speaker. Not only that, but we'll a better listener in general. So this is a really cool does it improve your it also makes you a better And because we spend 60% of our communication time listening, that we know how to listen. And I don't think very many And so I think it's really to learn about how do we Because right now, you're of what you hear when you hear someone speak in your native language. Imagine when you're hearing that percentage is much lower. So it's worth it to how to understand more easily someone who is speaking in English, All right, so let's get started. I'll be giving you four My first tip is to simply stay present. This is simple, but it's So there are three ways that I like to use to really stay present. So the first way is to someone speak Spanish, because that I speak, that's my second language, when I'm listening to them speak Spanish, I make sure that I don't over-focus on every word they're saying. So I'm not trying to translate in my head what they're saying. Instead, I soften my not only to the words, but also to their facial expressions because when we tune in we start to stress ourselves out. And we lose the big picture. And sometimes it's hard to So don't translate I know it's easier said than done. But try not to do it. So the second way to stay present is to not try to make your response to what they're saying while So for example, when I I would be listening to what but I was also trying Spanish sentence in my And this was obviously a problem, because while I was creating this perfect response in my head, I was missing a lot of I was especially missing So don't try to create a response while they are still talking. Instead, you have to Trust that when they're done talking, that you'll come up with something. And you will, it will be easier the more that you relax into this. And so that brings us to the while you are listening to And that is to remember that perfection is the enemy of fluency. Becoming fluent in a language doesn't mean that you speak or understand It means that you are able to communicate with fluidity in the That you're able to flow when So don't try to be perfect. Because the more perfect you try to be, the more stressed out you will be. And when you're stressed, that actually shut down, are really helpful and So we want to stay relaxed, Instead, we're just kind All right, so let's to more easily understanding And this one is to make So you probably have in an English-speaking country, you learn English more rapidly Or you probably heard that you And this is true, because that speaks the language you learn it more quickly It's necessary for you to catch the bus, or for you to go grocery shopping. So you have to learn it. The good news is that we can make learning a necessity in our own lives, So there are a few simple ways to do this. Number one, if you can make a friend who only speaks English. So maybe online, someone So they don't even have an opportunity to change into a language that is easier for you while you're speaking. So an English-speaking friend who doesn't speak any other language. That would be great. And that would be a really huge bonus in learning English more But even if you don't have a there are other ways that you can make learning English a necessity. So for example, anytime that you are looking for a recipe of something to cook online, instead of Googling it, for something in your own native language, why not go on YouTube on YouTube from an English speaker? And so this way, you have to listen to every detail that they say. And so you tune in more quickly, and you learn new vocabulary more easily, because it's necessary Okay? Let's see, what's another So whenever something breaks in my life, I usually Google it or go on YouTube, and I say how can I repair whatever. So for example, my boot The zipper of my boot broke. And so I went on YouTube, and And I watched the video and I fixed it. So the next time that you're instead of looking in your own language, why not go on YouTube and look in English, and so that you have to pay attention. If you want to wear those boots, you're going to have to learn to pay attention in So making English a necessity. I think that one's really important. Oh, and there was one other If you've ever been on the phone, and you've had the option or in your native to choose the option in English, and that makes you tune in. So if you want to pay a bill, and you press okay, I'm you will have to tune in if And so making a commitment to use English for some of the things that will make English a necessity. All right, my third tip. This one is kind of obvious. Movies, TV shows, and When I was learning Spanish, in English and then to watch it again in Spanish without any subtitles. And so this way is a really cool way to more easily tune into a native speaker. Because you already have the big idea of what's going on in the movie. So you already know what's happening. You know the characters in the plot. So you can tune into smaller details. And in this way, you will tune your ear. So that you can more easily Another awesome thing that Spanish is listen to you've already read in your own language. So for example, I love Harry Potter books. I know, I'm a nerd. But Harry Potter is awesome. And so, because I already in the Harry Potter to buy the Harry Potter or on Audible, and then listen. And in this way, I was more easily able to tune into the small details. And it made me a better You can also just go on there's often small segments of books on YouTube in audio form. Or TV shows, Netflix is a really great way to make yourself a better listener, really in any language, All right, let's move Listen to many accents. So, when I was learning Spanish, with my listening and understanding. I learned Spanish in Ecuador. Then one day, I was with someone from Argentina. And I couldn't understand And I was so disappointed. I thought, what? I really thought that I Well, I understood Spanish But to really understand you have to listen to it And so for example, listening to English in an Australian accent, or even a Western accent can really help you to become One cool tip I have for you here is to think about things that So maybe you're really Go on social media or on YouTube, and find someone who talks but with an Australian accent. And then find like two more interests. Maybe you're also really So find someone else with who does tutorials on And so in this way, you can listen to several different accents. And you'll become a really It'll be so much easier a native English speaker to several different accents. Okay, so those were my a better listener and for more easily understanding a native English speaker. I hope this lesson not only helps your English language to become a better listener so that you can show up or family member to the Thank you guys so much for sharing this lesson with me today. I will see you next time. (whooshing)