Doot doot, just gonna pull this Egg Script Wait... I thought I only wrote one of these. OH DEAR GO- Before we get started, Spoilers for Undertale and Deltarune, Don't hassle people for using TTS, and be nice to your fellow theorists when you disagree in the comments. That wasn't a joke I've been trying to write But every time I try to touch it. it just keeps spiralling further and further Because seriously. what is going on with this egg?! Can you drop it? Can you eat it?! Can you kill it?! Well first things first, to get the egg in forth in this loading zone to the right of Every time you re-enter this room there's Inbetween, unless you've already been there unless you know how to reset the flag in your (Psst it's this line right here by the way, you should set to 0 if you messed up and need Anyway! Once you reach this room. talk to the man behind the tree and tell him What can you do with the egg? Well remember how Asgore is kinda uh... facing If you put the egg in his fridge, it will The current running theory is that this is the egg away it still ends up in the fridge Wait a second, why does this part happen even Is.. is this a programming error? Or intentional? This gets even weirder in chapter 2, because cause it to get removed from your dark world away in the light world, head back to the like you never dropped it in the first place. So technically you can keep throwing away Is this an obscure glitch too low priority *OR* is it a reference to the Pumpkin in Homestuck, random in nearly every one of Hussie's webcomics? Yoooou be the judge! Actually, secretly, I like to imagine it's since, y'know Toby already referenced homestarrunner Anyway! Since you can keep dropping the egg like this and thus you have nothing to worry about, When you enter san's conbini, you can put Susie to ask if you just, &quot;reverse stole an But Toby seems to have messed up when he set you interact with the bell, it can put the which.... is.. probably a mistake? Unless Toby is trying to punish players for That or he's maybe making a callback to the I honestly don't know. You can *also* lose the egg by examining this And... alright hold up, can I just talk about With OR without the egg, interacting with Jerky is candy&quot; almost like she's referencing But... Susie never mentioned Jerky to Kris, so why Well waaaaay back in chapter 1, there was with the following cut dialogue: (It's a candy tree.) * (All the ripe candy has been * Let's not take any more, * Unripe candy is sour. * What? Sour, sweet, candy, it's good! * Well, that's accepting * ... Wait, &quot;meaty?&quot; * What kind of candy is * Y'know. * Whatever it's called. * Uhhh, jerky. * That's not candy... * Then why is it next to So it seems like this conversation in chapter from the game, probably because putting a Is this snackstand breaking the egg, secretly Or.... is it purely a coincidence based on The coding itself seems to imply it's just and slightly overlapping Y coordinates, but chapter 2 first dropped, and as of time of Why would toby leave this in...? Unless the bug reports are getting overlooked If this happens to you by the way, you can 992 which codes for Global Flag 439, and setting into Spamtons' save editor to get the egg But is it worth the trouble? I mean the egg itself seems to be a reference The description even says it's &quot;Not too important.&quot; And indeed, people have been debating the The room-inbetween is pretty easy to miss of a secret optional room, similar to the On the other hand, the game also says the hints and references to it in Chapter 2, including to find it, an updated script for Tem which a special bit of bonus text here should you Toby also locks the Egg off from the Snowgrave the fun events in Undertale, as even when still encounter things like the gaster events, Why lock off the egg from the Snowgrave Route For a while now the thing that's had me the line here with lancer, where he says that Why include this warning, and all these extra Then again, this line of dialogue is *very* it's also a reference to Earthbound, as in the player eggs, and, should the player refuse, us that we won't make it through our teen Does the fact that this is a reference, invalidate After all, there are plenty of other cases of a serious plotbeat, &quot;But nobody came&quot; being In general, both of Toby's games references In chapter 2 if you arrive here with no eggs, In Tem Village, Tem associates raising the can't leave the underground even after the In a neutral route Spamton says &quot;KRIS!! THINK! WHAT ARE MY [Eggs] GOING TO DO!?&quot; and compares ALWAYS BEEN A MAN OF THE [PIPIS]. A REAL [PIPIS] PERSON!&quot; Or wait... are pipis eggs or clams...? The in-game check says they're clams, but eggs. Hmmm.... Also there's the quiche also known as a, &quot;Spinach I kinda don't want to open up the door to All that said, I think by far the most common The way you find the egg is very reminiscent back and forth in a specific loading zone The narration also refuses to describe this referencing the way the game crashes if you There's also the &quot;egg,&quot; in the unused &quot;favorite the beginning, and the reference to the &quot;man,&quot; to be honest, it's hard to find any *direct* from the name &quot;The Room Inbetween&quot; which, Despite Gaster's tendency to creepy into literally opportunities to call back to him, that go The theme here doesn't contain Gasters theme given Gaster's infamy for sneaking his motif Despite being named &quot;a man&quot; none of the files as &quot;him,&quot; nor are any of the related variables there being ample opportunity to do so. And *this* is what has been holding up the for something to clear this up, because surely got to be *something* more to this egg, but Who is the MAN behind the tree?!?! So here I have dwelt, quietly compiling every seemed to hit a deadend... until one magical I... can we just take a minute here to appreciate Like.. first the Stickers, now a Skirt? This skirt isn't even Deltarune merch! It's just an Undertale skirt, which seems as it features water falls' echo flowers, flowers, and the Red trees we see in the ruins. Seems straight forward enough, except uhhhhh. Toby. Why is Papyrus hiding behind a red tree? And that blue egg... is that a PIPIS?!?! Wait... maybe it's a firefly? Uh? Oh geeze, okay. Let's start with the obvious question, do Uhhh yes. Yes we do. When we date him and open up the Dating Hub, Now, you might think that doesn't prove anything, temmy has an egg in the classroom, AND in Or hell, why not Spamton, he produces eggs But here's the thing, our egg doesn't look Our egg is a normal white chicken-egg. We know this, because when we put it in the like, &quot;where the hell did you get that,&quot; she's egg here, meaning it must look similar to This is the only other egg that matches that Also tem doesn't use 'he/him' pronouns, so &quot;Okay,&quot; you might say, &quot;But isn't papyrus Why in the world is he giving us eggs?&quot; Well no, actually, it turns out Papyrus only gave him those cooking lessons, and the people that he assumed people just loved spaghetti, But Deltarune is a differnet universe, in roughly the same, but the circumstances of So in this universe, Papyrus actually probably circumstances that led him to that decision, undyne wanting to protect him from the dangers Perhaps Papyrus still wants to give people cook, he chose a different gift that doesnt' have some connection to his real favorite Alright, but why the tree, aren't red tree's Ehhh sort of. In the ruins there is a tree in front of Toriel's to keep her children with her, as it reads Toriel's theme of loneliness does seem to motif, this would actually work for Papyrus he tries very hard, he doesn't seem to be There is also a precedent for Papyrus hiding puzzle in snowdin and beg papyrus for a hint, It's also possible that he's the one who hid Which finally brings me to... this car. Yes I'm serious. For Papyrus a car is actually of *great* symbolic Examining his car-themed bed prompts Papyrus car down a lone highway, before relenting The fact that he describes it as, &quot;his dream,&quot; symbolic importance undertale, and ESPECIALLY The Dark World itself is actually compared playthroughs, where you can literally warp Actually wait a second... in the True Pacifist Wait! Hold up! Is that why Spamton became a car salesman?! Uhhh that would line up with Papyrus interests the Knight might have obtained the keys to y'know since his brother is apparently 'the And it would explain why sans wanted someone And it would explain why our hang out with doing god-knows-what in the dark world. Y'know.. when I said I wanted to talk about is the knight&quot; theory video but I can't deny I've mentioned his potential connections to this game's theme of lonliness and his own But if we want to dig REALLY deep, there's Alarmclock App, which... seems to have a LOT of foreshadowing for Deltarune, Asgore foreshadowing the potential death of But what catches my eye is the segment here, and laments that he has to pick up all these Future me: &quot;Wait what was that last one?&quot; Me: &quot;The spears?&quot; FM: &quot;No the eggs.&quot; Me: &quot;What eggs?&quot; FM: &quot;...&quot; Me: &quot;Augh!&quot; Anyway while he cleans he mentions that he Papyrus then says that he thinks sans was, friends&quot; and the he, &quot;can't remember when This *really* seems to tie in to san's cryptic really seem to tie into Sans and Papyrus allegedly just showed up one day out of nowhere... ... wait then... does that make the badge Uhhhhhhhh anyway! It seems like having so many friends around decides not to wake him up, stating that, In the self contained context of this phone In the wider context of Deltarune, where Dark can live out your wildest fantasies, that's... It's not the only allusion to Papyrus potentially of the party, Papyrus makes a huge labrinth Mettaton calls this labyrinth &quot;the mind maze.&quot; That's... also a fair way to describe a dark They do have a sort of Persona-mind-palace of the space they occupy, and reflecting pieces And once again, there's also the fact that the bed, and the fact that the characters as being like waking from a dream, as all This could all be a red herring of course, merch dropped *does* align pretty nicely with theory, and I find that coincidence to be Ah well, I doubt we'll get any more information no use wondering... about... uhhh why did OH GEEZUM! Oh wow, okay, so Toby just dropped a TON of Spamton Charity ARG, and... l-listen there's First, the snowglobe. Could this be yet another hint about Papyrus? It *does* say it's of a &quot;skeleton.&quot; What's that? It's actually a Nightmare Before Christmas Well that's fair, but y'know... the game *has* And &quot;The Nightmare Before December Holiday,&quot; puns that have become pretty on-brand for It also says the snowglobe itself will be an eye on that to see if the winner has some But we're here to talk about eggs so let's If you click on some of the prize links, you anecdotes from her childhood, including quite Catpetterz is a pet-raising simulator which real life games, possibly including Petz5, although... I.. I didn't ask Toby okay? That's just speculation, try not to treat None-the-less, she describes this game as which allows clever players to mod the game However, apparently breeding modded creatures unsettling pets, or even cause the game to Noelle quite badly and, uhhh I have to admit... I can definitely relate. The game also apparently has a chance to randomly near the bottom, Noelle tells us of a time egg, which seemingly did nothing except make Because she couldn't seem to hatch it, or or corrupted, but even when she completely After a while, she began just raising the The idea of someone you love leaving because seem to be one of the recurring themes in reference to the Man Behind the Tree, although, can also reach this page by just typing deltarune.com/man Bam, link back to Noelle's egg story. But what's *really* interesting, is the fact But why....? Is it our mysterious friend in the goner-code? Gaster? Spamton? Actually, before we get too carried away with did actually address this directly in the YOU THINK THAT [Hochi mama]] IS MY [Mama Hochi]!? NO!!! SHE'S JUST THE ONLY ONE THAT EVER READ MY... THAT EVER READ MY... THAT'S WHY I GAVE HER A [Little Blue Gift]!!! IT WAS THE WORLD'S FIRST [Charity] This seems to be a reference to the final confesses that she actually reads the emails that garbage data into her game as a modded The resulting pet was apparently a single, a Pipis, and her description of it is very it apparent had glitchy bad stats, a low friendliness This last part is almost certainly a direct famous for their tendency to corrupt the pokemon or &quot;missingno&quot; pokemon from the first two a little in my Missingno video (which you a video about Bad-Eggs and pokemon merge glitches, In generation 2, you can actually use glitch *so hard* it hatches into the otherwise unobtainable And uhhh did... did one of my Sneasels just try to turn into Oh wow it has payday now. Oh wow it even looks like a person, I wonder Holy cangadero it worked! I've never seen a glitch pokemon actually Do they hatch? Haha, yes! That's epic! I wonder what my egg group is- oh! Uh oh! I... uh... think we may have to stop. A-anyway! What do you guys think? Is papyrus the man with the egg? Or do you think he's a vermilion herring roles? What do you think is going on with the White Is it the same egg we get from The Man? Or did it finally hatch into some exciting Lemme know your thoughts down in the comments! Special thanks to Everude for, once again, And to Cycoriot from Hell in a Handbasket their voice work, you can check out more of Thanks as well to Hollarity for providing help with the Chapter 2 Egg glitch, and to Gibby's actually doing an epic Spamton livestream Thank you as well to all of my editors, patreons, did we just jump up to 40,000k? Holy cungadero thank you so much! Sorry the channels seemed a bit hectic lately. Between fighting youtube demonetization over the Sweepstakes, and the podcast, I've been I'm super excited to cover all this fun new So thank you all for sticking with me. And until next time! DON'T FORGET TO [Like and Subscribe] FOR MORE