We got married fairly young many reasons we didn't want And then at some point we I think just really fell in There are more Americans have children, and it's This new trend has led to household, more commonly Dual income, No kids. Oh, yeah. Dual income, no That's perfect for us. That's absolutely right. Children are the death of Pretty crude, but honestly. Very true. This household configuration living alone without In 2022, is around 43% of And that's about a 7% previously. In 2022, 43% of Americans get married, but just a said they were sure about The term DINK is becoming of financial challenges, just another financial they don't want to take on. So what's it like to live children? And will it be households? According to a finance played a major role have children. More than a quarter of aren't able to financially moment. When we advise clients about don't even give them the real numbers. It's one of see the math of it all, it have children. It costs a family an a child born in 2015 to age Adjusted for higher future And that doesn't even So if you look at inflation, market it surpasses general economy. Some couples are children at the same time off student loans that they to 22 years old. One of my very closest struggling with the reality makes is about equal to That's a really hard Seeing our friends really act has, I think, made me that we have financially children. Besides saving on child reap the benefits of To look at both of our how we're able to handle Because we don't have extra much more comfortable. We get to focus more on the and saving a lot of that worry less about the day to and our bills. Money isn't the only expense The free time is actually for me. So we built me a out here. We definitely hobbies. I, uh, build uh, computer keyboards in and stuff for that can be Not having children has pursue other things. Remodeling our home. I'm a beekeeper. I'm really handy and I like house. I wouldn't have the work if I feel like it, if care for. Fewer expenses leave DINKs to play with. Disposable income is power, And for many couples, it's The security that having, income saved for security was so helpful to out of work for six months. I have like a smaller Next year we're gonna get We have more tolerance for our savings, our new our shoot for the stars and saving four grand a month. According to census data, retirement each year couples with children. Another 2021 study found 55 and older had a personal $153,900, compared to parents. If you have a dollar and if use it, a DINK can retirements, investments as well as things like real The hardest part of cash to do it. And so when going to expenses that are cash can go into those We started investing in our I feel really safe because of ETFs that are accessible we also have our long terme know, tied up in IRAs. We can choose what our because we've saved to plan It is well documented that start your savings and your better off you are in the aggregate savings and your and wealth. Just take the $310,605 it income married family to While child expenses can and location, that could $15,000 in otherwise Consider the power of interest, and that $15,000 than $500,000 in just 18 returns. This nest egg more assets for themselves. Dual earner adults living and have been saving are heftier, relatively large which then reduces their of these other benefits. over the long run. I was fortunate enough to gifted to me by my helped us buy our first living in that house, lower cost of living like helped us build all this that home and moved to even larger nest egg that expensive home in a higher I'm not totally sure where child as well. That extends beyond just There are lots of big item, we tend to make earlier on that we can pay as much of That does have a rippling But the rise of DINKs isn't economy as a whole. Historically, lower birth with slower economic programs such as Social population growth. We shouldn't strive to have that are not reproducing. That would not be healthy It wouldn't be healthy for It wouldn't be healthy for So there are a lot of take investments in the For DINKs, the biggest financial. And I think we freaked a lot just a young married There was no baby I had family members asking because it's been five couple not producing a I think that there is a minimized when you're a So there are many mom daddy-daughter dances. There aren't groups for, woman, and I just want to take care of myself I think on the other side of where in certain it's harder to make There is also the potential responsibility from other There could be additional for people within their can take care of certain For example, if you have an DINKs might be the ones it's presumed you have have disposable time to responsibilities. According to experts, the is to prioritize savings for the future. If anybody is considering financial planner, I highly I recommend it to my tell me that's an going to make, I am a big With that disposable How do you want to spend Make sure you put aside make sure you put aside and they can be traditional investments, and then sure it still makes sense. I think if you're children in your life, make same page as you and that value in isolation without Yeah, don't go into the DINK don't have kids, so I just whatever it still takes the your future, putting money If you're not going to have save money for your future, place right now, and who like in another 3040 years