Joe: Four amazing po'boy sandwich places here in New Orleans. First one, we're starting Here's my criteria. So, at every place, we're and we're getting a roast beef po'boy. Those are the classic. Here's what's great about the shrimp. We are right off the Gulf of Mexico, so they're pulling the shrimp day of out of that Gulf, frying it. Oh, just to perfection, right? And of course the roast beef, slow-cooked, just dripping with its Now, we're going to get them dressed. Here's what that traditionally means: lettuce, tomato, mayo, pickles. But every place we're going today kind of does dress their own way. Sometimes they add a hot So we'll be getting it at each place we go to. Sounds great. Everything comes on a French bread they bake here in this city. Pillowy in the inside, The French roll, the po'boy roll, is maybe the perfect You hungry? I'm very hungry, yeah. Harry: Let's do it. We'll start to eat. Dude. I hope you don't Uh-huh, yeah. And what are you having? A couple of dads, all right. Let's open this up, right? This is a weighty sandwich, man. Yep. This roast beef right here. They sell a lot of roast beef here, buddy. They sell 400 pounds, or almost a ton, of roast beef a week. Harry: Goodness me. OK, I gotta get in here. Harry: Yeah, same. I got the shrimp one. Joe: It's absolutely incredible. Harry: Mm-hmm. Here's why this roast beef is incredible. They slow cook it for overnight, almost 12 hours, right? And you know when it comes out, just pretty much falling apart. We've seen with the barbecue how tender that meat could be. They don't slice it then. All that juice stays inside the meat. So they finally slice it at room temperature or a cool temperature. It is just the most flavorful roast beef you could possibly imagine. Harry: Mm-hmm. How's that shrimp? Fantastic. Joe: Yeah? Yeah, they're cooked so well. The breading, so nice and shrimp inside, juicy, tender. What'd I tell you about this on the outside, it's but the inside, pillowy. Harry: Super fluffy. I've heard several locals say this, but I'm not a bread scientist, But they say that the lends itself to make and that's why you can only make it here, and anywhere else in the Damn. I'm also not a bread scientist, but it is very humid here. Joe: Baker, they're called. Harry: Baker. But I know when you are when it's rising, the humidity does have a bit of a factor in it. Joe: How do you like that? Harry: Yeah, so it's going to get nice and I really do think it for the sandwich as well. Like, these are big sandwiches. There's a lot going on in here. There's sauce, there's juice. But honestly, having that really does just let it hold its shape surprisingly Joe: Can I try a little bit of that? Harry: Of course you may. Joe: They do toast the Not every place does that, OK. Now, the bread, we They do two types of bread here. The main one, which we're at almost every single place. See, how good is that? Is, I'm going to pronounce but they also use Gendusa. When they started making it was more of like just a big, kind of oddly shaped hunk of bread. Eventually, Gendusa designed these long, almost 36-inch-long rolls or whatever. And then when they have them in there, they cut them to order, small or large. Right. This roast beef is It's almost more like a beef stew in terms of how juicy and tender it is. And you really get a flavor the gravy that it kind That's fantastic. Joe: Crystal's on the sandwich. Crystal's on the beat. Harry: Like I say, I'm not in sandwiches often, but I think everything has been considered to a point where they're over the years, we've where people are like, &quot;This is a po'boy. This is what we want from a sandwich.&quot; And I can see why. Joe: Now, you're probably wondering why it is called the po'boy, which is an abbreviation or a Harry: Sure. The most preferred form of transportation in the city of New Orleans was streetcar. But during the Great Depression, So the streetcar workers went on strike. Two brothers, the Martin former streetcar drivers, saw this, and were like, &quot;You know what, when this strike is going on, make sure they eat every day.&quot; So when they would come in and show their streetcar &quot;Here comes a poor boy. OK. Rude. To be fair, I would take if it meant that I got a free sandwich. It's a pretty good trade-off, I think. I would've been pretty stoked I'd be like, &quot;All right. Hey, if this is free, call If it's free. Joe: Yeah. This absolutely You can tell this is, like, a sandwich of the people, right? It's just something that was Something that you'd come I mean, they serve so many people here. They can sit 300, and he estimates something Wow. That's so many sandwiches. Yeah. I can tell that you and I are going to have trouble Joe: We're in sandwich heaven today. Harry: Yeah. But save some room. Yeah, save some room. I got a couple more OK, let's go. Let's go. All right, we're on our way to the Magazine Street area of New Orleans for the next two po'boy spots. First stop, we're hitting up Guy's. Guy's. One thing I do need to of New Orleans because I &quot;New Or-luhns.&quot; It's very much &quot;New Or-luhns.&quot; &quot;New Or-luhns.&quot; I will work on that. But I'm excited for the next po'boy. Joe: Yeah. This is considered one My man Marvin is on the grill. This is his joint. He He has said in multiple that he has made 1 million po'boys. OK. If you've made a million po'boys, you probably know what you're doing. Guy's seems like a cool A bit more of your local Joe: Neighborhood joint, yes. Harry: I feel like the are in there a lot. This is their spot. A couple of times a week, Hopefully for a delicious po'boy. Joe: Yes, hopefully. We're Going to get the shrimp. Harry: Yeah. And I would also quite like a cold beverage, please. Joe: Yeah, what do you want? Anything cold. Maybe a I'm not getting you -- they're I swear I saw Powerade in there. Did you see that in there? I'm pretty sure I saw Powerade. There's no way there's Powerade in there. If there's a blue Powerade, Well, fine. But I'm not going to bring you because they definitely don't have them. Harry: Famous last words. Marvin: How many days are you We're here till Sunday. Marvin: Till Sunday? Marvin: Well, our goal is to Joe: Is that right? Pretty generous with Marvin: You know, I've never advertised a day in my life. Because you know why? I put that 10% advertising Right there, look at that. Do I need to advertise that? Who don't want that? LA. Joe: Ooh, that's a heavy sandwich. Hear that thud? I'm going to make sure. Joe: Oh, man, I'm in so Employee: That is you. Joe: This is amazing and Thank you so much. Marvin: Hey, enjoy it. I appreciate it. We will. Let's go. Your blue beverage. Beautiful. Thank you so much. Wow, that's alarmingly blue. So, I was watching him We are in trouble. OK. It's also starting to rain, so I might have to pull this in. Joe: Yeah, you want to pull it in? Harry: Ever so slightly. Joe: Before we even go, Dude, Zapp's runs the and I am here for it. Are they a New Orleans company? Yeah, I believe so. I mean, they've got the New Dude, Zapp's chips are incredible. Harry: Yeah? Yeah. You're going to love these crisps. OK. Thank you for putting it OK. I got your blue Harry: This is the roast Joe: All dressed. Lettuce, Yeah. Ton of roast beef. Harry: Not skimping on the beef. No, he was very generous in there. Let's go. Fantastic sandwich. It's more like the deli-style slices, but he was gravying it up. I feel like that's the key there. Compared to a Parkway, almost like a beef stew this is more that kind You have that gravy and the mayo, plenty of moisture in The mayo really adds I was kind of like, I don't I'm like, &quot;Ah, come on, this is going to be dripping in mayo.&quot; He was slathering it on there. And it has a sweetness to it that cuts through the of the flavor of the beef there. So those two things together, real nice. Yeah, I think one thing about this, the ratio of all the fillings Yes. The meat is the main event, for sure. But you have enough of That's really good. It's big, too. I can't imagine He was even telling me in there that we're walking out So get ready. All right, And notice this is dressed Mm-hmm. I pulled out a shrimp, and it's got what looks Very astute observation, my friend. When he does the seafood, He adds hot sauce and ketchup. Harry: Mm-hmm. That's the best one. That's so good. I'm wowed by how good this is. That shrimp, man. The taste of the shrimp, It's so juicy. You know this was swimming Harry: Mere hours ago. Harry: So juicy. Yeah, I mean, you can in there as well. A lot It's salty, it's juicy. It's everything I want and it's in a sandwich with How's your blue drink? Oh, blue drink is delicious. Yeah. Mr. Athlete over here, he Harry: One thing I will say, I don't think the bread is toasted here. I don't believe it is. It definitely has a spongier, Still got that kind of which I like. I think personally I of the untoasted bread. Interesting. Although I will say, it may have helped with some of these structural issues, because I bit into that and Yeah. I don't think toasting I think he's putting in a alarming amount of toppings and protein into these sandwiches. I think it has more to do with that. I think overall, I would and messy sandwich than a It's great, right? Harry: Mm-hmm. My chips are wet. We are getting rained on. OK. That New Orleans summer weather, huh? Yeah. Whose bright idea was it to organize this for hurricane season? Someone who doesn't live in this country. Harry: Yeah, I think it was mine. My bad. Joe: Want to run inside? Yeah. Joe: OK. Harry: You got that? Why don't you grab the drinks and the -- Harry: Grab some drinks and chips. Joe: Yep. It's a bit wet outside, but luckily we have one more sandwich, and this is the K-Asian. Cajun plus Asian equals this sandwich, and that's a scientist And this sandwich is his latest creation. So I saw him making it and I was like, &quot;Oh, man, we are in trouble.&quot; All right, I'm going in. Harry: Yeah, my favorite is that it only got Look how much chicken is in there, dude. Joe: Oh, wow. That's incredible. It's one of those things where, like, you know coming here the You know the shrimp's going to be amazing. The roast beef's going to be amasian. &quot;Amasian.&quot; Amazing. Amasian K-Asian. So do you want to risk it? But I will say if this is on the menu when you come in, get this. The chicken is cooked perfectly. Harry: It's, like, a honey soy garlic type of vibe going on. And with the jalapenos Harry: Bit of heat. Joe: And it's all him back his creative mind at work. Harry: Putting the K-Asian to the side, out of the shrimp and the beef, which way are you leaning so far? Joe: Definitely shrimp. Shrimp. Shrimp's been my favorite one. I think I am too. I do like the beef, but Mm-hmm. I wish I lived by here. I Yeah. This place, clearly an institution. Clearly famous for a reason. Yeah. I think if I lived by here, I would end up looking like a Snorlax. So probably couldn't go every day. Joe: Just, &quot;I had too many po'boys.&quot; All right, the rain is No, it isn't. Want to go to -- That's a lie. Want to go to two more po'boy places? Yeah, that sounds great. We might get a little wet on the way, but hey, nothing that Let's go. It is hurricane weather Got a bit disrupted by the wet. It's all good, though. We're on our way to the next We really needed this rain, though. We really needed it. Boy, did we need this. Yeah, those plants are eating good today. Oh, man. How you feeling? We're two deep. We're halfway through. Yeah, not too bad. It's difficult because Yeah, everything's been amazing. Every po'boy that we've tried so far, I could quite easily have Yeah. Jesus, man! Although God clearly does Yeah, yeah, yeah. All we're done. And we're here. Harry: And here we are. All right, we're making a dash. Go! [thunder roars] Po'boys! It's raining. It's a bit rainy. We made it through the rain. Joe: Yep. And they are considered some Anthony Bourdain came and also the Travel Channel in 2010 had a show called &quot;Food Sounds familiar. And this was the winner They pitted them against Parkway. They said this was better. All right. That was a really good po'boy. Interesting. It was. Joe: This feels like a family Every place we've been to has Harry: Yeah. I really like that, actually. Again, it kind of speaks to the fact that this is very much a food of the people, something that people actually do eat if they live in New Orleans. It's not just a touristy gimmick thing. But Domilise's is some of Joe: Yeah, some say the best. Harry: OK. Joe: Shrimp? Joe: Roast beef? Joe: I'll see what dangerously Oh, yeah. So, flash-flood warning Yeah, these look really great. Definitely got the roast beef, Now, you're going to love about these sandwiches. They are dressed, but one on these sandwiches dressed, tomato. Miss Dot, who ran the didn't like them. Didn't in the sandwiches, so she banned them. She sounds like a wise lady. Yeah. Thank you. Look, I've not been taking them out. If they're in a sandwich, but I just wouldn't I just don't think on average, tomatoes add enough to a sandwich. They're a bit wet, a bit slimy. You're adding moisture in there. So I'm glad to see them Do you want to start with the roast beef? Yeah, this looks great. Shall we? Joe: I love that they're cut into thirds. Harry: Yeah, interesting. Bite-size pieces. Joe: That's a big sandwich. Harry: Also, yeah, the crew that we haven't bitten into, Joe: Mm. Joe: With the mustard. Oh, wow. Oh, man! That is so good. Joe: The mustard really makes it. Harry: So beefy. You've Joe: Yep. Harry: The mustard and the needed acidity and soundness to that. Joe: Yep. Harry: Because the beef have been rich, as But yeah, this one is, they've really nailed this. Joe: All the roast beef but pairing it with the it just elevates the just didn't get at a In the UK, when we have roast beef, a lot of people will which actually shares a the things that actually make Joe: Yeah. Harry: A little bit of But it's more like, it's not heat spice, more like heat like a tang. It really cuts through and It's fantastic. But we still got the lettuce in there, still got some mayo in Yeah, something about Joe: It's very good. This is up there, man. Bit of shrimp? Yes, sir. Harry: Shrimp time. Dressed, no tomato. But they did add their Let's go. Harry: Even just looking at this, the color of the shrimp Really looks like, kind of like The shrimp themselves Joe: Yeah, but I kind of like that because you're getting more in a bite. Mm-hmm. Joe: It starts out as a liquid batter. Eventually they put it into corn flour. Harry: Mm-hmm. I can tell. Trapping all that juice in there. Joe: What they're doing here, because they're so close to the water, they're really just letting the shrimp, the flavor of this fresh shrimp The freshness of the which, again, I think with a little bit of hot I know you're not the Joe: I have to say, of all the sandwiches that we've had, visually, this one looked a And that, right away, I was like, &quot;Oh, what do we have Both these sandwiches are Every element of it is so well Ugh, I can't stop picking at it. I know. I mean, we've been eating &quot;Man, I really want to Yeah. This one was the sleeper hit. This is the, like, Joe: Absolutely. This roast beef -- this roast beef is my one. This may be one of the best. [thunder roars] Jesus Christ. It's OK, you're not a It's just lightning. [Harry barking] It's like, whatever. You're acting like you've We get rain. We do not get Joe: Really? Thunderstorms, less common. I was surprised. After that I was like, &quot;Nobody can top this.&quot; Just the way they slow roast it and stuff, but this, the mustard in Mm-hmm. Yeah. Man. Very interesting turn of events. Lots to ponder. Lots to consider. Well, we got one more spot to go, so let's head out there now. Sure. Maybe wait for the I don't think it's going All right, let's go get wet. Joe: Let's go. I have a technique for this so I get into water so it's What's the technique? Well, watch. Ready? Harry: I'm watching. Harry: Yeah, I mean, whatever works. Perfect. My guy, last stop of the po'boy tour, and we're heading to the The French Quarter. The French Quarter. We've been there a few times We have, although mostly rather than eating. Yeah. You're not going to believe this: They also have food. Hey, what a coincidence! Including po'boys. Especially Killer PoBoys, which is where we're going to right now. This place, they don't They're doing all new fun stuff. This is, like, the new spot. We've been hitting the traditional spots. These are the guys who are like, &quot;We're having fun with it. Harry: Nice. I'm going to be honest. These po'boys are starting to catch up with me. Joe: Yeah. This is the last leg. Last leg of the po' bo' to'. Po'boy tour. Look, every place we went, These guys are doing something Kind of giving a modern and I'm here for it, right? Yes. I'm quite excited to experience something a See how far you can push The one on the menu that I seared shrimp po'boy. Get that in my mouth now. I'm full, and I'm dying So, they're taking that shrimp, but they're mixing the you know? Not your average shrimp po'boy. There you go. Who doesn't OK, they sear the shrimp Roll them in a little lime, and black pepper. Black pepper, are you Garlic mayo. Oh, with the Sriracha, fresh lime juice, and a secret ingredient, Louisiana shrimp that's been and mixed in with the rest of the sauce. Harry: What? Yo, dude. They've powdered shrimp. Joe: They've powdered shrimp. They found a way to turn shrimp to dust. Oh, my God. That's so great. Yeah, a little inventiveness. A little new-school thinking. Not everything has to be tradition. No. Sometimes shrimp can Oh, I bet this food is Yeah, I'm really excited. The question is, are we judging it against classic po'boy or just in general? Are we going classic versus new? That's always the tough, the tough line to throttle. It's a tricky one. I think and we'll have to see within the realms of what a po'boy is, or if they've pushed the We'll have to be the judges of that, Joe. Joe: That's what the show's all about. Harry: Cheers, my man. To an excellent day of eating po'boys. Yes. So, here we got our chorizo. Harry: Oh, yes. Our seared shrimp. Joe: Yes, sir. And our Beef Debris. Whoo! Thank you so much. Joe: Thank you so much, sir. Thank you, thank you, Harry: Whoo! OK, OK. Visually, very different to Joe: A lot of color on these things, especially with the chorizo and this red cabbage I think, right? Harry: Yep. Harry I also see what It definitely does strike me more as a banh-mi-style bread compared to the pretty classic consistent I mean, I've been thinking for days now, so I want Yeah. So, what are we getting here? Joe: I'm seeing shredded carrot, definitely more banh mi vibes on this one. Harry: Yeah. Like, The coriander in there. Man, all right, I gotta try this. Cheers. Mm. Obviously, the shrimp here are seared as opposed to being battered and fried, like some of the other ones we've had. It's actually really clever to assemble it the way they have, because with the sort of pickled you get the carrot, there's some cucumber as well, you still get a lot of crunch from not having a batter. The shrimp is so juicy. It's really good. Joe: The way that it's seared it just has that more like, almost the shrimp you'd have in a scampi, you know what I mean? The beefy boy they got here, they don't go the standard roast beef, although it looks like it Harry: They call this one the Beef Debris. Joe: Beef Debris. And I gotta say, I don't think with pickled green beans on it. Harry: No. Banana peppers made it. Mm-hmm. Your old friend banana peppers. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Harry: I know how much you love those. The beef does look Joe: Mm. So, this is very interesting. Let me ask you a question. Do you know what giardiniera is? Yeah, like the Italian chopped Joe: This has flavor profiles and consistency remnants Harry: You're from Chicago. A million miles away from Joe: No, that's what I'm saying. It's like, it's kind of close. Harry: Yeah. Joe: So in a weird way, even it almost feels like this is a fusion that's reminiscent of Harry: Mm. It doesn't taste like one. I But it has, like, the really crunchy snap in this case green beans with just incredibly of the roast beef we've been having here. Like, the roast beef here is at the first place, at Parkway. I was going to say, this really reminds me of the Parkway beef in terms of it's almost more like a and you get that really with the kind of fat all in there as well. Really intense flavor. I really like this. This pepper-green-bean combo. You were a little bit apprehensive Has that immediately won you over? It definitely won me over. Think it might have done. Yeah. Joe: Now, I absolutely love chorizo. And him saying this is chorizo po'boy, I feel like it's pretty so I think this is a very bold direction. Definitely going away Last one of the day. Joe: OK, let's go. Whoa. There's a lot going on there. Phenomenal sandwich. Mm-hmm. Joe: I didn't know was going to sit. Now pairing with the it's paired because the pumpkin hummus kind of has this cool, creamy -- Harry: Earthy. Yeah. But just with the absolute fattiness and richness of the chorizo together, wow. Chorizo's got some heat as well. Plus there's extra Wow. This place is absolutely fantastic. I love the invention. I love what they're doing. They definitely are killer. All right, well. We have a decision to make, why don't we walk on grab some beignets, Yeah. Regardless of how full I am, I always find room for a Little something sweet. Little something sweet. Joe: Yeah, same. Joe: Hey, how you doing? Can I have two orders of beignets? Harry: There we go, buddy. Joe: All right. Got it. Beignets, baby. Have you ever had a beignet before? I have not, no. I saw that movie &quot;Chef.&quot; Big comfort movie. Loved it. And ever since then, a Cafe du Monde beignet, so for making my dreams come true. All right. Why don't we share a beignet and then get down to it? They just poured the powder They're not skimping Joe: No, sir. They're really dense. They really are, yeah. I was Very tasty, but yeah. They said three. I'm But I think honestly, Po'boys! Like we're LeBron James. Let's go, po'boys. Starting off the day, went to Parkway. Harry: Yes. Joe: Institution of po'boys, right? At the scale that they're doing it, it's a miracle then the Harry: Yeah, I feel like as far as a traditional po'boy goes, it doesn't get much more That is a New Orleans history in a bite right there. Then after that, we went to Guy's. Man, my man Marvin, what a character. He's just back there making What I loved about it, I mean, the sandwiches were fantastic, but clearly he is an Not to be confused with Subway employees. Of course. He's a true sandwich artist. Yeah. I feel like that one, maybe the best shrimp po'boy we had today. Joe: Mm. Harry: Not to give any but that one was phenomenal. Not skimping on any of the ingredients. That was packed full of shrimp. So tasty, so well seasoned, crispy, hit all the kind of key areas that you want a po'boy to hit. Then it started raining. Things got a little hectic. Rained a lot. Joe: We made our way over to Domilise's, and oh, my God. Harry: Yeah. Unassuming spot for -- honestly, like, one thing is they are quite an unassuming food. It's simple but elegant. And I think Domilise's of the food it was serving, Food there was fantastic. That roast beef with the mustard. Ah, man, that was phenomenal. What's French for &quot;mwah&quot;? Le mwah. Yes, there you go. Very good. And finally, we went to Killer PoBoys. They're turning tradition on its head. Harry: Some of the I don't think you would find on any other po'boy menus in New Orleans. Joe: The seared shrimp, Do you think, I mean, it had in those two, right? Even with that one, I was like, the only real similarity is the shrimp and a French-style bread. But beyond that, I was with any of the other I will say the big caveat to all of that is that every sandwich Yeah, it was delicious. But was it a po'boy? Was it a po'boy? Joe: All right, well, we For me, I think my Harry: Yeah? I think it was that mustard. I think it was just the, just simple nature of the sandwiches, but I think they were done to perfection. I think it's probably the Guy's is a close second. I mean, everything was fantastic. When we left Guy's, I was like, &quot;Wow, that's the one to beat.&quot; And then Domilise's did it. Fair play, man. I was also split between two. I was split between Joe: Oh, OK. I think if it came down to Joe: Wow! Look at us. I think it was exactly what Joe: Yeah. It delivered in every area. That beef one particularly was incredible because while, you know, Killer is innovating in its own way, Domilise's has made to the formula, but still taking it to a whole new level. Just adding that little bit No tomatoes anywhere to be seen. Small tweaks adding up to -- Our hatred for tomatoes, sliced tomato. That slightly tipped it. Joe: That's what clinched it, yep. All right. Well, we gotta we got more food to eat. We do. Right now, I've Finish off these beignets. What is this nightmare? Oh, my God. This is Po. Po explains what dressed is on a po'boy. Oh, because there's the There's lettuce, tomatoes, Po's ready for his seafood fiesta. Joe: That's great.