This video is about Specifically, we're going trackers and shapes to make Along the way, we're neural engine tools learn how to fix tracking issues with If you'd like to download the media Here's the footage we are working with. I want to create a graphic that constantly scanning and that in particular, So we need a shape that locks Remember the camera isn't locked Select the clip and I will start by creating the I'm using a polygon node. Her head is one point, the three And now I can close up the shape. A polygon node by itself is just a shape. We need to feed it background node to By the way, the hot key to bring up You're going to see me use that a lot. Connect the node and connect main node tree. Remember if you drag the output of create and connect a merge node. Nice and easy. Alright, I want to change Black isn't the right color. I think a strong red is what we need. It communicates danger. Here's the problem. As I drag my playhead back and The shape needs to be tracked in. By the end of the shot, It's possible to That's what this It allows you to That's the problem, you see. It's all or nothing. The inspector doesn't expose By default, we can change that. When a polygon node is selected, These are the tools we use for drawing Start by selecting A simple click and drag will suffice. And head to this us to publish the in this shape. Have you come across Publish. When a control in the inspector is published, it's made composition. Publishing points does a similar thing. There's a bunch of different I'm going to choose the most Check this out. It has created point in my shape its own individual We'll look more at that later. For the time of the other that drop-down menu. I just wanted you to So I'll undo that. Those controls have now disappeared. Let's head back to time, choose As you can see, those But this time, Fusion has created a tracker node and controls to four separate Let me show you more, but first, a quick thank you to Audio for Here's three Does it take you ages finding You'll love We often get we hear on we can't license But if you enter that track into its own library of over 450 artists This saves so much time. Secondly, if you can use Audio's stems. Those are separate Now you can remix the song yourself. And lastly, a you access to the effects. Audio normally now you can get an to Audio for just $60 That's insane value. Supporting our sponsors is an Thank you for watching! First, the composition That's because this Let's fix that by When you hold shift and drop Fusion will There we go. You can see it's now connected. By the way, I'm I'm connecting both and now it's a part of my image pipeline. But you don't have to, because we're not using this tracker node to make any changes to the image. You could connect by just feeding it the source image, but not connecting its output. It's up to you. Either way, that's better. The image is now no longer broken. Because I drew my and then used that with that publish to the tracking points are Good news. Additionally, these not the old point trackers. This is a version 19 studio feature. Now you could do They work really well on the rocks, because they don't But the IntelliTrack with the hiker's face. Point trackers rely on whereas IntelliTrack does a better job of just locking onto the object. As I'm on the first all I need to do now is track forward. That's awesome. I can see it's already working. Now the track's Yeah, look at that. That's super cool. Now that we've done the technical make it look better. I'll start by I'd like the shape to have a soft node and adding some edge softness. fade away as it gets towards the mask to the beam shape. By default together. You can see in the rectangle and my scanning beam. shape, which in this instance is the in minimum mode the new shape to the rectangle node to tweak the rotate and move it into place. Let's add some text. I'll use the tree. Choose a font. I'm going to extra spaces in there to make room change the Merge Nodes Apply Mode interacts with the image. As I walks between the two words but the is an easy job for Magic Mask. I will source image and then merge it Immediately, as you can see, it's That's because we have Let's equip the magic I'm doing that by clicking And also, I'll put the playhead It just makes it only need to track the Let's draw the hiker in. Instantly, you can see the now knows what keep and then I'll add some extra strokes to In this instance, I think I will Now we can track forward. Done. How easy was that? And look at that, the Let's see the finished result. That's pretty cool. basic skills needed to let's look at more complex did you see our from other NLEs? In 35 Edit, Fusion and Blackmagic Cloud. If perfect long-time Resolve user, that you never knew link at the end of the All right, time for example too. Here's the clip the equipment that to create a motion that point to each another comp that the Fusion page. the shape first, It's time to add a position the first another IntelliTrack rope. Create ice axe. I will And lastly, I'll on her cap. You'll instance I am at the track the clip in The previous point struggled with crampons, because they so erratically. onto objects. Let's we start making lines. This can be as to keep it really in one text node. Bag, rope, ice axe, and crampons. Let's tweak the line spacing, and alignment. And I'm going to head to the fourth preset. If you from character to giving the text a blue is not the right try the red that we Finally, let's change node to overlay. A there you go. That lines. We need a background node so we I'm going with white. Awesome. I can draw that first line. This one is for the bag. Let's modify the I just want a line, thin. The border width As I scrub back and not tracked in yet. It Let's fix that. The I can select all the this button, and now Because I've already the top option to simply Now that these controls I can right-click on them, one There's options here to connect this control with the I get to choose which of this control with. It's as I'm not going to going to set this up It sounds more think it makes it a Tracker1, that's the name of That's the name of tracking data from the You might have seen the did that. Now look at you can see that the line Let's make the other three lines. I can copy and then Command-C or Control-C if you're I'll hit it three times and check I had a node already have been This is one of the reasons I Look how easy it is for me to update Just change one number in the expression. I like working like a factory So now I've done all the let's circle back and sort I could edit them in the Alternatively, because I can manipulate them in I'm only changing the Y value of That's pretty cool. Let's see if First, let's add some to help make it To draw those dots, I'm and once again feed that into a I can copy the existing and then get everything connected. I want to make a perfect circle. Ordinarily, the height and width Look what happens. It's not necessary to connect I can manually adjust Here's a little trick Add an expression to the height tool, and then drag this picker The way this button works, its name will be added to It's a great way of finding the In this instance, of linking the width and height controls. Out with just a single control, but keep it as a perfect circle. How can I make this follow the That's right, the same The center property I could use the connect to but once again, I'm not going to I'll type the same and voila, the dot is now All right, you know the and then go through and so that each dot While I'm doing If I was to create I could de-instance The big advantage would be that if I wanted to change the I could affect all even though they have We demonstrate instance nodes if you've not seen In the meantime, let's see That's pretty good. Here's a problem on the crampon is a that's because the around so much it's That's not a problem though because it That's because and like all In this instance Editor. I have the show the currently the fourth tracker in cool feature you can use to simplify complicated animations select all the simplify then right As you reduce the how the amount of It only leaves needed. Now if I want these clumps of points tool again but clean up some of There's one last extents again so we can see all of the keyframes. That's this keyframes and hit S of those linear nice smooth transitions motion of our line That is better. It's Next, let's make There's too much info here. I'm going to make it simpler. It's just going to say equipment. And then I'm going to If I increase the width, that color That's looking good. I'd really like the Do you remember that fifth Well that's what it's for. I can have the equipment text follow that tracking marker with the dots and lines. This time, I will That's definitely worked. Cool, you But I don't want it to be glued That's pretty common, you place a tracking that you want to apply your graphic to. The tracker has I've got the fifth her head. By the possible to rename possible to rename nodes that we've been in the same order as back that we're rename anything as to follow as it is that the tracker is controls for it down control. Let's add Perfect. Now we that the ends aren't the image. They fifth tracker. That's expressions. I'm going to be adding expressions to the Here's the expression I want to type. Tracker1.position5. Let's I guess this is a polygon nodes as as I could have updated Let's add another of the ones we've expression so that tracker. Now we have a and I think I'll of the other dots. Now it's kind of too so let's nudge the I don't want to merge node, I'm own position in the text plus position controls in the offset controls in combined together to position. Awesome. of these techniques it is to continue to graphic. Because together with it ends up nodes too. That is trackers have offset bag arrow lower. I can bit higher. And arrow lower so it's not the ice axe. Next, as I'd like the hiker on do the same trick. it to the source and the text layer. I'll little. Just like because we have not mask. I'm making sure And just like before, as soon as now knows what to cut out and Let's track that forward. I was a smart boy beginning of the comp, so all Brilliant! That's done You know what? After still need to tweak the because that crampon and They've almost merged into a Let's fix that by over and adjusting Finally, I've had a change of heart. Let's make the background on the There you go, I'm happy with that. That's looking great. If you're following ideas to make your here's three quick ideas One, use the line length and Don't forget, icons, that's a Two, animate the ellipses You could even add some bounce to the animation, have them and then shrink back down. And finally, three, use the write on to animate the text Well hey, that's it. If you like the way round out the rest please check out our It covers the media, edit, It's nine entire It comes with two hours of and you get a certificate We find that when a long time they have so many moments of discovery. Creatives are amazing at finding But just because you've been doing doesn't mean it's There might be new that you don't new things, or do the same things So whether you're a there's something for everyone If you have any There's free sample There's also our amazing 35 All the details are We hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, please give it a like. Make sure you are subscribed so You can download the follow along Thanks for watching!