To step-down AC voltage we use a transformer, We use a buck converter. What is a buck converter? In this video, we will be exploring the design is used to lower the DC voltage efficiently. If you have a source, let say DC, and a switch, you get a PWM signal. The amount of time a digital signal is in the signal is called its duty cycle. If the switch is on for a long duration, the and if it's on for a short duration, Now, if you calculate the average of a cycle, it's half of the input voltage. That is, we have reduced the voltage from For efficiency reasons, we will replace it This MOSFET is controlled by a PWM signal. How it is generated and controlled will be But, This is just the amplified PWM signal To smooth this we add an inductor in series This is an inductor. Inductor wants to keep the current constant change the voltage across itself. As the switch closes, the current starts to To resist this flow, the inductor drops the and opposite voltage to the battery. This is possible due to the magnetic fields But it can't resist it for a long time, thus the other end starts rising. Also, the inductor starts storing the energy After some time the magnetic field stabilizes allowing maximum current to flow. Now, If you open the switch, then there is starts falling. But as you know current through the inductor Hence, now the inductor act as a battery supplying As this end is open, the electrons accumulate This may damage the components. Thus we add a low voltage drop, Schottky diode But the voltage at the load still has high Hence, we increase the frequency of the PWM by the inductor remains somewhat stable. This is also the reason why the switch mode To further smooth-out them we add a capacitor This is a capacitor. Capacitor wants to keep the potential difference change the current through it. As the switch closes, the voltage increases To resist this, the capacitor flows current to 5 volts. This is possible due to the electric fields But it can't flow current for a long time reduces, and voltage at the other end starts Also, the capacitor starts storing the energy After some time the plates get fully charged, act as an open switch. Now, If you open the switch, then there is starts falling. But as you know voltage across the capacitor Hence, now the capacitor act as a battery But it slowly runs out of energy and thus after some time it stops, thus the voltage drops. And we have created is the buck converter. But, there are some issues, as the load changes so we need to create feedback to change the to the load, also, how is this PWM signal This is the complete circuit. The voltage at the output is reduced by a which acts as an error amplifier. This component is known as an Operational It has two inputs and one output, the other It is used to amplify the difference between It compares both the input. If the voltage at the non-inverting input inverting one, then the output is the positive Or, if the voltage at the inverting input non-inverting one, then the output is the In this configuration, The op-amp wants to and for that, it will change its output. As the feedback is to negative input, the This can be seen as a see-saw. When the input voltage falls, the output rises. And when the input rises, the output falls. This is how the differential amplifier works. This is a Triangle wave generator. The output of the error amplifier and wave generator Which acts as a comparator and outputs Here the negative input is a constant voltage and the positive input is the wave form Hence, when the triangle wave is higher than The output is the positive supply voltage. Here it is plus five volts. And, when the constant voltage is higher than the output is the negative supply voltage. Here it is ground or zero volts. This is how the comparator works. If the constant voltage increases, then the and if the voltage decreases, the duty cycle of PWM also decreases. This is a P-channel MOSFET. An N-channel MOSFET will turn on when the and a P-channel MOSFET will turn on when the So when the PWM is high the MOSFET is off Hence, the duty cycle of PWM and MOSFET is As one increases other decreases. But you may think, why not use an N channel and off when the gate is low? Because the voltage at the gate required to And during operation, Thus we need higher than Vcc at the gate to Hence, we use a P-MOSFET. Also, we add a pull-up resistor between source This is the positive supply from the battery. These voltages are created with the help of As these voltages are used only for references, In real cases, due to non-ideal components, Now, Let's look at the working of the complete circuit. We will have an input voltage of 12 Volts, Now, If we increase the load, the current hence the voltage falls. This causes the voltage at the reference to this and reference at the differential amplifier. This increases the voltage at the output and the comparator thus increasing the on-time Also, we can change the voltage by changing This change in resistance will affect the output of the error amplifier and then change Now, while designing this some care should First, the voltage at the error amplifier Hence, we select the feedback voltage divider Thus the resistor value turns out to be 100 But, this will reduce the voltage to a minimum Hence, we use a 100-kilo ohm trimmer. For this arrangement of the op-amp and the voltage is nearly 4.5 volts. For these values, If the load is reduced by rise above 2.5 volts as the energy storage This isn't an issue with this analog circuit and this will turn off the MOSFET. But, for a digital PWM controller, this may The second is the inputs of the comparator. In this arrangement, we get a range from 12 And, If the inputs of the comparator are reversed Also, the high voltage output is towards the This is how the closed-loop buck converter works. The voltage and current from the source are