Translator: Noelia Castellano On the first day of school this year, I had a little boy, get up in my face He said &quot;I hate school. I hate teachers. I remember taking a calm breath, and I got down on his level and I said &quot;I promise you're going to love If we take a look at classrooms we are seeing the same type of classrooms, standing up to 70 years. It is my goal to continually revitalize This is a picture of my classroom I see classrooms differently. These are some of my students. I see my students differently, and I see the way The results I get are incredible. As teachers and educators to reimagine tomorrow. First, we must wonder For as long as schools have existed, teachers have been the main source Teachers are the gatekeepers for We are in charge of everything students As teachers, let's not misuse this power. In 2015 we have more resources available This gives us the ability, as teachers, to make our classrooms less Let's embrace that. Teachers don't need to master before we hand it over the students. In my classroom I like to use So I would give an app or a tool I would have them learn how to use it, and then I'd have them go teach how to use that app. Teachers don't need to master at all. Let's get kids involved in projects Genius Hour is based on where kids will actually get 1 hour a week to study things that Instead of telling them things This really gives kids ownership and it makes it very relevant to them. This also means that a lot of the time my students are going to know That's awesome. Embrace their knowledge Second, we must wonder how Using technology just for the sake If it doesn't transform your classroom, just skip it, don't use it. If the same project can be done it's not transforming your classroom. Always start with your purpose. If something is boring on paper, Let me tell you what I mean by that. If I give my students they are going to think that They are going to stare at me. If I take that same worksheet Guess what? It's still Boring things on paper are still boring Even apps have different purposes now. Some apps are skill- based and repetitive, Let's turn kids loose to go create If you actually have to leave the technology is not Let's take technology and where they need it. This is a picture of a little girl Her name is Molina Molina is following along of the book that she is reading. She scanned the QR code to access this recording. This app transformed my reading block. This app helps instill a love of reading Not to mention my reading fluenty scores Third, we must wonder He said &quot;Kayla, don't feed the fears.&quot; Schools are still banning cell phones. Principals are still banning cell phones Schools are even building (Laughter) This is a real thing. Let me tell you how this works. When kids come to school in the morning, they check their cell phone At the end of the school day, they get to check their cell phone back We have more technology that what put men on the moon. We are telling our students Keep your mobile device in your locker. Did you check your cellphone What are we doing? (Laughter) Schools in the United States Did you know that YouTube among students in grades 5 to 12. This is utterly incomprehensible. So much learning is lost. We block We might think that when we keep them in this little bubble But guess what? These kids leave and go home. If we block all of these things we are not protecting them, We need to put kids in real world during the school day and give them the tools so that we can actually Jumping in the new technologies We need to always keep in mind Sometimes the confort level of teachers is less important than doing My kids have never lived in a time My kids have never (Laughter) They've never had to experience (Laughter) Technology is the language Furthermore, as educators it is our job 93% of employers now use to either recruit or hire employees. That means that if our students leave us with a neutral they have just a 7% chance Seven percent. My friend George Couros to make sure that every single I challenge you to google yourself. Go have your students google themselves What does your digital footprint We must wonder as educators It is now our job to make sure that This probably sounds With just a few clicks, you can do a virtual field trip Or you can bring your students on a Learning is no longer limited to just or our state or even our planet. You can now take your students on Do a Google Hangout with to expose your kids to new Give them the practice with the real live speaking Set up a classroom twitter account. Have your kids tweet with experts from Have your kids tweet with to share and compare their learning. Don't be the four walls that hold Break down those walls and go global. We must wonder While standardize test might have we need to start assessing teachers I assess my students critical thinking I assess my kids on their grit and how they are able I assess my kids on and others skills they are going to need to be successful employees, citizens and Assess me on how will I prepare kids for While difficult to assess, It should guide our teaching A compass for a true educational north. Everyone, here is my challenge for you. We are now 15 years into the 21th century. We need to make sure are as engaging, responsive Do you remember that little boy Well, his name is Christian. He came to me that first day of school litlerally wanting to be anywhere else Well, on the last day of school Christian He was refusing to leave my classroom. (Laughter) Why? Because he didn't want to let go Pretty different than For the first time in his life He loved coming to school, he loved everything about being with me. I saw amazing growth not only in Christian What doesn't often get is the impact that students Everyday my students taught me and being a real They taught me to have tons of patience. They taught me to have a sense of humor And so many more things. Technology changes. The standards that we use to asses But one thing remains Relationships between students will always be the foundation (Applause)