Barack Obama, born in 1961, when he was 50 years old. He is also the first and the only person of color to President Obama is popular throughout the world not only with his outstanding speeches, but with a trustful medium-low voice. So many people use his speech videos as an English study reference. During his years in office, such as Health Care Reform and stabilizing However, the important aspect of but some evaluate President Obama lacked in that. He couldn't handle the chaotic situation in the Middle East, including the Islamic State, and he didn't do well with Asia, especially keeping China checked. However, the fact that a person of with white supremacy appealed a lot to the world. Hence, let us talk about his life today. The full name of President Obama is Barack Hussein Obama II. We can spot a shocking name of Hussein in the middle. If anyone of us hears the name Hussein, is Saddam Hussein the dictator of Iraq. He is famous for someone who went down in flames due to Iran-Iraq War and Gulf War. Surprisingly, President Obama uses This is because his grandfather was so he inherited his grandfather's name as As it is well-known, Barack Obama was born in Kenya. But apart from his wife Michelle Obama attracted the descendant of slaves sold to Chicago from Africa. Grandfather Hussein Onyango Obama was disabled while tortured by the British Government when he was President Obama's father was an economist and he fell in love with a white lady. Obama was chained to his middle name Hussein ever since he was born to the rest of his life. His grandfather was a Muslim, and his father is an unbeliever So when Obama ran for a presidential election, the Republican Party constantly made an issue of it, saying a Muslim is trying to But the former Secretary of State Colin Powell claimed that we are all Americans of He gave Arabic American soldiers And he added Obama is a Christian, but what is wrong with him being a Muslim. From then onward, the Republican Party stopped talking about Obama being a Muslim. Despite all that, so 10% of Americans and 50% of Conservatives overseas who are interested in the Republican Party or the USA government still believe Obama is a Muslim. Not only Obama who was born as Muslim and Kenyan, but his parents also had rough times. Obama's father, who came to had a son with his white wife, but that was illegal back in the days. Long ago, during the time of President Lincoln, African-Americans seemed to But even after 100 years, the southern parts of the State still had severely biased ideas about African-Americans, and the intercourse with The time when Obama's parents were in a good relationship didn't last long, with their son born in the frame of illegal. As his parents divorced after 2 years, Barack Obama was raised under During that time, his father married 4 times, so Obama questioned his identity a lot. With all the mental turmoil instead of warm care from an ordinary home forced Obama to lay his hand on drugs during high school years. Most of the players in his basketball team were whites, and Obama wasn't completely African-American either, so it wasn't easy for him to get along with his peers. When he made public that his mother was white, he felt like flattering to whites, so he made friends with alcohol and cocaine instead. However, despite all that, he still had high academic grades and and entered Occidental College in LA. He became a lazy student who was because he was still mentally unstable. One day, he ran into the BDS Movement by chance, and A year after that, he entered one of called Columbia University as a political science He worked as an activist for In 1991, he attracted attention as he became the first editor-in-chief of the most renowned academical journal for law school In the following year, he met From 1993, he taught constitution at the University of Chicago Law School for 10 years. Obama started his career as a politician in 1996 He served as senator of Illinois 3 times until 2002. Obama then pursued one United States, where the dividing of progressive and conservative, He earned national fame with it and was elected as a federal senator in 2004. In February 2007, Obama declared to and enrolled in the election of the Democratic Party. During that time, winning the election of There was Hillary Clinton, who had a strong support base with the fame of former President Bill Clinton after all. Everyone thought Obama, who was the first time serving The first approval rating of Obama was less than 20%, while Hillary was over 40%. But Hillary strongly agreed to send troops to Iraq War when many people were against it. This made the supporters turn their back against her and skyrocketed Obama's approval rate. Obama then was elected as rewriting the history of the country. Many political analysts of the USA favorably reviews Obama's electioneering strategy apart from When the Internet was he chose to use Twitter and regional network to make a vast organization of volunteers rather than Many ethnic groups who were and whites who opposed racism supported Obama. Also, for the first time in USA history, the electorate donated a lot to Obama's speech motivated and he claimed a landslide victory against John McCain in But the election is also determined by some luck. During that time, the electorate turned away from the Republican Party like War in Afghanistan and a subprime mortgage crisis. We can't conclude President Obama's career as good or bad because his activities during Today we looked at President Barack Obama who pursued his path, like the divorce of his parents and identity crisis. If the video was helpful, please subscribe and share a lot. Please enjoy your day.