Northern neighborhoods of Aleppo. June 2015. These men who improvise a game of football belong to the Aqidah, a very influential component of the jihadist rebellion in northern Syria. These are the ones we will follow Nothing would have been possible without this man, This forty-year-old with a beard and glasses He was previously the undisputed boss a Salafist group affiliated with Al-Qaeda. Warlords He's always the one in charge, even here when it comes to putting - If you want to give the ball, According to several American media outlets, the man was shot dead in a raid in 2012. So here he is, resurrected as if by miracle. It is in this school, in Aleppo, partly destroyed by the regime's bombs, that the leader of Ansar la Aqidah, set up its headquarters Commanders and religious leaders, this is also Every day, the same ritual. At 8 a.m., Abu Muhammad followed with his men learning Dar Al-Arqam Teaching provided by one of their - We study the word of God peace and blessings be upon him, and we educate them for jihad, Jihad so that they become true believers Religion, and war. The 2 fundamentals of Abu Muhammad. It was even in traditional mujahideen clothing that he wanted to appear, at work, in his office. A priori, the man is extremely and he does not fail to remind us of it. - We realized that the intelligence services knew a lot about us. And where did the information actually come from? We searched, we investigated, and we came to the conclusion that journalists were behind all this So why us? We met Abu Muhammad in 2012 in Aleppo, at the beginning of the war and we had built a bond of trust. We had since maintained contact to ask to follow him He accepted because he wants to show and explain why they are fighting. Throughout this filming, we will have to follow the rules that he will impose on us. The daily life of the war First of all, there is the bombing. Just 4 years ago, Aleppo was the Today, more than half The threat here almost always comes from the sky. Oil barrels or gas canisters and sometimes also scrap metal whose use is prohibited A bomb has just fallen under the control of jihadists, and yet where many civilians reside. According to Amnesty International, more than 3000 people would have been just for 2014. Deadly weapons whose use the regime continues to deny, claiming to target only rebels. Here, here only material damage. - We're coming, you dirty dog Bachar, we're coming. - Shame on you Bashar, who orders you to bomb us. Another one just passed by, Barely arrived and already a new alert in a neighboring neighborhood. It's a regime helicopter in the Sokari sector. The toll is heavy. 4 people killed instantly, This man, who was nevertheless had his body cut in two In one day, the scene we have just experienced can be repeated up to 15 times to the rhythm of the army raids. And in this district of Aleppo, intensive bombings inevitably benefit the jihadist cause. - It takes 2 hours. Only 2 hours left, One of Abu Mohamed's men invited us to his wedding. 2 hours for barely 30 kilometers. The fault of the numerous checkpoints The future marriage is 23 years old, No question of forgetting the context, directly attacks Bashar El Assad. As tradition dictates, men and women celebrate separately. - After the feast, The mujahideen all over Syria are doing the same, life goes on whether there are planes in the sky or not, we must continue to live despite Bashar Al Assad, despite his regime. The scene is surreal. These men are all fighters. Outside, the war continues. At first we thought it was a case of joyous shooting, a helicopter has just flown over the area. We leave the hangar to try The helicopters It is very risky, very difficult to see them. They are the ones who drop these barrels of death First drop, and quickly, I arrived quickly on the scene. The civil protection men will only be able to observe the damage. 3 men have just lost their lives, buried under the weight of their house. This one was trapped. The civil protection men - For 3 weeks now, the bombings have been targeting mosques during prayer. The helicopters come Last time we had 14 martyrs They only bomb civilians, they only kill women This is the end of our first day The next morning in Idlib, 80 kilometers southwest of Aleppo. In a discreet mosque, an 11-year-old boy reciting verses from the Koran, inciting Muslims - After Allah our creator Mujahideen gathered at Bilad al Sham. They lined up. After fragmentation and division. He united them again. This young boy is the son of this man, His name, Abu Taoufik, one of the most A veteran of jihad, he learned the ropes in Afghanistan, in Chechnya or even in the Balkans. Today, Abu Taoufik welcomes a meeting of the greatest importance where all the jihadist leaders of the region are invited. The leaders of many groups operating between Aleppo and Latakia. They all have the same goal, to establish Sharia law and establish an Islamic caliphate. - All the clauses of the contract that we signed with God must be respected. On the agenda of the War Council, determine who will lead the next Abu Taoufik puts pressure on these men. Abu Mohammed is also present. - We must fight Bashar al-Assad Also, because it does not apply Sharia, the law of our Creator on earth. These are 2 eminently Next to them, a man sits And for good reason, there is a price on his head. Abu Muhammad al-Masri, aka Abu Moise, wanted by the US State Department, captured in 2009 by the CIA and extradited to the United States He was released two years later, after the revolution that ended Mubarak's reign. End of the meeting. In addition to being a feared warlord, Abu Taoufik is also a political strategist. He never questions the influence of the Islamic State in Syria. - All Muslims want To tell the truth, The West and the East falsify the so-called Islamic State among Muslims. so that the Muslims the project of an Islamic State. But this situation will not last, this deception, this fabrication it will not last by the will of God. We will be able to judge for ourselves the determination of these men on the ground. Here, the fighters of Abu Taoufik attack a position held by soldiers loyal to the regime. In this case, Alawite militias. In this village located 30 kilometers from Latakia, each of the two camps refuses Scenes of guerrilla warfare of unheard-of violence. We quickly end up finding ourselves stuck in the middle of the bursts of weapons. A meter away from us, this man has just been hit Without medical assistance, he will die before nightfall. We take advantage of a short respite The fighting will continue and intensify. As for the village, it will eventually fall At the wheel of the pick-up, Abu Muhammad agrees in Aleppo, where no camera had yet been able to penetrate. At first glance, one might think it was a simple mechanic's workshop. But it is here that the group Jihadists produce explosives, bombs and munitions daily. The man on the left with the red beard is called Abu Layev. He is the leader of a brigade close to Ansar Al-Aqidah, our guide's group since the beginning of our report. - There, we make a hole and then we glue it. - The tube, do we put it on the barrel or do we weld it with it? The 2 cylinders are placed on top. And then you get something solid From morning to night, these jihadists But also bombs. And shells. In this room, to be transformed - No problem, I'll explain. then, once you've done that, and you close it with the lid, Each carboy is carefully cleaned with sand to make the gas disappear. And then filled with powder. A precaution that might seem trivial, the pyrotechnicians are equipped Where do these weapons come from? Who is financing them? The pyrotechnicians pose But the reality is quite different. The man on the right is a Syrian prisoner sentenced to death by the jihadists. And this is far from an isolated case. All this arsenal might seem homemade. But you only have to go back to the front line to realize that it allows jihadists to cause enormous damage to the enemy. We accompany Abu Muhammad on one of the most contested front lines of recent months. Here, several jihadist factions have joined forces with the ultimate goal to bring down the fourth Syrian city which allows Damascus to stock up on weapons and basic necessities. This fighter, barely 13 years old, has just handling one of the guns that had just been used a little too closely. Abu Muhammad and Abu Layev meet - We have advanced 519 meters. On the opposite slope, A Shiite unit gives - They, opposite, they have cannons And then. The interview is interrupted Abu Layev, for his part, decides to go into the open to assess the enemy positions. and refine their shooting, before being joined by one of his men. - My brother, the explosives May God protect and keep you. but there is something wrong, It's very slow, they need to be repaired The position is ideal for assessing the The target is reached. Twilight is looming. In this war of attrition which, in the Latakia sector, has been going on for months, the jihadists pushed their enemies back a few dozen meters. These men who, taken together, As with the Islamic State, Jihadists have their own courts and of course their own prisons. This one, located in a southern district of Aleppo, has around fifty prisoners. Soldiers captured in combat. Deserters from the regime. And sometimes also civilians, suspected of spying by the jihadists. Before being brought before the Islamic Commission, the captives are heard Like this man, a deserter. - Your name? - Surname ? - Did you flee the regime? - How many days ago did you arrive here? - Give me the exact date, and the barracks, when did you leave? How many officers like you have deserted? By asking him these questions, to know as much as possible In this war, victory also depends on intelligence. End of the interrogation. In the next office, His knowledge of Muslim law, in other words, of the Koranic texts governing the application of Sharia law, the ideal candidate for the job. - In our religion spies, those who in one way or another inform the regime, are treated as unbelievers provides for such actions. A simple poster stuck on the wall reminds us of the severity of the sentence. This officer of the Assad regime while his plane had just been hit by a missile. Jihadists accuse him of dropping on many occasions. He risks death. - Prison is prison. It's not funny. Freedom, being outside, - And how are you treated here? It is impossible for us to know the Prayer as the only escape. Because unless a miracle happens, none of these men In some cases, prisoners Like this man on the right, On the phone, his father, It is with him that the jihadist, here on the left, must negotiate his release. - Talk to your father. - How are you? - I'm fine. How's your health? - Why didn't you give any news? Negotiations have been bogged down The jihadist will therefore clearly It is at this moment that the prisoner his last moments. - Did you ask them to do a prisoner exchange? - I spoke with the lawyer, with Master XXX. He asked me to give him the names of the jihadist prisoners for the exchange. - The problem rests entirely on the - I will give you news - Listen, we're giving you one last week. Did you answer our questions? So, take care of your son a little. - No, it's not a matter of being well or not If God so decrees, the judgment of Allah will be applied to your son. - I judge you to be good people. You saw it well, God is my witness, You have been a prisoner in our house for over 2 months. and so far, And your father is lying when he says he spoke And it shows that he is with A little more and he would have called us In short, what will happen to you, It's because of him. You can still discuss tomorrow it won't work. We have mujahideen brothers imprisoned there. and we want them back, it will be death for you. The prisoner is on probation. For how much longer? Since our arrival, we have been constantly surprised by the harshness of the war. We will be almost as much by this totally unexpected scene of life. Together in battle, the men feet in the water, in this river. Contrary to what one might believe, swimming, laughing or having fun are not That day, Abu Muhammad decided to grant his men a few moments of relaxation. The day is coming to an end. In the Latakia area, inspection in a construction site The site manager, who wears a headband bearing the image of the Islamic State, is called Abu Hassen. Start of the visit. What we discover Built in early summer This tunnel was drilled After 2 kilometers, above our heads. To carry out this titanic project, take turns day and night, Terrible working conditions equipped with a simple jackhammer which exceeds 40 degrees When we question them, - Before, we were on the side and we are ready to blow ourselves up, to carry out kamikaze operations against them. If we can't fight them on the surface, we'll do it below. And if God wills, we will kill them one by one. In this tactical war where each side the jihadists thus show In the bowels of the earth, foreign journalists to question us He is one of the only ones in the group to speak The Kouachi brothers defended the prophet, peace and blessings be upon them. They are our brothers. May God They are our brothers. Our God is their God. And God will reunite us in paradise in the hereafter When we passed, the prisoners nearly 4 kilometers of galleries, Nearly a week at the heart and we go from astonishment to astonishment. Until a few months ago, this area was controlled by the Islamic State. But these men were driven out including the Free Syrian Army. We had heard that Christians had remained in the area. We told our guides about it and in the village of Kaya. Built in 1933, its church is still standing. It is even frequented by 230 Christian families from the 3 surrounding villages. Father Francis, an Italian, has been officiating here for 15 years now. Recent events have not changed anything, controlled the area. - They told us that we could practice pray, etc. We just had to avoid and above all remove all religious signs outside the church, all the statues, that of the Madonna, and of Saint Joseph and Saint Anthony. And we also had to remove the crosses and that's all. The visit continues, still accompanied by the jihadists. Abu Layev and Abu Muhammad, and are very attentive to our interview. It's hard to say whether they're speaking but Father Francis shows vis-a-vis the Islamic State. The term extremism is a very broad concept. You know, the mass media When the Islamic State was here, For us it was a beautiful time A period of tranquility, of peace. Because all the murderers, all the crooks, We could finally sleep peacefully But really, As I told you, A priori, the rules remained the same jihadists of Abu Muhammad and other factions. Even for the jizya, the obligatory tax they show an indulgence that is astonishing to say the least. - And for the djiziya, how does it work? - Tax for non-Muslims, and well those who can pay it, and those who cannot afford it Our guide politely invited us We are back In this minivan, The jihadists made it a point of honor They are perfectly aware This child of barely 12 years old strikes a pose as best he can in front of us, with a heavy weapon. These women are learning to fight. Abu Muhammad's wife, seen here on the left, Al-Qaeda al-Jihad, the base of jihad. While she is 7 months pregnant. From making bombs to handling weapons, learning is done on the job. To avoid bullets, hide well behind the embankment, and then you can move. If you do this, You are ready On the sixth day of our immersion Abu Muhammad wants to show us Jihad must be done within the family. He also takes advantage of the moment to play with his 9-month-old son. Not exactly the type of game The framework for the women's interview is carefully studied. - No, I'm not afraid. they bombard us or when I'm at the market, Here we defend ourselves, we shoot at them If we must die, it will be with dignity. The situation is clear: I am not afraid for my son it will happen anyway, we will die anyway. Abu Layev's wife is there too. Stolen image of an intimacy But what she doesn't know is that in 48 hours, her husband will no longer be of this world. One of the challenges for jihadists is to be able to spot an often invisible enemy. For this, they invested in a new device. They have just had several drones delivered to them. It's one of their men who has just brought some back from Europe. And this device has multiple since it allows them to both drop light explosive charges, but also to scrutinize the positions of the regime and its air force. - You see, the drone is here. There, those are the bombs The scouting is done. The jihadists will temporarily abandon this part of the front, because a crucial battle awaits them elsewhere. For several weeks, a small town 70 kilometers The regime has deployed major resources there. Bombing by aircraft and reinforcement of military personnel on the ground. And it's this tower in the background, Inside the regime's snipers. To take her, they came up with a plan. Aleppo, at the headquarters of the jihadists. The artificers have prepared ready to be sent to the front. Abu Layev coordinates all operations. But we feel that something The Emir reveals his strategy to take the tower occupied by the snipers. His idea was to enter and open fire on the enemy soldiers. And if that's not enough, he has a plan B, blow himself up. - How do you justify it is you and not someone else And what exactly do you feel? - God is almighty Our duty is difficult, pigs, on our lands. By God, we only have Warriors were trained God willing, I will be the first, Who wants to come with me? If we do it tonight, Who would come with me to lead this operation against the regime? God willing, we will go inside. For this operation, God willing. What's wrong with you? Mohammed, are you ready? Who still wants to go, young people? In front of their leader and our camera, even the prisoner. The fateful hour approaches. Some people have trouble holding back their tears. Last prayer together. Abu Layev goes into isolation for a long time. Then comes the time for farewells. - I'm proud of you, Before, you were among the infidels, That's why you have to get ready - I'm ready. - Goodbye everyone! - Boss! I have sworn on our almighty God, If you ever come across our prophet Muhammad up there, greet him for me. - Goodbye everyone. The next morning, at dawn. Posted at the entrance to the town, one of the jihadist factions opens fire on the enemy to create a diversion. Here is the last image of Abu Layev. Less than 5 minutes before where the snipers are posted. The suicide bomber has just entered the tower. We take up position He finally opened fire. 3 times before he himself was shot. Abu Layev has therefore indeed The way is clear for the jihadists And what we discover is a vision of horror. About twenty bodies scattered We decide to turn off our camera. Aleppo, last day of our journey. In the many districts that have fallen the banner of the fundamentalists is displayed almost everywhere. First victims of this conflict children exposed to the perils of war, to bombings and chaos. Every day, this 10-year-old boy is condemned to wander the streets, looking for food Today's harvest is meager, but there is no question of losing hope. - People are dying one after another. We don't have anything to eat, I leave my father and mother alone Since the start of the revolt against the more than 220,000 people have died in Syria, and 12,000 children.