[MUSIC PLAYING] Rasheed: Hey, I'm Rasheed to the &quot;Made by Google&quot; podcast. I'm here to introduce you who work on Google's products. In previous episodes, you works on Pixel's amazing camera system. We also heard from Jessie and Ray, who And last week, you met Isabelle, I learned so much from Isabelle about and now I also know why fast Wi-Fi If you don't know what I free to listen to last week's episode. And while you're at it, why not podcast because we to come until the end of the year. Now today, we have a cracker for you in a literal sense pretty much, as the chip inside Pixel that powers pretty Tensor is a chip that and I wanted to find out more So we're fortunate to have somebody with It's our Senior Director of Product [MUSIC PLAYING] Monika, welcome to the It's great to have you. Monika: Hi, Rasheed. Thanks for having me, and Rasheed: Great. So you're a product manager and I know that for people they probably know what silicon is. But for listeners that don't exactly Monika: Silicon, or And when I first started I did have to tell people it's not like But yeah, I lead product for our custom silicon in our and our flagship product [MUSIC PLAYING] Rasheed: Today's guest knows everything about our call &quot;the heart and soul of Pixel.&quot; Monika is a director of product there are very important reasons In short, without Tensor, Pixel or more specifically, it Together with Google's AI Monika's focus is on making amazingly Decisions that she takes today You'll also find out and why Google doesn't quite the same way as many others. Talking about computer but Monika made it a breeze. I hope you'll enjoy our conversation. So Monika, what is it that you do, then, Monika: I lead the product management devices division, and the being the Tensor Mobile SoC it It connects to the camera, to to your Bluetooth or Wi-Fi that you have in a smartphone, and processes it. So as a product manager for Silicon, are busy planning and launching I get to focus on what we Rasheed: So, at Google we have this all your coworkers, and then statement in there, and innovation with AI-first silicon.&quot; What did you mean by Monika: All right, first off I so now it sounds kind of dorky, But it still holds. What I mean by AI-first silicon is We're an AI First company, and the is to bring that Google AI And we felt like the only way we could Rasheed: So we make our own chips? I think there are many Android phones who do so why did we decide to Monika: When we looked at we just felt like we weren't and we were sort of held back. Google has some of the best in the world, and we felt like we in the way or as fast as we wanted to. And so for us, doing custom Rasheed: It was important could probably not run all that is in Pixel 7 today. Monika: There's no reason why we can't But there's a challenge there. The field of machine So it's not like you have decades units that can run them really well, So the only way to keep pace with learning is to design hand-in-hand and the machine learning models. They have to be co-designed. And that's what really Tensor we know where machine but we also know where So we can build our to keep pace with our and I think that's really And that's what allows us to bring has as a company to the Pixel phone. Rasheed: So we then have which people know by now is called But why Tensor? Monika: The name Tensor really ushering in this new era of AI and And like you just mentioned, probably know that Tensor is block of machine learning. There's a funny back story. Anyone that's ever had knows that there's a that goes into setting for a big initiative like this one. Taking on custom mobile SoCs It was either in 2019 or told me out of frustration naming your chip is harder And I felt so bad for him because you and he has to be the one do the legal due diligence, all of it. How we settled on Tensor was actually He really set the direction. He said, hey, I don't but I really need this to truly to mobile computing. That's what we are doing, and our So that's how we came up with Tensor. Rasheed: So you mentioned that a system What else does Tensor bring to Monika: I would say front and If you look inside Tensor, we have this thing called a So that is the heart of the machine However, machine learning If you actually deconstruct all that Google launches, like you'll see they actually Almost every major subsystem is used. And so with Tensor, I would say Number one, the actual was co-designed with Google Research and And then second, we were very of heterogeneous computing. And what that means is is involved in running all these And so those are really the two and how it's different from how others Rasheed: So our chip has a and it's great at and machine learning magic have been coming up with I guess, something like that. Monika: Well, I would say the Rasheed: Few decades even, right. And is that a main Because then you have and then we have teams and those can be lined up and tuned Monika: Yeah, we have some of the it comes to AI and machine learning. And we just couldn't bring it to the And it was really important for us Take what you do in the data centers. So if you compare a data center you essentially have infinite compute compared to something And for us, designing Tensor was and all the innovations they've And that's a really tough How do you go from infinite and bring that down tiny and can be held in your hand? Rasheed: So the main challenge with I guess, what is running make sure it works in a way that run out of battery in Monika: Yeah. The bar that we held for ourselves is, So you can always take That's easy. Anyone can do that. But for us, we wanted to preserve with some of our features and services but we wanted to bring that budget that fits inside of phone. Rasheed: So whenever I speak to they all tell me hardware is hard. In a way, maybe that's And then, doing the chip, as you So we go through a lot And then, of course, the the users listening thanks to having Tensor Monika: Yeah, I mean hardware is hard. But when you work at it actually becomes a lot easier because in terms of software Now if I look at it so what does this all bring to you, stand out for me personally as a user. So number one-- and I haven't I'll admit that. But I am now. And the number one thing that was the camera. The Pixel camera is just amazing. I went to Bali back in July this year. And it was a group of 10 of us, and And by day two-- it was actually really annoying. It was flattering and that the nine other people on the And they would say things like, Can you fix this for me? Can you make this look better? Because of course, you can imagine a lot of challenging light conditions. So the camera is a stand-out thing. It is just so good, Somehow you become the designated The other thing I noticed in everyday And the quality of our speech It's as good as our fit it in the power budget of a phone. I hardly ever type anymore. Text messages, I just press And I type complicated It's really easy. And then the other thing is, all I don't know if you use them, I can be working, and I'll while I'm trying to do some and I have to do it during the working that I'm calling. And to be able to see the to know when it's on hold music is based on having really good And so I would say the camera are the two stand-out things for me. Rasheed: Yeah, and that's only works perfectly well together came up with over the past few decades. Monika: If you look at the software that mentioned, whether it's it doesn't just run on the TPU, And that's why this notion is so important. It's not just, do you have Actually, what's more important is how Because you are literally your speech data or your are moving it across the entire chip. For camera, for example, or You're literally lighting up the entire Rasheed: Starts sounding You need the whole team to be up Monika: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, if you're an NBA fan-- without mentioning names. There's plenty of examples where It's definitely a team sport. Rasheed: Need more than Now you were talking and I know there are folks out there is like putting a car and then buying it for the And then they come up with we don't really care about that. So why don't we care as much Monika: I think classical benchmarks in time. But I think the industry And if you look at what Google is into a smartphone-- because we feel like helpful experiences, I just mentioned-- classical where AI in phones didn't even exist. They may tell some story, but we don't And so for us, what we benchmark workloads that we are And then we strive with every to make them better, better performance, lower power. So that's our approach. Classical benchmarks, are synthetically engineered workloads. They don't reflect the actual and I think that's fundamentally the that they might be some tool. If you don't know the actual workloads there's some tool to give Are you trending in the But they don't actually help when that needs to run on these chips. Rasheed: Right, so better to measure just a tiny part of a number that is not very relevant Monika: Yeah, and it's not even tiny. A lot of these benchmarks don't have anything else to go off of. But because we're an we're what we call vertically the silicon, the hardware and the services all come from Google, to know what should we optimize When you design a mobile SoC, you're You don't just say, hey, I just You don't say that. At the essence of product management to make the right trade-off calls. You're always going to be and for us, being vertically There's no guesswork. We know exactly what And if that means we're not or not look as great on benchmarks, because the end result On Pixel 6 and Pixel 7, you can that we have landed, and a lot So we're very comfortable Rasheed: I'm curious about what you and it's basically about prioritizing, what are we not going to focus on. How hard is it to do that when Seems like there are a lot but maybe you say no many times. How does that work in practice? Monika: Yeah, I mean it's hard. And especially with silicon, our So we're not even just saying yes and we're saying it to what we think And I think there, you like I said, it's so vertically integrated because I models are trending in five years. I'm not making decisions based on And I can say that Same with the software that I know where the software experiences five years from now. And that's the benefit of not but an in-house silicon supplier. So those trade-off but I think they get a little easier Rasheed: So is it that maybe a software hey, Monika, in five want to be able to do this and that can make it sing on a phone. Is that a conversation that could Monika: Well, it's actually So we'll have software folks being like, We have researchers that have And then we also have, team and the design team that want as well. So yeah, it's pretty fun to be those different functions and we all have clarity of thought Rasheed: Now Monika, we now arrived where we ask our guests to bring or important to the development We've had a wide array of numbers, to half a billion, to just 100%. So Monika, I'm really curious, Monika: Yeah, I heard your was trying to up-number each other. I'm not going to do that. So the number that I came with is 1000x. Rasheed: 1000x, all right. And why is that? Monika: So it's really funny. I mentioned before that we that developed machine learning for And this Tensor journey We didn't start this yesterday. So when I think back to the original it's really funny because you're have infinite compute, infinite And now we're like, hey, bring to this tiny little thing And 1000x represents-- Watts is for power consumption. They think in that unit, watts. And we're like, no, no, no. We operate in milliwatts, Rasheed: So the amount of power is 1,000 times smaller than what the Monika: At least, yes. Rasheed: Right. Monika: And it was really funny, conversations, where you realize, But it was actually quite amazing the same researchers that developed big Google as we like to call taken their technology the quality but at a power budget Rasheed: So that makes me curious. So you work on making things from Google for use in mobile phones. And I'm wondering, does it So maybe someone who works in Cloud is 1,000 times more efficient. Maybe we should bring some because efficiency is Monika: Yeah, absolutely. And it's not really the device If you look at the machine learning it's one community. And so if we drove innovation and it's a more efficient while preserving quality absolutely, it will So it's not one versus the other. And even on Cloud, I infinite compute in infinite power, Rasheed: Of course. Monika: So serving on the And if there's ways to improve the and the power management, absolutely. We're one sort of organization and they fully adopt any Rasheed: My favorite feature on and that's been something is involved in, to make that even work. I'm just wondering, do you using Photo Unblur and what was your Monika: So my cousin, who I I was about to say how many years, she sent me a photograph of our trip And it's me, my brothers, And it was really cool to It's just amazing. You can imagine the cameras and it was a really nice moment. She sent me that picture, and Unblur version of that picture. Rasheed: And what was their response? Monika: Of course, amazement. Rasheed: Yeah. Monika: And then she starts sending oh, here we go again. Rasheed: It's just like that Monika: Yeah. Rasheed: As we discussed, on future versions of our silicon. And I know we cannot go into details probably, but I'm still our future silicon to be able to do? Monika: Yeah, so I would about our future silicon roadmap. Rasheed: Right. Monika: But I think sort of overall is really all about ambient computing. And ambient computing means that the And I think we have a lot of today, whether it's making photography and how you use your phone, I would say we build upon that and figure out how to do super in a power efficient way of those ambient computing experiences. Rasheed: Well, it sounds like we So maybe three or four years ago of experiences were you probably proud of that are possible for example? Monika: So if you look at the Google had amazing camera innovations to photography we call We are known in the industry for that. And now bring Tensor SoC onto the when it comes to computational and that's what we did So for example, on Pixel 7, Night Sight, and where even in low-light situations, And now with Tensor G2, Night So that's a pretty big working in super tough, and you're trying to make There's so many things You can go down to the nitty-gritty things like focus, autofocus. In typical Google fashion, That is not the classical way of And that's something Rasheed: And what does that mean? Does that mean that we show what faces look like in order to make Monika: That's called face detection. In a photo, what's more Rasheed: Right. Monika: That's pretty foundational to we talked about this Again, in typical Google fashion, Now on that one there's actually-- Rasheed: Of course. That's what we're here for. Monika: There's an even more interesting So face detection, pretty foundational Rasheed: Yeah. Monika: And then we we apply machine learning But the story doesn't end there. If you want to know how we we actually used machine learning to Rasheed: You got to help me out here. So you used ML to create the ML? Monika: Yeah. Rasheed: How does that work? Monika: This is what I mean you're an in-house silicon supplier. You've got so much ML So we have this thing called-- shoot, I'm not remembering the Rasheed: It is AutoML? Monika: Yes, that's the And the concept behind is now machine learning learning models, making making them lower power, So the face detection in Pixel 6 was and where ML made ML better. Rasheed: Monika, we ask every guest So for example, we asked Isaac about his top three tips for and want to get better at it. Maybe there are people listening or who want to become a I'm just wondering, what What's your tip for the road? [MUSIC PLAYING] Monika: OK, so how to become I think for me, over my career, I or by design, I always ended up working meaning that it wasn't It was new. It was a clean sheet of paper. There was no playbook. And consistently that's been And I think with joining Google mobile industry is a very However, how we are approaching And as a product manager, and emerging technologies, what number one, to really hone not fall into the trap of And the hardest piece is having And I think with Tensor, We are changing the paradigm of And we are deviating from the We're not leading with And I think that takes some And we're pretty happy with the outcome. The results speak for themselves. But for product managers that can So my tip for the road would Rasheed: That sounds like made some beautiful with Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro, Monika, thank you so much for joining It's great talking to you. Monika: Thanks for having me. [MUSIC PLAYING] Rasheed: Well, if there's something and taking risks there. I'm glad she did because we're reaping It's been great learning And if there's one is that Tensor is all about making possible on a mobile device. So that's it for this week's there's a new one next week. So please take a moment to subscribe because we'd love to have you again. Have a wonderful day, wherever you are. Take care, and talk to you next week. [MUSIC PLAYING]