In the 1940s, penicillin was so hard to get, that scientists studied how to It demonstrates how the human body antibiotics and other pharmaceuticals we ingest. It depends on the drug, but roughly we consume are excreted. Mostly as urine, due to So considering the thousands of tons of makes me wonder. What are all those antibiotics in ## Human Consumption From 2000 to 2015, world human antibiotic That growth is likely to continue, hitting upper middle income countries In 2016, there were 270.2 million antibiotic prescriptions issued Side note: You have at the other end sub-Saharan Africa - where treatable one of the leading causes of death for children 50-70% of these prescriptions are for a class of drug that includes the penicillin family and amoxicillin - a name that I It was estimated in 2010-2011 that 30% of - meaning patients who do not stay overnight To give credit to the US, extensive this unnecessary antibiotic consumption of 273 million prescriptions a 5% decline in the prescribing rate from And just in case you think the a study of 18.8 million antibiotics Republic of China between 2014 to 2018 ## Animal Consumption And then we have the largely consumption by farmed animals on land or in water. Roughly half of world antibiotics not humans. I say roughly because nobody really Farmers who give antibiotics to their animals preventive measure or to improve nutrient I am going to choose my words carefully It can be demonstrated that antibiotics shrimp, turkey, chicken, pork, so on - And those pockets can infect individual a major transmission risk - or is plague of antibiotic resistant bacteria most resistant bacterias infecting A 2008 survey by the US Department of pigs in the United States received antibiotics in we probably shouldn't be feeding Since then, consumer and regulatory change their animal rearing and found a 43% decline in antibiotic sales However it is unlikely that antibiotic will ever go down to zero - even with and biosecurity practices. We will still need them And I should also note that antibiotic feedstock 52% of China's 163,000 tons of antibiotic ## Hospitals Of particular concern is the wastewater coming Hospitals consume a lot of water - around a 2001 estimate found that a quarter take place inside the hospital. And This means significant amounts of hospital wastewater. Hospital wastewater not only contains municipal wastewater, but also high concentrations The bacteria, by themselves, are worrisome enough. But we should also worry about pick up these genes via horizontal gene certain antibiotics. It is the primary In addition, hospital wastewater is often dumped treatment. One assessment of 23 antibiotics from 40% of all the drugs entering the wastewater total load depends on the hospitals' size, ## Wastewater Treatment All this consumption turns the into hotspots for cultivating We have been treating domestic, as same way for, like, a hundred years. I covered this in a previous video about Singapore's Newater so feel In the first stage, we use various to sift out all the solid things inside those might be. Chemicals might also be After that, a second stage works nitrogen and other biodegradable items a biological process called Here, we inject oxygen into a tank micro-organism growth. While there will be the sheer amount of organic matter After the process, we are left a sludge that we can recycle into And second, we get a relatively clean and final finishing step using methods ## The Resistance Concern The worry is that these wastewater treatment The first antibiotics were naturally made they were quite biodegradable. Today's drugs are synthetic chemicals that engineer these drugs to remain stable for longer body. But that also means they stay stable At the same time, basically every mechanism of antibiotic resistance is like leaving big cargo crates of weapons in So, we are mixing together high concentrations and mobile antibiotic resistant genes - along detergents, hydrocarbons and such We don't know exactly what happens in there. The select for more resistant bacteria disrupting competition from the local ecosystem But we can study the wastewater going in and of antibiotic resistance in certain bacteria. there is a significantly higher prevalence more drugs - in water leaving the plant In one case, strains of two bacteria increased resistance to 21 out of through wastewater treatment. These plants ## Coming Back To Us After the treated water, with its there are plenty of ways that this For example, the activated sludge left over is sometimes used as agricultural however. I know in Europe they And then there is the treated water itself. water goes to nonpotable things like irrigation, What is that last one? Artificial it is kind of like another way Wetlands are fairly good at removing antibiotics around 40-80% reduction, particularly if best with wastewater with lower levels of You might presume that keeping the water away makes it safe. But even non-potable usages irrigating plants that we eventually antibiotics and antibiotic-resistant ## A Tricky Removal Part of the challenge with treating and figuring out what is actually in the Six classes of antibiotics have With large disparities in those six In one study, a sample taken from Hong the antibiotic cefotaxime in one liter of we had 1,100 nanograms per liter. For a different These varying concentrations are the size of the watershed. Or even what ailments affect patients - and Another tricky part of the problem is that we amount of antibiotics to have in the water. Not ## Removal Mechanisms Different antibiotics respond to different removal One simpler way to remove antibiotics is to maybe even in a membrane bioreactor. The longer we retain the sludge, the environment capable of breaking down the biological processes is highly variable and We can try to filter out the antibiotics push the water through nano-sized pores and Quite similar to the concept of reverse osmosis, which we use for purifying salty water. And I though we should consider cost and problems But filtering works pretty well. for antibiotics like quinolones, Another study found that filters removed Another method is adsorption. This is where bentonite, or maybe even carbon And there, it accumulates the antibiotic it from the water. Such adsorption removing organic contaminants. It can Finally, I want to call out ozonation. We is an unstable molecule of three oxygen atoms. it oxidizes various chemicals, creating insoluble Applying ozonation in various doses significant amounts of antibiotics. For micrograms of ozone per liter of water for of some antibiotics. But for others, more Other options show promise too. UV light And peracetic acid disinfection, which years as a more environmentally Many of these cleaning applications are second stage biological processes. but increasingly likely to be useful as ## Conclusion The years between the 1930s and 1960s They were literal magic bullets that stopped discovering as many of them, and that The American CDC estimates that each year, antibiotic resistant bacteria cause over 2.8 This is happening right now, and It is proven that part of the issue is wastewater grow the next generation