Translator: Morgane Quilfen Joshua: My name is Joshua Fields Millburn Together, we run a website and we promise the folks with something inspirational, (Laughter) something to get you all excited. (Cheers) So, I'd like to talk about (Cheers) (Laughter) Let's talk about death! If any of you are uncomfortable now might be a good time for you to leave. (Laughter) I have a feeling we will be Anyway, yeah, we could talk about death. Let's see, seven years ago, I was 28 years old, I had achieved everything I ever wanted: The six-figure salary, the luxury cars, the big suburban house and all of this stuff to filled every corner Man, I was living the American Dream! And then my mom died. Both in the same month. And these two events and start to question You know what I realized? I realized I was so focused and especially, Yeah, I was living the American Dream, but it wasn't my dream. And it took getting everything to realize that everything I ever wanted You see, just a year earlier, to finally retire. Because that's what you do And, well a few months she found out she had lung cancer. And a few months after that, she was gone. I spent a lot of time with her as she went through And when she passed, I realized this time it was to deal with her stuff. So, I flew from Dayton, Ohio, and when I arrived, I found about crammed in a mom's tiny But don't get me wrong, she wasn't. I mean, I didn't find (Laughter) But she owned a lot of stuff. 65 years worth of accumulation. Did you all know that the average American household 300,000! But of course, most of us No, we just hold onto a lot of stuff. We hold onto a lifetime I know mom certainly did. So, I did what any good son would do -- I think that's me on a bad hair day -- I called U-Haul. I called U-Haul and I asked In fact, I needed one so large, I had to wait an extra-day, And as I waited for that U-Haul to arrive, I invited some of mom's friends over I mean, there was just Her living room was stuffed and old paintings, and more doilies that I could count. She loved doilies. And her kitchen was stuffed and bowls, and ill-assorted utensils. And her bathroom was stuffed with enough hygiene products And her linen closet, well, it looked like someone was running which was stuffed with mismatched and bed sheets, and blankets, and quilts. And don't even get me started Why did mom have 14 winter coats 14! Now, come on, she lived Suffice it to say and I had no idea So, I did what any good son would do; When I called, I asked for You what they asked me? &quot;Do you want one Climate-controlled, just so mom's stuff No, I don't want one just give me a big box You see, I couldn't co-mingle I already had a big house, But a storage locker? A storage locker would let me Just in case I needed it someday, You know, just in case. Just. In. Case. [Just. In. Case.] The three most dangerous words Anyway, so there I was, when all of a sudden, These old printer-paper boxes. Kind of heavy. Sealed with excessive amounts So, I pulled them out one by one. I noticed that each box was labelled with just a number, written on the side, All I saw was: one, two, three, four. I stood there, looking down, wondering what could possibly It looks like we're out of time folks. (Laughter) No, it was my old grades one through four. You know, as I opened those boxes, and I thought to myself, &quot;Why was mom holding onto But then, all those memories and I realized she had been she was holding onto all those memories Wait a minute! Those boxes had been sealed which made me realize something important Our memories are not inside our things. [Memories} Our memories are inside us. See, mom didn't need to hold on to I was never in those boxes. But then, I looked around I looked around at all her stuff, and I realized I was getting ready Except instead of storing I was getting ready to cram it all So, I did what any good son would do, I called U-Haul And then I called and I cancelled And I spent the next 12 days And I learned a bunch Not only did I learn that our memories but I also learned about You see, if I'm honest with myself, I was just going to selfishly but of course, I wasn't going as it sat there, But the truth is that by letting go, So, I donated much of her stuff giving the stuff a new home. And the things I was able to sell, and give it to the charities that helped her through And when I finally returned to Ohio, I returned with just a handful an old painting, a few photographs, And the final lesson I learned, While it's true that sometimes, it's also true that sometimes, the things that we have that are inside us. So, while I was still in Florida, I took photos of many When I went back to Ohio, I went back with just which I was able to scan, And those photos made it easier because I realized I wasn't letting go [Let go, move on] Ultimately, I had to let go before I was able to move on, and to move on, well, and take an inventory of my own life. It turns out I had an organized life, [Organized] but really, I was just I mean, everything looked great, sure, and I knew I needed to simplify things. That's where this beautiful thing For me, it all started with one question: How might your life be better with less? You see, by answering this question, I was able to understand not just the how-to, but the why-to. I learned that if I simplified my life, for my relationships, and I could contribute beyond myself See, I was able to understand well before I ever cleaned out And so, when it came time for me I started small, I asked myself What if you remove one material possession Just one. What would happen? The end result: Well, I unloaded way more like way, way more. It became this kind of personal challenge, so I searched my rooms and closets, rumaging for items to part with, retaining only the things pondering each artifact in my home, I'd ask, &quot;Does this thing The more I asked this question, And embracing minimalism I mean, the more you do it, the freer, and the more you want to throw overboard. For me, a few shirts led to half a closet, a few DVDs led to deep-sixing A few decorative items led to junk drawers it's a beautiful cycle. I mean, the more action you take, Ultimately though, has to do with the benefits we experience once we're on the other side Hence, removing the clutter it is merely the first step. I mean, it's possible to go home, get rid of everything you own to come home to an empty house and sulk, Because consumption is not the problem. Compulsory consumption is the problem. And we can change that by being more deliberate Over the course of eight months, more than 90 per cent Although, if you visited my home today, &quot;Oh my God! This guy is a minimalist!&quot; No. You'd probably just say, You'd ask how I keep things so organized, and I'd simply grin and tell you but everything I do own Each of my belongings, my car, my clothes, has a function. As a minimalist, every possession and everything else is out of the way. With the clutter cleared, I felt compelled questions like: Why did I give What is truly important in my life? When did I become so discontented? Who is the person I want to become? And how am I going to define These are tough questions, but they've proven to be than just trashing my excess stuff. And if we don't answer these questions then the closet we just decluttered in the not too distant future. So, as I let go, and as I started facing things got simpler, and the people around me noticed People at work started saying things like, &quot;You seem less stressed!&quot; &quot;What is going on? And then my best friend, whom I've known since he came to me one day, And that opened him up in time to the concepts of minimalism As he simplified his life, that made room conversations about wasn't just affecting our lives, Ryan: You see, the more we consume, But then of course, If we consume less stuff, As you all might know, if the entire world we would need over four Earths How can we, as consumer-driven Americans, It's pretty simple; That's how. [Debt] Did you know the average American And one in ten Americans And the average credit card debt The total consumer debt is nearly 12 trillion dollars. 12 trillion dollars! Let me just put that If you went out and spent one dollar it would take you more than 31,000 years In fact, if you went out ever since the birth of the Buddha, you still wouldn't have spent And we have nearly And the only way out is to let go. When we let go, our actions, Six years ago, Josh and I, so we could start living a life We started consuming less, And when our lives became our message, we started a blog, so we could share We called it &quot;theminimalists.com.&quot; Since then, we've written we started a podcast about intentionality, and we released a documentary All in an effort to add value And that's really why we're here today, we really, really hope that we can add value So, if you leave here we really hope it's this: Love people and use things, [Love people, use things] (Applause)