Hey, there, guys. Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're going We'll learn what is voltage how to measure voltage, the and alternating voltage and finally, we'll briefly look at why and how voltages vary around the world. In our last video, we learned of free electrons between atoms. Voltage is what pushes the free Without voltage, the free between atoms but they so they aren't much use to us. It's only when we apply that the free electrons will causing current. It's easy to imagine voltage If we have a water tank then the mass of all that water is going to cause a huge amount of If we have a water tank then there will be much If we open the valve then more water will flow at a faster rate from the high-pressure tank compared to the low-pressure tank. The same with electricity; then the more current can flow. Voltage can exist without current. For example, we can measure with the valve shut with no water flowing, and from this, we can tell What we're really measuring between what's inside the pipe compared to the pressure outside. The same thing if we to a circuit with an open switch. The voltage is still and as soon as the switch closes, it's going to push the free We sometimes hear voltage referred to as potential difference. This really means how much by a circuit. Coming back to our water analogy, if we have two lakes at the same level, then there is no potential to do work because the water isn't flowing, but if we raise one lake then this higher lake to flow down to the second one, and if we give it a If we place a turbine in its path, then we can use its or even an entire town. Back to the electrical circuit, this battery has a potential difference of 1.5 volts between its If we connect a piece of wire to both terminals of a battery, then the pressure of the to flow all in the same We can then place electrical of these electrons to do work for us. For example, if we place then this will light up as If we then added another battery then the electrons will by my second battery along this path, and there This will combine the More volts equals more pressure, which means more pushing force. That will mean more electrons will flow and the lamp will glow brighter. However, if we were to move the battery and connect it in parallel, then the path of the electron splits. Some will flow to the first battery and some will flow to the second battery, therefore, the batteries will of energy, so the voltage isn't combined, the voltage isn't boosted, So, the workload is split by the batteries and the lamp will be powered for longer, but it will be dimmer. We've covered this in much more detail within our Electrical Circuit series. Do check that out, links are We measure the potential with the units of volts, of a capital V to show this. If you look on your electrical appliances, you will see a number next to a capital V, indicating how many volts In this example, the manufacturers of this USB hard drive are telling us that the device needs to be connected to a five-volt DC, or and it needs one amp of The term volt comes from named Alessandro Volta, who which was the first electrical battery that could provide an electrical current in a steady rate in a circuit. Voltage and volts are different. Remember, voltage is the pressure and volts is just the units The same as we know the pipe has pressure but we use units to measure this pressure, such as bar, PSI, kPa, et cetera. As we saw earlier, we can This can be separate or If you don't have a multimeter yet, you can pick one of I highly encourage you to I will leave a link in the for where to get one for a good price. To measure voltage, we have to connect to the circuit in parallel we would like to know the voltage, or potential difference, for. So, for a single battery in a circuit, then we measure 1.5 and we also measure 1.5 The battery is providing and the lamp uses 1.5 volts In a two-lamp series circuit, we measure 1.5 volts across the battery, 1.5 volts across the two lamps combined, but 0.75 volts across The voltage, or potential, has to both provide light and heat. The lamps are dimmer because or divided. Again, we'll cover this in more detail in our Electrical Circuits Tutorials. So, we saw earlier that voltage Voltage is pressure and volts So, what does one volt mean? One volt is required to drive one coulomb, or approximately 6 quintillion, through a resistance of That's still a little confusing, so another way to explain this is that, to power this 1.5-watt lamp with a 1.5-volt battery or 6 quintillion,242 to flow from the battery and for it to stay on. To power this 0.3-watt lamp with a 1.5-volt battery approx 1 quintillion,872 to flow from the battery and for it to stay on. If we try to use a lower but it decreases in brightness That's because there is less pressure to force electrons through it. Less electrons flowing, less The lamps are only rated for If we use a higher voltage, then the lamp will become brighter because more electrons but if we add too much then the lamp will blow because to pass through at once. If we look at some typical batteries, we can see that this AA battery and this one has a voltage of 9 volts. These are sources of direct voltage, meaning, the pressure it in a constant current in one direction, much like the flow of water down a river. We cover this in our last so do check that out Links are in the video description below. Direct voltage is usually with some dots above this You can see an example for the setting we would need in order to measure the If we plotted this voltage against time, it would produce a straight it is direct in one direction. The voltage in our wall This is a different type of electricity. In this type, the electrons alternate between flowing forwards and backwards because the polarity of much like the tide of the sea. If we plotted this voltage against time, we would get a sine wave and rises to its maximum It passes through zero, is flowing backwards but and reverses direction again. This is usually represented with a wave line above it. You can see that on the for measuring AC voltage. The voltage at these where in the world we are. The majority of the world but North, Central, and as well as a few countries scattered across the planet We can measure the voltage at our sockets and see that it actually changes as the demand on and we can do that using one Again, links in the video If you want one of these, you can pick them up fairly cheaply, and they're a great The reason for different goes all the way back to the beginning, when electricity first At first, there was no standardization, so each distribution and frequency for whatever Eventually, over time, some companies grew and dominated the market, and so voltage and frequency standardized and services expanded. Governments also had to and regulations to help so that people could buy products easily but also trade products This is still a problem to this day, but it's pretty much too late to fix, as everyone is now so reliant and we would need to to solve the problem. For example, if we take a which is rated at 110 volts, and we plug it into a which has 220 volts, the at full power because there is or too much pressure, and If we took a hair dryer from Europe and plugged it into a U.S. socket, it probably won't turn on, but if it does, it's not going to be very because there just isn't enough Some products can be used in You need to check the to first see if the to cope with different voltages. For example, this laptop charger shows that it can be used on voltages whereas this charger is only rated for 220 volts or 240 volts. Okay, guys, that's it for this video, but if you want to continue your learning with your electrical engineering, then check out these videos here and I'll catch you there Leave your questions in the and don't forget to follow us on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, as well Once again, thanks for watching.