Every year, migratory birds South in the autumn, They have been flying here but recently, Some species have even vanished entirely. Why? My name is Christian. For over 20 years, I learned to pilot a microlight I have been sharing with anyone wishing to see these wonders. But I can't bear standing by What could be discouraging them The expanding towns? The disappearing meadowland? Are there any other reasons? I want to understand and act. I want to do everything I can to help these birds continue So I have dreamt up a school of migration. I will fly off discover with them the pitfalls and find a new way of crossing our lands. Then I will leave them to their freedom with the hope that my pupils and one day Come with me. Let me show you Here we go, It's August and this is the moment We are leaving the plains of Alsace, Then over the forests From the Loire all the way a migratory bird's paradise. Oh, sorry, Here are my eight young geese. All of them are grey geese, The five ones with the yellow beaks and the three pink-beak sisters, So here I am, the head of this little family All born this spring, So how did I become the adoptive father? First, talking to them It's my voice, along with my face, Hey, baby. That's me 20 years ago Geese identify with whoever is with them even if it's a man. Over the coming weeks, The same method If they seem at ease with the microlight, that's because I taught them to waddle, That's why they have no problem Grey geese migrate from northern Europe In the wild, by following their parents On the way back up, Flying in the crisp morning light, the landscape appears clearly. Castles, church towers, villages, rivers. Many landmarks for my student navigators with eyesight They calculate their position and possess cells capable of sensing a compass built into their eye They are perfectly equipped It's hot, beaks opened, their tongues So many clear signs they are thirsty. Below us, Out of instinct, Time for the first lesson. Odd place for a swim. Indeed, my geese aren't keen to dive Here, nothing is wild. Yet, it's a safe place. By overcoming their suspicion, my geese have one more Taking advantage That's the moral of this afternoon. We've been flying since morning, They're still unaccustomed In the wild, they feast on tender shoots But here, no meadows, just cultivated farmland It's the same story elsewhere, I decide to set down near a cornfield. Lesson number two, Seeds, leaves, corn. A gourmet feast for starving birds. I'm afraid the smallest of the pink beaks I keep my eye on her, but let her go. Migration is also growing up. You soon learn caution. That was close. A good lesson. The leftovers from the harvest Some farmers know this and leave the stubble My geese have learned to take advantage. Bellies full, heading for the Vosges mountains. Above the forest, Instinct tells them offers no suitable place for landing I decide to take us down closed in and surrounded by trees. Its black water fascinates the birds. For their first ever long flight, my geese have had They will spend the night feeding on algae Drinking water whose taste like the address Auvergne. We're at the foot of the Puy Mary volcano. As with every new landscape we fly over, They're a chatty bunch of geese. They sound their position to the group They cannot turn their heads It's also a way They recognize each individual caw. They expect me to join in I do my best. The geese at the front long before me. You can call the migration of wild geese, So vital to them is water. On the ground, Any predators like foxes or birds of prey As for the other guests, As a goose, your first task in a new place After the exertion and stress of a flight, The water's full of great things too. Larvae, insects, I'm amazed at the things or learned them from anyone. It's innate, not just as decoration, Fuselage, wings, rudder, propeller. With the tip of their beak, leaving their feathers waterproof, One flaw in their plumage Real contortionists. I couldn't teach them that. I keep a close eye A little cheeky, she wanders off Inquisitive, adventurous, or careless? The grass is always greener, as they say. Neck stretch upward, Instinct tells him that a lone bird and puts everyone in danger. She stamps the ground. She's worried. I do not interfere, on purpose. Eventually, bringing the little one Stretching out and swaying the neck Get back before it's too late. The incident is over, but a rift has appeared We don't need to wait long in a little argument, The yellow beaks They're dominant. The pink beaks Every family group needs a hierarchy. It reassures everybody. Nothing like a grooming session I am always touched by the attachment I'm attached to them too. Yet I will have to leave them By the evening, It's an irresistible urge. There are young, At the end of a summer's day, hot and cold currents I make the most of it. They will soon need to face So, kids, you wanted some exercise. Tonight's lesson, acrobatics. If the air was visible, with waves crashing against the cliffs, Here come the gusts. I keep counting them in my head. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. One's missing. Eight. The group is breaking up. My geese drift from one side to the other, It would only take a second to lose one. She would try to find us, and eventually abandoning us. She would have no chance That's my greatest fear. Above a certain altitude, The air carries us like a strong current, They have to learn this for the day With the tips of their long outer feathers each bird learns and shape themselves to it. Not flying, but surfing. No longer pink or yellow beaks, The sky is ours. September. A thick fog keeps us Flying is impossible. There's a constant fear The geese stay close. As usual, the little pink beak In a group of geese, there's always one That often benefits the group. I let her go, Then everything happens at once. The sun breaks through the fog. The big male surprises everyone I have to catch them up. Our little explorer is caught off guard. In the wild, she would have a slim chance I force the squadron to stay visible for the little one. At the last moment, The pink beaks This accidental lesson of caution We leave the lake, A new day, For millennia, migratory birds There, they have places A direct route to the sea. A route that never changes. The leading birds maintain The strongest take turns at the front The others glide in their wake in the Tour de France by the chasing pack. We look for a riverbank. But after the autumn rains, the swollen Loire and eaten into its banks. The big male and the little pink beak I notice we are fighting against the wind. Our ground speed is practically zero. My geese and my motor is beginning to suffer. No wild bird We have to land, quick and safe. At this quiet little airport, and being on the ground and leave when the conditions allow. But leaving this little gang of teenagers In the end, I think Airports offer tempting meadowland but they have to learn to be cautious, I have to resolve myself Securing the campsite is still vital. Foxes attack at night. They'd fly off into the darkness A fox's cry puts them on alert. Like every night, they only sleep with only one eye shut, like me. In the morning the wind has dropped, The microlight is soaked. The thick cloud cover We'll have to wait. They're getting restless, No traveling today, just a fly by. The little explorer and her sister like a treadmill beneath their feet. They drift where I wouldn't want them to. In the middle of the river, the trap is set. Live ducks, call passing birds and fake ducks A hunter's hide. Empty? Lucky. Useless hunters. They have to get back quick. I hope that this fear will stay and they'll remember Hunting is one of our traditions, but it kills 17,000 that still attend this journey every year. A weather window signals our departure. The oldest of the pink beaks for next year. Direction, due west. The stages follow one another between countryside and town, where another formidable rival species Man. He is everywhere. But his activities Here's a chance for a new lesson. Some motorways Visible by day and night, The big male and the pink beaks Some species are already used to these Tired? Well, try one of the many rest stops A few 38-ton trucks, Wind farms With headwinds and low visibility, Surprised by these giant fans, Some get lost. I could pass further away, Tame their fear. Every day, Next time they might be less surprised. It's October and autumn is upon us. Day after day we follow the Loire Their super sharp eyesight allows the geese and to pick out They're never wrong. Well, almost. My pink beaks have drawn the group to the most delicious the green. At this time, their comfort I encourage them further. Other species have already gatecrashed where people presume This Bewick's swan, for example, has probably come from Siberia where the water won't freeze. Clearly, the three pink-beak sisters The dominance of the yellow beaks, is starting to wane. It's normal they're cutting loose. Deep down I know it's for the best. As we are about to leave, A duck, separated from her own kind I have often seen lone birds Anything but alone and they are happy to welcome a bird Today the air is full of a new scent I know what lies in store, but they don't. Suddenly, there it is, which must awaken within them We have reached an essential stage Some birds stop here. The abandoned duck takes command. Where to go? She knows. She must recognize the terrain. Everything is new, the smells, the light, The crashing waves intrigue them. The big male keeps a lookout, The pink beaks, look for a venture away from his gaze. The beach is full of temptations, With no hands, They nibble each item, They stamp the ground, Birds die in their thousands from accidentally ingesting or returned by the sea. They're grown up now. I won't be with them forever. They must learn for themselves the difference between what's okay The big male hears the duck Is she lost? It sounds like there's nothing they can do How could she resist such a male, She shows off her catch one last time. We won't see her again. One day my geese One they'll keep for life. The tide rises, the sun sets. Now is the time for roosting. This great flight, takes them from the shore Then return again in the morning. This coming and going who will spend many months here. We are a little early, but a few cranes have already started The wild geese There is one final lesson to be learned. The most difficult, the less certain. The time has come In this nature reserve with no hunting, But they will have to forget about me. The yellow beaks are already distant, But I must leave them now. Rushing forward with them one last time. I picture them The school of migration not only to learn from the other geese, but also to pass on I imagine them crossing the mountains And, I see them, the routes of migration.