We have a lot of choice, but it's better to be limited My first instruments because I realized that in order to learn synthesis and music production it was absolutely necessary to understand They are perfect for understanding and therefore understanding synthesis And it helped me tremendously. I love my Elektron Octatrack. It's very limited. I synthesize a lot of my drum Kick drums inside Ableton, and I process them. And the recording of that, I take and put it into the machine, and that sort of process results in my sound. The first of these machines so that taught me already But it wasn't until I got the Octatrack with these machines because like I said, at least in the way I use it. I use it as a sampler, purely as a sampler, to make stuff So I don't even record It have to come out And I think that's a great process We have a lot of choice I have the Digitone As for my sort of bleepy sounds, making that sort of spacy But for anything else I do use my Poly Synths I mean, you pay for the sound And they're old machines but they sound absolutely incredible. And I don't really need anything I can still sequence from Ableton but I mainly use Ableton, to sequence these machines For anything else. I will use my modular synth It's fairly new in my collection, It has these chord modes. But so there's this one actually, chord sounds that you can like design, especially for a synth that costs It's really incredible. I have these two as well. This Avalon bassline like these mono basslines. This one also can sound So like also in the upper like this one, I use it for my live set You can do this And this one is like basically My Elektron machines, or most of them Connected via USB and yeah, it's synchronized and you get the audio directly these synthesizers, the modular and all that, they are running through which are hidden there in the back. My audio cards are RME Fireface UCX and I have two of them ADAT so I get two times eight analog in. So I have 16 analog inputs. And then for the MIDI, essentially like it's even MIDI. I have connection on the So they have these like connectors and that's how like... and I adjust the latencies I record everything. I send the machines into Ableton and I record the master output in Ableton and I jam for long periods for an hour, an hour and a half, It doesn't matter. And then I take what I recorded and cut pieces, And then I master them myself and then My tracks are jammed and arranged live and I know the process like I So that's how I arrange. Obviously I'm limited in certain regard but I like that. Mixing for me is mostly adjusting and then you do a do and a little bit of like group compression But on individual sounds, I'm not starting The sound source has to be good enough. I use a little bit of Valhalla effects, they're good, but mostly Ableton stuff. Now Ableton 11 has great effects like hybrid reverb It sounds good enough. I do have Plug in Alliance things but I still find myself I think it's a lovely tool. It does its job and it's perfect, like and when I teach, I actually only use stuff from Ableton my students that you don't need Tuning your drums is probably one of the when you produce any kind of drum because any sound that you add, whether be a high hat and if those are not tuned correctly, it will just sound disjointed. It will not sound like one. Another thing that I think is So the strength that which your sounds hit is the length of the sound, So if you factor in tuning velocities you can do a lot more than EQing A lot of people, like my students, ask me like, how do I compress or how do I... Leave that all aside, learn to make your drums And then only you can do some of the imbalances or resonances, but you can do most And for that I only suggest It sounds obvious, but you really need to just combine and listen. Like, let's say a kick and Sub. your frequency or Sub is, pitch it higher or two and then you will know And that's how you need to learn. And if you really can't, then use a tuner. But I would say it's better for anyone. is to listen and then make choices