Cindy Kelly: I'm Cindy Kelly, Atomic Heritage It is Tuesday, November 27, 2018, and I have My first question for him is to please say Richard Rhodes: Richard Rhodes, R-h-o-d-e-s. Kelly: Okay. Richard wants to share some of his expertise its legacy--which is wonderful. Why don't we start with Robert Oppenheimer very enigmatic character--who is often a Rhodes: You know, in a way today, the Manhattan is that there was one bomb for Hiroshima. Poor Nagasaki tends to be forgotten. The myth is that there was one bomb for Hiroshima. Nagasaki tends to be forgotten. That there was one site where the weapon was and power reactors that were sited at Hanford, work on nuclear reactor development at the to be forgotten. That there was one man who was central to Most people, I think, believe he ran the Manhattan [Background discussion] That there was one man who somehow magically and that that was Robert Oppenheimer. In fact, Oppenheimer was the director of the mesa north of Santa Fe called Los Alamos--"the it. Who directed the development of the actual were two different kinds. He [Oppenheimer] played a crucial part, but is he the mythological figure?" There were extraordinary people--Nobel laureates General Leslie Dick Groves, who at six foot his own right, and who did run the whole project Why Oppenheimer? I think part of the answer is exactly that But where did that come from? Why was he enigmatic? Some of his friends had insights into the understand who he was, and why he was able of skill from first-class up through Nobel--with And somehow bring them all together and make work to produce these weapons in a remarkably absolutely new. Such things had never been built before. Oppenheimer--to Isidor Rabi, one of his best at Columbia University. Rabi said, "He reminded me of something he never could decide whether he should be of Columbus." Let me do that again. "He reminded me of something a friend of whether he should be president of B'nai Rabi said he [Oppenheimer] had an identity core. He tended to be an actor--he tended to play And, often, those were painful roles for his Because he could be brittle, he could be cruel. He knew this. If he was talking in a classroom and one of he thought was stupid, he would say, "That's You're stupid. Think about this." Then he would explain to him what he didn't So he was hard to be around, and he did this Hans Bethe, one of the great Nobel laureates the sun works, why the sun has so much energy could be cruel, and he was to me sometimes And we all make mistakes." "But," Bethe said, "I didn't mind." He minded enough at least to remember that But when he was asked to run the Los Alamos to take on the role of being the absolute Someone who could master all the science that the various personalities and their conflicts, many ways, while staying ahead of everyone He played the role superbly, so superbly that perhaps his worst enemy in the world--Oppenheimer's, "He was a complicated, difficult man," But I said, "What kind of lab director was And Teller said, "Robert Oppenheimer was I thought of something that President [Dwight] he, Eisenhower, had always most admired Hannibal--the to. "Because," Eisenhower said, "all of to us in the writings of his enemies." If Edward Teller thought that Oppenheimer he must've been spectacular. Rabi thought that Oppenheimer was not sufficiently That to do Nobel-level work you really have what you're working on. Oppenheimer, who was insecure, intellectually Bethe said, "He was far more brilliant than But he was still insecure, so he always had You can't really quite get the job done to keep up with the latest, so that you feel Yet, what a fascinating man. He was a poet. He wrote several good poems that I've seen, He decided that he wanted to understand the Sanskrit. In fact, there's a story about his time When one of the graduate students who'd you give a lecture in Danish next month?" The graduate student said, "I don't speak Oppenheimer said, "Well, you have a month, He was in addition physically, strangely charismatic. He was about six foot one, rail-thin--I mean, life. [0:09:00] At the time of the first bomb test a bout of chicken pox and he only weighed He was just narrowly framed. Someone said that he was the only adult they'd casually sit in the baby's highchair. We know how narrow those things are. He made powerful martinis and drank quite I don't suppose it showed in the exterior, But that was a side of his life that hinted He had been--as he himself described himself--a over all the other kids by what he knew. He called up the New York Geological Society of 15 [misspoke: 12] and proposed to give crystals. They didn't know, he sounded totally knowledgeable, When he arrived, this basically little boy, lecture that he gave. So a really complex, interesting, fascinating, to the circumstances, to do something that There has been at least speculation--I'm he and Edward Teller, who of course, contributed bomb, were two men who never quite worked But they found their way into history another war. Oppenheimer was visited early at the time 1943, by a man who became his mentor during larger meaning of what this weapon might be. This was Niels Bohr, a great Danish physicist, after [Albert] Einstein in the twentieth century. It was Bohr who came up with the basic ideas there's another level of reality where particles they do in what we call classical physics, Bohr was also [0:12:00] a philosopher and Contributed in many different ways to thinking world. But he was prepared with this background to to have a weapon so destructive that one bomb and a hundred bombs an entire continent. What would that mean? Was that just horror? Was that just destruction? [Background discussion] There's a myth about the Manhattan Project nuclear fission had been discovered--had together not to tell the world about this from atomic bombs. It's a charming myth in its own way. Would that life were so simple. But the truth is, physics--starting around begun exploring the kind of energies that Before then, it had been basically chemistry And chemistry is entirely involved with the The energies are much, much lower. The energy from the fission of an atom produces the form of heat as a chemical reaction. That's why in a nuclear power plant, the put in a small room. Yet it produces as much energy annually as Actually, closer to a thousand. So the nucleus was what really intrigued scientists. It was clearly the source of the radiation Curie's discovery of polonium with her husband, Just then, is that... Kelly: Marie Curie's husband, it was Pierre Rhodes: Oh, yes. So... Kelly: Frederic Joliot was her son-in-law, Rhodes: Beginning with the discovery by Marie in the last... Kelly: Pierre Curie. Rhodes: I'm sorry. Once more. Kelly: Okay. Rhodes: Beginning with the discovery of polonium the last decade of the nineteenth century, as she coined the term, "radioactive." Across the early quarter of the twentieth powerful methods of splitting atoms and chipping worked through. Until finally, in 1933 [misspoke: 1932], with a way to fire a particle into a nucleus that the neutron had no electric charge, and that So by 1939, when fission was discovered--actually, it was an inevitable discovery. It wasn't something where the scientists let's not do this." With the discovery of fission in Germany and different scientific journals, every physicist to the laboratory, pulled equipment off the release, and usually hit themselves in the I miss that?" It was, as one of the scientists, Philip Morrison, It's amazing that it hadn't been found But it had not. And with the discovery, all the countries group of physicists working very quickly realized source of power and the potential for making So it wasn't something people could say, would try to do it. Particularly Nazi Germany where the discovery There was real terror on the part of our scientists, just escaped from anti-Semitic Germany and A fear that if Hitler got the bomb, the Third thousand years. The Jews understood what would happen to them. They were already aware that the beginnings the early so-called Bullet Holocaust where They had a powerful impetus to work on a bomb--to The French, who had not yet been conquered and immediately started working on it. So did the English, so did the Italians. So did the Japanese--a little later, and have the kind of industrial capacity in wartime, that were needed to enrich uranium to weapons-grade breed plutonium from uranium. They had to basically stay at the laboratory But there's no question that Japan would Everyone would have. There was just no doubt that this was going Presumably, and this came early, the realization certainly couldn't build a building strong only way you could defend yourself would be To be able to say, "If you destroy us, we'll What we've come to call deterrence was already who understood the energies involved. Most people don't know that, and they don't thing was. It's a popular exercise in public school Harry Truman should be impeached for having But if you think back to the beginning and thought--against the Germans, and only very did we turn toward Japan. As an answer to what seemed like an implacable refusing to surrender, even if their own population It was something that was believed to be not that weapon. This is the paradox that Niels Bohr, back just ahead of the Gestapo--when the Gestapo approximately 8,000] Jewish people. [0:21:00] With Bohr's help and the help the Swedish [misspoke: Danish] people secreted boats over to Sweden and to protection for One of only two European countries that saved Bulgaria being the other one. Because, the Danes saw them as Danish citizens So they didn't want their citizens involved Bohr escaped and arrived in England and was was in Britain, and by extension in the United Then he traveled to the United States and Alamos, because he was highly respected at the president. By then, he'd thought it through. He even told Franklin Roosevelt--President this was not simply a new weapon. It was also a new kind of reality that the That if you live in a world--well, one step Nations define themselves not only by their themselves against attacks. Their military--whatever they have that allows take us over." That's a kind of boundary that says, "Here into it in a violent way, we will fight you With nuclear weapons, the boundaries are all Someone attacks you with nuclear weapons, ones were big, but they're down to no bigger defense. If they come over in an ICBM [intercontinental you can't knock them all out of the sky. If someone carries one in in the back of a So the whole premise of a nation as a physical new discovery and this new development. That meant countries were going to have to Who were they? What defined them? What sort of relationships could they have a dispute, they couldn't go to war? Which is exactly what [0:24:00] the new situation Bohr imparted these thoughts to Oppenheimer his visit to Los Alamos. He said later, "They didn't need me to They already knew what they were doing." He actually did fiddle a little bit with one But he wasn't any better at it than the thing. They solved the problem eventually, fairly But other than that, Bohr was there--he said--to Interestingly, it connects with something When he was recruiting scientists for Los would have been '41 and '42 in particular--picking He couldn't tell them what they were going It was secret. He could tell them that they'd be working couldn't tell them what they'd be working Some of them guessed it, of course--nuclear But what he did was say, "I can't tell What I can tell you is that it will probably That was idealistic enough for this man recruiting truth be told, that they signed on. They trusted him for that. But that idea is at the core of Bohr's idea it--a term out of quantum physics--to the It's a weapon of mass destruction and that's is that it will inevitably either lead to the human world. A kind of take it or leave it proposition, In my way of thinking, scientists--well, C.P. Snow said this. In 1945, he said, "Physicists became the Because they could design and build nuclear That was going to change the whole outlook Well, did it? If you take the number of man-made death from graph the numbers up through 1943, there is Until, in 1943, the worst year in terms of people died in 1943. [0:27:00] That is both the Holocaust, the camps, and the war itself. Then the number starts to decline as the wars end of the war, it drops to about a million Then, strangely, it stays there--between time. So wow, what happened? I would argue, and Bohr would have argued, was the appearance of nuclear weapons in the It's no longer possible to have the kind nuclear powers, whether primarily or secondarily. It's no longer [possible] to have a large of major nuclear powers. Instead, what we've had is a series of kind Even then, what on earth led the United States, to put itself in a position to be defeated A small colonial country with a fiercely prideful to support that military. Well, they were a client of the Soviet Union, far that the Soviet Union would step in and weapons. Again and again across the years after the been deterred--not in some fancy theoretical have come up with over the years to rationalize But at the basic, gut level of existential dear and love, including the physical world That's what happened with the discovery with the release of a little energy. Kelly: That's marvelous. Nice. You did a summary of some very complicated Unidentified Male: You got the bomb right _____ [0:29:33]. Kelly: There it is, a little model, right, Oh, goodness. Wow. That's very nice. Let's see, you touched a lot of, that's Now, what else can you do? Rhodes: Thank you. Kelly: Yeah. That's excellent. So... Rhodes: So, we could go into more detail, [0:30:00] We could talk... Kelly: Yeah. What do you think makes sense? I guess the hydrogen bomb comes before the, Rhodes: Oh, that's first. Kelly: Yeah. Rhodes: Yeah, let's do that. Kelly: That's first, so let's do that. Rhodes: Because, that's still Oppenheimer. Kelly: Yeah, exactly. Rhodes: Oh, good. Okay. In fact, it's a continuation of what we Kelly: Right. [Background discussion] Rhodes: At the end of the Second World War, defeated the previous May, and we had discovered serious bomb program. But we didn't know until later in the war, The atomic scientists, the men who had worked--men a few--who had worked on these weapons were what they had done. The news came back--despite Army censorship--from of people killed almost instantly. Not--I want to stress--not by the radiation The bombs produced a lot of prompt neutron on the same area where the blast effect from The bombs were designed not to kill people They were designed to be set off at a high case--that the fireball wouldn't touch the dirt and make a really dirty fallout cloud. So that didn't happen. What all those stricken human beings were fire. These were consummate fire weapons, because starts out at about three million degrees air, cools down to the point where you can Because, light--blue light--the color, the spectrum, is about 10,000 degrees. Three million degrees, those are [0:33:00] see those. You just see something, I don't know what As it expands, it cools and at 10,000 degrees, worst sunburn on everyone below. That's what those burns were on Japanese burned into their skin. It ignited everything organic that was ignitable the center of the explosion. That started a mass fire--what we used to that burned out Hiroshima, that burned out There were then some people who were irradiated they died of complications of their burns. Because radiation kills cells and prevents couldn't go beyond a certain point. [Edit out noise of something dropping?] But the myth that everyone in Hiroshima and horrible enough that they died from fire. We don't need to go on and talk about that I emphasize that only because Americans are We encounter it every day when we take an we have a CAT scan--so many contexts where But radiation from nuclear fission seems to mind. It's getting in the way of our producing That's a little sidelight. But to go back to where we are, the first at Los Alamos, still at Oak Ridge, still in happened was that they somehow had to prevent They conceived that in this way: that as soon Germany was destroyed--there were only two military capacity. That was the Soviet Union and the United States. We were way ahead of the Soviet Union. They had lost 25 million people in the Second plant. They were not in great shape, but they were a strong--if evil--leader, [Joseph] Stalin. We knew that they would get to work as soon as soon as they got the news from Hiroshima. Stalin called in his chief scientist and said, You have all the resources of the state at [0:36:00] So they were at work on the bomb. Some spies who had infiltrated our bomb program information about how to enrich uranium and The good scientists were aware of that. How long it would take them to get there was But the scientists at Los Alamos and elsewhere as two countries were nuclear powers, there by a world-scale nuclear war. Excuse me. For the scientists, it became a duty and a the atom--as they called it--to bring it United States, but throughout the world. Well, how do you do that? You do that with treaties, presumably. Treaties and inspection, treaties and the at what they're doing. The United Nations was in formation at that to be to go through the United Nations. President Truman felt much the same way, evidently. He also understood that international control and of his country. So, he delegated his secretary of state to--let It wasn't, it was Stimson, wasn't it, Kelly: War, and Jimmy Burns was... Rhodes: He delegated his Secretary of State, Carolina politician who thought of himself [He] didn't think much of Truman, even though Anyway, Byrnes delegated the job to an Undersecretary his negotiations and so on. Acheson in turn turned the job over to a committee also of Robert Oppenheimer as their guide There were like five people and they were They sat down with Oppenheimer. For the first ten days they met together, so that they could understand how this weapon He was a good teacher when he wanted to be, Then they started thrashing out the problem What [0:39:00] do you do? How does the whole world agree to something?" How do they protect against cheating--and They came up with the most extraordinary ideas. You would never imagine that a hard-headed but they were all sold and all unanimous about Plan. [David] Lilienthal being the head of the Tennessee who was involved in government and who was Here, I think Oppenheimer plugged in Bohr's in this document. I did talk to Rabi--one of the Nobel laureates that he and Oppenheimer thrashed these ideas University on the Upper East Side. East Side? Which side is Columbia on? Upper West Side. Anyway, we'll skip that. I'll go back. Rabi said that he and Oppenheimer worked through his apartment near Columbia University in meeting. There was an input from the scientists, probably and then the test bid was hard-headed engineers They argued, and they thrashed, and they argued, Lilienthal wrote later that about every day damn things." As if that was somehow a solution. Finally, they got such crosswise with each down to Oak Ridge to see the big factories There was a lot of whiskey shared on the train Everybody arrived with a hangover. But they'd solved some of their problems. Excuse me. There were a lot of shots of whiskey shared hungover committee members arrived at Oak some of their disputes. Then they went on in General Groves' private that. They went to Hanford. By the time they got back to New York, they Their ideas were absolutely radical. Basically, it was fairly simple. The only way to control the development of materials--highly-enriched uranium and man-made the control system. Well, how do you do that? Where do you start? You start at the factory where you're making Do you start when the ore arrives at the factory? Do you start after you've made the material No. You take over all the mines that produce the The bomb--the mechanism of the bomb isn't It's those little cores--the plutonium of a softball, and it destroyed an entire So you control the materials from the beginning authority. That was their solution. Unfortunately, President Truman--playing as we do in this country--decided to assign plan to the United Nations to a famous Wall Who had kind of set himself up as a wise man on a bench on Wall Street. He would give them forth his wisdom, and they solved their problems. That was Bernard Baruch. When Baruch read through the plan--he understood He asked Oppenheimer, "Where's the police Because, you see, if someone then with international mining uranium somewhere off in the distance, And was therefore a sign that someone was You would react accordingly. You would have diplomatic discussions. If that didn't work, you might have a war, If that didn't work at the extreme, every development--by this sneak attack, as it same thing. You would slowly then return to the deterrence world. It's brilliant. In fact, it's the only solution I've ever But Baruch couldn't see that part. He just kept asking Oppenheimer, [0:45:00] Where's my army?" Oppenheimer finally explained to him the fact He said, "If someone starts mining uranium, it?" But Baruch really didn't get it. So he modified the proposal--renamed it the Nations with the idea that the UN would have another country if someone started trying The Soviet Union wasn't buying that. He also set it up so that only after every would the United States give up its small That was totally unacceptable to Stalin as So the plan fell by the wayside. And indeed, we had the arms race that everyone What we did not have--because those young through as Bohr had--what we did not have We had a lot of close calls, we had a lot as we, the United States, have been, or the We lost the war in Vietnam because we wouldn't We lost the war in Korea because we wouldn't We just simply didn't dare. McGeorge Bundy, who was a national security then Secretary of Defense, was quoted once would lead to one bomb on one city in one's catastrophic mistake. Ten bombs on ten cities would be unthinkable. A hundred bombs on a hundred cities would He meant that one bomb--he said, basically--was That's a little bit poetic perhaps--maybe there's no question that countries have war. So in an inadvertent and much more dangerous worked. Except rather than being in a world where nuclear weapons on the part of various countries, were, we're now in a world where there are There are ten [misspoke: nine] nuclear powers The other way we would've had deterrence basically what Bohr saw as the ultimate deterrent, People who don't have any knowledge of science People who do--and the sufficient infrastructure--can And that makes them potentially a threat. It doesn't really matter if you are attacked If you have weapons safe from destruction now or ten years from now could destroy the there. We don't need 30 minutes of delivery time. It was all thought through--this unique and It was all thought through at the very beginning Because, the nation-state--this powerful ago during the Enlightenment, when peoples in most countries, language and history. In the United States the idea of the country and the Constitution--that's such a powerful The leaders have so much power thereby, because power to the leader, the president, the prime to move beyond. One of the things I've found in writing are really, really reluctant to change. They just don't. If we're talking about something as simple England--it took about 100 years. It took about 100 years to move from lamplight Every time a new technology is introduced are lots of people resisting it for lots of older forms, they've got money invested The same thing is true for a nation-state. I mean, think of our president, Mr. [Donald] That's kind of an extreme version of this It's really hard for [0:51:00] people to We're still to some degree tribal, national--whatever reality of nuclear war just hasn't quite In the meantime, we've had at least a dozen War. When it was within often a few hours that because they believed the other side was attacking. Some of them have occurred because heroic Some of them have not occurred just from sheer There we are, living in this precarious balance one hand, and a war beyond human imagining Syngman Rhee--who was President of South time he visited President Eisenhower in the that he should join Rhee in attacking North He said, "You know, you can use nuclear That's okay," Rhee said. Eisenhower had a phrase that he used for that. He said, "Why, if we used nuclear weapons, to scrape the bodies off the streets, sir." And Rhee would say, "Oh, yes, yes, yes." And then he'd say, "But if we really did take over the rest of Korea. But Eisenhower had a much grimmer experience that it wouldn't do. Kelly: Thank goodness. Rhodes: Indeed. Kelly: Wow. Oh, my. Rhodes: These are long, long answers. Kelly: No, these are wonderful. Rhodes: Is that okay? Can you cut... Kelly: These are perfect, because... Rhodes: Okay. Kelly: ...I can imagine a, you know, again, and high school, high school teachers. And, that's our new... Rhodes: Oh, good. Kelly: ...you know, sort of... Rhodes: Yeah. Kelly: ...audience, in addition to online. But I think it makes a lot of sense. Rhodes: Yeah. Kelly: You know, where can, people learn by Rhodes: Sure. Kelly: ...and watching, so they could watch, Rhodes: Good. Kelly: ...half-hour... Rhodes: Good. Kelly: ...20-minute segments. So, it'll be perfect. Rhodes: I've just done this for 40 years are the most important parts of the story. Kelly: Oh, yeah, no, it's fabulous. Rhodes: And, the meaning of it, most of all, beyond these are big bombs, they'll blow Kelly: Yeah, no. Rhodes: And, it's so much deeper than that. Kelly: Oh, yes. Rhodes: Yeah. Kelly: So, any rate, well, those were great. Now, we haven't touched, I mean, we were the hydrogen bomb. Rhodes: Ah, yes. Okay. There's [0:54:00] a phrase from somewhere That is, "The first act is the tragedy and a comedy." If you appreciate dark comedy, the development Just to encapsulate it in one image--when Robert Oppenheimer was asked, "If you had wouldn't you have used it on Hiroshima?" Oppenheimer said, "No." The lawyer said, "Why not?" Oppenheimer said, "The target was too small." Which says everything there is to say about They are capable of being made--not in kiloton, weapons, like uranium and plutonium weapons--they're to make them. Because, they're basically a thermonuclear process. If you add more fuel in the form of hydrogen, To take one of my favorite examples, Dr. Edward these stories--once sat down to figure out explosive force. That's a thousand million tons of TNT equivalent. For comparison, remember that the Hiroshima to one megaton--much less a thousand megatons. And the Nagasaki bomb was 22 kilotons. Again, a long way away from even one megaton, The largest bomb ever exploded in a test was The only reason it was that small--they designed destroy all of Siberia. So they took off the uranium outer shell that explosion and replaced it with a lead shell. Which would not react--would just melt, blow The plane--a fast jet bomber which dropped plane was painted white and still had burns to Moscow. And that was still not a hundred megatons. Teller's idea was really the kind of grandiose was interesting to do. But [0:57:00] he realized very quickly that way. Because, the fireball would expand to 10 miles Because the fireball would expand to 10 miles miles deep. That meant that any energy coming off the It wouldn't--you'd get some lateral movement, would mean that you might as well use a smaller Why build this giant thing? But that's what's possible with thermonuclear You can make them as big as you want. Once the idea was broached--and it was broached laureate Enrico Fermi. They were walking one day, fairly early in I think it was around 1942, on the campus were thinking about the immense amount of I mean, truly an immense amount of energy, it could actually compress iron and steel The light--we don't even think of light that much in one place, it does. And the temperature, of course, is 300 million interior of the sun. Fermi was playing around with the numbers if we could use an atomic bomb to set off Well, Teller ran with the idea. He was someone who when he had an idea, would toss it away and let someone else finish the just theorizing it. But that was his baby after that, and all make it. But fundamentally, you couldn't make one So Oppenheimer would say, "Why don't you You can't make your thermonuclear until Teller wasn't interested. "Oh, that's already done," he'd say. So Oppenheimer finally said, "Look, Edward, If I have a problem that I think you could And Teller just hung around and played the bombs. After the war, there was a big interregnum was going to be controlled legally and politically. There was a delay. Teller was incensed to hear Oppenheimer once the Indians." Oppenheimer didn't want to make any more He didn't see why we needed them at that we had won. But Teller was still dreaming of this powerful around 1948, '49, with a design that, as In fact, was tested later on and did not work. Certainly, not as well as he thought it would. So, he was increasingly upset and increasingly me--so, Teller was increasingly upset and behind Oppenheimer were thwarting his dream. The breakthrough came for Teller, and the its first atomic bomb in August of 1949. There was panic in Washington. Everyone was running around, "They've What do we do now?" Which sounds strange, because we had the bomb. If they got the bomb, the balance of forces We had been the monopolist before. I've heard people in this industry say, they got the bomb." As we didn't have very many bombs, we really But the reason for the panic was really quite The Soviets had never moved their four million to the Soviet Union after the war was over. They'd left them there, because of course, We, on the other hand, had rushed out as fast Curtis LeMay, who was later the head of the He said, "Everybody just dropped their tools He was horrified, because he knew the Soviets But as long as they had an army on the ground balance of forces, too. But then they got the bomb, and suddenly the And that's why people panicked. The military's perspective was "We need Teller was there to say, "Hydrogen bombs It can take out not only cities, it can take in one explosion." And--speaking to the Strategic Air Command, planes, we didn't have ICBMs--you can carry with a hydrogen bomb than if you have to carry So, from the SAC's point of view--Strategic they wanted, so that they could fulfill their [1:03:00] It was their mission to destroy Because they knew some of their planes would a megaton-scale bomb, then even if only one LeMay had this cockamamie dream that we would Europe, because it was communist now--not Then we would fly over the Soviet Union and And then, if we had any bombs left, we'd I mean, some Navy officer who attended one afterwards, "I came away with the impression one smoking, reeking ruin within three hours." So that's where the pressure from the Air from. On the other hand, Oppenheimer was now Head Committee to the Atomic Energy Commission. In October of 1949--responding to the first General] Advisory Commission--was asked by its best judgment about the feasibility of They met and wrestled with this issue. Some of the members of the committee, including the idea of building a weapon of this scale ancillary report that said, "This thing never be built." But the main committee's response was to development of an atomic bomb should be to and expand our arsenal." Well, where was our arsenal at that point? We had, as I recall, something less than 100 the capability of really rapidly expanding We were at a point in the development of the the fuel--which was presumed to be a special not be enough to sustain a big thermonuclear You would have to have had yet another kind [1:06:00] in increasingly large quantities. As they did the calculations, up to a kilogram That's a lot of a gas. Well, it turned out that the way you made slugs into a nuclear reactor, and let the by converting the lithium to a form of hydrogen. But the amount of slugs that would have to amount of tritium would be the equivalent To get a little bit of tritium for one hydrogen make, Teller was proposing that we eliminate atomic bombs, which would be the equivalent It was crazy. But Teller's dream was this dream, "Let's This is my bomb," even though it wasn't With that imbalance, the committee rightly to continue working on the hydrogen bomb at But at the same time, increase the production the same job." The crazy Air Force dream of having a bomb Teller dream of having a bomb with his name anything else human beings had ever designed component of the physics community was pushing. Behind Teller, against what was believed to development of the hydrogen bomb. The chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission--who guy named Lewis Strauss--had it in for Oppenheimer. Because Oppenheimer had exercised some of and this man was a very proud man, and a wealthy Strauss was gunning for Oppenheimer anyway of mesmeric magic on the committee--this of science of various [1:09:00] kinds--and that fission bombs would do just because Oppenheimer force. These things sound so infantile, but the record All glazed over like a beautiful birthday and rationalizations for these positions. But they were pretty primitive., they really The Air Force was out for Oppenheimer, Teller The Air Force was out for Oppenheimer, Teller Many of the scientists at the Berkeley laboratories On the other side, the guys on the committees One spinoff from this was the famous Oppenheimer to go through a "security hearing," so-called. So the official report of the General Advisory proposed not building the hydrogen bomb. Not not building it, but simply not accelerating all pointed out--they didn't know how to When that meant using crucial materials in a large arsenal of atomic bombs that would In fact, do it better, because the blast center one. So in a way, you get more power, more bang But two things happened. The first was that a German scientist who out to be a spy. His name was Klaus Fuchs, and after the war on the British bomb program. In fact, in a sense, he was the first nuclear world, because he first delivered information He was a dedicated communist. Then, when he went to England, delivered information They knew a lot, but he knew a lot, too, so Then later on, after he got out of jail when nine years and released--and he opened a Germany. And presumably proliferated the bomb beyond Because it was the Soviet bomb that helped their bomb and off we go. It's really a strange kind of web of personal Against the rules, needless to say. Anyway, Fuchs was one of the spies. There was an American named Ted Hall--who unknowingly, operating independently, duplicated So the Soviets had good reason to trust it. Because the spy thing broke in the middle just terrified this country even more. We just felt beleaguered. And, then on top of that--wait, I'm blocking. I'll come back to it. Oh... Kelly: North Korean invasion? Or... Rhodes: And then on top of that, Lilienthal--who matters in the government--told Truman that Truman said, "Let's ask the Joint Chiefs They are the military leaders." As soon as they heard about it, they said, Because they were thinking of this balance-of-power That the Soviets had military on the ground The hydrogen bomb was somehow going to magically The fact that, obviously, the Soviets would we, the United States, was much more vulnerable Because we have big cities and more of them These things went by-the-by. It was just, "Let's get this new weapon, Early in 1951 [misspoke: 1950], on the advice the scientists--President Truman authorized bomb, which is nice. It's like saying, "I would like a Christmas But that doesn't make it happen, just because The scientists still had to figure out how There were various ideas tried. The first Soviet hydrogen bomb--which many a hydrogen bomb, consisted of layers. There was a layer in the middle of uranium, lithium, which would breed tritium in the So another way of actually having a solid And then another layer of uranium, another It was a big, bulky thing, but the one that of explosive force. Well, our rule was it wasn't really a hydrogen But from their perspective, it did the same Half a megaton of explosive force is a lot They in a way were a little bit ahead. We knew that design. Teller had come up with that design on his He called it the "alarm clock," because up the American scientific community." We eventually built a few, but they were big They weren't really a very efficient design. The breakthrough came after a lot of work The first use for the digital computer was hydrogen bomb, to see if the design would I mean, the computer figures into this kind nuclear weapons as well. Every time they ran a simulation on whether simply the trigger atomic bomb--it would off at the edges and then it would fail. Teller was just tearing his hair. He was desperate, he wanted his bomb and somehow, And people like Oppenheimer were thwarting They were deliberately trying to prevent a idea that if you didn't build one, the Soviets Teller had grown up in Hungary as a little After the First World War, Hungary was briefly and they had a little communist interregnum houses. Teller's father was a banker; they were Teller was living in this fancy apartment who--he pointed out--would piss in the potted They were crude from his point of view, and And there were bodies turning up in the river. I mean, it was a scary time in Budapest at Because Jewish children in the nineteenth for their military, and would be taken off the military for up to 25 years. It was really scary to be a Jew in Hungary to the Soviet Union to after the First World Teller's grandmother used to tell him, "Edward, and take you away." True. So he really was terrified of the possibility He once said in anger about this question we don't develop the hydrogen bomb, I will States within five years." That's how he felt about it. But he didn't know how to do it. So they struggled and struggled. [1:18:00] There was a Polish mathematician, who had gotten interested in physics. Mathematicians can be converted into theoretical to learn a little physics, because theoretical Ulam was a very good mathematician. He made some major breakthroughs in mathematics But he had been commandeered to work with hydrogen bomb ideas and had done a lot of Ulam was working one day at this home--and in his adobe home in Santa Fe late in his He was working on the numbers trying to see--he fission weapon. He thought, "What would happen if I had bomb, smaller with less material, and then wanted?" This one could be used, using the blast wave one using less material, which in turn the third. With each explosion, you'd have a bigger a few millionths of a second. So essentially, a way to get to megaton range Teller immediately saw that this would work me start over. Ulam immediately saw that you could do this, That if you could separate the trigger from in the form of neutrons--which is basically To squeeze an amount of hydrogen gas or hydrogen, hot enough and the atoms were squeezed close might be able to set off a thermonuclear explosion He at that point shared the idea with Teller. And they didn't get along at all. Teller didn't like Ulam. He thought he was stupid, which he was not. I think Ulam thought Teller was stupid, which They had nothing good to say about each other But Teller took one look at this and argued hour. Then he started thinking about it and he had That was that if you used the blast, everything yield out of this thing. But that the radiation which [1:21:00] travels of gamma rays and X-rays and whatever other itself squeeze a mass of hydrogen in some and compressed enough to begin thermonuclear With that, they had the breakthrough. That was the key idea. They went immediately and filed a patent under They wrote a paper that explained how the They were at Los Alamos at the time--this Everyone who saw it said, "Eureka!" including Committee, Oppenheimer. Oppenheimer said, "The reason we were hesitant What, are we going to waste all this good when we can make regular bombs with it that Now, you have a good idea." He famously said, "When you see something to go ahead and build it and then decide what That was Oppenheimer's perspective on the They proceeded and 18 months later--I think [misspoke: Enewetak] Atoll in the middle of This huge device, which was not a bomb--it But it certainly exploded like a bomb. There was a tank of liquid deuterium--one more reactive than ordinary hydrogen--the under a shelter to keep the sun off. With a rounded top, which is where the trigger--the would set off the rest of the explosion. The secondary--which was cylindrical--was layer after layer of cryogenic cooling systems. When everything was ready, they backed off sure what the yield would be--and fired this It went with--what was the yield of that It was a megaton [10.4 megaton] yield. It was stunning. It was this huge fireball, a column bigger It went up 120,000 feet into the stratosphere mushroom cloud for a hundred miles in every There's film footage of it and photographs of the people who was there told me, [1:24:00] When I took off my mask that I was wearing see it, it felt as if I had opened an oven That much heat that far away was coming off Within a couple more years, we had gotten it was now fueled with lithium, so a solid You didn't have to have cryogenic cooling, keep that liquid hydrogen at minus 270 degrees The bombs were now deliverable, and they were back and forth around the Soviet Union. Then in 1954, primarily because of the work the Soviets had figured out how to do a two-stage They, too, had tested such a weapon and we It never got us anywhere, it just put us all I tell audiences when I talk about this history, it becomes a nuclear power is how much it's Because, a little country like North Korea--as suddenly in the target sights of every major Because they've got the potential to destroy On the other hand, they've at least contingently because they have the capability to retaliate. It's like a little dog with the biggest So that process--which could have happened Rabi and Fermi, the ones who had said, "This as one answer to the question, "Should we the perfect time to go once again to the Soviet of thing about this? Can we avoid taking that next step, which and hundreds of miles?" Nobody liked that in Washington. It was the height of the Cold War. We thought we could do anything, and we should And the enemy was so evil and dangerous that except go to war, because we didn't dare, [Background discussion] Kelly: Goodness. And, there we are, and the rest is history. Rhodes: We hope. Kelly: I don't know. Rhodes: If we still have history. Kelly: Oh, dear. I know, and now we're building, well, new Rhodes: Oh, we're just reshuffling the deck new with weapons. Kelly: I guess, I hope not. Rhodes: There was another way possible. Kelly: There's what? Rhodes: There was another generation of weapons The energy that comes off the fireball of When Teller was trying to figure out a way Defense Initiative--he envisioned using X-ray warheads out in space with enough laser energy Not fission or fusion, but just explode. Well, how do you get all that energy into You have a big wire running down to the ground? No. The only way he can see to make his dream The so-called bomb-pumped X-ray laser was simultaneously take out a thousand Soviet though he didn't necessarily think very But what that tells you is there's a lot You don't have to let that energy just dissipate You can convert it by putting the right kind You can convert it into visible light. You can convert it to anything you want in it and filtering it and so forth. Well, imagine exploding a warhead overhead burn out one city's electronics and everybody That level of use of bombs has never been Obviously, it's been thought about--just what you do with so much energy in one little So in a way, we stopped short of really being We've only been crazy to the extent that When Mikhail Gorbachev came to power in the color. [1:30:00] Most of the guys who'd been the apparatchiks. They'd been in the government in Moscow, in a way. Maneuvered with each other, knocked each other a point where they even no longer believed But the country was shambling along as best It had actually reached the point by 1980 in the world couldn't even grow enough grain It had to buy it from us. Gorbachev was a child of the peasantry. He had grown up on a collective farm. He had worked side-by-side with his father harvesting grain and all the rest. He was awarded a four-year scholarship to who harvested more grain in one summer in in the country. He was awarded a Lenin medal [Order of Lenin] He said years later, "That Lenin medal always I was awarded." So he was a country boy. He was jeered at by these slickers in Moscow. They sent him out to the provinces from whence He did a superb job; he was a very smart man. He developed a mentor in the form of the man Who saw in Gorbachev the kind of intelligence world that the country needed. But when he was brought into the Politburo Agriculture. His job was to somehow make the wheat grow And to be fair to the whole process. In the course of rapid industrialization starting debacle of a Second World War, which just starved the countryside of material development. For example, they just didn't have much Because everything was fed into building up and the farmers were like-- "Grow the grain, From Gorbachev's perspective, everything His first priority was to make [1:33:00] sure His second priority was to develop the countryside to the level of the cities. He worked through with some of his wise friends I should throw in here, he went on vacation. This was one of the perks of being a member He went on vacation as a young man to places And looked around and couldn't figure it "How could these people who weren't even Why did they all own personal homes and have plenty of food?" He was struck by that as so many of the younger It really put a dent in his enthusiasm for For him, he said later, the turning point When Chernobyl blew up and he went through by trying to hide it. And then, after two or three days, he realized had drifted over Finland and into Sweden and Then he opened up about it in that glasnost-ian [He] was very direct about what had happened--but He understood that what had happened is bad Making all of these nuclear power plants military You could use them to make electricity or They were made that way deliberately, so they Just as Soviet automobile factories were set tanks. Everything was dual-use. But unfortunately, the design that made it trying to use it to make electricity. Because, it had a fatal, built-in flaw that go faster, not shut down. That's in fact what happened at Chernobyl But from Gorbachev's point of view, Chernobyl It was a flaw in the system that led to the no chance to learn how to do better with nuclear Because one plant, if it had a problem, couldn't with an identical reactor. So there was no learning curve. Everybody was off for themselves. Well, all of this came together, and he said he said, "The whole system is rotten. [1:36:00] It's got to be changed." He had hoped before to adapt, and that's had to throw it out and start over. That's where Gorbachev came from when he before the summit at Reykjavik--so it really Ronald Reagan. Reagan, who had doubled the defense budget the hell out of the Soviets. "Why would he do that unless he wants to And comrade, he's got a lot more stuff than They were scared. Then when Reagan proposed SDI [Strategic Defense of dollars on it. The American press says, "This is silly, "But the Americans are spending of billions in it." So Gorbachev proposed to Reagan innocently meeting before the summit that had been planned D.C. But in fact, Gorbachev convinced the Politburo they should agree that if he could, he would of all nuclear weapons. From Gorbachev's point of view, not only also cut the defense budget way down and make to feed the people, to develop the countryside--to country. Well, the Reagan people fell for it and Reagan the man gives you and put it in your pocket, That was his brief for the weekend that he They got there, and it turned out to be something At one point, Reagan says--it's in the a preliminary to a summit. This is a summit." He was shocked, but he joined into the whole So then the second question for me was, "Why the Cold War--come together and actually It never happened before. For me, the answer--as I read their autobiographies meetings--was they were both outsiders. Reagan was a country, or actually, a small-town His father was a semi-alcoholic shoe salesman, He [Reagan] worked as a lifeguard all during of himself as someone who could save things, appreciate being saved. In a way, Reagan imagined himself as kind president. On the way to the convention when he was nominated, do you want to be president?" Reagan said, "Because I want to end the So he was thinking about it from the beginning. In fact, all the way back to the end of the Democrat then and had been a proponent of He was plugged into all those ideas that came About how eliminating nuclear weapons was So that had all percolated away in his mind Until at this late time, here he was with a little room in a little house in Reykjavik, They started talking about eliminating all To the horror of their advisors on both sides, for. There's a story that Ambassador Tom Graham was Secretary of State--no, wait, was it There's a story that Ambassador Tom Graham Secretary of State George Shultz was called of England. Who had a big purse on her arm and who started thing as talk about getting rid of our deterrent--the And started actually beating him with her She was so angry at him. Shultz is backing up. The ambassador who told this story said, "I George Shultz himself tells this story, so In any case, these two men--because they a different experience of the world than the a deep sense of the people built into their I understand Gorbachev's maybe more than He had a sense of being one of humanity. At one point, when he was at Reykjavik, he never start a nuclear war." Gorbachev said, "How do you know that?" [1:42:00] He said, "Because the Russian Gorbachev shook his head, like "What? That isn't the sort of thing I expect these But that's what Reagan said and that's They came so close. They came within a hair's breadth. It broke down because Reagan had a fixed idea a peace in the world. That you had to have some sort of backup. In his mind, that backup was technological--was form of--I don't know--bomb-pumped X-ray That's what Teller was selling. He [Reagan] couldn't let go of that. Gorbachev also was limited, because the Politburo's idea, sell that idea. But only if you get President Reagan to agree Because that would be the beginning of a deployment that." So they were both this close and restrained Nevertheless, as a result of Reykjavik, there In one sense, certainly--one way of measuring "After that was on the table," as Gorbachev off." Once they started talking about it, they would Kelly: And then everybody should come and Rhodes: Well, let me just say--when I saw for a wonderful play. Just almost by lifting the dialogue directly I had to make not much adjustment, basically more human moments--some of which actually long one-act play of these two men alone in I was able to bring from their other writings--these that I hope help explain how these two men large-scale [1:45:00] decision--or almost So, yeah, I hope people see the play. I think it would be enlightening. Maybe it'll happen again someday. Kelly:To have two leaders, you mean, happen Rhodes: Maybe two leaders who will meet in right two leaders, and they'll get the job Kelly: Yeah. [End of audio]