Astronomers have it pretty easy when we talk astronomy is the most beautiful of all sciences. eye candy, but all I have to do is pull out It's ALL gorgeous. Planets, moons, stars, beat a nebula. Why? Because nebulae. "Nebula" is Latin for "cloud" and actually describes the object accurately. I've already talked about them a bit. For did 4.6 billion years or so ago. When a medium-sized lights them up as the white dwarf core of nebula. Also, when a high-mass star explodes a violently expanding cloud of gas. Nebulae deaths of stars. So, besides being beautiful, they're also There are a lot of ways of categorizing nebulae. if a cloud of gas is blasted by light from excited; the electrons in its atoms jump to drop back down, they emit light. The gas glows, The color of an emission nebula depends on for example, glows most strongly in the red, Oxygen tends to glow green, but to a Other elements span the spectrum And these colors aren't limited to visible radio light, and if it's energized enough true for many elements. Although most emission nebulae look substantial, density in a gas nebula is only a few thousand air you breathe there are about 10^19 atoms times denser than a typical nebula! Really, The reason they look so cloudy is that they're several light years in diameter, and that's and so some nebulae can be pretty bright. While EMISSION nebulae glow due to their own -- can you guess? -- they reflect the light though the nebula isn't made of gas, but I don't mean like the hair and skin flake When astronomers talk about dust, they mean a human hair is 100 times wider than that! like silicates, aluminum oxide, and calcium. complex molecules called polycyclic aromatic While I love that fancy name for them, you you light a match you're pretty much making some Dust doesn't emit visible light. But it they're inside the dust cloud or nearby. dust is very good at scattering light. That sent off in some other direction. This scattering is scattered very strongly, while red light We saw this in the last episode; the dust reflection nebula. The light from the stars dust, and the blue light light gets sent in red light doesn't scatter nearly as well, Thick dust is also very good at absorbing dust, the light from it is dimmed considerably. the dust can completely extinguish the light At the same time, if the dust is at the right a dust cloud gets scattered, while the red starlight, and in some dust clouds it provides normal enough, but closer in they get redder result is a fuzzy, red-edged hole in space. You can see that effect in Barnard 68, a small These are also sometimes called molecular stick together to form molecules. Their cores Some dust clouds like this are relatively these giant molecular clouds, because why thousands or hundreds of thousands of times of light years. And that brings us to one of the most glorious is an emission nebula located just below Orion's visible in modestly dark skies. It looks like it to be fuzzy, and through a telescope, or with long The Orion Nebula is a star-forming factory; of them are very massive and incredibly luminous. in its heart, collectively called the Trapezium. that are each far more massive than the Sun. entire nebula, which is about 20 light years And here's a funny thing about Orion: What space. It's actually just a bubble sitting cloud, hundreds of light years across. That it by eye. The Trapezium stars formed inside turned on, fusing hydrogen into helium, they of ultraviolet light, which began eating away a hole in the side of the cloud, like a weak What we see as the magnificent Orion Nebula the cloud, filled with gas heated to glowing There are still stars forming there today, too. In Episode 9, I talked about the solar system, of gas and dust. When we look at the Orion called protoplanetary disks and they're from the stars forming inside them, so they're the brighter gas of the nebula. Unless you look in the infrared. That kind we use infrared telescopes we can see the disks. Take a good look: THOSE ARE BABY STARS, very minute. They're still hot due to their ignite fusion in their cores, and become real around them, revealing themselves, and perhaps In fact, once stars start forming inside a is another star factory, with active star are massive, luminous stars, and give off the surrounding nebula, in a process called material forming new stars can resist that them, in essence shadowing it. see in silhouette against the hotter gas, infrared light, we can also see the stars There are several of these giant towers in called the Pillars of Creation. Stars are the light from the massive stars will win, them. There's also some very hot gas in that has already exploded; if so, then the In a few thousands years they won't be eroded In a lot of nebulae there's no sharp edge; because the gas thins out, so there's not times it's because there's just one or and at some distance from them the starlight But sometimes nebulae do have sharp edges. like in a planetary nebula or supernova. The strewn between the stars, what we call the up like snow in a snowplow, getting denser Gas inside a nebula can be in turmoil, too. form when stars explode and when they're and filaments in nebulae as well. All of these factors can come together to Orion Nebula in the sky is another dark nebula, coincidence, the dense dark material is shaped the Horsehead Nebula. It's being eroded of the frame here, and that's also making One of my favorite nebulae in the sky is Barnard's either by the expanding gas from supernovae born in the Orion complex. It's also the substantial amount of real estate in the constellation Orion and the Horsehead nebulae; the Loop One more thing: I've been talking about fashioned way of thinking of them. I've through them, but remember from Episode 24 depends on its temperature. Clouds of dust glowing if you observe them in the far infrared, But we have telescopes that can see at these In Orion, there's a reflection nebula called of very cold and dark dust, blocking the light like dark rivers running through it. But when a wavelength of a millimeter or so, that dust glows Like so much else in life, what you see really life lesson there, feel free to take it. Today you learned that nebulae are clouds their own or reflect light from nearby stars. red from hydrogen and green from oxygen, and from massive hot stars, so they look blue. new ones as they die. Some nebulae are small of light years across. Also? They're incredibly beautiful. Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association YouTube channel to catch even more awesome Plait. The script was edited by Blake de Pastino, It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, edited Aranda, and the graphics team is Thought Cafe.