Sometimes the people are, quite simply, going to see these movies when they were Dreamworks didn't know what they had in &quot;Galaxy the sci-fi comedy about the cast of a &quot;Star a real space adventure opened at an embarrassing Dreamworks co-founder Jeffrey Katzenberg the studio bungled the promotion of the quirky, and by and large failed to sell the the film picked up momentum over eventually recouping twice its production budget exaggeration to call it a &quot;box office bomb,&quot; but it's clear that it could have performed so &quot;You guys came. Who wants the grand tour?&quot; &quot;Galaxy Quest&quot; is now a highly-regarded film performances from Sigourney Weaver, Tim Allen, a charming work in its own right, &quot;Galaxy Quest&quot; Trek&quot; fans, who have adopted it into their about fandom itself, and its devotees honored A Galaxy Quest Documentary&quot; for In his prime, Dutch filmmaker Paul Verhoeven culture and cinema that American filmgoers and This happened most famously upon the release a broad, over-the-top send-up of pro-war an audience to whom patriotic violence was so A similar problem arose with Verhoeven's exploitative, NC-17-rated drama about a young Las Vegas. Broadly panned upon its release for Showgirls only grossed about $20 million &quot;It's worse than dog food.&quot; In the years since, however, Showgirls has fans see it as a riotous parody and have stage reenactments, and other gleefully there's nothing funny about Showgirls at all, way to truly capture the cruel, misogynist Either way, Showgirls has been rescued from the streaming services, and at art house The first two rules of Fight Club are that that might explain why Fight Club failed to find Edward Norton fresh off American History The now-iconic thriller only pulled in $37 overseas helped it reach $100 million worldwide. the problem is its $65 million price tag meant million it'd be a technical knockout. So, The simple explanation is that the filmmakers so Fight Club had to punch above its weight because director David Fincher gives this adaptation of his novel, giving the than a bloody fist and a twist ending Meanwhile, Norton creates an everyman resonates more than a quarter of a century performance of his career. You may but you won't stop thinking about The late '90s were a time of rapid The Disney Renaissance had revived but Disney alone seemed capable of turning one of Pixar proved that computer-driven animation beyond were scrambling for a direction. It was animator Brad Bird to overhaul their process with &quot;The Iron Giant&quot; is a masterful film showcasing the potential of blending service of spinning a heartwarming his dog&quot; narrative. Accessible to kids but is just about everything you could want Except, by the time it was finished, Warner animation department. The financial failure of convinced them to get out of the business, so &quot;The and recouped a mere $23 million from its $70 however, as critical acclaim and frequent replays cult following; today &quot;The Iron Giant&quot; is a cameos in &quot;Ready Player One&quot; and &quot;Space Jam: A animated movies... perhaps even one of the The Halloween classic Hocus converts who adore its mix of Disney vibes that it crashed worse than a tipsy witch Veteran film critic Roger Ebert may have summed up &quot;Watching the movie is like attending and where you don't know anybody, and they're The film brought in around $40 on a budget of $28 million. When of making and promoting a movie, Hocus So how could Disney miss with such a surefire they didn't release it during the Halloween it was a bright idea to unveil Hocus Pocus in to a record-breaking run in the theaters. As a Thankfully, the film built up the following it in 2022. To this day, Hocus Pocus remains Bette Midler, Sarah Jessica Parker, and with such gleeful gusto you almost find &quot;Marvelous!&quot; The Keanu Reeves renaissance continues, largely beleaguered former assassin, but he has already beleaguered guys named John -- from Johnny easily one of the best and weirdest Johns in &quot;Johnny Mnemonic,&quot; a much-derided movie in handedly set back the cyberpunk movement while &quot;Hit me.&quot; Reeves' Johnny is trapped by his circumstances: courier&quot; -- his brain is &quot;wired&quot; to receive to make money and buy back the memories he's lost. age. It's honestly a wonder that millennials &quot;I want to get out of this rat hole. I While a fairly low budget is no help, the flick's years too early for your average moviegoers Whereas Captain America is box a superhero period piece about a handsome, its own budget. &quot;The Rocketeer&quot; follows mechanic jacket and rocket pack to uncover a hidden got a refreshing ease to the pacing and style &quot;How do I look?&quot; &quot;Like a hood ornament.&quot; It's easy to see why director Joe Johnston got later with &quot;Captain America: The First criminally-underrated film that just didn't the film was released too early to tap into the ignored in favor of other family fare. Either especially with Timothy Dalton's performance If you spend a lot of time on the than one &quot;think piece&quot; about how this or Writer-director Mike Judge was well and decided to capitalize on the unwelcoming &quot;Did you see the memo about this?&quot; It was a message way ahead of its time, as first foray into live-action filmmaking made budget. Even so, the many comedy fans who missed Judge's brilliantly dry sendup of America's Office Space has become a cult classic in the and fans often claim that it has inspired parallels between Office Space and both the while others have pointed out that the film Office Space feels very '90s in the best America's increasingly toxic relationship and is directly responsible for many memes Disney is no stranger to live-action box Lone Ranger and John Carter, one of the Mouse While Disney was essentially printing money with Bale-led live action depiction of the 1899 Of course, live-action movie musicals have which is why 2023's Wonka wasn't even marketed doesn't sound particularly appealing to you, The thing is, it's the music that makes a musical, craft some infectious melodies out of labor soundtrack, featuring such memorable tunes Actor and writer Harvey Fierstein so he retooled Newsies as a successful stage Broadway in 2012. We wouldn't be surprised if the and we'd be even less surprised if marketing took musical. In the meantime, why not give this One year before appearing as the smarmy &quot;Slam Evil&quot; in a skin-tight mauve suit 1996's The Phantom. Based on Lee Falk's pulp the titular Phantom. He is the latest in a who have sworn to fight evil from their fictional Now, Kit must work with his dastardly Xander Drax from wielding The Phantom delivers exactly what it the villain's mustache-twirling zaniness, it feels akin to a low-rent Alas, The Phantom could only ever dream $17 million haul on a $45 million budget crashed Despite the numbers saying otherwise, the film it's actually a pretty entertaining movie, with &quot;While it hardly stands to vanquish the this version of an older cartoon pleasingly astute sense of its place While &quot;Alien&quot; might be the most well-known horror only one. Paul W.S. Anderson's &quot;Event Horizon&quot; is human fear of space as an endless, empty void. signal coming from the titular spaceship, which is a kaleidoscope of horrifying images, spooky that flying millions of miles through space &quot;Oh my god. What happened to your eyes?&quot; &quot;Where we're going, we won't need eyes to see.&quot; &quot;Horizon&quot; is pretty handily Anderson's best pervade his other work with an able cast that Neil in particular is absolutely terrifying as to the dark whispers of the otherworldly didn't completely turn you away from space As frustrating as it must be for any it must be agony to precede their case for writer/director Alex Proyas. His leather-clad sci-fi thriller about a man and that he and everyone he knows is being &quot;They mix and match our memories as they see If you think that sounds sort of like 1999's &quot;The who saw &quot;Dark City&quot; in theaters also thought was dropped into theaters in February 1998, sliding ever downward from there, barely winning &quot;The Matrix&quot; would become a massive pop cultural never again be the same. &quot;Dark City&quot; would albeit one that Ebert recorded a Perhaps in no universe does &quot;Dark City&quot; the Wachowski masterpiece. Nonetheless, &quot;Dark in obscurity. Weird, moody, and distinctively between &quot;The Matrix&quot; and &quot;Blade Runner,&quot; and is &quot;Have you ever jacked in? Today, filmmaker Kathryn Bigelow is best known for Best Director, as well as the director of Reeves and Patrick Swayze. In between these two tanked by the colossal box office failure Written by Bigelow's ex-husband James Cameron and &quot;Strange Days&quot; is a stylish, visceral memories can be recorded, relived, and scummy memory dealer happens across he teams up with a lovelorn badass to solve a &quot;Strange Days&quot; harshly divided critics upon winning back just short of $8 million on a $42 the film has been rediscovered and reevaluated as some of Bigelow's finest work as a director. &quot;Strange Days&quot; touches on themes of and the voyeuristic spectacle of suffering, were in 1995. It also features one of the in Angela Bassett's &quot;Mace&quot; Mason. Notoriously major streaming services, &quot;Strange Days&quot; One of the great injustices in cinematic went to see Joel and Ethan Coen's when it opened in theaters. Perhaps moviegoers psychedelic pseudo-spoof of film noir with Jeff With almost $19 million domestic on a $15 bomb in North America, though its $47 million Besides being one of the most quotable movies some of the most memorable performances from the Sam Elliott, Steve Buscemi, John Turturro, What makes the film so special is that you a blast with the Coens' signature dialogue. The hybrid that almost defies categorization besides decades since its release, The Big Lebowski has classic. But even with its late-in-life acclaim, &quot;Yeah, well, ya know that just A debonair billionaire who spends his evenings a blockbuster. For example, when that billionaire people usually come flocking. When it's Lamont it's a different story. Despite The Shadow has never come close to reaching Debuting in 1930, nearly a decade before The Shadow was a mainstay on radio and but it would be 64 years before he got the big Starring Alec Baldwin as the eponymous avenger, The Shadow cost $40 million but only less than Tim Burton's Batman made in one weekend The Shadow is certainly not a bad film and Anchored well by Baldwin and bolstered by an Ian McKellen, and Peter Boyle, it's a fun, grim grandeur by Jerry Goldsmith. To so poorly at the box office remains as Superhero movies might not have been all that more popular than superhero parodies. With that Still, people who slept on the film missed strangest casts ever assembled: Ben Stiller, Paul Reubens, Hank Azaria... and a Michael complete with a Dane Cook sighting and a music With the current glut of superhero misfits of &quot;Mystery Men&quot; fumble around &quot;You can't throw a knife sometimes?&quot; &quot;No I can't. You can't use a rake sometimes?&quot; &quot;No, I'm the Shoveler.&quot; &quot;Well I'm the Blue Raja. I'm not Stab Man.&quot; In fact, many of the jokes in the &quot;Last Action Hero&quot; has the perfect It stars Hollywood's pre-eminent muscle character in a marathon of cute cameos and &quot;I'll be back. Ha! You didn't know &quot;That's what you always say.&quot; The movie starred Arnold Schwarzenegger, and arrived in theaters about audiences who love nothing more than more familiar movies, it'd likely have been In 1993, however, &quot;Last Action Hero&quot; was seen It barely stood a chance to begin with, opening which would soon unseat &quot;E.T.&quot; as the reception didn't do it any favors, either; soulless machine of a movie,&quot; and they would recoup its budget internationally, it office and would be Schwarzenegger's In hindsight, &quot;Last Action Hero&quot; is one of the 2,&quot; one part &quot;Who Framed Roger Rabbit?,&quot; and an absolute treat for fans of '80s and action-packed, and littered with easter The Coen Brothers have made a successful career While they've found plenty of success, and to failure, even for one of their best movies. business and, although filled with characters who homage to classic feel-good movies like &quot;Mr. Deeds film follows Norville Barnes as he moves to New of a massive company as the unknowing patsy for &quot;Whoa.&quot; As with any Coen Brothers movie, the film is likable characters, but the look of &quot;Hudsucker&quot; and audiences felt put off and confused. In surface and no substance,&quot; but argued that it was the theater. If nothing else, there's never been Samuel L. Jackson surprised the audience he said that his favorite role from 1996's The Long Kiss Goodnight. And while would probably agree the performance is it's not surprising that much of his On a $65 million budget, The Long Kiss was a colossal dud that lead Geena Davis and need just one year after Cutthroat Island. vibe with The Long Kiss Goodnight, because it Davis plays a highly trained, amnesia-stricken suburban life as a schoolteacher and single mother detective to discover her past, only for former The bickering co-leads are great, Harlin's is whip-smart. It's a shame nobody saw The definitely check it out now for some incredible &quot;Were you always this stupid &quot;I took lessons!&quot; One year after Quentin Tarantino arrived on the he established himself as one of America's there was True Romance. The 1993 film Tarantino's body of work because it's one Instead, those duties fell to a the late Top Gun director Tony Scott. a pretty large juxtaposition between Christian Slater plays an Elvis-worshiping, who falls in love with a sex worker named run from the mob after Clarence kills a suitcase of cocaine. In many ways, this which makes the fact it wasn't Sadly, the film failed to make a profit, only just budget. Moviegoers eventually fell in love with Funny enough, one of the movie's biggest written the original script for and famously refused to watch the what was done to it. But he loved Scott's The original &quot;Tank Girl&quot; comics counter-culture blast to the eyeballs but it was the character of Tank Girl herself hyper-violent, and so utterly unconcerned with embodiment of riot grrrl-adjacent a specific visual voice and character might have Girl does about as good a job as it's possible &quot;Drop something? Haha.&quot; &quot;Ah, s---.&quot; To start with, Lori Petty is a picture-perfect attitude of the character. The movie itself is defend or recommend -- you either &quot;get&quot; it is defiantly visually abrasive, but loaded with &quot;Ravenous&quot; is a brilliant subversion of funny as it is scary. The film follows a mid-19th investigating stories of a Wendigo -- a human given another man. Guy Pearce shines as the ousted the consequences of the actions which brought him the film's tone, pushing for laughs in humorous Ultimately, the film's a biting satire and Manifest Destiny. It's a rare film work within a horror movie structure funny as well. Audiences likely missed out mostly to a trailer that misrepresented the comedic period piece. Don't be fooled, though, After debuting as a feature director pivoted away from his usual flights of biopic saluting one of the most famously inept Starring Johnny Depp as the titular auteur of with tremendous heart. Wood's story -- or at least, perfectly, painting a portrait of a man whose the opportunity to share his uniqueness with the however, what makes Wood unique is a total &quot;Ed Wood&quot; is Tim Burton's most winning Martin Landau an Academy Award horror icon Bela Lugosi. For all its acclaim, recouping only about a third of its production film by far, and he has rarely strayed from his Making a sequel to an iconic movie if Jack Nicholson's involved, that tune his 1990 sequel to 1974's Chinatown, doesn't come Nicholson is back as private investigator J.J. Jake for routine work. Unfortunately for Jake who is also his wife's lover, which The plot is a lot, especially when the movie be forgiven for being a little confused at some for coherence, we watch them for their coolness Sadly, after The Two Jakes tanked with the film was practically forgotten about, though many critics feel this is a &quot;The Two Jakes may not be a masterpiece, and it certainly never approaches the But it's also a richer, more resonant movie Robert Downey Jr.'s Oscar win for Oppenheimer perhaps the greatest comeback story in Hollywood he would become a blockbuster movie star as he had long been respected as one of the One key reason for this accolade was his Directed by the late Richard Attenborough, who recounts his life from poverty to silent film supporting cast that includes Dan Aykroyd, Anthony Marisa Tomei and James Woods. Yet, despite the Chaplin failed to find an audience, banking &quot;Couldn't you just enjoy it?&quot; &quot;I can now, but I couldn't Performances like these earned Downey Jr. which stuck with him for most of his pre-Iron this criticism is wholly unfair, as otherwise been a formulaic biopic to one we Robert Downey Jr. or Charlie Chaplin, Some might think the concept of Anthony Hopkins enough to sell a movie, and maybe it would the filmmakers went with The Edge, which Written by acclaimed playwright David Mamet, businessman whose plane crashes in the Alaskan photographer, played by Baldwin, who also happens bad enough, they're both being stalked by The Edge is anything but a relaxing and Alaskan landscape. Instead, it gives you a harrowing wildernesses in the world. While Hopkins of Silence of the Lambs, it wasn't enough to take &quot;It never comes in the form or at The film only received lukewarm reviews, and budget at the domestic box office. It's hard as it packs plenty of brain and brawn, and B-list premise. In our opinion, it's about time With a total haul of $4.5 billion worldwide, Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean is one of the the first film probably felt considering how spectacularly the 1995 pirate This infamous movie remains one of the biggest of $92 million, Cutthroat Island walked the put a big dent in Geena Davis' already and director Renny Harlin's Cutthroat Island became synonymous with box and it's taken some people years to accept really not that bad. Forbes argued that the film it on the 25th anniversary of its release. The impressively practical and unpretentious Davis soars as a swashbuckler who enlists the buccaneer uncle to recover treasure buried on the seven seas without drowning in CGI, you may Before the decade was through, the cast box office glory. Brendan Fraser, Matt Damon, in the 1992 drama, but they were a long Unfortunately for the up-and-comers, School Ties take from a reported budget of $18 million. That's results weren't bad enough to sink these would-be Set in the 1950s, Fraser plays a Jewish student school who feels he has to hide his background at times, and comparisons to the generally but School Ties is elevated by its cast of embodying the movie star charisma he'd bring to School Ties isn't an amazing and is especially entertaining as a time it big. Revisiting the film in 2012, &quot;The script effectively dramatizes the school's to the situations of all the pupils, as well as One of the biggest low-budget success stories $29 million in 1983, a whopping return $375,000 to make. By 1987's Evil Dead II, which the film's $5.9 million worldwide both Evil Dead pictures went down so the filmmakers figured there was enough Released in 1993, Army Of Darkness takes Bruce fantasy comedy made $11.5 million domestically, Thankfully, it wound up making approximately went down as a box office flop. It was enough Evil Dead remake, which was shortly followed by Despite the lull it may have caused, ask any cult movie fan and they will tell Campbell at the peak of their powers. Their but those who get Army of Darkness absolutely &quot;This is the best fantasy movie ever. If you have never watched it you don't &quot;Say hello to the 21st century.&quot; &quot;The Dark Half&quot; is based on the novel of the same King. Definitely one of the stranger concepts, pen name, only to find his phony persona has come had a concept seemingly -- or solely -- perfect attribute that makes it a standout: the late &quot;The Dark Half&quot; delivers some gruesome images up features a brain tumor &quot;reacting&quot; to its removal time you get a headache. Unfortunately, it made just over $10 million. Still, the movie's Hutton in a double role playing both the &quot;Dead Alive&quot; was one of the most surprising budget of only $3 million by Peter Jackson, &quot;Dead fighting off a horde of zombies... and dealing with budget should have made it an easy success, the be unjustly ignored by American audiences until It might not have connected with the film had a profound influence on who would pay homage to the film in his own influence on other movies aside, &quot;Dead best practical effects seen in a horror movie &quot;Party's over.&quot; You might think you've seen bloody horror movies, but you've almost certainly never Ralph Bakshi, the man that made the infamous ever receive an X rating from the MPAA -- with &quot;Cool World.&quot; In it, a cartoonist has to a &quot;doodle&quot; named Holli Would -- as a detective works to prevent her from It can be a strange movie, with a juxtaposition bizarro porn parody of &quot;Who Framed Roger Rabbit,&quot; weren't exactly drawn to the film, and it ended which isn't exactly surprising. While it likely list anytime soon, the film is so singular in its Michael Keaton owes a lot to Tim but it's worth remembering that he got his and 1983's Mr. Mom. Keaton returned to his roots He plays a construction worker who is torn so he decides to clone himself. Things Keaton's character clones another version he's struggling to manage his multiple Yes, it's a contrived sitcom setup that fails which is especially frustrating considering Groundhog Day. But while Groundhog for heartwarming humor, Multiplicity So, that leaves viewers the choice to bemoan what a fun flick that gives Keaton the chance to shine Despite being a ready-made crowd pleaser, the an underwhelming $20 million from a budget of $45 many have come to enjoy it in the years since. As &quot;Both assuredly funny without being this is one comedy that deserves South Park creators Trey Parker and Matt viewers' minds for more than a quarter of a the cornerstone of Comedy Central and a another one of the duo's notable '90s Parker and Stone starred in 1998's a sport that combines baseball and basketball. he takes the pseudo-sport that started America's new favorite pastime. However, rules to maximize profits, their loyalty BASEketball only starred Parker and Stone, as director David Zucker, one of the masterminds and The Naked Gun. BASEketball manages to irreverence, making for an absolutely hilarious As to why the film didn't it may have something to do with Parker &quot;Dude, does it just suck being you?&quot; Either way, something led the film to strike $25 million budget. But for fans of sophomoric