The most perfect Thanksgiving turkey and gravy how to make it from beginning to end. And you're cannot even imagine. If you've been with me for 2011, I believe, but we made our very first got millions of views on it, people love it, they I mean, it really is spectacular. It's very easy, there are a few ways that you can execute a you can do, you can do just the herbed butter adding herbed butter between the skin and the in that delicious goodness, and cooked properly Then there's something called a wet brine, which placing it into a big old thing of water with a tenderizes your turkey over the course of 24 for me, and why I don't prefer a wet brine crispy. It kind of just stays a little dull. the meat with so much water that, yes it's like you can't really - it doesn't And it's also really messy. I don't have a fridge big enough to hold a it's just, I don't have the space right, the last couple of years that I've been anyone that eats my turkey has been raving the dry brine and the wet brine have So instead of adding the salt I'm adding the salt directly onto the meat, but the salt from dry brining basically allows I'm going to call them juices. It the turkey but then it sort of seeps back into It just special, it's spectacular, I don't to put it that way, where basically the salt just all those juices sort of seep right back into the to 48 hours in advance, but it's very, very easy. coarse kosher salt, for every 5 lbs of you want to use 3 tbspoons of salt, say you have salt, I don't go up to that, you know, extra right, but I also like to add some brown it adds a little tiny bit of sweetness, I have a tablespoon and a half because I'm of salt because you always want half the amount your skin get a beautiful brown color, and it So once you have this together, in here you can add all kinds of different but because I'm also going to introduce the go to cook it, I'm not going to do that now so to this I am going to add some cracked black Now it's important that your turkey is not, plumped up with a salt solution because if you're just going to end up with a really So if you're going to be using a make sure it's thawed and make sure again salt solution. You want to place your turkey on because as you'll see when we go to cook this, sure you pat it dry everywhere, because And when you add your salt, make sure to add some in there and I wouldn't expect you to, but that and then when you add it onto your turkey a lot of it is going to fall off and before that salt you won't a lot of it will fall and encourage the the turkey to do its job, but so don't fear. I'm going to just take my time Now this is the part where your turkey is going for 24, to up to 48 hours, so you can do or the day before, or as little as 12 the more you push it to that 48 hours, Now I know it's going to sound crazy when I going to have to trust the process, it will make phenomenal. The only thing I'd encourage is that of the refrigerator so that nothing, you don't the juices trickling down onto your other stuff I don't want it to ruin anything else in the in the fridge and I leave it there, and then I'm Okay, it's been about 24 hours, she is looking you want your turkey to look like. But before we else prepped and ready and out of the way so that you. So you want to get your oven preheated to tons of aromatics. What I've got in the bottom of a whole head of garlic that I just sliced in half I even have an apple in here. All of this is turkey cooks, it gives out all of its juices It's going to get right into there along with it makes the perfect base for your tip that if you don't have a roasting pan you can just take your biggest pan, that's oven proof and just line the bottom with that. The veggies kind of act as the rack, Now I want to work on my compound butter. My to get stuffed in the turkey between the skin and I do that, I'm going to take another onion, going to cut this in half because I want, like I that way I'm not touching anything. So I've got I'm also going to do the same thing with an of sweetness. For the lemon, I'm not going the zest in my compound butter and I'm going It'll get in there eventually. One stick of the zest of a lemon, and then I'm going to take to stuff in the turkey. Grate your garlic, more fine, look at me - your ingredients, the together. Two cloves is plenty, and I know we talked about this a million times, it is so so two will feel like ten. To that, you're using unsalted butter, and you're going And now we're going to talk herbs. I'm using it's what I like. You can absolutely add I like sage, but you have to really and I just feel like it's so overpowering in taste the rosemary, the lemon, the garlic, add a few springs of sage in here, it's pretty If you're going to add in here it is literally poultry seasoning in a fresh look like it's a lot of herbs, but trust it is going to definitely infuse your turkey using sort of hearty herbs, like rosemary thyme is the same, it's small, right? Add that in there, make sure your butter otherwise it just becomes really difficult to work mix it all together. Turkey is ready, I'm going to up, so I'm going to add in my lemon, my onions, and I also have some fresh herbs. I'm going all of that aroma infuses through your Don't forget under here as well. Remember to like that, take that all out. Can I fit this plump and beautiful. Now move this out of the I tucked them under. This is so that you to show you all of the liquid that if I let this sit for another day there liquid to your roasting pan that you're roasting That's going to be intensely salty, and we So I'm going to now, carefully if I can, do this really a thing of beauty if you ask me. And at don't want, that's going to get contaminated, my pepper, I'm not touching anything. I am you don't need to, you just need to take your really hard to show you properly, I'll try and go It's not the most attractive thing in the world, You want good turkey, this is the price you pay, because you're going to need to make those pockets your fingers, move them around like that, try not back here. I'll just take it from this side, so me, but you really don't need it. If you're just if you start with a smaller amount and then just best you can, it won't be perfect, but it'll work and you can take your spoon, you can see how because once you have it in there and you have and it's going to go where it needs to go, and It's perfect. So I'm going to do some over and then going to leave some behind to do on the I took that lemon out by accident, mostly stuffed, carefully make sure that the skin is dry. It'll end up in the same place, just make sure that - doesn't make a difference to me, trust me, I have and literally just place it all over the surface. it's not the most appealing job, I'm well aware, Now as I mentioned earlier, I'm not adding any well salted already. The butter has been salted, some chicken stock to your roasting pan, because juices and all that delicious flavor is going to Let's talk cooking time, because I know people some things can be so complicated. Start put it on high, it's so easy. The rule 13 minutes per pound if it's unstuffed, mine is then you would do 15 minutes per pound at out perfect every single time. Get one of those that you can make sure your oven's properly sort of, golden temperature, and I just time it You will have to probably cover but what I like to do is cover my turkey the first then that way the turkey can get a beautiful color by the steam once you cover it, does that make so I'm just going to loosely cover it with touch my foil, loosely cover and it also gives to sort of start creating that magical moist pop that on there like so, just put it onto you're going to pop it in there and get your timer x amount of pounds that your turkey weighs, Look at how gorgeous that turkey is! It cooked showstopper if you ask me. It is time to make the this roasting pan, so remember we had all those deep beautiful juices, this is a mixture of the the turkey. Now I put it through a fat separator the gravy, I did halfway through the roasting because it was reducing a little bit too quickly the juices from the fat because I'm going to use the gravy, but I just don't want all of it, so that's all fat I don't want all that, and incredible. I'm gonna add a couple tablespoons and you're just going to cook that together for instead of butter we're just using the natural fat If you you need more gravy, then go ahead and add go ahead and just simmer this until it thickens, taste it for seasoning, like it may need a bit it shouldn't but you know, that's what you're and then everything is ready. I'm simply because I got to take pictures for you if you go check out my original turkey I show you there how to carve it, has their own way of carving the turkey, I do so I'll leave that up to you. I am going to grab got to see how juicy it is, it just wouldn't do Just want you to see how beautiful that is, look at this, I don't know if you can that's all of the herbs and the that's of that beautiful yumminess that we put under look at this, it's just like I'm Perfection. That is perfection. The the gravy looks beautiful, it looks a little thicken so I'm not going to thicken it too much That is divine and delicious, and I would many you've ever seen a gravy that beautiful? as it sets. You're just going have to trust the and that's what always - that's what always as it cools - it's heavenly, perfection on for the written full recipe, instructions, I hope you enjoyed spending time with [Music] Bye-bye!