&gt;&gt;Ken Robinson: do. That's true, isn't it? Broadly speaking? In fact, I want to give you a quick test, Well, I'm going to, so.... How creative do you think you are personally? I mean, if you would, think of that on a ten-point Okay? It's important to know that ten is the top. And where would you put yourself on a scale While you're thinking about that, have a think How intelligent are you on a scale of one Now I'm going to ask you to put your hands You don't have to. You can say, &quot;I'm sorry. I did not come to Zeitgeist for this type I'm a grownup. You may put your hand up.&quot; But assuming you're willing to, let me just hands up, there are no social consequences. [ Laughter ] [ Laughter ] for all I know. What I'm going to do, I'm not going to drag anything. It's purely a straw poll for the purpose of So with that caveat in mind, would you put creativity? Was that a vote or a scratch? All right. One. Nine? Eight? Seven? Six? Five? Four? Three? Two? Okay. Where was the average, do you think, of that? Yeah, I'd say. How about intelligence? Now, I know a certain social modesty comes get over it, you know. [ Laughter ] Any tens for intelligence? No? Nine? Thank you. Thank you. Actually, you can -- we're just wasting your You can go now. [ Laughter ] Seven? Six? Five? Four? Three? -- it's getting tense, isn't it? [ Laughter ] Any twos? Okay. I never do one, by the way. If you got one, you're not following this [ Laughter ] curve, would you think? In intelligence? About seven again? Okay. Eight. Okay. All right. One last question. Last time you have to put your hands up. Put your hands up if you gave yourself different Okay. The reason I ask you this is, I think you're Obviously, apart from the two nines, obviously. Never argue with a nine is my view. But the reason I say it is that I think most of creativity and of intelligence. So my question is, what were you thinking When you decided you could give a number for When you give yourself a number for intelligence, You see, my experience of it is that people creativity. And I think it's why that last conversation They think it's all about the arts. And while the arts are terribly important, They think it's about special people. It's really not. I mean, if you're a human being, it comes You are born with tremendous creative capacities. The trouble is that creativity's a bit like You may have an aptitude for it but never to exercise it. That, to me, is a big fault of our education And the third misconception is, there's nothing You're creative or not, and that's the end And I believe there's a great deal you can The whole theme of this conference is about the inner world and the outer world. And I believe that our education systems currently in the external world, which are moving with And they have never been good at connecting Very many people go through their education them. I'm convinced of this, that we're all born But very few of us actually get to tap into Just on this external world, by the way. I mean, I published a book ten years ago called And I was asked if I would like to make any We were bringing out a new edition. The publisher was going to do a tenth-anniversary &quot;Would you like to make any changes?&quot; Well, it seemed to me, improbable, frankly, [ Laughter ] that I had written myself. But I decided under some pressure I'd make I had in mind a weekend with a spell check That was the plan. I actually rewrote the entire book from start I don't think there's a single word unchanged And the reason is that so much has happened I mean, Google is responsible for quite a But ten years ago, there were no smartphones, There were no iPads? No iPods? I know that's not a Google idea. There were no social media. I mean, Alison talked about interviewing Zuckerberg head. There was no Twitter ten years ago, was there? I mean, ten years ago, people didn't tweet, I mean, if they did, they were discouraged, [ Laughter ] &quot;What was that? And do you mind not doing that again? We're trying to eat in here. If you have to tweet, go outside and do it.&quot; [ Laughter ] not tweeting on a regular basis, if you haven't This is just in the space of ten years. So we know the external world is changing So that's one of the reasons I wanted to rewrite By the way, I rewrote the book on Microsoft Do you use Microsoft Word? Yes. Well, I like it. But you may have noticed Microsoft Word has Doesn't it? It tends to give you little squiggles if it that point out you have made a mistake. I'm fine with that. The squiggles I don't like are where they [ Laughter ] They don't like it. And why? What has this got to do with Bill Gates? We don't know. If you use the passive voice, they give you I wrote this sentence, &quot;The foundations of the late 19th century by Sir Francis Galton, That's true, by the way. It's a beautiful sentence, isn't it? I'll read it again for you. It's that good, I'm feeling. [ Laughter. ] intelligence test were laid in the late 19th Charles Darwin.&quot; Microsoft Word didn't like that. It has the passive voice in it, &quot;were laid.&quot; So it helpfully suggested this alternative &quot;In the late 19th century, Sir Francis Galton [ Laughter ] modern intelligence test.&quot; I had no idea. But I rewrote the book using Microsoft Word has changed in the world around us. The rate of technological change has transformed And it will continue to. People here are much more expert at this than years from now, the book will have to be rewritten Many of the things that we think are so smart ten years. I mean, I think if you show your grandchildren of patronizing look of how quaint it was that You know, that you actually have to hold something Because, I mean, the work we've been seeing happening in cloud computing and everything think are so advanced will be primitive, in The other fact is population growth, that's, people haven't faced up to. There was a very good program on the BBC -- there This happens to be one of them -- last year. It was about how many people can live on Earth. And it was called. &quot;How Many People Can Live on Earth.&quot; The BBC have a great gift for titles, I find. And they came to this view. You know, there are now seven and a half billion for seven and a half billion, which is more by a long way. And we don't know if the Earth can handle So they said if everybody on Earth were to in Rwanda -- you know, consume food, fuel, They said if everybody on Earth were to consume Rwanda, that the Earth could sustain a maximum So we're halfway to that. The trouble, of course, is, we don't all consume They said if everybody on Earth were to consume North America -- that's us -- the Earth could So we're five times past that currently. So if everybody on Earth wants to live as they do -- we would need four more planets And there's a paradox here. All of these challenges are created by human It's not the lemurs that are causing the problem. It's us. And at the very point where we need to get ingenious to deal with the challenges that stifling the very capacities on which we're And this is -- I just want to get to this. There are -- We really live in two worlds, There's a world, as a guy called (saying name) There's a world that exists only -- exists into being before you did. It was here before you got here. It will be here well long after you are gone. It's the world of other people, events, other Our education systems are pretty obsessed But there's another world that exists only It's the world of your own private consciousness, the world, as somebody once said, where there's private passions, your motivations, your aspirations, And I believe the future of the world around understanding much more about the world within And the more standardized our education systems us to make those explorations. You have no idea what your talents are, I'm How many of you have got children? Can I ask you? How about two children? Okay. And the rest of you have seen such children? [ Laughter. ] I will make you a bet. If you've got two or more children or you hope that's now included everybody. But if you've got two or more children, I'll My bet is that they are completely different Aren't they? Completely different from each other. No matter how alike they may be in some respects, Like, &quot;Which one are you? Remind me.&quot; [ Laughter. ] up here. And the reason I point out is this, that our which are the opposite of how human life flourishes. Apart from that, they're great. The first one is conformity. Our systems are becoming more and more standardized; We are here in all of our varied differences, each of us in every child. The second is our education systems are based Whereas the energy of human life is creativity It's why in the United States -- kids come It's kind of been educated out of them. But the third is this: Human life is organic. We create our alliance, our education systems I would bet very few of are you of living be living when you left school; is that correct? I mean, we submit to a fiction here that there to write your resume. And we set it all out in some linear narrative, you pick them out to try to make your life strategy here to take you from your childhood But of course it's not at all like that. You do that because the last thing that you actual chaos that you've been living through. [ Laughter ] you've made all along the way. Now we are paying a very heavy price for this. This failure to hold people to plumb the world Currently, in the United States, almost 10% attention deficit disorder, ADHD. The people prescribing them will tell you, in many cases it's based on the quickest and Our kids are being drugged, often to get them unprecedented. Nearly five and a half million children in focus on things which are presumably otherwise And a minimum of a third of our kids who head It's as high as 60% in some parts of the country. I was in Houston, Texas recently. I was told by the superintendent, 60% of kids That's a catastrophic. In America, where we are now, where I live, system. I don't mean to say if you drop out of school But what is true is very many people in the education. Many states are spending more money on the on the educational system. And the other fact you might just dwell on of anti-psychotic drugs that were previously sales of that category exceeded sales of anti-cholesterol It's now a $14 billion industry. If you wanted evidence that the world within they are just some of the examples that I So what I'm saying is if we're serious about explore the world within us. We do that, as Van Jones I thought said beautifully of education, we need to restore arts programs, the teaching profession. Above all, we have to personalize education We have the technology now for the first time The last thing that I just want to say is Onion, do you know that website? Yeah, about -- we have to save the planet. I'm optimistic that we have the powers within But -- but we have to attend to them. The Onion's were saying don't worry about The planet will be fine. As we saw at the very beginning of that fantastic a very small part of all of this. The earth has been around for four and a half Human beings like us, showed up -- I don't I mean like brutal people like us, with attractive [ Laughter ] than 100,000 years ago. If you think of the whole arc of the life showed up less than a minute to midnight on So the Onion said, look, don't worry about It's gone on for four and a half billion years We may not make it, you know. The planet make conclude, you know, we tried [ Laughter ] would be. We're going back to bacteria. They had a fantastic run. [ Laughter ] Worry about us. And what we can do to live harmoniously with of the arctic. I mean that picture of the slaughter of the We are despoiling the very planet on which We won't, I think, make a better job of it and spiritual resources within us. When I ask you how intelligent you are, that's The real question is how are you intelligent. The question is not how creative are you; If we can flip our education to get to a better have a better chance of understanding and world around us. By the way, there is a wonderful quote from the early '20s, he said, &quot;Civilization is Now, it may or may not be the case, but what between the two worlds that we live in is And I think that we have to rebuild it so you very much. [ Applause ]