In Beijing, near the Forbidden City, film producer Lu Jianmin Among his films, his greatest success, Here is the poster And this one, This movie you do but it's of film history. 700 million euros in revenue, or Forrest Gump. Look. It's a price And this one is a prize We got so many prizes Released in 2017, this film thanks to its screenplay warrior wolves, the story of a hero victims of Western mercenaries. Rambo is no longer an American, In the past, Our country has been invaded Today, and we don't suffer In China, it is said that diplomats I am completely And on the international scene, we must This movie has become show his muscles. warrior wolves, that's the name of diplomats. Around the world, and the values of their country. No more question of being silent. &quot;No attempt to divide those who play Period.&quot; When in crisis of the Covid epidemic, &quot;It could be the US military United States The staff left their posts of hunger and disease.&quot; It is amazing to see of the world have become What's wrong with being and international justice? Diplomacy China returns She wasn't doing The Warrior Wolves They are on duty and its leader, The epidemic defeated, never since the death of Mao, such insurance. China is really powerful We Chinese became a world leader. In the United States or Europe, politics and technology. We are going to invest in France 50 billion euros in 5G. We'll write a check What is the strategy What are to establish itself as They can control but not with us. You would accept at home Launched to attack the world, like a land And China decoded how did they work With us, she seeks to find support. And all occasions are good, in cozy lounges The Chinese Business Club Franco-Chinese organized There is a Chinese delegation. The idea is to network politics, journalists, There are senators, deputies, It really is a club people are there collect business cards. And then behind, the idea of course. In the room, 200 guests Beijing dispatched number two Around her, three former ministers, Michele Alliot-Marie, We even find intelligence services. A small question for France 2? No. Just tell me why you came. See you soon, thank you. What are we worth It's not I come Here the political class and the class exchange and possibly, Absolutely I think that we know how to put that we know whether on the part or from with regard to concerns For Beijing, it's a godsend, direct access of high rank. Why is this important? It's because in the middle We can meet There should be cooperation Thanks. Beijing seeks to seduce to get their messages across. Their best relay, a former prime minister. For twenty years, work on good relations In 2019, President Xi Jinping a supreme distinction. Only a few close to the regime, or Raul Castro, received it. I have been recognized because I took French companies, I am not a diplomat I help businesses. Jean-Pierre Raffarin is also from a Chinese state broadcaster, In this episode, he makes us There, we can see In this one, China is the world leader China has become a world leader in a very large But Jean-Pierre Raffarin of President Xi Jinping, a president who and tolerates no opposition. The leadership of Mr. Xi Jinping in a big country to rule more Lots of observers that he plays into China's hands. I play the game of peace. So I pay attention Politically, they have no they do not have It's a civilization You have to be careful, And in this context, is based on values I called them French people fascinated what I understand, One can be fascinated by China, and yet not who, politically, Me, I am a free man, There are disagreements, I think in diplomacy, it must not be forgotten Sometimes you worry. You have not been called Fake. So tell us. I obviously work with the services, There was All of this, However, Jean-Pierre Raffarin by service According to Le Canard enchaine, it was a warning But he is not to defend Chinese interests. Others are today After Jean-Louis Borloo, the former minister of Francois Hollande, board of directors of Huawei, telecommunications. What comes to do to the board of directors is castigated from all sides? Huawei is a global champion, so i think he is including in Europe, it is in Europe's interest, a variety of suppliers. Why is Huawei hiring to defend their interests? Huawei may be to have understood and politics And so they use public relations, They have cabinets that allow them face to face senators, mayors, etc., to be able to sit Huawei's principle is to have Huawei France therefore appealed of communications in Paris. The Havas agency, Publicis, Boury, Tallon and Associates The latter also manages During six months, we asked them for an interview &quot;I confirm you that won't speak.&quot; What exact role was given and new columnist We went to meet him. It's France 2. This is to ask you a question, to work for Is that why you're here? Yes. It's just to ask you if it is tenable to work Yes, hello sir. Don't want to answer? you make an appointment, We tried These last months, by the leaders In France, they still have hope. And to achieve his ends, only familiar faces. He also recruits among small hands We will call him Vincent. During three months, worked as a lobbyist. A salary of 8500 euros per month, with one objective: the Elysee. Huawei is hiring to make sure Whether it's just traveling in China. Huawei officials crave when he goes to China. But the main objective throughout my mission, So there, every day, Huawei officials by the idea of giving that they are in cahoots Shenzhen, the headquarters of Huawei. Have access to the president and enormous influence. It's not just Huawei There are plenty of other companies. Except that there I remind you that France a history with China. She was the one who created Having a partner like France and be influential too The man who would seek Ren Zhenfei. At 75, this former colonel is the almighty boss The founding father by this company. We tell his story, he started from nothing Inasmuch as and translate The former Minister of Economy, remembers his official visit I went to visit the president of Huawei, And I watched Mr. Ren had built in the entry of Huawei. I said to myself We see where he wants to go. And inside his White House, he had set up his laboratories and he showed us around to show us that, and that was his message, they were going to take What are the links and the Chinese state? hard to answer because Huawei puts pressure. Two years ago, claimed on television by the Chinese state. For her remarks, Valerie Niquet Today, she doesn't even dare I gave my analysis which also corresponds many companies in China. And this business For now, and holding a trial. Like her, Stephane Dubreuil Huawei today, either from Huawei, and systematically attacks, journalists And this is a first He too had made the link between Huawei on a television set. The trial of Valerie Niquet will not take place before 2022. Huawei did not wish Right now, to a new scandal. According to a survey Huawei would participate in the crackdown The company would have provided the regime Today a million would be interned In France, a man is campaigning MEP Raphael Glucksmann Huawei is an essential cog. Huawei provides the technologies technological team Chinese police and She permits And finally, Huawei is in its repression of the Uyghurs. To denounce these practices, Raphael Glucksmann On social networks, of the Huawei brand in Europe, An arrest Antoine Griezmann, this is what Huawei does. And we're counting on you And very quickly, we had an answer who told us: And in the hours that followed, of its contract with Huawei, frankly extremely rare. Early December, and announce it to its 32 million &quot;I put an immediate end binding me to this society.&quot; Antoine Griezmann would thus give up He even allows himself &quot;I take this opportunity to invite Huawei to deny these accusations, concrete actions For Huawei, And for Raphael Glucksmann, because the fight continues. That day, in the European Parliament, on foreign interference Hello how are you ? A commission Hello everyone. For this first meeting, on Chinese interference. In the room and by videoconference, around twenty MEPs For two days, on the influence of China. Chinese penetration in Europe It operates in various ways, on social networks of political leaders. While the European Union with China, European governments. China plays the game by not being one, and participate in democratic debates there is a subject it's the way are ready to sell. In the viewfinder of Raphael Glucksmann, who work You can not and travel the world sometimes against French interests, How do you explain sometime ago, former ministers, work Greed for the sense of the general interest. In my opinion, and have a political career Once we have chosen we no longer have the right Politicians became for services Investigation In France also, and hunt down possible spies We have procured French counterintelligence, six warning pages &quot;French research know-how and technology national economic interests.&quot; &quot;Chinese researchers that they are required to do so (contract, scholarship, to contribute According to this memo, Far from the Parisian ministries Journalist Antoine Izambard Brittany has certain arguments Of course, the military rocket launchers telecoms too Then we see which is of great interest to China, more and more skills in all that concerns To learn more about the oceans, Ifremer in Brittany, the global flagship According to the DGSI: &quot;Ifremer is subject on a background of inclinations The Chinese would concentrate with whom they established Official objective: &quot;The Chinese partner technology transfers This laboratory deals They agreed to welcome us. Karine Alain is the director. For many months, this young Chinese doctoral student. Our laboratory is associated which is the resource lab And this will allow us and conversely, expertise that is mastered My doctorate is Ifremer is well known I think I will continue And then I will return Every year, come here to acquire It's an old fireplace. She was cut Do you know where he comes from? It comes from the Atlantic. But how deep? It is between 2500 and 3000 meters. Wow, that's deep. Yes, in deep waters. These discoveries They have however in the industrial field. At present, need metals for example, telephony, who are going to miss and which are produced found in the seabed. For instance, we will have an accumulation of copper, barium and also And suddenly there is And you are not afraid or flights No, I am not afraid I'm not afraid to be For me to know shared for all. And no fear No, for me there is not and the Chinese part. I haven't observed anything like that. Ifremer management pay close attention to knowledge There is still a risk according to this old They need our expertise. They need it to progress. They can build or copy technologies. Then you have to know we betray secrets no secrets at all. You can just explain without betraying any secrets. And for China, When we see the behavior this voluntarism one can wonder if, in the end, the useful idiots of power who will lay hands You don't have to be naive that we tie with China, which is nevertheless real, of diversion. To rule the world If she knows how to show the muscles, hearts and minds. Still in Brittany, this is the Confucius Institute, the first open It is a Chinese cultural center to our French alliances Its mission, to present Tai chi, Mahjong, calligraphy. Blaise Thierree Hello, Yes. In ten years, have opened throughout France. The main activity is the teaching of Mandarin. Hello, welcome, don't be afraid. So I warned Anya. She's coming in two minutes. Why are you coming? To take Chinese lessons. Chinese culture is awesome. That's great, And the kitchen. So there we eat well I advise you to go there. We can show off. Chinese teachers like this young teacher Before arriving in Europe, I participated in Beijing organized by the Office of Education. It was like an internship to strangers. I was recruited by the office The thousands of teachers have all signed Here it is. It clearly indicates Do not participate in activities harming national interests accept directions It is necessary to avoid angry subjects, For example Here in Rennes, it's the same thing Today, is he to hold a conference I am not sure and the right place to do it. And maybe on the subjects where also information For now, I abstain. All Confucius Institutes are funded and supervised by the Chinese Ministry Its direction is always and a Chinese director, You can see You can't see her. And then, suddenly, not to respond to reporters. So the Chinese director the right to respond to the media? As far as I know, no. We ask them Why ? I think the operation is not Chinese operation, that they are afraid trap them In Rennes, nothing was left to chance, and its magazines. What are you reading? China today. What's this ? I discover a magazine I accompany my daughter so I am patient while reading. China today published in several languages. He praises the successes Launched in 2004, it exists today The Confucius Program Since its launch, Beijing has dedicated This desire to control everything worries these activists Last October in Rouen. Brigitte Guiraud denouncing She mobilized the opponents Their target: who Houses Are you following us? Let's go. They have used who is a chinese sage And they seduced And we don't want such a totalitarian regime, have an interference Good day Mrs. We ask for the closure between Confucius Institutes and French universities. Because there have been facts That bothers you I'm not going to These demonstrators demand the closure as happened In Belgium, the authorities Vanessa Frangville at the Free University of Brussels. The Confucius Institute was located There was We closed this Confucius Institute essentially because we couldn't see who talks a bit who claims to be free and critical. The University of Brussels this recognized specialist A very sensitive subject. At the time, have published on a support platform Beijing saw red. It did not rain at all who asked to remove this page The university refuses The Chinese Embassy A few days later, this letter to management. He threatens Belgium The university breaks immediately Shortly after, Flemish side this time. A spy case after several months of investigation. In question, the Chinese director Xinning Song began in a center He was then able to weave his network many diplomats He even had connections In 2016, he took over the management in the Flemish part intelligence services to conceal other activities. When he was director he organized conferences and he took the opportunity to recruit capable people The Belgians discover that for Chinese intelligence. today a refugee He claims to have been kicked out I never heard from the Free University of Brussels to carry out activities Xinning Song was banned And the Confucius Institute No big deal, Beijing has other tools Welcome to Nantes. 300,000 inhabitants, But even here Last October, at the City History Museum. After three years of work, had completed its exhibition Genghis Khan. Even the poster was ready. We had almost especially a very which was very impressive. Lots of objects who showed how These works should have sent by a partner museum. Unfortunately, It is now postponed must come from China, have been banned In Beijing, the heritage office The exhibition did not pass When we started teaching so to bring up we got a first dial tone don't use the word Genghis Khan. We were a little surprised. Then don't use Don't use the word Mongolian. Do not use that is to say, finally, don't show We don't even have In the following email, we had a counter-project that's to say another synopsis, another reading and whose title was Convergence, The plains of northern China And see here, Beijing refuses that The Chinese are rewriting their national novel Bertrand Guillet refuses to give in. He stops the project. It's clear that about what they want to hear, we came back is that they now want to master To control there is another solution Will France become There, it will not have been necessary to the new Chinese regime and make it a tool In 2012, the Chinese group Wanda AMC cinema In 2016, the same group the legendary studio, Or Warcraft. In 2017, the famous film studio for a billion dollars Beijing wants to dominate the seventh art. In Los Angeles, signing his latest book I dedicate it to you in your name? For 17 years, Chris Fenton He produced and supervised If you are a fan or a film called Looper, and explain how influences the production, We owe him in particular Today he denounces not to Everything the studios is to ask do we do So avoid producing If your film involves Taiwan, or even human rights, your project is dead. You can't produce if you want to do American actor Richard Gere His commitment to the Tibetan cause in his career. Today, what we can see, with the endorsement And when they say: because it shows nudity, or a villain who is Chinese,&quot; you have to cut it And the studios sure do, Hollywood would have given up An NGO denounces and self-censorship The next film produced The remake of Top Gun, the movie event I will show you for example badges in the original version You see here on the back of his jacket, I show you what it becomes Badges have changed. The Japanese flag and the Taiwanese flag by a sign The way the government in Beijing and it must be denounced. It's not Americans Sometimes the public wakes up, In August 2019, Hong Kong anti-Chinese, Liu Yifei, actress declares to support the Chinese police, &quot;I support You can hate me now. What a shame for Hong Kong!&quot; That's not all. Disney shot his movie the Uyghur province. In the credits, at the end, the city of Turfan which is located And we know very well there is a majority of the Uyghurs who are subjected today from the government. If even Disney complies with this, this shows as far as cinema is concerned, In China, to impose a new image, that of a responsible country, of all dangers. Like in the movie Wolf Warriors, Be the new leader this is Beijing's dream When America international organizations, Four UN agencies by senior officials Four key positions. Qu Dongyu is the head of the FAO and agriculture around the world. The International Department it is led by Fang Liu. She handles questions Li Yong heads UNIDO. This organization in poor countries. And finally Houlin Zhao telecommunications broadband internet. All these directors It's a strategy. And it's true that when in these agencies, a grip on work. We determine the agenda, and that's what A recent example on the international scene. Taiwan, 24 million inhabitants. It's from this country and not recognized by the UN, that the first alert On December 31, 2019, as the global pandemic this doctor alerts the WHO. I remember, at 5:30 a.m. I saw two messages These messages came from They mentioned on cases of atypical pneumonia, After collecting this information, to confirm these data. They told us to the department concerned Doctor No reaction. The reason is simple WHO would be Listening to Taiwan is out of the question. China's influence It was thought that the WHO a global health emergency But they delayed They did not want nor prohibit travel I think they underestimated A month later, on January 28, 2020, for its lack of transparency, come to congratulate China, with 50 million euros per year, &quot;Step by step you took and that's something We are proud of it. The other important element, your leadership and determination. And also the way Two million deaths later, that China should have reacted Geneva, last October. Despite protests from NGOs, member of the board a heresy, There are enforced disappearances in China, There's no no opposition, there is no fundamental freedom and as consecrated by the values human rights these are universal values. That day, in the middle of the Assembly, has an ambitious goal. As a good wolf warrior, a resolution that changes What did this draft resolution say? That when we were talking and above all look and preserve freedom As if the Chinese That's what we call it is the negation of the universal value Human rights, and not for others. Little by little, China is trying to introduce all concepts which are universally shared. This time it failed. In the face of resistance Beijing finally gives up China is concerned and worried continuation of work because of the allegations opposed to our text. China will therefore continue later his participation in the Commission Thank you, Madam President. For the Chinese regime, but Beijing is in no hurry. The country is planning for the long term. What is China saying? deal with me a different world. It's the principle One center, 193 spokes. This is the number of states you can do it all In Chinese, the word China it means the Center of the world. You have to keep that in mind. Thanks to his diplomacy Beijing is on its way named the Chinese dream. Become the first The People's Republic of China