This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch an exclusive compilation video of all interview subjects by signing up for the CuriosityStream/Nebula On a rocky bluff at the end of a small peninsula For over a century, the Molokai Light has routes of the Pacific before turning island in the peninsula. For over a century, the Molokai Light provided community of a few hundred living in its shadow. As one resident of the isolated, insulated special to the people here... it is the Kalaupapa The lighthouse symbolizes the story of the signaled to outsiders to stay away; to steer it's offered a reminder that while they entirely alone after all. Kalaupapa proves that proximity Certainly, on a map, the Hawaiian Islands Colonization, however, along with air travel, beaches, has collapsed that physical distance--a domestic flight away. To many--native Hawaiians, settlers, long-timers, is now too connected to the rest of the world. And yet, as much of the US's fiftieth state remains isolated from the outside world and Here, there are no crowded beaches nor massive In fact, there are no resorts of any size--the And the most isolated point on this isolated mule trail, is Kalaupapa. "Higgins: Molokai with eight thousand people It's like a small town. It's like very rural, very small town. Everybody knows everybody when you land at knows you're there. And so there's no secrets, really. It's a small community. And then Kalaupapa is the most isolated place So it's very isolated when you compare it the island of Molokai itself." Kalaupapa's isolation is informed by natural isolation; an isolation by design; and an an end in this decade or the next. leaf"--an apt title for an oddly level four kilometers wide and extending two miles On three sides, the plain is surrounded by On the fourth: some of the world's tallest in all their Spielbergian grandeur. Covering much of the peninsula beyond the greenery--some of it endemic, much of it settlers. No roads link Kalaupapa to the rest of the 1,700 feet or 500 meters over 26 switchbacks rest of the island. Such isolation, and the peninsula's slow, to roam. "Law: I mean, there are several species except Molokai, whether you're talking plants Endangered monk seals occasionally sprawl threatened green sea turtles use these protected By itself, the peninsula's natural beauty--its by hordes of visitors, hotels, rental cars, to garner the attention of the National Park And while the NPS has indeed looked after wildlife that brought in the preservationists, "Law: It's a human story. And that's probably the most important part park." On the peninsula's western edge are white, paved and gridded streets, manicured lawns, as everything from homes and dormitories to There's also a disproportionate number of These burial sites, some marked, many not, overly punitive response to a disease now It was this past, still tethered to today from the period, that brought the NPS to the When explaining how this on the adjective "cataclysmic." It was a singular, massive landslide that island and later, a momentous volcanic eruption Cataclysmic also describes how this peninsula decree would lead to thousands being torn edge of Molokai. Kalaupapa was established as a leprosy settlement. In the early 1800s, various old-world diseases "Higgins: If we were to just look at the 1778, when Captain Cook came, we estimate in Hawaii at that time... By the time you get to 1823, which is three we're now looking at a drop in population. There are now only about 135,000, Right. So it's a huge dramatic drop, right." Following decades of devastation at the hands on the islands in the 1830s. Then, it spread. In 1865, King Kamehameha V signed into law which required police and hospital workers those displaying symptoms of the disease--a the peninsula from the rest of the islands for the next century-and-a-half. Leprosy, or Hansen's disease, attacks the Untreated, it leads to paralysis, disfigurement, While we now know how to treat this bacterial easily communicable, Hansen's outbreaks, often accompanied by hysteria. The disease's delayed onset and the cruel with divine punishment--a connection that of those afflicted. While American overthrow of the Kingdom was to the disease was likely a reflection of islands. "Higgins: So when Hawaiians are trying to have leprosy, I think it's they're being influenced are being employed by the government in 1840s, Right...So the Board of Health in the '60s foreigners, and they were the ones who I think the notions of this fear of leprosy." In 1866, adopting the western world's approach Hawaiians with advanced symptoms from their rest of their lives on Kalaupapa--an archetypal Dozens, then hundreds, then thousands would Spending time at the settlement some twenty Robert Louis Stevenson described the peninsula For the first waves of arrivals, with no assistance was perhaps too gentle a description. Here, there was no planned release date, no nor any chance of a reunion. For the new arrivals, life on this foreign, worsening symptoms, was extremely difficult. Life on Kalaupapa, however, had always been Prior to the establishment of the leprosy numbers of native Hawaiians for centuries. Dry, difficult to access, and limited by its had long defined life on Kalaupapa. "Higgins: So it's, it's possible to live and if you trade with people in the valley to live there. Yeah, it's it's inhospitable but not... it's You can live there. It is possible." And with new arrivals in the 1860s and '70s, out a life on the plain. "Higgins: [00:22:06] And the government No hospital, no doctors, no nurses, no nothing. They just dumped them off there, basically. And so it was those kama`aina, the local of them." While health officials had hoped it would shelters cropped up on the eastern end of In these especially dark days, burials outpaced drifted across the archipelago. While cast off and kept at a distance against at the heartstrings of family-oriented Hawaiians pity, and, in some cases, outrage. Spurred on by their humanitarian ethos, the began visiting and providing aid for the settlement supplies, and building Kalaupapa's first By the 1890s, nearly 300 structures lined the patient population that had ballooned By the 1900s, the Kingdom of Hawaii. Patients now arrived from across the Pacific, its way onto the peninsula. For the American, Chinese, and Portuguese, living conditions improved throughout the After moving the community to the west side modernized treatment facilities and dormitories. In 1909, the federal government built the Station. In the 1930s, the Hawaiian territorial government fresh water and electrified the plain. By the time the US entered World War II, the one that the first patients had arrived at And yet, the settlement's purpose ultimately how modern the facilities. With a cure still years out by the 1940s, die. Still, in the face of forced, life-long quarantine, They lived. Residents played softball, went to church, From 1900 to 1930, almost 1,000 couples married Whether it'd be Lei-making gatherings, dances, patients came up with reasons to celebrate, "Higgins: You've got your like your community Right. You have a real sense of community... they're creating this sense of community there. So while they still are isolated and sent for their livelihood there." As one patient recalled: "when I arrived... I was the youngest child inside the place... All the people took me in, and I became like It was really one big family in here, an ohana. I had everything... so much love!" Kalaupapa's patient population exemplified principally, the will to persist. And when they thought they weren't being power. In 1913, just four years after opening, the Investigation Station shuttered due to patient Pain and difficulties, though, never disappeared. Prior to 1946, patient lifespans were short--many For those that remained, the scars of being in the cases of those that conceived on the health officials sent their children off the Community didn't replace the difficulties the burden. leveraged their collective power to begin treatment. Promin proved a miracle drug. It halted Hansen's advance, reversed some It healed sores and revived patients who were It also launched Kalaupapa on a new trajectory. General stigmas, fears, and assumptions that with a cure. On the peninsula, the physical walls, barriers, and health care workers came down. So too did the social barriers--as handshakes Most importantly, there was no need for quarantine Just over a hundred years after passing, in that imprisoned 8,000 onto the peninsula. Patients were finally free to leave. Rather than burying the past, tourist dollars, Kalaupapa the town didn't settlement-- many who had grown fond of life life, chose to stay. In the late '70s, to ensure that they'd protecting the place's legacy, residents and in 1980, the plain became a National Historic "Law: Well, the park wasn't building out. We weren't doing anything like grabbing land We were just there to help basically. And still are, you know, and we've hired a You know, and I think that's the thing to whether they're working there or, you know, involvement." Since 1980, the peninsula's been under joint and the NPS--an arrangement that allowed of its tight-knit sense of community. "Law: You know, there were a lot of people people get together at the bar at night and kind of music, you know. And so it was... very interesting. But it was also it was a good time. They were very friendly people." In the morning, residents met up at mass before or to pick up breakfast at the cafeteria. At midday, patients, state employees, and the store where they grabbed lunch and at morning's delivered parcels. As early evening rolled around, residents Elaine's Place to grab a drink, sit down sing Hawaiian songs well into the night. With time, though, Kalaupapa has become far "Law: But when I was there, things were are today because there's not as many people State and NPS employees still looked after a limited number of tourists around the peninsula feel slowly began to fade as the resident In the early 2000s, nightly crowds began to As an ethnographic report astutely noted, had been replaced by a quiet bar where a corner In 2020, the number of remaining patients younger than 70--while the peninsula's on the day of the week. With the number of patients shrinking, fears gone. "Law: Yes, they're all afraid of development and that kind of thing, you know, and it's knows it's too sacred to have something like "Higgins: I worry about making it too touristy, The whole peninsula is such a sacred place, many stories there, that it should not become it like Waikiki, where it's just a tourist To those with connections doom a sacred landscape. While daily tourists are capped at a hundred proposals to increase that number in the near of those with family ties to the settlement quieter corner of Hawaii. It's unlikely, though, that this story will pass. At base, geography presents a problem--even what's celebrated as Barge Day, while food Beyond physical constraints though, the place's The NPS has invested decades in protecting be Hawaiian to let the story die. "Higgins: So it is a story of Hawaii, right... I think we want to resurrect the stories and struggles and remember them in a way that their ancestors. Right. That family connection is so important, which to us. We need to tell that story." Those with firsthand experience of life stranded but their legacies will last. Currently, the Ka'Ohana O Kalaupapa organization, dignity of those forced onto the island, is 8,000 names of those quarantined on Kalaupapa--a story isn't one confined to the past, but family ties. "Law: [00:39:34] Well, I think with what you know, getting family members--going all there are family members of even the first stake in all of this, too, although they're on the mainland." While Kalaupapa for centuries existed largely and the mainland, the place's story, the epitomize what it means to be Hawaiian, and "Higgins: It's such a hard disease and such that separation from family. Yet, they made the best that they could in there, and you got to admire them for that, kindness, the generosity of the people who community and a life for themselves, right, So..." Though cut off from the rest of the world from their own inherent dignity by the cruel and its people exemplified human's most The isolated peninsula and its isolated people--from the first wave of infirmed, to the generations their legacy--displays just how much we, at living on the edges. Of course, the story of Kalaupapa is more possibly give credit. In the making of this video, we sat down with Hawaii, and Henry Law, the first superintendent hours to better understand this place's While we pulled some fascinating quotes for left on the cutting room floor. But we've turned those into a video too! If you are interested in learning more about our discussions with the people who know the companion video--a compilation of all our fit in this one. You'll hear far more on Hawaiian culture, the peninsula, and what it was like to actually settlement to historic park site. To see this companion video, support a creator videos early and ad-free, and watch our big-budget However, the best way to get access, if you deal with CuriosityStream--home to thousands shows. With the CuriosityStream/Nebula bundle deal--you'll and documentaries like Gander International, most unique airports sitting on the very edge Get access to both platforms for an entire before this current sale ends.