In the streets there is an air of tranquility and peace yet the atmosphere is tense as tomorrow it's local election day and things are getting heated. Highna and his old truck, have been requisitioned by the government, he didn't want to take this road but the authorities have I transport the staff in charge of the I'm required by law to reach my Why? I risk 90 days in prison. And even if my truck has a mechanical This is what and, if necessary, he and his passengers will finish on foot, a very likely option. The problem is that the track The government doesn't look after this road. The most recent work goes back six years. We are moving at 5km an hour. Once we are back on flat ground Due to a leak, the exhaust The motor is under a lot of I told him to put water in the A nice idea For this journey Highna a reward which allows and for the work of his assistant. Where do I drop you off? Here, I drop off the first The police are there to watch them. To prevent problems, in case of There can be lots of violence here. With both firearms and knives. They could kill one of the election employees, We're late. Highna still has and given the fumes from his exhaust pipe he and his passengers will Nicaragua, a small country It's long been afflicted by internal wars. The most recent was in 1979 between a right wing dictatorship and much like in Venezuela who's portrait stands in Managua, It was political change for the six million inhabitants. The United States is afraid suffocating the country by Nicaragua has run out of everything, the economy is devastated and the country is struggling to recover. There are many roads only and they can only be found in the capital. The Nicaraguans travel with a classic latino fatalism, keeping a smile on - At five a.m. in the village Rosita. Welcome, my brother. God bless you. Thank you, Lord. May your presence in this place be real. Brother have fulfilled their dream, to establish their own evangelical church. But the congregation is scarce, at most there are a and tithes and offerings To increase their are going to attempt to attract the inhabitants of the We're trying to bring more brothers Tomorrow we'll visit a remote We'll go by motorbike, because the poorly On a motorbike, it's much easier Even if we fall, Only, the and that's putting it mildly. In the suburbs of the capital Managua, an explosive operation and under close surveillance. 7500 kilos of 25 by 400 dynamite. 32,000 connectors for Drill Bits. The Drill Bits The bill amounts to 148,000 euros. A convoy of explosives We have to be careful, there are armed gangs It's a real possibility, Seven and for a beautiful firework display, Hilario however is a little When I started, I thought dynamite And as a result, I stayed as far away as possible I didn't know that it was the detonators which The detonators explode in the event of friction. Whatever we do, they explode. They must That's why we put them on the back seat. Thanks to The conveyors in the mining triangle of half of which requires We have 13 or 14 hours of travel ahead of us, If we encounter a problem, we will Though Hilario doesn't look much like Yves Montand with his truck slaloming it looks like a remake of Wages of Fear though, hopefully, with a happier ending. When Nicaragua gained from Spain in 1821, it became the richest and most prosperous but in 1909 the United in an attempt to access Since then the country of revolutions and dictatorships, Our two priests hope to bring by branching out to neighboring villages. May our mission be blessed, Lord. May all those who will accomplish this journey We're going to visit our brothers. I protect the Well things seem It's the other way, brother. Yes, like that. And their The pot is dirty. The village is 40 kilometers away and We're covered in mud. The brother's though barely rewarded, We will be able to continue. Is it punctured? Here, yes. I'll ask if there's a garage nearby. Excuse me, is there At the crossroads? Okay. They've only and they've already made a wrong turn. It's a two kilometer Hello, is this a garage where On the other side? Their to be left unanswered. I have no more patches. No. No more. We can't continue. The only solution is to retrace ...and then set off again towards They must return a few miles and start from square one. As long as we're on this ...we'll always make mistakes, But we must accept the plans of God. In the for a charitable soul to help to the nearest garage Meanwhile, the convoy is progressing step by step. While Hilario juggles between the potholes and the jolts whilst This is the only possible road we could take. It's full of holes and I'm trying to drive carefully. Since I'm carrying such dangerous objects, In case of an accident, the shock could trigger the In the back, there is enough to destroy It's forbidden to smoke in my car. The seven and cross the villages without there are no police the transportation of goods. It's raining badly. A little further ...and if the rain continues This year to be washed away several times causing major traffic The brother's prayers the rain stops and a to the next garage. That's it, I have oil. In rural is a meager 140 euros, earn much less depending Due to all of these mechanical problems, 16 euros The journey is making them exhausted. Even if the country is areas like this are still The Nicaragua economy is limited due to a serious lack of infrastructure and we see this on our travels 7 hours to cover 40 km. It's one of the worst roads in the region. The current government does not allocate The ruling party uses public money for its I'm trying to find a The earth is like quicksand. Very risky. Is it deep there? Where have you come from? We have just come from a place The motorbikes the four legged animals. With the help of God the their mission to convince to come and worship in their church but once again Heaven does And at 6pm we will have to leave again. It'll soon be nighttime, and no one will be I think we're going to Our plans have amounted to nothing, all That's what's frustrating. Look! These are God's plans and The more I wash, the dirtier I get. It will take these two priests. Tomorrow they will ride determined to reach their new flock. The convoy of dynamite has As if this isn't enough, the final bridge threatens and shred to pieces. It's already happened At around 11 p.m. the truck After 400 kilometers they finally arrive in with their seven and a This dynamite will help the miners to Gold has been but the city doesn't seem to Alongside the official mine is a group of illegal immigrants who It must be said that is somewhat of a treasure trove. The depths of these mountains contain a range of other precious metals. The mine helps support around Here we extract rock containing the gold. Gold, silver, zinc and chrome The mine can reach up to 150 At first glance modern mine but there's no light and there are barely any wooden planks at the bottom of the tunnels. This is where I work every day. Day and night, it's all the same The biggest danger is that And if the wall gives way, Jovelci works as a diver, 100 meters of rock separates I work carefully, because And at 18 relentlessly to extract five Once sifted only 30 grams It's not a huge amount but strength to extract much more. For the sake of gold, we are all ready to die. The important thing is to be able to extract as Whether they or employees there's no Every two days trucks I carry around 150 bags. It's a load of This road is a nightmare. You can stay Ramon has a only drive when there This is the only way to ensure he can reach the end of the road. You see, if this storm hits, I have to hurry before the rain comes. I mustn't lose speed, otherwise Ramon's It must be in order to and tumbles that throw his He also has a quick reaction time and his truck is never A stone has caused an air leakage. Is your wheel done for good? All the drivers On this road, drivers must help each Solidarity is key. Ramon will finish just in time for the town election vote. Nicaraguans who work in the city are returning to the village Trips sometimes last several as public transport is so poor. The bus station at Rosita is full. Travelers who know him are they call El Toro, for his speediness and his ability to overcome obstacles. Come on, my man. I have to leave at 9:25 am. Passengers continue to arrive right until To the port! In his that dates back to the '90's, the city of Puerto Cabezas, 150 kilometers away, in eight hours. It's raining. It's not good for the road but for us it's not a bad When the road is flooded, But I've done this many times, With or without potholes El Toro puts his foot on the gas as he must arrive before nightfall to catch the ferry to take Come on! Get in! I keep machetes behind my seat, because I forbid them to keep their machetes Go to the back, to the back, Move forward, move forward! There are 64 seats on the bus. Technically it's now full, but, The truck won't start but El Toro is a few steps ahead and is ready to show solidarity. I'm going to tow it by tying The truck doesn't start, it's not a problem with the motor as the driver initially Look at the state of the filter. No wonder you can't start I can't help him any longer, The ferry In Nicaragua time goes slowly. Its inhabitants have learned though it's clear they 10 hours of traveling and and the end of the trip approaches. We've arrived on the coast This land is where the Miskitos live. The Miskitos within Nicaragua, these their own way of living. They live on agriculture, It goes without saying that are precarious to say the least. The Miskitos are specialists A hose connected to a Some men do between 12 and 16 dives a day. A physically demanding profession. Divers who have worked for years ...making them unable to But many of them continue regardless, in order Descending to 27 or 30 meters, the depth Two hours later is disappointingly low. For a long time over fishing by a 10th. The Miskitos have fallen back sea cucumbers, popular amongst the Chinese but sold at a much cheaper price. Did you go down to the bottom? How far then? It's hard work. The water, the sea. Is it very dangerous? What dangers are there? We could die. Diving accidents In 2013 along the coast to it's neighboring country, Honduras, there were 2,000 Miskito accidents, some villages are more from the coast which means that at sea, receiving emergency aid is difficult. The biggest risk for divers rising up too quickly can That's what happened to When I see them go, it scares me. l always wish to tell them that it's dangerous, Here, the young workers go to sea like that! They are not given any protection. Nobody We're indigenous people: the Miskitos. It doesn't matter if we end up Elvaristo will future during the local town elections by voting against the party in power. In Nicaragua protests and so opposing parties struggle It appears change is a corruption is rife with having led the country for 11 years and his party holding a firm Those who are in power are As night falls to the main town in Highna's truck. If any mechanical from delivering the ballot boxes the repercussions would Thank God, I have done my part. Even if his it doesn't matter, Highna on foot, on his back. As expected, the within most of the town hall, in Nicaragua the paths are like its road network, tortuous.