Hello Health Champions! Today, we're going to old--something you can do that is simple chances of reaching a hundred years old. And it's about being healthy so that you have quality we have to briefly talk about the that we're trying to slow down, and they metabolic dysfunction, chronic inflammation, The thing we're going to talk about that you called intermittent fasting, meaning you eat fewer But then the question we have to answer is, of these destructive mechanisms? And then the second fasting because a lot of people think that fasting So we're going to go through these mechanisms So the first one is cellular damage and oxidative stress, toxins, and regular wear and that we have malfunctioning cells, and we can rusty. The more we abuse a machine, the more we it's going to start rusting and not perform as if they're getting rusty, if they're the risk of disease and early or premature aging help with this is that fasting increases something pieces: auto and phagy, meaning self-eating. when you're not adding resources to the body as and the body upregulates its recycling mechanism and so forth. So the body starts going out and debris that it may not have gone to look for if now the body gets better at going out and finding valuable. So we can think of this as recycling it as thinning out the herd. If you have a huge they're going to go and pick up the sick and the that didn't have so much longer to live. And the cellular components and misfolded proteins and them sooner, then we are thinning out the herd, The next destructive mechanism is chronic it's actually called inflammaging as well, and And it's important that we understand what chronic all the things that people take medication for, medication and so forth, pain medication. When a fever because if you get an infection or if you nauseous and you throw up, then that's only the really sick; the body is just responding in the things don't work the way they're supposed there are normal, natural mechanisms that have supposed to anymore. And some examples of chronic blood pressure and the plaquing and so forth and of dementia where Alzheimer's is the most common intermittent fasting, just stretching your going to reduce many, many different blood markers are called C-reactive protein, which and another one is interleukin-6. And we know for and in doing so, fasting will protect your of the tissues in your body, and in doing risk of these chronic diseases that we which of course is tied to diabetes and insulin And the next factor is metabolic dysfunction. And a cell to take fuel or substrate and turn it into it into energy and we turn it into tissue, and life. Dead things can't do that, and when we then that's when we die. But when we talk talking about the most widespread form, which common today that we assume that it happens with happen because it happens to just about everyone. has some degree of insulin resistance, and this so it's not just the United States anymore. something that has to increase with age. It but only because we live a longer period of time, and we eat too many meals. So of course, that's stretching the time that you're not eating. And high levels of insulin, chronically high levels of properly because that level of insulin is so way to reduce insulin and insulin resistance, from that fasting and from lowering insulin is we can increase fat burning because insulin So if we can lower insulin, now we can start we talked about chronic inflammation, which is dysfunction. So when we can lower insulin, we also disease, and along with that, we also dramatically We can also have hormonal imbalances that shorten we have too big of a fat cell, then it's going to that's going to produce excess estrogen, which what a lot of people don't know is that insulin is the strongest factor that will unbalance the then what tends to happen in women is that into testosterone, which of course is the both of these hormones, so we all have some there's supposed to be a dominance of estrogen, testosterone. But when we're insulin resistant, that natural dominance so that in women, and we have women becoming more like men. And a different pathway. So with insulin resistance, estrogen in men, so men now become feminized. So growing a mustache; they start getting more facial and we could have men start growing man boobs, on the grandchildren because when Grandma they can't tell the difference anymore, and this And another thing that can happen is that we have something called PCOS--polycystic ovarian infertility and all sorts of unpleasant can have decreased libido or sex drive. Now, when don't eat as often, what's going to happen is the and it reduces the insulin dramatically. So these and in doing that, we start rebalancing; we start because, again, the insulin is the primary factor human growth hormone will help improve And then aging is also accelerated by about before how metabolism--the ability to life. And mitochondria is the energy factory inside your cells where virtually all of your to understand about making energy--that the very and the reason we need oxygen is simply and only or a protein or a carbohydrate, and we need to oxygen, and the only place where this oxygen is oxygen to turn this fuel into energy, and in the how quickly these mitochondria get rusty. So most of that happens inside the mitochondria, little more sensitive. They burn a little and if and when they start getting a little rusty, They won't be able to make as much energy, as before. But what happens now with fasting is meaning that we make new ones. We have And just like with thinning the herd, we can now we have healthier and fresher mitochondria fasting also increases the efficiency; it sort of some of the most rusty; we make new ones, we keep around work better than they have been as a result, we can greatly increase our energy So the first question that we set out to and help reverse and slow down those aging there's no doubt about that. Now, we need to understanding the second question, which that's the next question, and I want to show you have to try it and try the simple steps that I'm that keeps people from doing these healthy steps So how hard is fasting, really? Well, I want to bet that the answer is yes. Some people sleep we sleep somewhere between six and eight hours, you have your last meal, let's say, at 1 p.m., and then you get up in the morning and then you had nine hours of fasting; you had nine hours possible? How did you do it? How did you survive make energy; it has backup mechanisms. So we're couple of hours to top off the blood sugar. Well, you can make it through the night, if your body then why wouldn't your body know how to make sure that you can consume enough food substrate, requirements, and you just need to do it in a So the easiest way to start with this is to delay hungry when they wake up in the morning, then instead of having breakfast first thing, have it maybe at 8 o'clock; move it one hour, then to 10 o'clock. And in just doing that, now you are that you can go 12 hours without food, and during generate energy and blood sugar and ATP to make idea for you: if you don't have the flexibility of what you can do is you make a smoothie, and you take it with you. And then at first you push it a little bit, and then you have your so you don't actually have to be at home; you can if you can compress your feeding window by pushing end as well, which means don't eat so late. to eat right before you go to bed. So instead of where you don't eat anything after 9:00, and when 8:00 p.m. and at 7:00 p.m. as well. And now what's we talked about on the previous slide, now you fasting window. This is what we call a 15:9--you so you have 15 hours without any food. And for of people--this is so easy; you just have to try people who try this, they can't believe that they meals over so many hours when they could just they don't have to eat all the time, and they notice that you're not so hungry anymore, what's you won't be so hungry that you forget to have you stick it in the fridge; you're just going eat because there really is no reason to eat. And and then you go home and you have dinner at 6, and you're practicing intermittent fasting. And if it's so easy; it's actually easier than having it's a bother; it's a hassle. And if you did pattern of intermittent fasting, meaning you have it doesn't have to be like that; this is just fasting window; some people will have a 16-hour 20-hour. Just try something and see what works for for you. And like I said, the vast majority of However, there are some people who have pretty blocks for them maybe, and the number one thing sugar is a drug. And sugar, more than anything metabolism; it's the combination of a drug that state, and the fact that you're also having your the sugar, then the cravings will go away for most eat real food, that you eat quality food. And in but you want to eat moderate to high fat probably going to be a higher level of fat, so don't be afraid to let that get up to 50 or 60 fat. And then you want to eat moderate protein, bit of meat, chicken, fish with some meal during the biggest difference for most people is going to some people might want to go very low carb and not everyone has to do it all the time, but it really helps to curb your cravings. But it does all kinds of carbohydrates like some people think carb you shouldn't have any--that zero is the that you eat a diet that's high in fiber, high in You can basically have as much of those types want is to follow the mainstream guidelines in recommend that you eat 60 to 65% of your calories Even if you eat whole food, that's going to be starch for most people because most people are you can never have some brown rice or potatoes healthy metabolically, but you don't want to eat most people are insulin resistant. And if you start moving toward insulin resistance. And of toward health is to reduce or eliminate how much eat. So doing all the things on this list is not intermittent fasting, but it's going to be a huge the better quality food you eat, the more you're toward your overall health. If you enjoyed this truly want to master health by understanding how hit that bell, and turn on all the notifications