You felt it haven't you. That feeling that you're falling behind, you by and you're that everyone around You then hear the loud voice of your inner telling you that you're just not good It's too late to begin. You should give up. Or that you're a failure. When you're always on your phone it is easy to fall into the trap highlight reel. Your Chapter 1 with someone's Chapter 20. You see someone who looks and living their best life While you're there worrying about how are you going to support your family I've been thinking about this and I want to tell Feeling behind in life is a universal experience and it is something that It's exhausting and this is why comparison the thief of joy and an energy killer is to make you feel less It strips away your confidence. It makes you question your worth Every second you spend time or journey, We're tired not because we're physically too little of the things that bring us joy We are measuring our achievements against metrics defined by others, to not pursue In fact, when you come to understand and we have different definitions there is really no such thing It is something I have to remind myself and is one of the reasons Because feeling behind It is a wake up and remember what matters to be compassionate with yourself, and The way you speak to yourself shapes And far too often magnifying our flaws Over the course of a day, many of which come and go so quickly While some thoughts are positive disempowering or block The most powerful dialogue every day because what consumes Just imagine what you can do and achieve when you believe When you silence and listen So be kind and forgive yourself who never makes any mistakes And on the days where it feels like you will never make progress, Because when you choose self-compassion and are able to keep moving forward. The way you show up and express yourself the manifestation We live in the feeling of our thinking, can either lead to a path of growth Learning is not an overnight process, small acts of kindness towards yourself, And the more you can love yourself your happiness and emotional well-being This need to feel ahead in life is often due to a lack of self-love, with where you are and who you are That because you are not feeling you find it difficult to love yourself. And so you go out of your way to seek it The solution here is to redefine and to then build your life and career Because what matters most is that you And the more clearly you know how you want it becomes to say no to the requests 24 years old, I was out of a job and I had to take a big I went through a period of depression using alcohol as a way to escape I felt like I was falling further At 28 years old, I knew my life was just I was building an exciting exit plan and towards I upgraded my environment and took Instead of looking to compare my journey I looked to others for inspiration. I realized that it was less and more about you versus you. It always has been. And that if you want to change your life you must run your own race. Winning in life It is about getting ahead of yourself to be the best version of you "I am on my own timeline" is a mantra for an intentional life. Too many of us, however, can be impatient we want it now, we feel life is unfair, To have the virtue of patience as opportunities to strengthen you, Some of the darkest periods of my life with the insight and wisdom And don't let the Internet wash you their failures. You want to consciously design which begins by understanding What do you love doing Who do you love spending time with? How will you know that You want to then start with a blank slate and routine would look like. What time would you wake up and go to bed? What would your morning routine look like? What changes must you make It may take you six months, but you can get there eventually the time will pass anyway, Envision your masterpiece Don't just imagine doing things someday. Start doing them today. Get out of your head Focusing your energy on being better Stop thinking: Start thinking: "I'm going to start now. My best years are ahead of me." something you should do now, the greater Today you can start over to work to run your own race No past regrets, no future worries. Just today, with your attention rather than what you can't. And if you think you were too old remember this You will never be younger It is never too late. You still have time. So let's get to work and start living. My name is Simon Alexander Ong. Thank you so much for watching this video