Despite many protests from long time And just like many other creators, Mostly of me fumbling my lines. But if you've been watching You'll notice that I reuse And so do other youtubers. Now, some video creators have some have a dedicated off-the-shelf NAS. Personally, I store it on my home server. It's got two 16 TB hard as well as another 16 TB drive So I can theoretically lose one drive And this data is very important to me. Having all of the original footage It lets me reference my previous without having to resort to in a super compressed format with subpar quality. Besides, there are plenty of situations and then just not end up If I still have the original file, I can instead of it just going to waste. So how do we keep important data safe? That's right, backups. You've probably heard of the 3-2-1 You should have 3 copies of your important data. On two different types of media one of which is off site. Meaning, Now, these days, the most popular type Be that just putting your data or using fancy backup software and sending your data to an S3-compatible And that's what I do for some such as personal documents and But when it comes to video footage... Well, I shoot these videos in ProRes, with all of the raw footage that is currently at 14 TB. So, is it really feasible to Well, surprisingly, yes! AWS offers an S3 Tier called Glacier Deep Archive, which currently goes for $0.0018 So if my math is correct, at 14 terabytes, this would As well as a one time fee of 70 dollars, And as far as business expenses go, After all, it's backups of very The real problem with the Germany is not really known for its fast Internet, and at the moment, I got 250 mbits Uploading 14 terabytes of data at 50 And downloading it will take 5 days. Plus, depending on AWS for my business You see more and more companies being burned by and I prefer to avoid using the cloud if i can. So, is there a different way? Yes! And all we're gonna need is and parents with Internet connection. Now some people might say that I shamelessly stole the idea of offsite backups to my But that's just not true. In his video on offsite backups, Colten whereas me, well, I'm gonna be backing Which are two completely different things. Me and Colton do however have the same sponsor I guess that similarly to how Squarespace Tailscale is trying to become the official So definitely be on a look out for more In all seriousness, the idea actually came from that I did in 2022. And just like the previous build, this new machine is also going to double as a So first things first, let's For the motherboard, I'm gonna be using For 130EUR, you get a motherboard plus CPU combo, which is fairly power efficient, and supports Which my parents probably Now to be fair, the only is the fact that it has a PCIe x2 slot, which would be perfect for my personal But then the idea of offsite backups and instead of buying a more appropriate I decided to use the one I already had. The N100DC-ITX is actually a pretty since it doesn't have a 24-pin ATX input and the stock SATA power connnector will If I were choosing a motherboard I'd go with the ASUS N100I-D D4 instead. It only has a PCIe x1 slot, but unlike the board from Asrock, it has a standard 24-pin power connector. However, this motherboard doesn't So I've hacked together a DC jack to But, after some of you guys convinced me that the terminal block to DC jack is really not a good idea for I decided to go full goblin mode, and simply soldered the 4-pin Is this good soldering? Hell no. But it seems to hold pretty well. And in case you're wondering it's called Pinecil, and I'm gonna leave a I've also covered the actual 12v connector So that in case I die, and some poor they will at least know that they Hopefully. For RAM, I'm gonna be using a single The N100 only has a single channel of RAM, and 16 gigs should be more than enough for this build isn't really going And by the way, according to Intel, 16 gigs should be the maximum But despite what Intel's official specs say, I've heard people say that this motherboard So if that was a deal breaker for For the case, I'm gonna be It has 5 hot swappable hard drive and is really easy to work on. The motherboard part is completely which means that you won't have to remove like we did in the Fractal Node The mounting system for storage It doesn't use caddies to and instead, you're basically supposed to Then, you can simply slide them into the bays, and if you ever want to pull a hard Apart from that, it's just a really It's made of powder coated aluminium, and is pretty unassuming for like, it doesn't scream "nerd alert", if you know what i mean. So it should have no issues Now me being me, I couldn't just give them the stock case. So, I've printed a full depth fan Jonsbo N2 comes with a 15mm but it could be even quieter. With this mod, we can use a standard thickness This fan is gonna push more air while For power supply, I'm gonna Unfortunately, this PSU is not being sold anymore, but if you're looking for a take a look at my power which I'm gonna link in the description. As you can see, this power supply but no worries, that's just a result of trying to And by that, of course, I On the inside, it's fully intact For bulk storage, I'm gonna be using a random Since we're gonna be using MergerFS, our so I could basically just use any high This will give us 28 terabytes of usable storage, which is more than enough for photos and backups. Finally, for boot drive, I'll be using this 256 Nothing special about it. Now some of you guys mentioned that or any kind of remote management functionality. And I agree. Some way to manage since there are almost 300 So this is where BliKVM PCIe comes into play. I've already made a video so make sure to check it out if but long story short, it's a KVM board that's The Raspberry Pi itself is running which then uses an HDMI capture card output from the computer that it's connected to. It also connects to the ATX pins, which can then be used to hard shutdown or Finally, the board also connects and this lets us control and also sideload bootable ISOs And the best part is that it doesn't it's completely decorative, and as long as you have a that you can screw the board into it's going to work. I did my best to try and cable manage everything, and I'll let you be judge I've added a small Noctua fan so that there's a little bit And since I've no idea how I simply used strong double-sided Let's hope that it holds If you watched my previous you'll know that we actually need to jump the since this motherboard doesn't And well, since the SF450 we can actually omit the ATX cable altogether and simply jump the pins on the PSU itself, with a custom made sacrificial 4-pin connector. Yes, I know that it looks super cursed, but hey, it works! And here's what the entire build Now. Is this a lot of money? Yes! But you have to realize that unlike many people, I buy hardware to make videos about it, and I then recoup the costs or sponsored segments. Some hardware I didn't even have to buy, And obviously, most people Personally, instead of letting I'd rather put it to good use, even if But the good news is you probably don't need to spend one and a half grand Most of the money went into hard drives, and unless you also have 14 tb of you could probably get away with as for the actual build - literally any old PC As long as your parents are okay with Alright, rant over. After assembling the rest of the system, it was And as you can probably already see I have a lot to say about that. On the previous iteration of the parents that was configured using Ansible. That's what I was using on my own so it kinda made sense to also And that's what I'm doing this time as well. Only instead of Ubuntu, or even I've actually been using a little obscure operating system that you've called NixOS. That's right, I've been using NixOS on and I've even started using it on My storage server is a pretty simple setup, with ZFS for the root file system, and Mergerfs + SnapRAID for my hard drive storage. I'm using Podman containers for almost and it also runs the usual stuff like SMB. I've also written a small bash which basically tells me the ZFS scrubs and Snapraid operations. Finally, there are also email which will definitely come As to why I still haven't made a video about it? Well, as some of you may know, And I personally feel like I'm I can make a somewhat educational video I also just don't think that a Youtube My infrastructure code changes almost every week, and there's no way for me to go back to a The entire configuration for my Nix-based my router, my parents NAS, my VPS, is on Github, at github.com/notthebee/nix-config so if you're curious, you But once again, I'm a complete and my configuration only reflects it. There is a lot of very questionable code in there. In short, I'm sorry if the way I describe and no, I probably won't do a deep I don't know shit about shit, and two, I dont' think that an hour is a good medium for describing a quickly All of that aside though, I've been really happy with NixOS when And making a configuration just a matter of copy pasting the and removing 80% of the services. Fundamentally, it's the same MergerFS and Snapraid for the hard drives, Podman for web applications and So I basically modified the configuration, Which, thanks to declarative partitioning, For the backup software, It allows for encrypted, compressed and the setup, at least on NixOS, was really easy. Like, here's the server portion and here's the client portion. Basically, the server just has to know which and the client has to be told which which SSH private key to use and some other paramters, like backup frequency, On NixOS, no additional SSH configuration is and the whole thing just works (tm) And yes, the backups are but at rest, as well. Which makes borg work super well for both have homelabs, and both but don't necessarily want the stored on your friend's hard drives unencrypted. So with the backup procedure itself taken care of, This leaves us with just one small question. How are the systems gonna access each other? Well, traditionally, you'd have to set up port forwarding and slash or create a peer-to-peer However, I decided to use today's sponsor, Full disclosure, Tailscale but I've already been using it in my If you've never heard about Tailscale, it's basically a zero-configuration You install it on the machines that you want and that's it. All of your systems are now connected with no need to forward any ports, and with automatically assigned But that's not all You can also use any of the connected you can expose subnets, and if you're working in a team, Tailscale provides a really robust ACL system, which lets you control who can access which machines and even limit the And if you want to avoid juggling public Tailscale SSH lets you easily authentication into your SSH workflow, making onboarding new users and Tailscale is completely free for personal and you can check out their business pricing Configuring Tailscale was pretty easy, and there's even an official blog post which outlines the configuration for NixOS. This service makes sure that the machine and re-authenticates the system if necessary. And after starting the service on the new NAS... Voila! It's now integrated Let's verify that the two Yes! they can. Now even though Tailscale is amazing, I still decided to work out a plan B, which would theoretically let me access the or if I need to change some BIOS It consists of the PiKVM, which and a Wireguard server running Yes, FritzBox, which is a very basically lets you set up a The set up is super easy, and even I've also set up dynamic DNS using DuckDNS, and now I can still tunnel and get a full KVM access to the NAS machine, But let's go back to our backups. Now that the two machines are where do we point our backup software? Well, thanks to Tailscale's MagicDNS, i can simply use the device's So for our backup job, i can simply use `aria`, and that will work just fine. No The backup job itself is which creates a backup archive and only "promotes" it to an actual All of this is set up by NixOS automatically. As you can see, even verifying the takes a very long time, since it's 14 terabytes of But what about the photo backups? Well, after some of guys suggested I've set it up as a podman container, and it works pretty well! As for sending the pictures from I'm still using Syncthing, even though that takes care of photo transfer. The reason is simple - photo gallery apps change. A couple of years ago, PhotoPrism Two years from now , it might be something else. Syncthing however, has pretty much and so far, it's been rock solid for my use case. I've set it up to only run when and that way, there's no So now that I've told you about the let's compare the cost of my NAS solution over the span of 5 years. As I already mentioned, storing 14 terabytes of data in the Deep Glacier Archive The raw footage for a single video can take But sometimes I make less videos, and sometimes So let's take the minimum value of 200 gigabytes. On average, I make 12 videos a there will be 200 gigabytes Let's also charitably assume that Amazon is not going to increase the prices I mean, it's not like they're known And so, after crunching the numbers, in May of 2029, provided that I would have paid 2196 dollars, or 2057 euros! For storing 26 tb of video footage. I mean, that makes even my 1500 euro build And since the NAS already has I would theoretically not even Buuut that's just the upfront cost for hardware. What about energy prices? Well, our NAS currently consumes 17W but if we include the very lengthy backups, during which the hard drives let's say that it pulls 30W on average, which would translate into Now assuming that my parents and assuming that that price goes up after 5 years, this NAS would have Which, if we add this to the is still cheaper than paying for the cloud. But apart from just the costs, this solution has plenty of other advantages. If I end up actually needing the data from with my parents NAS though, I can simply take a train over to my parents, and transfer the data physically. And I Your mileage may vary though, and depending this might be a minus and not a plus. This NAS can also double and can theoretically run any self-hosted Like Paperless, Jellyfin, The S3-based solution on the other hand, would only take care of my backups. Now, in order to truly follow the 3-2-1 rule, I'd actually have to backup AND to S3. Having three copies of data and since the S3 Glacier Deep Archive I would also have my data on And even though this is the it's also a helluva lot of data. So for now, I think I'll just However, you probably don't so having something like a Raspberry Pi and an as well as backing up your data to Backblaze B2 is definitely a good idea. Backblaze B2 is free for up and they don't even ask you for your credit card. I have been using it for my less And it's gotten me out of like losing my password manager database. But yeah, I think that's all I This video will actually be the first and we'll see how this backup I could say that I'll make an update but that would be a lie, because Anyway, thank you guys for watching, and as usual, I'd like to thank my patrons