Awakened Imagination Read by Adam Hanin Originally published in 1954 This recording is a production of Master Key and discussion. The views and opinions expressed not always reflect those of Master Key Society "Imagination, the real and eternal world faint shadow. What is the life of Man but - WILLIAM BLAKE, Jerusalem "Imagination is more important than knowledge." - ALBERT EINSTEIN, On Science CHAPTER ONE - WHO IS YOUR IMAGINATION? &quot;I rest not from my great task To open the Of Man inwards into the Worlds of Thought: of God, the Human Imagination.&quot; 18-20 Certain words in the course of long use gather cease to mean anything at all. Such a word all manner of ideas, some of them directly suspicion: indeed, so wide is its use and has no status nor fixed significance. For meaning that his present outlook is too restricted next breath, we tell him that his ideas are his ideas are unsound. We speak of a jealous own imagination", meaning that his thoughts highest tribute by describing him as a "man has no definite meaning. Even the dictionary (1) the picturing power or act of the mind, a phantasm; (3) an irrational notion or belief; mental construction. I identify the central figure of the Gospels the forgiveness of sins, the achievement of &quot;All things were made by Him; and without [John 1:3] There is only one thing in the world, Imagination, &quot;He is despised and rejected of men; a man 53:3] Imagination is the very gateway of reality. of God or a phantom of the earth and of the organ subject to Sense". "The Eternal himself, The Divine Body. [yod, shin, ayin; Members". I know of no greater and truer definition imagination we have the power to be anything and transform the violence of the world. Our become imaginative, as we awaken to "the in us is our imagination. We then realize truly be said to live at all. I want this book to be the simplest, clearest, that I may encourage you to function imaginatively, into the Worlds of Thought", where you behold already to harvest" &quot;I am come that they might have life, and [John 10:10] The abundant life that Christ promised us have the sense of Christ as our imagination &quot;The mystery hid from the ages... Christ in is your imagination. This is the mystery which myself and to urge upon others. Imagination is our redeemer, "the Lord from man. Every man is Mary and birth to Christ must and birth of Christ appears irrational to history, and cosmology, and the modern explorers It the unconscious or subconscious mind. Imagination's from a God of tradition to a God of experience. it is only because man is unwilling to let tradition. When imagination is discovered as the first understanding will have felt the rod of Moses water of psychological meaning to quench the cup and live a life according to this truth meaning into the wine of forgiveness. Then, on the wounds of all. The Son of God is not to be found in history, as the imagination of him in whom His presence &quot;O, would thy heart but be a manger for His on earth.&quot; Man is the garden in which this only-begotten lifting his imagination up to heaven and clothing better than the best we know. Man in the moment of his awakening to the "Father, reveal Thy Son in me" and "It pleased God to reveal His Son in me". The supreme test of Sonship is the forgiveness Christ Jesus, the Son of God, is your ability mark in life, falling short of one's ideal, means identification of man with his ideal imagination, the supreme work, for it tests of the nature of his opposite. &quot;Let the weak man say, I am strong.&quot; [Joel Reasonably, this is impossible. Only awakened the nature of its opposite. This conception of Christ Jesus as human imagination a power sufficient, not merely to enable me of itself capable of executing the idea? Suppose situation. Could I, by imagining myself into physical realization? Suppose I could not social and financial status oppose the idea be sufficient of itself to incarnate these By reason, I mean deductions from the observations world of facts? In the practical way of everyday Suppose I am capable of acting with continuous of sustaining the feeling of my wish fulfilled, if it does harden into fact, shall I on reflection incubation have been reasonable? Is my imagination feeling of the wish fulfilled, but is it also After assuming that I am already what I want reasonable ideas and actions in order to bring Experience has convinced me that an assumption, into fact, that continuous imagination is plans and actions will never make up for my Is it not true that the teachings of the Gospels that the Son of God is constantly looking faith in their own imagination? Is not the Believe that ye receive and ye shall receive, the same as "Imagine that you are and you in which Moses "Endured, as seeing Him who is invisible?" Was it not by the power of his own imagination Truth depends upon the intensity of the imagination, bearing witness of the use or misuse of the He has a self-determined history. Imagination We cannot get hold of truth with the logical a bud, imagination sees a rose full-blown. awaken to the imaginative life, we discover that a true judgment need not conform to the The imaginative man does not deny the reality he knows that it is the inner world of continuous sensuous outer world of Becoming is brought happenings as projections of the inner world of the mental activity which goes on in man's man being aware of it. But he realizes that activity and see the relationship between the sensuous outer world of effects. It is a marvelous thing to find that you can desire and escape from the jails which ignorance The Real Man is a Magnificent Imagination. It is this self that must be awakened. &quot;Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from [Ephesians 5:14] The moment man discovers that his imagination level can only be called miraculous. But until "You did not choose me, I have chosen you", he will see everything in pure objectivity Not realizing that all that he encounters that he has chosen the conditions of his life, mental activity. Man must firmly come to believe Although others have bodies, a life of their in you, as yours ends in God. CHAPTER TWO - SEALED INSTRUCTIONS &quot;The first power that meets us at the threshold - Dr. Franz Hartmann I was first made conscious of the power, nature, the teachings of my friend Abdullah; and through was a symbol of the coming of imagination was the individual's ability to forgive or another with his aim in life. Without the of sin is an impossibility, and only the Son ability to identify himself with his aim, of the birth of Christ in him. To passively evidence of facts is to confess that Christ Although this teaching shocked and repelled earnest Christian, and did not then know that mere accident of birth but must be consciously on, through visions, mystical revelations, and found its interpretation in a deeper mood. when those things are shaken which one has &quot;Seest thou these great buildings? There shall not be thrown down.&quot; [Mark 13:2] Not one stone of literal understanding will meaning. All that has been built up by natural fire. Yet, what better way is there to understand character of the Gospels with human imagination your imagination lovingly on behalf of another, thereby feeding and clothing Christ Jesus another, you are literally beating and crucifying Every imagination of man is either the cup the parched lips of Christ. &quot;Let none of you imagine evil in your hearts warned the prophet Zechariah. When man heeds sleep of Adam into the full consciousness the world is made by Him, and the world knows I asked myself many times, "If my imagination to Christ Jesus, are all things possible to Through experience, I have come to know that, then Christ is awake in me. Christ is sufficient for all things. &quot;I lay down My life that I might take it again. of Myself.&quot; [John 10:18] What a comfort it is to know that all that of beliefs; that I am the center of my own so must my outer world! The world presents different appearances according we see when we are identified with a state with it. By state is meant all that man believes to the mind can realize itself unless the the state with which we are identified, how imagination and states is to be found the is a revelation of the states with which imagination that determines the objective world in which man, the thief are what they are by virtue On the distinction between these states depends men. Individually so different is this same of the good man that should be matched but if the inner state is not changed. Success of the successful but by right inner actions If we detach ourselves from a state, and we to which that union gave being vanish. It was in the fall of 1933 in New York City He asked me one simple question, "What do to spend the winter in Barbados, but that "If you will imagine yourself to be in Barbados", from that state of consciousness instead of there. You must not concern yourself with state of consciousness of already being in will devise the means best suited to realize Man lives by committing himself to invisible he knows to be other than himself, and in fusion. No one can lose what he has, save experienced have their natural life. "You must imagine yourself right into the told me, "and fall asleep viewing the world The world which we describe from observation Our imagination connects us with the state not as an onlooker thinking of the end, but actually be there in imagination. If we do objectively. "This is not mere fancy", said he, "but His appeal to enter into the wish fulfilled state is already there as "mere possibility" real when you think from it. Thinking from I began right there and then, fixing my thoughts to which my present state gave being, towards viewing the world from that standpoint. He emphasized the importance of the state asleep. All prophets claim that the voice &quot;In a dream, in a vision of the night, when upon the bed; then he openeth the ears of 33:15,16] That night and for several nights thereafter, in my father's house in Barbados. Within saying that he had a strong desire to have me to use the enclosed steamship ticket for my brother's letter and spent a wonderful This experience has convinced me that man the conception habitual and think from the excuse myself by placing the blame on the and my evil have no dependency except from which I view the world how things present Man, who is free in his choice, acts from wisely, chooses. All conceivable states are amount of rationalizing will of itself yield only thing worth having. The imaginative image is the only thing to The ultimate purpose of imagination is to is continual forgiveness of sin, continual by identifying ourselves with our aim can All else is labor in vain. On this path, to to that place or state we will gravitate physically &quot;In My Father's house are many mansions; I go to prepare a place for you. And if I again, and receive you unto Myself; that where By sleeping in my father's house in my imagination my imagination with that state and was compelled So vivid was this state to me, I could have entered the room where in imagination I was he is, for a man must be where his imagination know from experience, for I have been seen physically I was hundreds of miles away. I, by the intensity of my imagination and in Barbados instead of merely thinking of influence my brother into desiring my presence Thinking from the end, from the feeling of that happened as outer cause, such as my brother's it was also the cause of everything that appeared In Ideas of Good and Evil (page 35), W. B. similar to this experience of mine, writes: &quot;If all who have described events like this for all men, certainly all imaginative men, glamour, illusions; and all men, especially life, must be continually passing under their Determined imagination, thinking from the I would like to give you an immense belief given by those who have no knowledge of the of imagination. Imagining oneself into the by which a new state is entered. This gives us: &quot;That which is, is manifested; that which not dead; for Soul, the eternal activity of The future must become the present in the consciously create circumstances. We must thinking from. Imagination must center itself state. Thinking from the end is an intense Thinking from the state desired is creative from the end is bondage. It is the root of surrender to the evidence of the senses underestimates accepts thinking from the end as a creative he is redeemed from the absurdity of ever thinking of it. Construct all ends according to the pattern The whole of life is just the appeasement from which a man can view the world are purely upon which each state is organized is some to ever higher and higher levels of experience. It is a blessed thing. It is a right and natural as its right and natural satisfaction. &quot;But one thing I do, forgetting the things the things which are before, I press on toward It is necessary to have an aim in life. Without Me?" is the implied question asked most In defining your aim, you must want it. &quot;As the hart panteth after the water brooks, 42:1] It is lack of this passionate direction to The spanning of the bridge between desire from - is all-important. We must move mentally the end. This, reason could never do. By its the senses; but imagination, having no such in the activity of imagination. Through imagination, and the bondage of reason. There is no stopping the man who can think the means and grows his way out of limitation the Lord. It does not matter what he has been does he want?" He knows that the world is goes on within himself, so he strives to determine In his imagination he dwells in the end, confident He puts his whole trust in the feeling of himself to that state, for the art of fortune the pool of Bethesda, he is ready for the that every desire is ripe grain to him who to mere reasonable probability and confident will harden into fact. But how to persuade men everywhere that thinking it in every activity of man, how to reveal of the disappointed: that is the problem. Life is a controllable thing. You can experience are His Son, and that you are what you are which you think and view the world, &quot;Son, Thou art ever with Me, and all that CHAPTER THREE - HIGHWAYS OF THE INNER WORLD &quot;And the children struggled within her... in thy womb, and two manner of people shall people shall be stronger than the other people; 25:22,23] Duality is an inherent condition of life. dual creature with contrary principles embedded attitudes to life which are antagonistic. war in heaven, the never-ending struggle of assert His supremacy over the elder or outer &quot;The first shall be last and the last shall &quot;He it is, Who coming after me is preferred &quot;The second Man is the Lord from heaven.&quot; Man begins to awake to the imaginative life being in himself. &quot;In your limbs lie nations twain, rival races the younger o'er the elder reign.&quot; There are two distinct centers of thought man. The Bible speaks of these two outlooks &quot;The natural man receiveth not the things unto him: neither can he know them, because 2:14] Man's inner body is as real in the world body is real in the world of external realities, part of reality. This existing inner body The inner world of thought and feeling to structure and exists in its own higher space. There are two kinds of movement, one that that is according to the outer body. The movement but the outer movement is under compulsion. is joined to it, bringing into the outer a the inner body. Inner movement is the force movement is subject to the compulsion applied Whenever the actions of the inner body match desire, that desire will be realized. Construct mentally a drama which implies that involves movement of self. Immobilize your you were going to take a nap, and start the representation of the action is the beginning consciously imagine yourself into the scene. a short nap is sufficient, but carrying the At first your thoughts may be like rambling Should your attention stray seventy times its predetermined course until from sheer The inner journey must never be without direction. do what you did mentally before you started. and accepted. In The Road to Xanadu (page 103), Professor &quot;But I have long had the feeling, which this and Imagination are not two powers at all, between them lies, not in the materials with of the operant power itself. Working at high and transmutes; keyed low, the same energy which at its highest pitch, it merges indissolubly Fancy assembles, imagination fuses. Here is a practical application of this theory. of San Francisco found herself confronted of buses forced her to make three transfers her trip from fifteen minutes to two hours about this problem and came to the decision she could not drive a car but felt that she to the test that "whenever the actions of the outer, physical self must take to appease said to herself, "I will sit here and imagine Sitting in her living room, she began to imagine of the motor. She imagined that she smelled car, touched the sleeve of the driver and car stop, and turning to her companion, said, replied, "The pleasure is all mine." Then snap shut as she closed it. She told me that she centered her imagination the city from her imaginary ride. She did ride and all that it implied. This controlled her imagination to its full potency. She kept was cohesion in purposive inner movement. must be sustained - the emotion of fulfilled joined that they passed at once from a mental The inner self moves along the predetermined The inner self must be fired, and it is best gain. We must take pleasure in our actions. On two successive days, the blind girl took and sensory vividness of reality. A few hours told her of a story in the evening paper. in the blind. The blind girl phoned him and his way home, he stopped in at a bar and while blind girl to his friend the proprietor. A to drive the blind girl home every day. The will take her home, I will take her to work." This was over a year ago, and since that day, her office by these two gentlemen. Now, instead on three buses, she is at her office in less to her office, she turned to her good Samaritan and he replied, "The pleasure is all mine." Thus, the objects of her imagination were manifestation was only the witness. the imaginative ride. Her triumph could be of her inner ride. She mentally viewed the a clearness of vision that every aspect of not only produce corresponding outer movements: physical appearances. He who practices these powers of concentration and quiescence and on the inner and dimensionally larger world. for, viewing the city from the feeling of desired and granted that to herself which To realize your desire, an action must start of the senses, involving movement of self it is the action which the outer self takes The movement of every visible object is caused within it, which operate from within outward. the highways of the inner world. Without inner anything. Inner action is introverted sensation. implies that you have realized your objective, inward, centering your imagination all the in that action, you will become a self-determined Inner action orders all things according to a desirable ideal once formulated is possible, you realize your potentialities. It is thus So the clue to purposive living is to center of fulfilled desire with such awareness, such movement upon the inner world. Ideas only act if they are felt, if they awaken by self-motivation, outer movement by compulsion. &quot;Wherever the sole of your foot shall tread, and remember, &quot;The Lord thy God in the midst of thee is CHAPTER FOUR - THE PRUNING SHEARS OF REVISION &quot;The second Man is the Lord from Heaven.&quot; &quot;Never will he say caterpillars. He'll say, on our cabbages, Pure.' He won't say, 'It's And there's no bud little enough nor sad-coloured of the blow.&quot; The very first act of correction or cure is It is one's attitude that must be changed. &quot;What we are, that only can we see.&quot; It is a most healthy and productive exercise lived it, revising the scenes to make them today's mail brought disappointing news. make it conform to the news you wish you had letter over and over again. This is the essence The one requisite is to arouse your attention wholly absorbed in the revised action. You of the senses by this imaginative exercise remember that the ultimate purpose of this of Jesus", which is continual forgiveness Revision is of greatest importance when the a sincere desire to be something different, spirit of forgiveness. Without imagination, forward to imagination or remains imprisoned is to forgive. Forgiveness is the life of art of forgiving. Forgiveness is, in fact, of the day, experiencing in imagination what Every time one really forgives - that is, have been lived - one is born again. "Father, forgive them" is not the plea that comes every day. The idea of forgiving done, it will lift man to higher and higher Easter, and Easter is the idea of rising transformed. Freedom and forgiveness are indissolubly linked. for we are freed according to our capacity &quot;Forgive, and you shall be forgiven.&quot; [Luke Forgive, not merely from a sense of duty or &quot;Thy ways are ways of pleasantness and all You must take pleasure in revision. You can a sincere desire to identify them with their a matter of deliberately withdrawing attention strength, and joyously, to the revised day. the vexations and troubles of the day, then Every revision is a victory over himself and &quot;A man's foes are those of his own household.&quot; and his household is his state of mind. He When a man practices the art of forgiveness, which sight then rests, he revises it with witnessed. The magnitude of the change which appear wholly improbable to the realist - the in the fortunes of the Prodigal [Luke 15:11-32] The battle man fights is fought out in his the day has lost the vision of that life, labour of the "Spirit of Jesus" to transform &quot;All things whatsoever ye would that men should is the law.&quot; [Matthew 7:12] Here is the way an artist friend forgave herself unfriendliness. Knowing that nothing but forgetfulness she cast herself upon her imagination and writes: "Thursday, I taught all day in the art school. into my afternoon classroom, I discovered of the desks after cleaning the floor. As grasp and struck me a sharp blow on the instep thoughts and found that I had criticized the he had lost his helper, I realized he probably an unwanted gift that had bounced and hit saw both my skin and nylons were intact, so "That night, after I had been working intensely to make myself a cup of coffee. To my utter at all and it was giving out great bumps of my slipper to look at it. The entire foot shape and red hot. I tried walking on it and over it whatsoever. It looked like one of I dropped the chair on it or something could " 'No use speculating what it is. Better So I became quiet, all ready to melt myself imagination refused to cooperate. It just when I am painting. I just started to argue Finally, I gave up and said, 'You know I but you are the boss. What do you want to the day's events.' So I said 'All right. by tomorrow morning, you have only yourself "After arranging the bed clothes so they the day. It was slow going as I had difficulty went through the whole day, saw nothing to the early evening, I found myself coming face made a point of not speaking. The first time I had known him since school days, but we comment on the weather. Mutual friends assured never liked me and finally decided it was He hadn't answered. I found that I thought in. I shall do something about this ridiculous I stopped right there and re-did the scene. smiled. I now thought 'Good old Ed.' I on to the next incident and finished up the "'Now what - do we do my foot or the up a wonderful present of courage and success following day and I had been looking forward sounded a little bit solemn as it said 'Let 'But first couldn't we just take my perfectly one before we start?' I pleaded. 'By all "That done, I had a lovely time at the concert "By now I was very, very sleepy and fell as I was putting on my slipper, I suddenly a discolored and swollen foot from the same it. It was perfectly normal in every respect. I remembered I had hit it with the chair. and dressed. While waiting for my coffee, that all my brushes were lying helter-skelter leave your brushes like that? 'Don't you So it hadn't been a dream after all, but She had won by the art of revision what she &quot;In Heaven, the only Art of Living Is Forgetting - Blake We should take our life, not as it appears from the vision of the world made perfect and waiting for us to revise the day. &quot;We are led to believe a lie when we see with, - Blake A revision of the day, and what she held to her and, like a dream, had quietly faded away. You can revise the day to please yourself speech and actions not only modify the trend into harmonies. The one who discovers the let himself be guided by love. Your effectiveness way by which right can find its appropriate conflicts result in an interchange of characteristics. &quot;To him that knoweth to do good, and doeth To know the truth, you must live the truth, must match the actions of your fulfilled desire. outer world is only actualized inner movement. those who take to warfare are perpetually Only concepts that idealize depict the truth. Your ideal of man is his truest self. It is most profoundly imaginative is, in reality, live imaginatively and to think into, and saying "Christ in you, the hope of glory." Don't blame; only resolve. It is not man practicing the art of revision make paradise. your own experience of it. Try revising the that we owe our prime fruit. CHAPTER FIVE - THE COIN OF HEAVEN "Does a firm persuasion that a thing is "All poets believe that it does. And in removed mountains: but many are not capable - William Blake, Marriage of Heaven and Hell &quot;Let every man be fully persuaded in his own Persuasion is an inner effort of intense attention. is to evoke, to activate. By listening, you those beyond the range of the outer ear. Speak your inner conversation match your fulfilled must hear within. Embrace the without within the fulfillment of his desire, and all the a bridge leading to the objective realization Your inner speech is perpetually written all these happenings to your inner speech and is meant those mental conversations which when you are awake because of the noise and but they are quite audible in deep meditation inaudible, you are their author and fashion &quot;There is a God in heaven&quot; and heaven is within to the king Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in of thy head upon thy bed, are these.&quot; [Daniel Inner speech from premises of fulfilled desire for yourself. Observe your inner speech for reveals the state of consciousness from which match your fulfilled desire, for your inner &quot;If any man offend not in word, the same is whole body. Behold, we put bits in the horses' about their whole body. Behold also the ships, by fierce winds, yet are they turned about governor listeth. Even so the tongue is a Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth!&quot; The whole manifested world goes to show us Speech. An uncritical observation of our inner talking view the world. Inner talking mirrors our imagination, and it is fused. If the state with which we are life, then we are relieved of the burden of but to identify ourselves with our aim, and mirrors itself in our inner speech, then to we must first change our inner talking. It is our inner conversations which make tomorrow's Put off the former conversation, the old man, spirit of your mind... put on the new man, 4:22-24] &quot;Our minds, like our stomachs, are whetted - Quintilian Stop all of the old mechanical negative inner inner speech from premises of fulfilled desire. of the seeds of future action. To determine and control your inner talking. Construct your aim, such as "I have a large, steady, and mutual benefit", or "I am happily to the good of the world", and repeat such affected by it. Our inner speech represents &quot;In the beginning was the Word.&quot; [John 1:1] &quot;That which ye sow ye reap. See yonder fields! The Silence and the Darkness knew! So is a - The Light of Asia Ends run true to origins. &quot;Those that go searching for love only make never find love, only the loving find love, - D. H. Lawrence Man attracts what he is. The art of life is and let things come to you, not to go after Observe your inner talking and remember your match what you would say audibly had you achieved and actions attract the conditions of his of your inner talking you find where you are inner world is what you are in the outer world. inner speech match. In this way alone can Inner talking matures in the dark. From the speech is the speech that would be yours were it is the speech of fulfilled desire. "I am that." &quot;There are two gifts which God has bestowed These two are mind and speech; and the gift immortality. If a man uses these two gifts immortals... and when he quits the body, mind he will be brought into the troop of the gods - Walter Scott's translation of &quot;Hermetica&quot;, 1924. The circumstances and conditions of life are Inner speech calls events into existence. is its life and being. All that a man believes his inner speech. It is his Word, his life. Try to notice what you are saying in yourself you are consenting. They will be perfectly your life, you must change your inner talking, of Word and Mind". When imagination matches will then be a straight path in yourself from reflect the within for you, and you will know &quot;Receive with meekness the inborn Word which Every stage of man's progress is made by matching his inner speech to his fulfilled them, the results are uncertain, while they of the wish fulfilled is the means of fulfilling matching it to our fulfilled desires, we can act by clear imagination and intention. We conversations from that premise. Through controlled inner talking from premises performed. The future becomes the present be held by the inner speech of fulfilled desire may seem to be broken by events, but they inner speech of fulfilled desire. All happiness to construct and inwardly affirm that we are our ideals by constantly remembering our aim with our aims by frequently occupying the the habitual occupancy, that is the secret natural it is. Fancy assembles. Continuous It is possible to resolve every situation is to get the right sentence, the one which the imagination with it. All this is intimately small voice". Inner talking reveals the activities of imagination, of life. As a rule, man is totally unaware not as the cause but the victim of circumstance. consciously direct his inner speech, matching desires. &quot;He calls things not seen as though they were.&quot; Right inner speech is essential. It is the limitation into freedom. Ignorance of this where blood and sweat alone are expected, wondering. Right inner talking is the first &quot;Speech is an image of mind, and mind is an - Hermetica, Vol. 1, Page 231 On the morning of April 12, 1953, my wife of authority speaking within her and saying, and money. Everything in life must be an investment.&quot; To spend is to waste, to squander, to layout a purpose from which a profit is expected. of the moment. It is about the transformation in the future but in ourselves at this very faced with an infinite choice: "what we want to be is already existent, but to realize to it. &quot;If two of you shall agree on earth as touching done for them of My Father which is in heaven.&quot; It is only what is done now that counts. The It advances into the future to confront us, heaven. Money is its earthly symbol. Every reveals whether we are spending or investing. "saying now" than what you "have said" you feel now. Any time we feel misunderstood, misused, neglected, and wasting our time. Whenever we assume the investing. We cannot abandon the moment to command of life. Before us go the results is the last moment - but oncoming. &quot;My word shall not return unto Me void, but it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent The circumstances of life are the muffled them - the word made visible. "The Word", said Hermes, "is Son, and separate one from the other; for life is the He willed us forth from Himself by the Word Let us be imitators of God as dear children, and use our inner speech wisely to mould an &quot;The Lord spake by me, and His Word was in The mouth of God is the mind of man. Feed &quot;Whatsoever things are of good report... think The present moment is always precisely right word. &quot;The word is very near to you, in your mouth, I have set before you this day life and good, life.&quot; [Deuteronomy 30:14-15] You choose life and good and blessings by to like alone. Make your inner speech bless the future is the result of his ignorance his imagination, and his imagination is a into power. If the reader ask, "What if the inner speech object for its love?", the answer is: it reason that inner speech is always objectifying the disease that afflicts humanity is man's to fulfilled desire. Inner speech mirrors Alter your inner speech, and your perceptual are in conflict, inner speech invariably wins. is easy to see that if it matches desire, this not so, I would say with Blake, &quot;Sooner murder an infant in its cradle than But I know from experience, &quot;The tongue... setteth on fire the course CHAPTER SIX - IT IS WITHIN &quot;Rivers, Mountains, Cities, Villages, All are Human, &amp; when you enter into their In Heavens &amp; Earths, as in your own Bosom And Earth &amp; all you behold; tho' it appears In your Imagination, of which this World of - Blake: &quot;Jerusalem, page 71, lines 15-9 The inner world was as real to Blake as the his dreams and visions as the realities of to the bedrock of his own consciousness. &quot;The Kingdom of Heaven is within you.&quot; [Luke The Real Man, the Imaginative Man, has invested The apparent reality of the outer world which absolute reality of the inner world of his &quot;No man can come to me, except the Father are One.&quot; [John 6:44; John 10:30] The world which is described from observation of the observer. When man discovers that his that no man can come unto him except he draws himself, his own imaginative self, his first of his ideal. But his ideal is not so easily incarnated. external discipline, he must impose upon himself upon which the realization of his ideal depends. Imagination is not entirely untrammeled and constrain it. In fact, the contrary is true. has choice, but it chooses according to habit. to follow certain definite patterns. It is must change; if he does not, his dreams will Imagination, which is Christ in man, is not which is perfect and good. It exercises its the outer physical self with free will to &quot;Choose this day whom ye will serve.&quot; [Joshua But after the choice is made and accepted consciousness, then imagination manifests the outer sensuous world of becoming in the of the individual. To realize his ideal, man must first change Habitual thought is indicative of character. the inner speech and action match the outer Our ideals are waiting to be incarnated, but and action to the speech and action of fulfilled speech and action are the channels of God's these paths are offered. The outer behaviour compulsion applied to it by the behaviour self hang on till replaced by new ones. It man that he gives to the outer self something in the behavior of the inner self will result The mystic calls a change of consciousness of imagination and the state with which it Fusion is union rather than oneness. Thus vanish. "I die daily", said Paul to the to his friend Crabbe Robinson: &quot;There is nothing like death. Death is the people die so late and take such an unmerciful never see them rise from the dead.&quot; To the outer man of sense, who knows nothing But Blake made the above quite clear when &quot;William Blake - one who is very much delighted 1757 in London and has died several times When man has the sense of Christ as his imagination, from the dead to save man - why he must and match it to a higher concept of himself and thereby save himself. Here is a lovely story of a mystical death week", writes the one "who rose from the the mountains for the Christmas holidays as she would let me know this week. We had a you and your teaching in connection with a Time' which she had been reading. "Her letter arrived Monday. As I picked However, when I read it, she said I could keys. Instead of being cheerful, I grew still must have been something between the lines the letter and read the first page through she had written a postscript on the back of blunt and heavy-handed description of an unlovely for years to overcome, and for the past two Yet here it was again, described with clinical "I was stunned and desolated. I thought tell me? In the first place, she invited me in some lovely home during the holidays. In I draw it. And thirdly I have been hearing is that something in me corresponds to this is good news.' I reread the letter and as I did so, I asked, then I saw. It started out, 'After our conversation and the rest of the page was as studded with a seed cake. A great feeling of elation swept I had labored so long to correct was done. to my resurrection. I whirled around the studio, done. Thank you, it is done!' I gathered and shot it straight to you and if you saw after six your time, that was it. "Now, instead of writing a polite letter write giving sincere thanks for her frankness Thank you so much for your teaching, which And now, if any man shall say unto her "Lo, here is Christ, or there" she will believe it not, for she knows that she herself must assume full responsibility nothing but death and resurrection will bring beloved Imagination, forever expanding in There is only one reality, and that is Christ final achievement of the whole of Humanity, &quot;That we... speaking the truth in love, may head, even Christ. [Ephesians 4:15] CHAPTER SEVEN - CREATION IS FINISHED &quot;I am the beginning and the end, there is [Ecclesiastes 3:15 ERV] Blake saw all possible human situations as every plot and drama as already worked out are not in them, but as overpowering realities as "Sculptures of Los's Halls". &quot;Distinguish therefore states from Individuals Identities never change nor cease... The Imagination Said Blake, &quot;It is the Human Existence itself. Affection imagination.&quot; Just how important this is to remember is individual realizes this for the first time be encouraged to feel this is the highest This truth is common to all men, but the consciousness of it - is another matter. The day I realized this great truth - that of the mental activity which goes on within of my life only reflect the state of consciousness in my life. But the experience that brought existence, I have long hesitated to tell it, to which the experience impelled me. Nevertheless, within the circle of my own state of consciousness that determines what I experience. Therefore this is to become free from the world's &quot;Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall Blessed are they whose imagination has been they know that imagination is all, and all One day I quietly slipped from my apartment countryside. As I entered the dining room I knew that my physical body was immobilized as awake and as conscious as I have ever been. activity of my mind, everything before me than the urge to try it possessed me. I felt My attention concentrated into a crystal-clear And I looked through the window and the leaves eating, ate not. And they lifting the food, the tightness eased, and of a sudden all moved waitress walked and the family ate. Then I of Los's Halls". &quot;I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed Creation is finished. &quot;I am the beginning and the end, there is [Ecclesiastes 3:15, ERV] The world of creation is finished and its set forth, and have since been trying to remember infinite views of it. Our task is to get the our attention make it pass in procession before and experience it in imagination until it create circumstances. This inner procession consciously directed. We, by a series of mental portions of that which already is, and by of creation which we desire to experience, life. This experience of mine not only shows the of the individual observer, but it also reveals eternal moments. An infinite abyss separates of our attention, give life to the "Sculptures Think of the world as containing an infinite it could be viewed. Think of these states and like the rooms of any house, they are yourself, the Real Self, the Imaginative You, House. Each room contains some of Los's and situations already worked out but not Imagination enters and fuses with them. Each To enter a state, man must consent to the states represent an infinite number of possible To move into another state or mansion necessitates desire is already present and only waits to matched, for that is the necessary condition Matching the beliefs of a state is the seeking the asking that receives. Go in and possess The moment man matches the beliefs of any in the activation and projection of its plots, the individual's home from which he views is observant, he will see outer reality shaping It is for this purpose of training us in image-making of the senses and clothed in bodies of flesh. returning of His Son, that our Father waits &quot;The creature was made subject to vanity not it.&quot; [Romans 8:20] But the victory of the Son, the return of &quot;the creature shall be delivered from the of the Sons of God.&quot; [Romans 8:21] We were subjected to this biological experience has not been subjected to the vanities and his share of Sonship and gone prodigal, who experience; and confusion will continue until view of life has been reestablished and acknowledged &quot;I should preach... the unsearchable riches fellowship of the mystery, which from the Who created all things by Jesus Christ.&quot; [Ephesians Bear in mind that Christ in you is your imagination. As the appearance of our world is determined fused, so may we determine our fate as individuals seek to realize. On the distinction between between the circumstances and conditions of Man, who is free in his choice of state, often choice. &quot;And ye shall cry out in that day, because and the Lord will not hear you in that day. voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we Choose wisely the state that you will serve. fuses with them. &quot;All things when they are admitted are made is made manifest is light,&quot; [Ephesians 5:13] and &quot;Ye are the light of the world,&quot; [Matthew by which those ideas to which you have consented Hold fast to your ideal. Nothing can take think of your ideal, think from it. It is are ever realized. &quot;Man lives not by bread alone, but by every [Matthew 4:4] and "the mouth of God" is the mind of Become a drinker and an eater of the ideals aim or your mind will wander, and wandering live right mentally, everything else will can alter the course of observed events. But personal history remains the same. You illuminate you consent. Nothing is more important to you feed on the ideas from which you think. sign that you are wanting in fidelity to the to condemn your environment. You are in need anything you please if you will make the conception others from the field of attention discharges constantly return define the state with which occupy more frequently the feeling of your is the way to work toward fusion with the If you would assume the feeling of your wish of your fate, but unfortunately you shut out hour. Practice making real to yourself the assumed the feeling of the wish fulfilled, book, but carry it around like a fragrant let it remain in the atmosphere communicating and reactions. A mood, often repeated, gains So be careful of the feelings you entertain. you are fused. It is always possible to pass from thinking from the end. end, for thinking from means unification or of the end, there is always subject and object thought. You must imagine yourself into the for that state, and in so doing, live and from thinking of to thinking from by centering fulfilled. CHAPTER EIGHT - THE APPLE OF GOD'S EYE &quot;What think ye of the Christ? Whose Son is When this question is asked of you, let your and, though I &quot;See not yet all things put under him,&quot; [Hebrews yet I know that I am Mary from whom sooner &quot;Do all things through Christ&quot; The birth of Christ is the awakening of the of the mental activity within oneself, which of it or not. The birth of Christ does not bring any person was not there before. It is the unveiling in clouds" is the prophet's description on the head of him in whom He awakes. The as Christ is in us. &quot;This great mystery God was manifest in the begins with Advent, and it is appropriate &quot;Which temple ye are,&quot; [1Corinthians 3:17,] stands in the forefront of the Christian mysteries &quot;The Kingdom of Heaven is within you.&quot; [Luke Advent is unveiling the mystery of your being. a life lived according to the wise, imaginative in confidence that by the conscious use of will awake in you; if you believe it, trust This is Advent. &quot;Great is the mystery, God was manifest in From Advent on &quot;He that toucheth you toucheth the apple of I hope that you've enjoyed this presentation notifications of upcoming recordings. Key Society. The video and audio is Copyright