The Predator is the perfect hunter, but not every Predator is born equal. From the Central American jungle to the LA cityscape and beyond, lets go through their evolution. The Predator first appears in 1987's 'Predator', featuring his trademark dreadlocks, silver armor, thermal vision and cloaking abilities. He hunts down a series of army personnel in the jungle before going head to head with their Major. After revealing his large, nose-less face with distinct mandibles, he gets hit by a stump and chooses to self-destruct. 'Predator 2' introduces a new more colorful Predator, with bronzed armor and his face --when shown-- is steeper and heavily fanged. After getting mixed up in an L.A. drug-war, a Lieutenant tracks him down and takes him out. This prompts his fellow Predator clan members to uncloak and pick up their defeated friend, with the eldest-member honouring the Lieutenant with an antique pistol for a fair fight. The cross-over film, 'Alien Vs Predator', features 3 heavily armed Predators with unique masks who set out to hunt a pack of Xenomorphs in an ancient rite of passage. While two of the Predators are taken out pretty quickly, the third one manages to defeat a Xenomorph and marks his face in victory, leaving him exposed to a leaping facehugger. Apparently unharmed, the Predator teams up with a young woman to take down a Queen Xenomorph, only to be mortally wounded in battle. A caped elder uncloaks himself and rewards the human friend with an alien weapon. The Predator's body is then put on a ship, where it gives birth to the Predalien chestburster. Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem picks up with the Predalien, now fully grown, as he causes the ship to crash back on earth. When he and a posse of facehuggers escape, a grizzled and scarred Predator sets out to confront the abominable combo. But whoever wins doesn't really matter, because the government nukes the city, putting an end to this cross-over series. But the Predator franchise carries on with 'Predators', in which a group of criminals are dropped on to an alien planet to be hunted. Their opponents include: A pair of tracking hounds--whoops! I mean Predator Hounds A tusked tracking Predator--that gets taken out by an exploding opponent. A bronzed armoured Predator with mechanical spying Falcon-drone, who gets sliced by a sword wielding Yakuza member. And finally, a large leader Predator, with a jawed bio-mask covering his bulbous head. He obliterates a weakened classic looking Predator and eventually succumbs to wounds inflicted by a pair of hardened criminals. In the latest sequel, a shiny armoured Predator is knocked out and examined by a lab. Which determines that he contains pieces of human DNA. He wakes up from the examination and sets out on a kill-spree, only to be assassinated by a giant heavily DNA-spliced Predator armed with his own pack of hounds. He snatches an autistic boy for DNA harvesting, but after losing his arm gets taken down by an explosion and a round of bullets. Confirming that there's no need to add extra DNA to an already perfect hunting creature. I bet you didn't know, the Predator isn't just good at hunting! He's also skilled at guitar, baking, and animation, all thanks to our sponsor Skillshare. Skillshare is an online learning community with thousands of classes in character design, animation and even how to stand out on YouTube --which has been a great help to this channel. A Premium Membership gives you unlimited access to high-quality classes to help you learn unique skills, explore new opportunities and do the work that you love, all for less than $10 a month. The first 500 people to try Skillshare through the link in the description will get their first 2 months for FREE. Just click the link below or go to skl.sh/TIA. Thank you for watching, subscribing and hitting thumbs up on this animation. Click the bell icon if you want to be notified as soon as the next animation goes live, and until then, check out Tell It Animated on social media. Oh, and also, steer clear of any Predator infested jungles.