Ben Wattenberg: Hello, I'm Ben Wattenberg. On this edition of "Think Tank," we will Thomas Sowell of the Hoover Institution. Tom Sowell's new book, "The Vision of and beliefs of America's liberal elite have crime, and welfare policy. What are these assumptions? Are they wrong? Where are they leading us? A conversation with Thomas Sowell, this week Joining us today is Thomas Sowell, a senior University. He is the author of many books that have cast "Inside American Education" and "Race His latest book, "The Vision of the Anointed: Policy," has been called a broadside against intelligentsia. Tom Sowell, why don't you start out and is about. What is it? Tom Sowell: Well, it's, one, a vision that due to the fact that other people are just are and that there are all these solutions have them and that these solutions are to of government through taxation or in other And what's really crucial about it is that passion on the other side, largely because Ben Wattenberg: Who is they? Tom Sowell: Oh, the media elite, the academic And the reason we talk about their vision, is that the basic set of underlying assumptions And because these assumptions are the prevailing them or to offer proof is much less. If something happens, they'll explain it For example, when they find that prenatal and that infant mortality rates are higher, society's neglect, and therefore if only prenatal care, then that problem solves itself. But in reality, other groups have even less any more infant mortality than whites. But they don't ever get to that second stage fits their conception of how the world works, Ben Wattenberg: Let me go back to that idea I mean, in your cosmology, are these liberals? Is that what they are? Tom Sowell: Yes. The New York Times, The Washington Post, Harvard, Oh, the Edward Kennedys, the -- all the usual Ben Wattenberg: Let me -- Tom Sowell: But it's more than those particular 200 years. Ben Wattenberg: Who does it start with? Tom Sowell: I don't know where it starts, If you read William Godwin, "Inquiry Concerning whole vision laid out just as it was in the But the 1960s were a crucial point because Ben Wattenberg: This sort of arrogant vision Tom Sowell: Oh, yes. Ben Wattenberg: And don't even have to subject Tom Sowell: Oh, absolutely not. Absolutely not. Ben Wattenberg: Now, let me read you something Renew America." He said, "Since 1965, there has been a calculated civilization and replace it with a culture American freedoms as we have known them." Do you buy that? Is that basically what you're -- Tom Sowell: Yes, although I would limit to of thing, because further down the people them because they're in the air and so on. Ben Wattenberg: You know, I was particularly is "a calculated effort." Now, do you believe that the people, "the around in a conspiratorial mode calculating, what we're going to do"? Or do you just think they're wrong and this arrogance about it? Because those are two very different ideas, Tom Sowell: Well, this is why I made the distinction I mean, I think that when people say things on Super Bowl Sunday" -- you see that -- "than not a speck of evidence for that, that is is no data that could even be misinterpreted no data, period. And so, yes. But I think that 99 percent of the people I think one of the reasons that it flies without there is a certain vision of how the world women. And therefore when you say something like end of it. There's no demand for evidence. Ben Wattenberg: You have in your book sort actual process works of forming one of these Tom Sowell: Yes. Ben Wattenberg: -- and selling it and rejecting Maybe you could just kind of march us through Tom Sowell: All right, there's a four-stage And in the first stage is what I call the And so we're hyped to believe that something be done. And what was fascinating to me in doing the the thing that's said to be in crisis has but that gets ignored. In the second stage -- Ben Wattenberg: For example, infant mortality, about before. Tom Sowell: Well, I'm thinking about teenage Those things were getting better. Teenage pregnancy was going down for more Venereal disease, syphilis in the 1960s had So all of these things are going down, yet with this crisis which has been manufactured. Again, this is where the calculated part comes Now, 99 percent of the people who hear this it is because they also share the same vision, they don't have to ask for evidence. Ben Wattenberg: All right, so what's stage Tom Sowell: Stage two is -- Ben Wattenberg: The first one is there's Tom Sowell: Yes. Ben Wattenberg: They establish a crisis, usually Tom Sowell: Yes. Then stage two is the solution. You have a solution for this crisis. In this case, you have sex education in the And then at that point, you say, "If we A." The critics say, "No, it will lead Stage three are the results. You put it in and directly you find detrimental teenage pregnancy take off into the stratosphere. And then stage four is the fascinating part prove that this was a bad policy because there There is complexity. It's simplistic to blame it on this." Well, they run through this routine on so Similarly, they said, you know, in 1960, Judge some kind of change in the criminal justice Now, in 1960, there were fewer murders than But again, that was completely ignored. And so now we have the revolution of the criminal People say, "No, if you put these new things They put them in. Almost instantly the declining crime rate And they say, "No, it's simplistic to The root cause is in the neglect of society, So it's heads I win, tails you lose. Ben Wattenberg: So to go to that earliest in venereal disease was caused by sex education? Tom Sowell: I don't have to say that. I don't even have to believe that. All I have to say is that they -- Ben Wattenberg: But do you? Tom Sowell: Oh, I think it's hard to explain I mean, you know, you don't get social changes cause. But the argument doesn't depend on that The point is, they created the crisis artificially. The evidence shows there was no crisis. But they would not even subject it to any If they want to show some other factor came hear that. Ben Wattenberg: Why would a group of liberal or whatever, why would they sit around and justice system if they thought in advance Tom Sowell: Oh, they didn't think that, Ben Wattenberg: They just thought wrongly Tom Sowell: Yes, but it would also give them I mean, a judge who just sits there and applies has a very minor role. But if he takes the expansive, judicial activist edge and he can look for the hosannas and Ben Wattenberg: How does this play out in which is affirmative action? How does that process -- what's the 1, Tom Sowell: I haven't worked it out like in finding out empirically whether things as a result of this program. And in fact, if you bring up evidence, they'll worse had we not done this." Similarly with the War on Poverty, you can down, poverty was going down before this program And within a few years, dependence on government the absolute number of people in poverty was Ben Wattenberg: Yeah. I read that in your book, but the absolute The relevant data would be the rate of poverty, -- I worked for President Johnson so we have Tom Sowell: Yes. Ben Wattenberg: You know, so I mean the line the Kennedy-Johnson administration, poverty And then the rate since then -- not the absolute -- the rate has sort of bounced around at Tom Sowell: Yes, but don't forget, this that if you transferred money from A to B, That was not the argument. The argument was that dependency would be in people," as Bill Clinton is now saying in the '60s. This will then -- you give them job training the whole bit, and this will then be an investment will be fewer people dependent upon the government And I go through a great number of people, New York Times. Again, all the usual suspects said all these Ben Wattenberg: Lyndon Johnson was not a usual Tom Sowell: Well, he was the primary suspect, But the fact is that was never tested. And when there were all these wonderful retrospectives this, the first order of business is to evade they set this out. And so no matter what happens, if it's a just find another criterion by which it will Ben Wattenberg: Well, let's just examine I have -- a friend of mine from those old Gingrich, shortly after we had this great huge, not necessarily wonderful. We shall see about that. And he kept hearing Newt Gingrich use the opportunity society," "we have to provide And I was talking to him, and he said, "You almost as much as Johnson did," which is It was called the Equal -- OEO is the Office it was. Now, so if liberals were talking about opportunity and I'm sure you're for opportunity -- Tom Sowell: All God's children got opportunity. Ben Wattenberg: All God's children got opportunity, we ought to create programs for opportunity? And in point of fact, I mean just to -- I lot of the things that came out of the Great and community colleges -- Tom Sowell: Oh, I would disagree entirely. That was a tragedy of the first magnitude. Ben Wattenberg: That was a tragedy? Tom Sowell: Yes. Ben Wattenberg: Why is that a tragedy? Tom Sowell: You have millions of people who using up billions of dollars of the taxpayers' themselves, but making it more difficult to to college with an idea of getting one. Ben Wattenberg: Now, you say they have no I mean, nobody is herding them into these and into the state universities. Tom Sowell: Oh. Oh, oh. Ben Wattenberg: I mean, they have a desire, Tom Sowell: No, they do not, obviously, because are not education. I mean, where else can you find so many young one place, a nice convenient place to be? But anyone who has taught in a lot of these as such is not terribly visible. And I've taught at places where we've of students, I mean UCLA and whatnot, and desire for education as such. They wanted to be in ivy-covered buildings when they graduated and have a good time while Ben Wattenberg: So you think the great American parties and both ideologies over recent decades, that that is a bankrupt idea? Tom Sowell: Oh, to allow is one thing, but no real sign that this is producing what we Ben Wattenberg: Well, when you say subsidize, college. I guess that's subsidizing. It's below cost -- Tom Sowell: Sure. Ben Wattenberg: -- tuition, but it does allow or wherever to start a college education. I mean -- Tom Sowell: People did that before the Great I did it before the Great Society. My whole generation did it before the Great Ben Wattenberg: You are saying that the great have been, almost without exception, bad? Tom Sowell: Well, there were some good ones, on the education front -- I mean, I would who have actually taught these students who for knowledge. If you think -- Ben Wattenberg: Suppose they are thirsting where you have to be credentialed with a certain So aren't they able to get a better job Tom Sowell: No. This is the fallacy of composition. You know, if one person stands up in the stadium, up, they don't all see the game better. As long as -- you know, if you have a degree ahead of him in the employment line. But we're not going to all get ahead of degrees. Ben Wattenberg: So this whole idea that I are saying is that, at this particular moment, education system because that's the way And we look at the data, and we see that the money than ever before relative to the people That's all a fallacy of everybody standing Tom Sowell: People who fly on the Concorde will make more money than people who -- kids That does not mean if we put a lot of people national income. Ben Wattenberg: We would increase the revenues Tom Sowell: Yes, which they desperately need, Ben Wattenberg: All right, and just to review of this situation sort of in the 1960s. Is that right? Tom Sowell: Yes, yes. Ben Wattenberg: I mean, and that's -- everyone "genesis" is mid-1960s. That's when the world started. I mean, and I'm not arguing with that necessarily. I -- Tom Sowell: Well, not necessarily. I would say, "the fall in the garden." Ben Wattenberg: Right, okay. All right now, since the 1960s, the United a -- while a lot of people, including a lot America has lost its nerve." And we, because -- Tom Sowell: I don't think it was mostly Ben Wattenberg: Well, I recall an issue of "Has America lost its nerve," with a whole it's terrible, we're" -- Tom Sowell: Well, this is Jimmy Carter's Ben Wattenberg: Well, maybe that's right. But, so since this terrible event 30 years won the Cold War. We have continued to grow in affluence, in We have absorbed about 20 million immigrants. We are the wealthiest, freest country in the You would agree with all of that, roughly? Tom Sowell: Well, I disagree entirely with Ben Wattenberg: No, no, it's your base period. Tom Sowell: No, no. No, no, no, no. None of these things -- Ben Wattenberg: You established the 1960s. I didn't. I trapped you. Tom Sowell: No, I'm saying that all those the 1960s. They faltered to a great extent under Jimmy They were resumed with a renewed vigor in of vision. But I'm talking about the social decline is all the more striking because here is a You can't blame the crime rate on the fact There is less poverty. There is more affluence. It's not due to foreigners because, as you All the normal things that you might blame It's not because of diseases because science It's all because of self-inflicted wounds. And I'm saying these are the people who shouldn't listen to them anymore. Ben Wattenberg: What are the nature of those Tom Sowell: Crime. Ben Wattenberg: No, no, no. I -- Tom Sowell: The disintegration of the family, And it's not going to matter -- we'll and lost his soul. Ben Wattenberg: Is there a common root to them from the anointed class? I mean, is there something -- Tom Sowell: Yes, yes, yes. Ben Wattenberg: Is it big government? Is that what -- Tom Sowell: No, no. It's the notion that ordinary people cannot been making, that they must be preempted, by the schools taking over the indoctrination back and against their protest, or what was The family. Taking money from the taxpayers and subsidizing behavior that has turned out to be enormously a thousand different ways. Ben Wattenberg: Tom, you write in your new at all bookstores, about the "Teflon prophets." Tom Sowell: Yes. Ben Wattenberg: What is -- Tom Sowell: Well, I think my favorite is Paul wrong on so many things. One, predicting mass starvation, I think it But predicting that we're running out of And Julian Simon made this famous bet with dollars that they could name a set of resources of that period of time, those resources would they were really running low, but would be And Ehrlich rushed in with his list of 10 at the end of 10 years. At the end of 10 years, not only was the bundle it was before, every single resource he named Ben Wattenberg: Let me raise a final point You make this vigorous attack in "The Vision listen to these people. That's sort of the basic -- they've been hurt us. Who should we listen to? Tom Sowell: We should listen first and foremost You seem to be saying, well, there must be We should stop looking for saviors. I mean, the society has not existed for thousands It's existed because it has institutions their own goals. Ben Wattenberg: No, I understand that, but lead us and tell us how the world works. Tom Sowell: No, no. No, no, they don't want to tell us how the They want to take over the decision for us. They don't tell parents how they ought to They put this material in the schools behind not to let the parents see it. That's the problem. Ben Wattenberg: Okay, but we live in an open Now, Mr. and Mrs. John Q. Public are listening "Boy, that guy really makes a lot of sense." But basically, it's been a negative proposition: this, don't do that. Tom Sowell: No, no. Ben Wattenberg: Who should -- Tom Sowell: Don't let those people run your Ben Wattenberg: Okay, but how do you practically Tom Sowell: I think it's a non-problem, It's a non-problem. Those people are adults just like you and They have been running their lives for thousands They don't need me to tell them what to Ben Wattenberg: But this is a -- Tom Sowell: It's not a question I want to I want them to continue to make their decisions Ben Wattenberg: Right, but this is a democracy. They have to vote. Tom Sowell: Even in a democracy, they can Ben Wattenberg: Who should they vote for? Tom Sowell: Oh, good heavens. They've been voting for whoever they wanted Ben Wattenberg: But some people are voting anointed people. I mean, give the audience some advice. Tell them what to do. Tom Sowell: Well, last year, in 1994, without who they voted for, and so it's a non-problem. Ben Wattenberg: You say without any help from movement I think have had an influence. Tom Sowell: But it wasn't because of this Ben Wattenberg: Not because of this book, Tom Sowell, thank you very much. And thank you. Please send your questions and comments to Washington, DC, 20036. We can also be reached via email at thinktv@aol.com For "Think Tank," I'm Ben Wattenberg. Announcer: This has been a production of BJW which are solely responsible for its content.