Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today, I want to So, what is DAX and what does it even stand for? It's basically a formula language with functions. you've written formulas and functions, it's very or maybe you just need a refresher, I've included down below. I'd recommend starting there and then want to follow me as I'm going through this today, All right, let's jump on the PC and let's get and on the main screen here, we're going to want to follow along, I've included sample data different Excel workbooks. We're going to import click on Import Data from Excel. This opens up different workbooks. I'm going to start at the top select this one and then click on open. This opens I can see that there's a table contained within Cookie Types. I'll pick the sheet called Cookie so I'll click on Load. I can now see that my have cookie types here. I now want to bring in the under the Home tab, I'll click on Excel. Here now, then I'll click on Open. This once again opens up This is all the data I was expecting. I'll click successfully imported and once again, I'll click sheet into Power BI. Within the Navigator, I'll Load. All right, we have now successfully loaded them under your Fields pane over on the right-hand to the data that we're working with. Over on the and right now, I currently have orders selected we could see all of the different orders that So, you can see which customer placed an order. ordered, how many of those cookies, the date, the information in this table. There's another table contains all of our customer information. Then at Types, and this just lists out all the different Company. There's also some information about, how much do we earn per cookie, and how much does these different sheets, we could go through and we we can merge the data or transform things If you want to learn how to do all of that, the of how you could work through that. Before we jump one thing that you should always ensure that you between all of your different tables. Also, over data model. So here I can see the data model. I need to define relationships between these tables. table. This contains all of the order information, automatically connected this to the customer I'll see that it found a relationship between and customers. So that's what I'd expect. And here So, each individual customer can have many there's not yet a relationship between orders and here, I see that there's a cookie type. When I I don't see a cookie type, but there is something one thing you might've noticed is product I'll click on cookie type, I'll drag it over to between these two different tables. And once for each individual cookie type, that cookie can table and the customer table, these are referred information to the orders table. And now that are correct and everything's arranged the way that report view. Now that we've established our data and we've also established relationships we're ready to start creating some measures. And A measure is a calculation that's going to run data model that we established, and we're going to in knowing how many total cookies did we sell, or into the data view for just a moment, and here order lists out a number sold. So, I want to know these different orders. So, I want to sum up all So, we're going to use a measure to do that. Back on the report view, once again, I want want to know the total number of units sold. So, over on orders. And here I'll right-click. At the a new measure. Let's click on that. This now drops where I can enter a formula and I can enter any what it looks like in Microsoft Excel when you measure equals. So right at the beginning, this is I want to know the total number of units sold. So, number of units sold. When you enter your measure it however long you want it to be. In fact, just so you can tell what that measure is later here we have an equal sign, or this is referred to this formula, I'll also call out what all of the we have an operator, and now we want to specify function. It's pretty similar to Excel. In we have a sum function as well. So here I'll really neat things is you have this thing called different functions that have sum in it. And I one here on top. I also see a description of what And that's exactly what I want to do. If you was in a column and we want to sum up that entire Power BI and Excel, in Excel, you could sum up a sum function, it's summing up the entire column Here I'll type in sum, and now I need to pass in a of the units sold from the orders table. So here, these different parameters that I can insert. Now, out with cookie types and then it has this bracket part here, this is the table that it's referring I want to add up all of the units sold and that's right-hand side, you'll see that the high level I see a field for units sold. So, if I look the orders table. So, here's the orders table, and So, I want to select this one because that's what and now I'm going to close the parentheses and over to the left-hand side and I could click and I've now created my measure. Congratulations, the right-hand side, I'll expand the space just Here now, you see the new measure that you sold. Now that I've created my measure within and this will bring it into the main data over 1 million cookies sold. Alternatively, here I could see it in a matrix view. So, I see I could also pull in additional fields if I the right-hand side under fields, I'll expand the Here I can see the customer name next to the customer ordered. So here I could see that Acme One thing you might notice is with cookies sold, fractional shares of cookies. Here it says I want to just hide the decimal places altogether, formatting of a measure, go over to the right-hand that we just created. When I click on this, this the center, I can change the formatting. And Here I'll click on up so it goes to zero and this in this matrix view, we no longer show any of the applying formatting to measures, here if I take matrix again. Here I'll throw the matrix in, and you'll notice that the formatting holds. So, once other time that you use that measure again, that formatting here, I want to make one more tweak. sold and right up here, I'll add a comma in there number. So now it's really clear that it's over a to go back, and I want to make some modifications I simply go over to the right-hand side, and I'll instead of saying units, I want to call out that I can come up and here I'll update the name. to total number of cookies sold. And here too, I what field I reference. I could come back, and I for some reason, I no longer want this measure. over to the right-hand side and I could select Alternatively, I could click on the ellipsis and and that'll remove this measure. We've created our I'll go back to our data and also within the we had. So here I see a whole bunch of orders, but Here, I'll click back into the report view. I'll hover over the orders table and here I'll This once again opens up the formula bar up For this one, I'm going to I've just typed in the measure name and now I Now previously we used sum and this time we're to use count and when I type in count, you'll very similar to Microsoft Excel once again. And you have these different options, like you could number of values in a column, but I simply want count rows and next I need to specify the table I want to count the number of orders we have and type in orders and here once again, IntelliSense this table and then I'll close my parentheses now have my new measure here. Once again, I could my new measure, count of orders. When I click on Once again, I could pull in other information, can see how many orders we received from each is the most active customer ordering. Along with count. Let's say I go back to my order table and these customer IDs and here customer three ordered based on the order table, I want to know how many let's once again create yet another measure. And but let's go over to the right-hand side. Once measure. Once again, I can name this measure and the name and the equals operator, let's type in distinct function and I want a distinct count. So distinct values in a column. So I want it to look count. I'll select this one right here. Next, I just like we saw before, first off, we need to I look down here, here's the orders table. And distinct values from, and that's the customer ID my parentheses and I'll press enter. Over on the Once again, I'll insert a matrix by clicking So here I can quickly see that we have five We have a lot of our eggs in just a few I want to show you how you could add comments start getting more complex or maybe it's hard to refresh your memory on that. I'll go over to the that I just added called distinct customers. And the shift key and the enter key, and this will slash and another forward slash, and this will now like, this will tell me how many customers we affect this formula at all. This is purely here especially if say other people access your Power they're not quite sure what it does. You can So far, we've been creating some pretty complicated and use some operators. We're going to Over on the left-hand side, once again, let's once again within the orders table, you'll see another column with cost. I want to use measures you some detail or background on what we're going column and then we'll sum up all the revenue from and we aggregate the cost, we'll take those two another. So, we'll take the total revenue minus So let's go back to the report view. Within the side, right-click on orders and let's select new once again opens up our formula bar. And for this, I'll type in total profit. Next, I'll enter the function. For the function, we're going to use sum parentheses and I want to take the sum of all of I'll go down to the bottom and here I see orders parentheses. Next, I'll enter a subtraction symbol sum and I want to get the sum of all of the cost. So, the orders table, I see the cost column. So, I'll take the sum of all of the revenue This all looks good, so I'll press I now see my new measure for total profit and when distinct customers and the total profit is 2.7 Here again, I could come up and I could select profit we earned for each individual customer, and customer. To calculate the profit, I want to show Let's go up to the top tabs and click on calculations group, you can also insert a quick quick measures and this is a very fast way to a whole bunch of different samples of what you can the total profit. So, within the calculation for subtraction. So, I want to take the revenue here it asks me for the base value. This is orders table, so I'll expand this and here I see Down below, it asks me what I want to subtract Over on the right-hand side at the very top, I see over. And now I can click on okay. This has now And here when I check that, you'll see that it's measure that we built on our own. And here when look at what the formula looks like and it's So, this is yet another way that you can start it's almost easier. You have this nice graphical formula. I mentioned I would also show you Let's click over back into the data view and here a measure, I can also just add another column. And over on the right-hand side, here I can insert asks me for a title for that column. So here I'll enter in my formula. And just like we did before, here I'll type in revenue and here it identifies revenue. So, I'll select that. Now I don't have And here I'm going to subtract the cost. I'll type select that and then I'll press enter. And here it it profit and it's calculated what the profit is. see all the values. This looks pretty good. You measure when I could just add a column? Well, they another column, this has now added an entire up more space. A measure won't take up additional an additional column, you could do things like to it. So, it really depends on what you're Let's now jump back to the report view, and I want within that measure, we're going to refer to Just like we've been doing all along, let's click new measure. This once again allows us to create time I want to calculate the profit margin as a it's our total profit over the total revenue. And So, let's walk through this to see how this works. type in profit margin percent. Next, I want to before. If we look over on the right-hand side, total profit. So instead of summing up the profit measure. I'll select total profit. So, it's pretty Next, I want to divide by the total revenue. revenue. So, I'll type in sum and I want to sum here's my orders table and revenue. So, I'm close the parentheses and hit enter. Over on And let me once again insert another matrix. I want to see by cookie type, what is the profit and down below, I can see the profit margin the profit margin percentage. So, it looks like So, we need to sell more snickerdoodle cookies. As you can see in this table, it's not currently earlier, we can update the formatting. Over on margin percentage. And when that's selected, I'll that to a percentage. And right now, we'll see working through this, we've been working with Well, let's click over into the data view. With it's been looking at the entire column here. a row-by-row basis? This is where we can use click over on cookie types over on the right hand Here in this view, let's say that I wanted to doing all along is, well, we would sum the units subtract the cost. And then we would multiply the Instead, what you want to get the correct result, cost per cookie, and then multiply that by the you want to add it to the next row. So, we want to we can use something called iterator functions to let's see how we can create this. To create this, we've been doing all along, we'll right click and for the new measure, I'll call this total profit. instead of just typing in sum, let's add an X on And you have pretty much all the same functions min, rank, and all you need to do is throw an X row-by-row. When I look at the tool tip the table that I want to go through. And I Here I'll insert a parentheses and then I'll types down below. I'll select that. Next, I'll expression. I want to take the units sold. Here I'll select that. Next, I want to multiply it and So here I'll take the revenue per cookie. and I'll subtract the cost per cookie. So here and then I'll close the parentheses So, there's my formula. Now I'll hit enter. Here I I'll close this and just for simplicity, I'll type now I can throw in a matrix and let me add in the the total profit is 2.7 million. So that's yet you have your aggregate functions, you have your how your data is structured and which one you you have in your tool belt. Oftentimes they'll with my cookie types, the only way that I could iterator function. Next, I want to show you how we in general, you have access to all of the same in Microsoft Excel. Let me go over to the right, And I want to know how many cookies do we sell cookies on say a Monday, or maybe a Wednesday, a like say a Saturday or Sunday? I could use date the order table, I want to add a new column. Once I'll click on new column. For this column, I'll insert the equals operator. And now I want to you have access to all the same types of functions I typed in day. You also have something like want to know the day of the week when we sell the Next, I need to select the date. And here I want to reference this column. So, I'll type in Let me select that. I've now selected the date. return type. So, there are different return of the week to be. Here, I want the beginning And then Saturday will be a seven. So and then close the parentheses and then I'll hit number representing the day of the week. So that what day of the week do the most orders occur on? Now over on the right-hand side where we see of week. Here I'll check this box, and this now orders, but it doesn't yet break it up by day of the right-hand side. And here I'll select day of drop that in, now I can visualize when all of see the one and remember this corresponds with I could see that these are the low order days. We but then boy, do we make up for that on Tuesday. it stays up for much of the week all the way you can use some time and date functions, let's logical functions. So, this is things like finding a calculate function. Once again, let's click back Within this table, let's say that I want to chocolate. So right here, we see the product chocolate. If I scroll down, here we see something raisin cookie and of course these don't contain we'll see that there's also a white chocolate So first I want to use the find function to chocolate. So once again, let's go to table tools For the new column name, I'm going to call this I'll insert the equals operator and now I'm going open the parentheses, and I want to look for the and then close my quotes. Here I'll insert a to find this value? And I want to find it in this type in product, and I see the orders table Next, I need to indicate the start position and the beginning, I'll insert another comma and then a value. Here I'll enter a zero. So, if it's not close the parentheses. Next, I'll hit enter. Here here it says chocolate chip and chocolate here If I scroll down a little bit, I'll see fortune doesn't find chocolate within that product name. white chocolate macadamia nut cookie, chocolate's a number seven. Now, one thing that's interesting a value greater than zero has chocolate in it. if statement to return back, yes, it has chocolate let's now build out this formula and include an has chocolate but now I also want to insert an I'll open the parentheses and this is just like So here I say if and then I need to enter in a I find chocolate in this column over here and in fact have chocolate. So here my logical if it's a one or if it's a seven, that means it Next, I'll enter in a comma and then I have happens if it's false. If it's true, I'll enter no chocolate, then I'll close my quotes, enter. Here you can see my if statement at does in fact have chocolate and then here I see my down a little bit farther, here I have the white So now here you can see an if statement at work. This now brings us to the very last function the calculate function and this is a very powerful and you could also apply different criteria or I want to know how many orders did we have for orders. It sounds like it'd be kind of complicated calculate to determine what this is. Over on the view. You probably know now what I'm going to say see all of the fields. Let's right click and once name, I'm going to make this very descriptive, and Then I'll enter in the equal sign. Next, here I'll type in calculate and here I see it this evaluates an expression in a context Here I'll select calculate and now I need to enter how many orders. So, for this, I want to count the and we did this function earlier. So, I'll type to indicate, well, what table do I want to count and here I see these suggestion down below. So, for this. I've now entered my expression I'll put in a comma. For the first filter, I So here I'll type in orders and within orders, bottom. I'll select that and I'm going to check greater than sign and then 500. So that's my first check if it contains chocolate chip. So here I'll column. So I'll select this column over here and does it contain that value? And here I'll enter then I'll close the parentheses and hit enter. it there. I'm going to insert a matrix. Now I can were 185 orders with chocolate chip and over way that you can use measures to answer very starting to get a sense for how powerful Power BI existing data and now that you finished this Power BI and for analyzing data. All right, well, If you enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs that's all I had for you today. I hope you enjoyed