Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson is a charismatic about him is where his charisma comes from. around just one trait. He doesn't have Bill way with words or Neil deGrasse Tysons buttery which means there are a lot of things that So let's go ahead start with the first one, presence. And it looks like a lot of it actually Now, obviously, this level of gesticulation look at how the same movements down to that normal conversation just in a less intense And one of the things that you're going to speakers is that they use their hands to illustrate That little hug gesture and those hand slaps he's still very comfortable making large gestures of strong body language in other videos and but, for now, just know that those big gestures and they hold your attention while he speaks, expressiveness is actually coming from his that big toothy smile. Being visibly happy like this does a lot for you in a positive way. People want to be surrounded boisterously is a great way to mark yourself as that kind fact that expressive displays of emotion let When you genuinely, genuinely feel something people around you feel that thing as well. who makes other people around him feel good. Happiness isn't the only emotion, though, whatever you want to call him, is a captivating speaker and shows us that emotion in his face, and see in this next clip the way that he engages his even takes a deep breath as he mentions doing You just saw it in his last clip, but what of vulnerability in his stories. The Rock this hard attitude to match his physique. he also talks candidly about the soft spots, likable in his post wrestling career. He's He's letting people see the emotions that be considered embarrassing. Here he is, again, she walked into oncoming traffic. Now I want to make something very clear: telling sob stories and being real, that's what charisma is, but strong, that what make Dwayne so special, I mean is that in his interactions, he is dictates the tone of the interaction that and see how he takes friendly control Let's watch that back again and pay attention, first, when The Rock interrupts, he is so he lights up and feels so good about it. You see there? Dwayne Johnson takes control and congratulatory way. He's comfortable leading, up. That makes him the type of person that power of spreading genuine praise. It feels hard to earn it. I remember, I actually had a friend that everybody when he told you that you had just told a It seems like The Rock makes people feel the them randomly. He makes you first care about is a leader. Now, I have to admit. His size the level of physical intimacy in an interaction, clip and see how he makes Graham Norton hug I've also noticed that he makes his interviewers Now, I personally find the handshake slash and, maybe, I'll dig deeper into it someday that when you're leading the topic of conversation, intimacy and interaction while still being charismatic. So, with the Rock, you have this really interesting beast. He immediately commands respect when leadership qualities in interaction. And, crazy how quickly they start to follow his But the reason that he's well-liked is because that he shows, he's kind, he talks people and the whole time, he is spreading a message It's actually really inspiring, so, especially It's the combination that makes it all work, about this--the four emotions that lead to set up a different video that covers that, hit in this right order, you will make an the Rock is actually hitting a lot of them If you're curious what those are in the order click the link that will pop up now. It will drop your email and get immediate access to this video. If you have not yet done so, subscribe single Monday, and I started to do some on If you have any suggestions of people that I saw a lot of you suggest, so I'm happy to get and, in fact, I actually have a question for for the first time, fictional characters, and Thrones. I noticed that on HBO's Game of Thrones, great understanding of human power dynamics, screen, even though it is being acted and guys are curious and would like to see me it down your throats, but if it's something and if you think that's a terrible idea, let to decide what comes on in the next few weeks. you think in the comments about fictional video, and I will see you in the next one.