Over the past few years, I've had my wife, try out a handful of video games in order like for people who don't spend much time These informal experiments not only have given that exist for those with little to no experience of what goes into learning the language of As a result of these experiments, my wife game conventions and mechanics to having a expect from the player. She took interest in a couple titles, playing these videos, and she was well along in her And now a year and a half has passed since As it turns out, time never stops moving forward, since adding a baby we live with to our household. Life gets away from you fast, but now we've for another informal experiment. While I assume she has retained some of the this gap almost certainly will lead to her best way to ease her back into things is by Lady: I'm ready. I'm ready for battle. Can you get me someone to fight? *Gasp* I'm not ready for battle! In just its first year, Elden Ring has already ever made. It's exposed a slew of first time players to be the best entry point for people new approachable is it for someone who barely For this experiment, I didn't give her a see how she would naturally interact with of beating a boss outside of the tutorial. As always, I sat back as a mostly quiet observer, she had learned and advice for what to do amount of time. So, this is how it went. As some of you may remember, one of the very was Elden Ring's spiritual predecessor, how you'd expect *Controller slamming onto a desk* Due to her lack of gaming experience mixed design, she had a ton of trouble just figuring a lot. Even when she did figure out the very basics, As there is no way to level up in the Undead using the tools she had to defeat him. With enough practice, I am confident that over and over again to be extremely demoralizing, same enemy, she had no more interest in playing By presenting such a tough skill check for for what the rest of the game will be like Elden Ring takes a much different approach optional. Players don't have to prove they understand and instead can just head to the overworld In fact, when the game first came out, many as it involves jumping into a dark pit whereas and in the center of the screen when the player FromSoft to include a tutorial message that Given all of this, I was curious to see if without the prompt, so before I had her start, she very nearly missed it, but not for the When she first began walking around the chapel and messages not knowing why they were there. Without the knowledge that other players had by the developers--as if they were a core So instead of viewing them as the random ramblings In Dark Souls all of the messages in the tutorial the basic controls, so it is possible that Ring came from that, although she barely had as it was so long ago, so if that was the one. One of the first messages she read pointed off. Incidentally she had clicked a bloodstain if it was some sort of secret, she followed Lady: Try jumping...what? Raz: *giggling* Are you kidding me? What--what am I supposed to do? So, when she got down to the Stranded Graveyard to take the plunge, she was very skeptical Lady: Are they trying to kill me again? For a second I thought she was gonna continue a bit though, she read another message that This was the only one she had come across of gibberish strung together, so something to just go for it. While this ended up being the only time the area, it was interesting to see someone engage just a sometimes helpful but often goofy online The Cave of Knowledge itself proved to be issues. All of the prompts for controls and mechanics Those being either a small pop-up in the left momentarily pauses the game. For the most part, this was fine, but as her were a few instances where she just didn't pretty important information like how to lock-on figuring that out was because she accidentally As for the more obvious text prompts, my wife few seconds to have something explained to just been communicated with a simple button I am unsure why they use these two different but I think as far as less experienced players off finding a middle ground between the two the screen but don't halt the game completely. It'd make things obvious without being nearly On the topic of teaching players the controls, these informal experiments is that a lot of the UI of the button prompts. Oftentimes, the only option is the Xbox gamepad As I only own playstation controllers, this playing games on PC that don't have that for Elden Ring. I actually ended up having to make a cheat to reference. Now, I understand that the vast majority of an Xbox controller as it is the most compatible number of people who use other controllers, not support them. Having more customization for button UI only And like I don't know anything about how more complicated to incorporate than it seems resources FromSoft has, it feels weird they While this is not the biggest deal in the that would help a lot of players and save for future experiments. Anyway, on the whole my wife had a much better she did with the Undead Asylum, and I think a much more manageable boss fight. The Soldier of Godrick is really just an average bar and intense music, it made the fight feel was. The challenge was pretty well suited for her she left with the satisfaction of beating ever getting demoralized. All in all, Elden Ring's tutorial largely in mind, which is an interesting departure games that rarely pull any punches. She Entered the Lands Between feeling confident, once she was introduced to the wider offerings As she stepped out into the Lands Between, it was, and at first questioned where to go. Seeing the Tree Sentinel patrolling below, got killed. Lady: How do you beat that?! How do you do it? Raz: What do you think? Lady: How do you do it? Not wanting to have to deal with it, she decided a demi-human giant and... Lady: Awwwwwwwwwwwww. SHOOT This time after respawning, she surveyed the path, which is when she noticed the Erdtree she needed to go, so she pretty much ran in to the Gatefront Ruins. And I think this is a great example of how is. While there isn't really a wrong way to to follow in order to progress, although even This path pretty much starts at the Gatefront major boss of the game, Margit. Of the various ways the game tries to direct was one I did not pick up on during my own The Erdtree is massive and its golden hue Many players will no doubt be curious to see isn't a goal players will be able to accomplish can be used to influence player decision making, and the guidance of grace that literally points takes is being intrigued by the Erdtree to Once getting to the Stormgate site of grace up, she kept pressing forward, opting to ride with them. As she made her way into Stormhill, she lost by the ruins of a bridge and the fog in the For the few moments it was in sight, she was her, so instead of continuing towards it, While I don't know the full intentions of seems like a very intentional choice so that Erdtree itself which will just take them to Watching her play made me appreciate the world did, which I honestly didn't think was possible. There are so many subtle touches that help to the world that you almost never pay attention design choices lead my wife in a certain direction. Moving along the main road now, she tried in the same way she had dealt with every other Her first few attempts of charging straight the area, she noticed that there weren't so she rode around and slipped past them. The ability to avoid conflict definitely made at least in the open-world, there was nothing weaving around enemies and finding clever With that said, the flaw to her approach was experience or items for not fighting, so when both in terms of player skill and character Lady: Oh no. Oh no. Oh n-- This game is so annoying. These sorts of skill checks are common barriers are only a few paths players can take, if will have to overcome difficult bosses pretty their attack patterns and weaknesses or grinding up enough to make them less challenging. As I mentioned before, in Dark Souls when frustration of losing again and again led The only thing she could do was fight the but her experience with Elden Ring in this After dying a few times and realizing she for other things to engage with. Due to its open-world structure, players have can do. This makes it so when they hit a spot that bashing their head against a wall, they can While there still are a few chokepoints players to progress, due to the sheer amount of content set foot in Limgrave, it is unlikely they they are ready to do so. At least, that's how it works in theory--when to do, it proved to be more difficult than She wanted to find enemies to fight in the where to look. She came across a few encampments, but they while she was able to pick off a few that too far in and had to take on more than one Lady: There's a lot--okay. *horse noise* So she rode around searching for things that anything of substance. Occasionally she'd encounter some enemies this didn't really yield significant results. As she didn't know how to take on multiple they could easily surround her, her best bet few, she didn't notice them. After aimlessly riding around for awhile, Lady: I liked Breath of the Wild better. When I asked her why, along with saying it remarked on how it was just easier to find The shrines and shekiah towers stand out due almost unnatural design. Also, they can be spotted from far away and Now, I personally think Elden Ring does a of interest are through the use of light sources, register as a sign that there was something so she never paid all that much mind to them. The style and visual language of a game has things, and obviously especially for inexperienced is, the easier it will be to understand what As a lot of Elden Ring's visual language certain things stood out less. Eventually, I gave some pointers on what she a cave, which is when the real challenge began fight. Of all the bosses she could have faced, I Azula as he leaves a lot of openings and doesn't was any boss in the game she could beat, it'd *panicked car horn noises* Raz: Don't break the desk or controller. Lady: Dude. I don't like this. In general, she lacked patience and coordination. Pretty much everytime she got into a fight, to her either attacking or rolling way more She would constantly attack without paying roll away as fast as she could in the hopes For the most part, she was either all in on putting the two things together to effectively an opening. She also had a fair bit of trouble with doing so whenever she attacked, called Torrent, joystick first, leaving her extremely vulnerable. Maybe most consequentially, she found every her squeezing the controller super tightly in inopportune item use and crouching at the As she battled against the Beastman more and more effectively, getting attacks in without attacks. She had a handful of attempts where she got huge improvement over her earlier attempts. With that said, despite the improvement being be immensely frustrating. She kept trying for awhile as something about had, but she eventually hit a point where in order for her to beat him, and she didn't so it seemed like her playthrough would end However, after she stopped playing that day, that she hadn't engaged with in the slightest the Spirit Ashes. Unlike other iterations of summons in FromSoft the game. Where summoning in the Souls series generally Ashes only require FP or HP, making it a far Having beaten the game almost entirely without say that the bosses largely seem to be balanced enemies, and given that one of the most common the spirits, it feels like the game was designed of the player's arsenal. Naturally, there will always be a contingent but not every player is looking for an extra For folks struggling with the constant pressure Ashes are great way to redirect attention perfect thing for my wife to use. With that said, for it being such a helpful it is surprisingly easy to miss. It involves going to the Church of Elleh at or buying it from the Twin Maiden Husks in I imagine there are a few reasons they opted instead of automatically given, but, after help but think that it would be a bit better Anyway, I decided to have my wife give the the Spirits, soSo I pointed her in the right Calling Bell and the Lone Wolf Ashes. With a new tool at her disposal, she headed a bloodbath; the Beastman continuously got jump in every now and then to deal a bit of *gasp* *laughing* Raz (feebly): That's not true. Lady: My wolves did it all! After beating him though, she felt a little She had spent so much time trying to beat the wolves did most the work. And, yeah, I went to test it on my own afterwards, 75% of his health on their own. She didn't have a problem with the idea instance, they were far too effective. I had her go back to use them against Margit. This time, even with their help, she wasn't context, got her to veiw them more like a While I do still stand by the idea that many Spirits, clearly, the Beastman wasn't and her of some satisfaction. So I decided to try one more thing. Many of her struggles with the game came from that caused her a significant amount of trouble that being her choice of starting class. She went with the Bandit, which actually is Souls although it has a different name there, of it, but after watching her play and then that it is one of the worst classes, especially time. It has one of the lowest starting levels and as the armor doesn't negate much damage, which she did not have the timing down for, had to get super close to enemies in order spacing. The character selection screen doesn't show characters by their designs, so she chose looked the coolest instead of by comparing With that said, even if she had compared them classes had bigger numbers, I don't think valuable in terms of making an informed choice is a lot of information without much context. I understand that part of the FromSoft experience impact you, but I'd say the game could benefit more difficult to start with than others. In fairness, it does have what is probably option and what is certainly the worst be obvious for those less familiar with Souls Anyway, in the hopes that this would make this time picking the vagabond and got her like more reasonable challenge for her. Her attacks did significant damage that could space between her and the beastman, all of had been working on during all of her failed The build gave her a bit more room for error punished as severely for it. And then, after a handful of tries: *cheering/screaming* Lady: Oh my god dude, that was a close call. Raz: That one feel better? Lady: Oh yeah that one felt better. Raz: That's a good middle ground? Lady: Yeah Through trial and error, we were able to find oversimplifying things, and it was really And it made me want to see her overcome a One that has been sitting unfinished for a One that required going back to the start Having seen the benefits of having a weapon warrior instead of the thief. Now, as it has been a few years since we ran forgot most everything in the tutorial, so with a broken sword, got rolled by the boulder, she finally began some actual attempts on and competent than she ever had before. Having played a decent bit of Elden Ring before at combat, but also had gotten used to much easier to read than any of the bosses she While she wasn't always perfect at keeping capitalize on openings and avoid its big, On her first attempt, she was able to do more original playthrough. On her second, she choked, but on her third... *panicked yell followed by shocked yell* *high five* There are a lot of factors that went into Demon like using a half decent starting class games, but I think a big part of it came from Elden Ring, a game that, while far from perfect, and then applying those lessons to its predecessor. In short, Elden Ring helped her get good, So, is Elden Ring a good starting point for I mean, no, of course not, although it was be. Between its fairly detailed tutorial, thoughtful how to approach a fight, it gives inexperienced It still contains the difficulty and obscurity people who don't really play games will help from an outside source, but it does have that seem to be there as a way to appeal to Of course, FromSoft doesn't and shouldn't in mind as she is nowhere near their target to see how they've tried to pull in players they've expanded approachability, while Personally, I think they could have gone a better experience for players new to the genre, to maintain a delicate balance and don't All in all, I had a lot of fun watching my and go on to take her skills to a new level, Elden Ring, it did push her to understand that she hadn't been able to before. Lady: How long did it take me last time to Raz: You didn't do it last time. Lady: Okay *laughs* Rude For those of you interested in seeing more put together a highlight video of part of over on Nebula. By now I assume you already know the deal, service made and owned by creators, me being It gives us a place to post stuff that is as well on YouTube. On Nebula, you can watch videos from many as well as a ton of exclusive content that Every time my wife and I do one of these informal end up being far more interesting moments you'd like to hear my wife curse some more it. Lady: Augh! oo oo! What's happening, why--AH DIH DEH. Lady: Crushed it. And the best part is that Nebula has partnered in order to get just the best deal for people If you go to CuriosityStream and sign up for you not only get access to the thousands of you also get a free membership to Nebula for And if you are watching this after the holiday 15 dollars for the year, so no matter what After signing up using my code or the link set up your account, and then you can watch to your heart's content. And that's barely even touching on all the on CuriosityStream itself. Its library is ever expanding, and there are topic you could imagine. I've mentioned before that I love nature going outside, and it is chalk full of them, bison or pretty much any other animal, they've Anyway, for less than $12 a year, you can as well as tons of extra content from awesome Signing up is one of the best ways to help a month, you'll not only be helping me out than you can imagine, so check it out. Thanks again to CuriosityStream for sponsoring For those still watching, thank you. I'd like to give a shout out to my patrons WilliamGlenn8 and Kay Kay for being honorary I appreciate you all. With that, I hope you have a great day and/or Lady: I can't play video games, babe. I can't do this. It's like--my heart rate is through the I just spit everywhere--I can't do this! I don't like this Lady: Am I good? Raz: You're doing great. Lady: Am I good though? Raz: What do you mean? Like good at the game? Raz: No. But you're doing fine. Lady: Oh that's mean.