(suspenseful music) - [Narrator] The deepest may actually be home to a giant planet with a mass five times greater than Earth. A year on this exile planet would last more than 10,000 years because it orbits at such an enormous distance from our sun. (dramatic music) Recently, several teams of astronomers have been tirelessly hunting What clues, what discoveries to think it actually exists? Why is it so hard to find? How is their research of our planetary system and (upbeat dramatic music) (suspenseful music) Many astronomers are passionate or the unknowns of the big bang, but closer to us, the outer remain a mysterious zone, and great discoveries to be made. (suspenseful music) Astronomer Chad Trujillo is one of celestial bodies. He has co-discovered dozens of moons that gravitate as well as some of the farthest in the solar system. Thanks to some of his observations, the possibility of a re-emerged during the last decade. - I'm a little bit of a but it's even more than that. We're trying to understand how the solar system so all of these distant objects about what happened early on, kind of like fossils of the solar system. So this hypothesized planet, of course we don't know the we haven't found it yet. But there have been a number and we think it's probably around 300 to 500 astronomical units. - [Narrator] To measure astronomers don't think in kilometers, but rather in astronomical units. The distance between 150 million kilometers equals one unit. Jupiter is at five astronomical units. Saturn at 10 and Neptune at 30. Chad co-discovered the in the solar system located nicknamed Farout. Concerning our mysterious Planet 9, it might be somewhere between or possibly even farther. - A planet or any object it would take a few to to orbit the sun. We don't really know what but at that distance it so we think the surface might be very icy. - [Narrator] The origin of this quest for a mysterious new planet began with several major At the time, Pluto was in our solar system, all alone Then astronomers discovered of several thousand objects In 2004, in an area beyond this, Chad Trujillo spotted another to Pluto with his partner (upbeat music) Their discovery led to Pluto - Dear Mike, I would like to I don't know what Planet Jupiter with the red spot, Saturn with a nice ring, It looks like I stuck I can't remember if that was on purpose. Probably it was. I still think Pluto is a planet. I want you to make Pluto a planet and please, can you do that for me? And the answer is no, I can't Pluto is too small. Pluto, if it could make could make itself a planet - [Narrator] Astronomer Mike on social media is the &quot;How I Killed Pluto and He's a planet hunter like Chad. They began their careers together with a discovery of large and that's when all the trouble started. - In late December, 2004, suddenly, as with the a really bright object, really bright. This was the brightest object in the outer part of the And this was pretty exciting. - You know, he was like, And I said, yeah, it looks real to me. This is gonna, you know, This could be bigger than Pluto. So if we found something Pluto and Pluto's a planet, then that means we must So that's what our argument - So we announced that it's That's what our press release And that led to a year of argument about what we should do about this. - [Narrator] Tempers flared as a scientific community Was it also a planet like Pluto, even if neither of them is Or should we change the The debate spread to the general public, shocking some who were emotionally Mike fueled the flames after the Greek Goddess Eris. - Eris is the goddess Perfect, I love Eris. Eris is perhaps my favorite Goddess and the best possible name for this object that led to the largest in our thinking about the - [Narrator] In August, of the International Astronomical - In particular six A and Pluto like objects. - [Narrator] Astronomers voted to downgrade Pluto's status and created a new category - So the motion is carried. - [Narrator] Eris and Pluto first dwarf planets. Today there are nine and new - People really aren't used of the planets. Jupiter, big Jupiter, Saturn is quite big. Uranus and Neptune, these tiny little dots are the And here's the Kuiper belt. One of those is Pluto. It's hard to tell which one it is because it's not particularly distinct. I have found that this to anybody who tells me that I show them this picture and say, oh, I get it. I see that you're right. - [Narrator] But how that Mike Brown is so fervently seeking? - When we talk about is this gonna be something than Pluto when we're or not a planet? And the answer is no. It's probably something like that size. This really is legitimately in our solar system and a big to discover around us. (upbeat music) - [Narrator] How can Mike of a planet that has yet to be discovered? His new associate and partner in the hunt for the true ninth planet At 35, this astronomer, and theorist, is already He loves alternative rock, Thai boxing and the complex dynamics of the solar system celestial bodies. - So the clues to the in the Kuiper Belt and the of debris beyond Neptune. It wasn't one line of But the first of them of the orbits. - [Narrator] In the far some recently discovered on some strange, very elliptical orbits, which seem to be tilted - It's weird. It's really strange that if there were no other sources of gravity in the solar system. - [Narrator] The first ones and formulate the hypothesis were their rivals, Chad These two have teamed up to discover all of the most distant In their jargon, objects that gravitate well beyond Neptune's orbit are called Extreme Trans-Neptunian Objects (upbeat music) Sedna, a dwarf planet and Chad Trujillo in 2003 is the first of these extreme objects Another one, nicknamed Biden, was found by Chad Trujillo These ETNOs gravitate between - In 2014, we did just some trying to figure out how they of orbits. The only way we could find to would be if we put down, what we call the super Earth mass planet, hundreds of astronomic - [Narrator] Mike Brown used Scott Sheppard and Chad to make thousands of digital simulations combining these extreme orbits - Many of the simulations we They start out about 4 billion years ago when the solar system when it's young and If you look very, very close, small pink circle that as well as the orbit of Planet 9. And indeed what we see is that we see a pattern develop all point the opposite direction by an interplay between Planet 9's gravity and the gravity of Neptune. - [Narrator] In these simulations, Konstantin used various and the orbit of this mysterious planet. In doing so, he was able of these extreme orbits Planet 9's size and orbit. - If all distant Kuiper then Planet 9's gravity is to the stable distant Kuiper - [Narrator] Konstantin also observed that some of these simulated objects sometimes approach Neptune too closely, causing them to deviate and orbit almost perpendicularly to the solar system's ecliptic plane, the plane on which all These orbits would be from a gravitational point of this interplay between - Remember we thought, wouldn't it be cool if such Wouldn't be cool, it would be of this theory. - When we finally saw them, I was like, Konstantin come here, there are five objects that are perpendicular but I don't know where they are. I don't know which direction Let's plot 'em. So we sat here, I plotted I said, here we go. I'm gonna press the button. Let's see where they plot. Are they gonna be in the right place? Press the button and they're perfect. (dramatic music) - It was that moment oh man, this is real, right? This is not just, this I think this might actually be for real. - It went from, this is this is fun, we have a good explanation. It's a good time to, oh, there's We need to go find it. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] In 2016, Mike and for this ninth planet and in Hawaii at the top of using the Subaru Telescope, one of the most powerful in the world and highly prized by astronomers. (dramatic music) From there, it is possible to visible from the northern hemisphere. So far their search has been fruitless. At an altitude of 4,200 meters and the scientists must Their rivals, Chad started using the same in addition to observations at Cerro Tololo based in in the Chilean desert. Chad and Scott have a headstart because they have been scouring for their large research and very distant objects. - So in this image we kind of and all the black points for new objects. - I like to say it's Each image we take, you never in that image and so it's always through these images because Every, anything that we kind of see it. We've discovered comets, we've discovered moons of the planets. So all these things are on while we're looking for in the background. - [Narrator] Scott and Chad of over 120 moons and and Saturn. They have found several confirmed or potential dwarf planets, including the one recently discovered at 120 astronomical units, dubbed Farout. Yet even for them, after this mysterious Planet 9 remains elusive. Why is it so hard to find? - With the models that we have in place, we actually can't predict All we can calculate is the That said, it is more likely that exist, that Planet 9 is of its orbit than it - [Narrator] By Konstantin's calculations, Planet 9 orbits a sun in more or less 10,000 years. When closest to the sun, but at its most distant point, it would be around 600 a.u. or more. It will be harder to find if Still, how can thousands located outside of our but not Planet 9? - People often ask me, we can find planets around other stars all the time. Why is it so hard to find What's wrong with you people? The answer is really easy. To find a planet around another star, you know exactly where to look. You go look at that star. - [Narrator] When an extra solar planet passes in front of its star, it diminishes the star's luminosity a bit. This is how most exoplanets they are neither seen They are simply deduced. - If you are inside the planetary system and you're looking for a planet outside, you have no idea where to look. It could be anywhere around the sky. It's not as bad as that. We do know some idea where to look. We now know a swath on where to look. Here's a map of the entire night sky. Here's the equator of the sky. This swath is the Milky Way and this is, this colored of where Planet 9 should be. We have been systematically and most of this region is ruled out. Most of this region is ruled out. The only places left are just up in here. This is basically our treasure map that shows us where to go hunting. - [Narrator] This zone is the Galactic Plane, a dazzling river of 400 It is the most difficult and far away object. (suspenseful music) - Here's a normal, stellar background, here's the Galactic Plane. And so it's hard to observe objects in this Galactic Plane field. Going into these areas and you can't go as faint this bright background. But one of the special techniques we use is you take several and then you can subtract and it can, you can remove So it takes a little a little more data to do this. But you can go in and and observe. It's just harder to do. - [Narrator] This technique also requires more telescope time and - In the Milky Way galaxy, you take a picture of the sky and full of dust and everything And if you're looking for one well, it might be blasted by a star that's in the background. So if you weren't looking you probably would never but it might be hiding there. - [Narrator] If Planet 9 is there couldn't be a worse Mike already knows that his few sessions with the Subaru Telescope Faced with the daunting he decided to adopt another strategy. He thinks it is highly possible, that unbeknownst to us, Planet 9 has already been photographed. - This is all data mining, so this is all using pre-existing data and trying to find it, but that I need to somehow - It's entirely plausible that Planet 9 has actually already been observed and it's sitting there in data, but the data has not That's a task that you know a at the moment. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Today several are tracking Planet 9. A team based in Tucson at is also searching, but - [Renu] Hey Kat. - [Renu] I'm doing all right. How are you? - Good. - I've got some new plots to - [Narrator] Renu Malhotra and Kat Volk have contributed to the but also suspect the Renu Malhotra is a theorist, a major expert on planet dynamics. - [Kat] Yeah, still have a significant. - [Narrator] Kat Volk was once her student and is now her research partner. She's an excellent observer of the sky. - Yeah. - [Narrator] They suspect there might be an orbital resonance that point to the existence of Planet 9. There could be a specific relationship between the of each object around the sun and the number of revolutions of Planet 9. For instance while Sedna Planet 9 would orbit only twice and so on. - Many, many resonance cycles. - Orbital resonances are of how orbits are influenced. If we could have confidence then we could locate the planet in the sky within a few spots. We could say that it's most Very narrow spots we could do that. - [Narrator] This calculation requires very accurate of these objects, which of observation and verification. But that's not all. Renu and Kat have also in the Kuiper Belt. - Kuiper Belt objects have They're dispersed, they're Some are like this, some are like that, and they're all oriented But the average plane to the plane of the solar system. - We found a deviation in the more distant part and we calculated that to Earth mass planet that deviation. - [Narrator] So this in the average plane of the by the presence of another unknown planet, smaller and closer than the Its orbit would be 100 astronomical units. How could it have of the best astronomers of the sky? - It would be pretty bright. And the only way that all our of the outer solar system would be if it were in the Galactic Plane. That would be the place where any planet like an Earth-sized planet at could have gone undetected. - [Narrator] To see more clearly, all of the teams searching in the farthest reaches are impatiently awaiting the arrival of a new giant game-changing telescope. The campus where Kat and Renu work is home to one of the world's largest laboratories creating exceptional which are the best and Dozens of tons of glass heated to over 1800 degrees Fahrenheit, then cooled for three months before a lengthy fine polishing process. One of these giant mirrors sometimes through high mountain roads, clearly not designed for this that traveled from the Arizona Desert to the Chilean Mountains. The construction of the LSST, also known as the Vera Rubin Observatory in tribute to one of is a fantastic tale in its own right. Its 3.2 billion pixel camera will be able to film the southern (celestial music) To process and analyze all of this data, a huge data center has been Unlike current telescopes to obtain observation time, the LSST will provide its to almost the entire - It's expected to discover 10 to 40,000 Trans-Neptunian objects, which is compared to our known objects. Of course, while it's surveying the sky, it should also be able to detect any new large distant planets. So I am really excited we should be getting from LSST. - It's gonna revolutionize about our solar system just so much more about what's out there. If the hypothesized then it, the LSST could find it, but if it's not, then it won't. So I think if you wanna you should do it and not wait until there's some future and hope that they'll find it. - [Narrator] Planet 9 before has already become legendary. Eduardo Marturet, the conductor of the even composed a concerto in its honor. Konstantin is set to perform in just a few days. (funky guitar music) - Planet 9 has really of the general public. People have made flags before Planet 9, people have designed clothes It's a real honor to be You've eliminated. - [Narrator] It is March 11th, 2020, and unbeknownst to him, Konstantin is giving before the pandemic and most of the world. For over a year, universities are closed. The telescopes in Hawaii and the work at the Vera The planet hunters are stuck at home. (dramatic music) But in this celestial treasure hunt, professional astronomers are Guillaume is a pulmonologist He's no stranger to Covid Besides medicine, Guillaume's and science fiction. - Thanks to my profession actually having seen my eyes used to seeing and accurately identifying what's in them. - [Narrator] He is part of amateur astronomers doing their part by wading through billions might be hiding. The project he's participating in is called Backyard Worlds created by NASA. This program asks citizen scientists to examine infrared images captured by the Weiss Space Telescope. - Each black dot actually It's the infrared trace of a star. The project requires us to and see if we see objects So it could be brown or even Planet 9 that It's not looking for a that would be easy. Here we're looking for a in the world. With internet, we can and we need to find the needle, but we're not even sure it exists. I haven't discovered Planet 9 yet, but I've discovered some brown dwarfs. So I've contributed to that weren't known before. - [Narrator] To Guillaume's delight, his discoveries have been and NASA researchers - And here we see the and we see that the object When we saw that, we noted and sent them to NASA. They made a request to look at they were able to get access and they went to look at the star. That was such an extraordinary feeling. I'm not a astrophysicist, And in my lifetime, I've the course of the Hubble Telescope. When you analyze a stew you're panning for gold in the sky. I mean each time you sift, you're trying to see if an interesting star. Obviously Planet 9 is the big diamond that's always in everyone's - [Narrator] Participatory are accessible to all and allow citizens to play an active role Passionate novices can and further our knowledge along the way. (dramatic music) Making unexpected discoveries for something else is a constant in the history of astronomy. Kat Volk is acutely aware of this. A year into the pandemic, she's preparing to leave for She was able to obtain some telescope time not far from Tucson at the Kitt - Usually when I do an observing run, I have people who go with me, but this time I have to observe by myself because they wanna keep in any given room or to reduce the chances of (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Kat must increasing her workload immensely, and shortening her observation time. To keep the camera from Kat cools its special protective This time her mission is to the orbits of the extreme objects that provide proof of - Hi Renu, how are you doing? - Doing okay. So what happened Tuesday night then? Were you able to get - [Narrator] Renu Malhotra needs this data to study the potential and that of Planet 9, - 8:45 and I have not gotten data before about 11:45 either night. - [Narrator] While Kat is the super telescopes are working again, but operated remotely. Mike Brown, Konstantin and Scott Sheppard are or their offices when All of them keep searching isolated from one another, trying to keep their heads in the game. From his home, Mike has found a bear who really and his cool swimming pool. In Miami, the Symphony Orchestra conducted by Eduardo Marturet finally for Planet 9 with Konstantin from his Caltech classroom. A concert streamed at the However, the Ninth Planet In the midst of the pandemic, a team of researchers In their opinion, the that serves as a key clue is due to observational bias. Kevin Napier and David of astronomers that has found (speaking distinctly) - Okay. Telescopes can only detect than a certain limit. They're only observing part of the sky, only a very small part of and only at certain times of year, only from certain locations on Earth. And as soon as you can't that's out there, you have to ask yourself what are the properties that cause objects to be discovered by our telescopes. - [Narrator] By taking into account all of these observational constraints, they realized that the only correspond to what they And that there are not enough objects, not enough statistical data of a doubt that Planet 9 truly exists. - Our conclusion was that they are indeed clustered, but there's also no evidence So that's kind of a complicated statement, but the clustering of these like it maybe was once thought to be. - [Narrator] Of course in response, Planet 9 hunters dispute this analysis saying that it is biased. - You have to look where you in order to find objects And to date, there's been no - [Narrator] Chad Trujillo criticizes them for looking at a limited this dark blue zone - Our survey doesn't have that bias. Scott Sheppard and I worked very hard to cover the entire sky all and off the ecliptic So our survey has very low biases because we kind of look all over. - Of course, if a paper and even if the paper says we can't tell if there's Planet 9 or not and there's always a press release and then the press takes it there's no Planet 9. And then they interview me and I say, yes, there is Planet 9 and Entertainment, entertainment. The nice thing about this, I won't even call it a controversy 'cause it's not really even that. The nice thing about this these sorts of things happen in astronomy and science all the time. In this case we'll just go find Planet 9 and no one will ever have to worry about this particular issue ever again. - [Narrator] To end this or at the very least more extreme objects that would confirm this clustering. If the future of Vera Rubin Observatory doesn't find Planet 9 or any the bizarre orbits of as well as other anomalies must because at the moment, they is there hidden somewhere (energetic music) Astronomy is also a combat sport. There are constant disagreements, particularly concerning It's a process that - Just got tired. I just got tired. And here, just like in astronomy, sometimes you get punched and you can either fall down and say, oh my face hurts you can just, you know, get back up and keep going. It's important in science too, you know, sometimes just things don't work out. You say, okay, you know, keep going until something does work out, until you land that punch, you know? So there are a lot of parallels. - Alright, you are, come one get up. We don't need a break, we keep going. - [Narrator] Sometimes a hypothesis must be called into question. For Renu Malhotra and Kat Volk, the idea of another planet at 100 astronomical units - One could say it's that the new data shows that it wasn't, that there is not such a - [Narrator] The deviation they using 200 objects now seems with a hundred additional objects to have just been a statistical fluke. There is no longer a strong indication of a planet's presence that in the Kuiper Belt. - Statistical flukes do happen, it does happen and people tend I think honesty is extremely It's one of the hardest to actually embrace because we always get some attachment - [Narrator] On the front Scott and Chad have made a new discovery, a potential dwarf planet located at 132 a.u. - Farfarout is really interesting, not just because it's really far out, but it's also fairly large. It's probably over 400 - [Narrator] Another discovery also gives our planet hunters hope. A planet similar to the one has been found not in our solar system, but in a neighboring one. It's proof that planets with a very elliptical - It's a very distant planet just like we think Planet 9 has. And so that says to me again The idea that we would around the sun seems to be not and our galaxy are like. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Looking for this ninth Planet is not just a competition and celestial trackers who to their numerous achievements. The theory of Planet 9's existence, as well as the observation of other planetary systems in our galaxy have completely shaken about the formation of One of the greatest experts in this field works at the Nice Observatory and he is one of Konstantin Alessandro Morbidelli is a of the solar system and its origins. Konstantin was his student on fundamental problems They are not putting the world to rights, just the history of the solar system. - Theorists are the Planetologists are the It's exactly the same trying to reconstruct how an based on the remains found in excavations or an investigator arriving trying to reconstruct how who committed the crime, - [Narrator] In what way if it is confirmed, be the - If this planet exists, Its orbit is very So it's radically of other planets in the solar system. Therefore, it attests to the where some planets were thrown into tilted elliptical orbits. I'm thinking for instance, of of rotation of Uranus and The rotational axis of prove that these planets - [Narrator] So what exactly happened when our solar system was born? Where did Planet 9 form from the other planets. Who is guilty of exiling it? Morbidelli is working on these questions with other planetologists Today, they tell a very different story from the one we were taught 20 years ago. A new narrative we've illustrated, thanks to his scientific expertise. In the beginning, 4.6 billion extremely dense molecular cloud in space. In this cocoon, stars were born. Our sun was formed in this Here the matter became more concentrated. The temperature rose, the proto star swallowed until it triggered a causing streams of gas Its first scream of existence. (ominous music) - We see client formation - The loaded magnetic field That's how I always imagine. - [Narrator] A disc a kind of matrix for future planets. The ones born in the very beginning often become the largest. Saturn and Jupiter, the are the first to greedily carving out a groove - [Alessandro] Power planets forming gaps. - [Konstantin] That's astonishing. - [Narrator] They grew very fast, taking only around 1 million years. - Where were the planets first born? The fastest and biggest that we call the Frost Line, where the dust particles were the biggest, where more accretions formed, where there was the most solid matter. - [Narrator] This frost four astronomical units. According to Morbidelli, in this disc, 40 or so planet embryos formed in front of Jupiter and Saturn, behind them a dozen other planets around five times Earth's mass developed, Planet 9 was one of them. For a long time, we were well-behaved following the orbits where they initially formed without ever deviating from them. - Today we know from looking that when a planet grows quickly it starts to migrate, to spiral towards the central star. - [Narrator] As they Jupiter and Saturn in front of them, causing (planets exploding) Most of the proto planets and Jupiter were disintegrated. Much of the debris was propelled towards the incandescent star. Fortunately for us, Jupiter and - Actually for gravitational reasons that are a little complicated, the two planets reversed their migration. They stopped moving towards the This is why the Earth's spot was spared because it was not occupied Our blue planet was able - [Narrator] But as they reverse course, the solar system's biggest players, Jupiter and Saturn caused collisions in the opposite direction and including perhaps our beloved Planet 9. (dramatic music) - The solar system during its infancy was not a calm environment. It was more like a billiard table where planets are flying around, occasionally colliding with one another, merging to make bigger bodies, scattering other things around. It was a complete mess. It was a beautiful mess. - If we discover Planet so on a very elliptical, tilted orbit, this will prove that the solar during a violent phase between the planets was very strong because all planets and coplanar orbits. So Planet 9 could not have been born on its current orbit. - The solar system was The solar system was punk rock. (punk rock music) - [Narrator] Farewell and eternal spheres to the of Plato and Copernicus. And what a joy for Konstantin to this new narrative, this new paradigm. - Once solar systems are young, Stuff blows up, stuff you know what this is? This is Planet 9 getting scattered away. Yeah, you guys go catch Planet 9. - [Liam] Hello. - [Emma] Do you think or a rocky planet, or? - [Konstantin] I think it's an icy planet with a gas atmosphere. - Except for the atmosphere, do you think it would be - No, Planet 9 is an awful place to live. It's just super cold. - [Emma] Oh, what if we all - [Konstantin] We'll still die. - Goodbye Planet 9. Don't go fast. - Get scattered. - Bye Planet 9. - Goodbye Planet 9. Hope you have a good trip. - [Emma] Please don't leave us, we want to know more about you. - Please don't leave us. - [Narrator] In the 19th Urbain Le Verrier predicted calculated its exact position in the sky and indicated where the eighth would be discovered. Our ninth planet might also be found partly thanks to Konstantin's predictions, or perhaps it won't. In the meantime, the without a doubt that these ejected planets exiled far from their star are a reality. (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues)