With Thanksgiving coming up I thought it was the woman who basically invented the holiday as we know it Sarah Josepha Hale by making her 1866 recipe for a cranberry tart with apples. So thank you to Factor for sponsoring this video as we see how one persistent New England woman gave the US this most important holiday this time on Tasting History. Today's recipe comes from the 1866 edition of 'Godey's Lady's Book' a woman's magazine published in Philadelphia from 1830 to 1898. The most famous editor of this magazine was Sarah Josepha Hale an abolitionist, author of 'Mary Had a Little Lamb' and diehard proponent of Thanksgiving. In her magazine she often touted the benefits of a holiday that brought people together in the spirit of gratitude that culminated in a large meal and she would print menus for these meals which sometimes included cranberry tarts. And she has a cranberry tart rest recipe though really it should be called a cranberry apple tart because the recipe calls for you to &quot;Take a half pint of cranberries, pick them from the stems and throw them into a sauce-pan with half a pound of white sugar and a spoonful of water; let them come to a boil; then retire them to put a rim of light paste round your dish, strew in the apples; pour the cranberries over them; cover with a lid of crust, and bake for an hour. For a pudding proceed in the same manner with the fruit, and boil it in a basin or cloth.&quot; Today I feel like we eat a lot more cranberry sauce than cranberry tarts though they had cranberry sauce then too. In fact it had been around for a couple centuries by then. In 1671 John Joselyn in his work 'New England's Rarities' wrote that 'The Indians and English use [cranberries] much, boiling them with sugar for sauce to eat with their meat... some make tarts with them as with gooseberries.&quot; And in the first American cookbook fittingly named 'American Cookery' compiled in 1796 by Amelia Simmons she includes a recipe for a cranberry tart which is basically just cranberry sauce inside of a tart. The entire recipe just says cranberries are stewed strained and sweetened put into paste number nine, and baked gently. Hence my making this slightly more complex version of a cranberry tart. So for this recipe what you'll need is a double pie crust, and you can use basically any crust that you want but I'm going to be using a recipe that comes from 'Godey's Lady's Book' albeit the edition from 1865 which is similar to a modern crust except I feel like it has a lot more butter than most crusts This one calls for &quot;one pound of dried flour and one pound of butter, well squeezed in a clean cloth to get the salt out.&quot; Butter was far saltier back then unless you were using fresh butter which didn't have any salt in it but if you were using salted butter, even after squeezing out as much salt as you could, it still would have a bit of salt in it so for this I'm going to use 1 pound or 450 grams of cold salted butter butter cut into little cubes, 1 pound or 450 grams of flour, and a few tablespoons Then for the filling you'll need 4 Granny Smith or other good baking apples. 1 and 1/8 cup or 225 grams of sugar, 3 tablespoons of water, and 1 and 1/4 cup or 120 grams of cranberries. Cranberries are great because not only do they taste good but they can help prevent scurvy which today not such a huge problem, at least where I live, but in 1671 it was quite the scourge and so John Joselyn I'm sure was very happy to report that the &quot;Cranberry, or bear berry, because bears use much to feed upon them... are excellent for scurvy. They are also good to lay the fervor of hot diseases.&quot; Today I fight off scurvy not with cranberries but with things like cilantro lime cauliflower rice, the kind that that I got from today's sponsor Factor. Factor, which is owned by Hellofresh, makes meeting your nutritional goals like fighting off scurvy easier than ever by delivering fresh never frozen, dietician approved meals right to your doorstep. They're especially a lifesaver at this time of year because I feel like there's a lot of cooking already going on, and so when you're gearing up to make a big old Thanksgiving feast last thing you want to do is make yet another meal so you can just go to your refrigerator, grab a Factor meal, heat it up, and in 2 minutes you have a freshly made meal ready to eat. And they have meals to fit almost any lifestyle with 35 weekly options including vegan, keto, and calorie smart. They also have lots of snacks and breakfast options like juices, smoothies, or these cold brew latte protein shakes. So to give factor a try head over to factor75.com or just click the link in the description and use my code 50TASTINGHISTORY and you'll get 50% off plus free shipping on your first Factor box. That's factor75.com for 50% off of your first Factor box plus free shipping when you use my code 50TASTINGHISTORY. Now to make this tart you need to start by making your dough. So rub the butter into the flour with your fingertips. You want the butter nice and cold and to work fairly quickly so it doesn't melt. Once it's pretty well incorporated so there are no really big pieces left add a couple tablespoons of the cold water but only add enough so the dough can come together, the less water the better. Once it forms a dough divide it into two pieces one slightly larger than the other. Then one at a time set them out onto a lightly flowered surface and gently roll the dough away from you to form a disc about the width of your thumb. Wrap it up and set it in the fridge for at least an hour Once the the dough is well rested take the larger of the two pieces out, set it onto a lightly floured surface and roll it out into With the high butter content in this dough starts to just fall apart so just make it as thin as you can so you can line a pie dish with it with enough dough that it overhangs the sides. I started with a deep pie dish but realized quickly that a shallower pie dish would actually work better so I switched over to that. Whatever you use put it in the fridge while you make your We'll start with the scourge of scurvy and one of my favorite bans, The Cranberries. Add them to a saucepan along with the sugar and the 3 tablespoons of water. Then set the saucepan over medium low heat and let the sugar begin to melt. Do not be tempted to raise the heat to rush the process Just let it slowly melt and eventually it will liquefy and Then continue to heat it until it's at a low boil and let it boil Then turn off the heat and set it aside to cool just while you peel core and slice your apples into thin slices. In a modern apple pie at this point you'd often add some lemon juice and a bunch of spices like cinnamon, but this recipe just has you use nothing so I'm not using anything. I'm just lining the bottom of the Then pour the cranberries with the sugar syrup all over the Then remove the second piece of dough from the refrigerator and roll it out just like you did the first but cut out a disc the size of the top of the pie. Set that on top of the cranberries and pull up the bottom of the crust crimping it with the top to make a nice outer crust. Then cut a few holes in the top to let the steam out and set it on the middle rack of the oven at 425deg F or 220deg C and bake for 10 minutes. Then reduce the temperature to 300deg F or 150deg C and bake for another 45 to 50 minutes or until the and it reaches an internal temperature of 195deg to 200deg F. You can also just watch for the insides to start bubbling out of those little holes that you made. Then take the pie out and set it on a wire rack to cool completely before slicing. Now as I mentioned we have this recipe because of the editor of Godey's 'Lady's Book', a woman named Sarah Josepha Hale but we have and that is Thanksgiving itself. Thanksgiving has been with us in what is now known as the United States of America since before there even was a United States of America. Even before the Pilgrims had their famous Thanksgiving in 1621 which I covered in another video a Catholic mass of Thanksgiving was celebrated in what is now Saint Augustine Florida in 1565, but it was the Puritans of the New England colonies of Massachusetts and Connecticut who kept Thanksgivings going throughout the 17th and 18th centuries but even then it was typically a local or maybe colony-wide celebration at most. And by celebration I mean a very long day at church followed by a very big meal with friends and family. For a nationwide Thanksgiving we would have to wait until... we were a nation. On October 3rd 1789 George Washington made the first ever presidential proclamation which at the behest of Congress &quot;recommend to the people of the United States It was meant to thank God for shepherding and for the peaceful creation of the very new US Constitution which guaranteed &quot;the civil and religious liberty with which we are blessed; and the means we have of acquiring and diffusing useful knowledge;&quot; by which I'm not entirely sure what he means because newspapers were how people diffused knowledge at the time. It's actually how people heard about this presidential proclamation. After this national days of Thanksgiving were occasionally declared like when James Madison declared it following the end of the war of 1812 which was celebrated not in November but in March of 1815 but for the most part Thanksgiving actually remained a New York and New England institution, and it was in New England, New Hampshire specifically that Sarah Josepha Hale first became enamored with the holiday. She grew up celebrating Thanksgiving and it plays a major role in her 1827 novel 'Northwood' where she discusses the practices and foods that we now consider traditional at Thanksgiving. &quot;The table, covered with a damask cloth... intended for the whole household, every child having a seat on this occasion, and the more the better, it being considered an honor for a man to sit down The roasted turkey took precedence on this and well did it become its lordly station, sending forth the rich odor of its savory stuffing...&quot; Then in addition to other meats plenty of vegetables &quot;the celebrated pumpkin pie, an indispensable part of a good and true Yankee Thanksgiving.&quot; She even includes the time-honored Thanksgiving political diatribe coming from that one relative that we all have. In the case of Northwood the diatribe is about the Of course one of the guests at this Thanksgiving happens to be English, and so after listening to the rather histrionic version of this story he &quot;shaded his face with his hand, and internally vowed never to listen to another Yankee Thanksgiving discourse.&quot; Between Northwood and a short story in 1829 called the 'Thanksgiving of the Heart' Sarah Hale laid bare what she felt people got from the holiday of Thanksgiving and it wasn't just pumpkin pie and turkey, though those were included. No it was also the time that family and friends could come together despite their differences, and sit in peace and have a wonderful meal. &quot;There is a deep moral influence in these periodical seasons of rejoicing in which a whole community participates. They bring out, and together, as it were, the best sympathies of our nature.&quot; And it was this aspect of Thanksgiving that Hale was thinking about when she saw the country being broken apart over the issue of slavery. An issue that would in just a few years devolve into a civil war. So she thought if Thanksgiving can bring communities together why can't it do that for the whole nation. So in 1837 when Hale became the editor of 'Godey's Lady's Book' she was able to use the publication to advance several of her causes including the abolition of slavery but also the establishment of Thanksgiving as a national holiday. So over the next two decades the book would include articles that stressed the moral social and even political benefits of Thanksgiving. She even says that the timing of Thanksgiving because it follows elections which were becoming ever &quot;We hope the Governors will unite on November 26th, the the last Thursday in the month. Then the war of politics will be over for the be closed, the harvests of the country gathered in, and the crowning glory of all the blessings God has during the year, bestowed on our great nation, would be the union of all our States and territories in a day These sentiments were reaching over a 100,000 people every month but Hale knew that the people who actually had the power to make a national day of Thanksgiving a reality might need a little bit more persuading so she started a letter writing campaign, a solo and private letter writing campaign to prominent officials and people in the government trying Her original goal was actually to get the governors of each state to agree on celebrating a day of Thanksgiving on the same day each year but this was a time when the governors of of all the different states couldn't agree on anything. That's not to say that she didn't achieve any success because in 1846 at least 21 of the 29 states did celebrate Thanksgiving though only 17 did so on the same day. Over the next couple decades she continued her letter writing campaign and she continued to pepper the 'Lady's Book' all year with little poems and short stories about Thanksgiving one about a little girl who invited a hunchback who lived off in the wilderness, invited him to their Thanksgiving only to find out that he was her long-lost father. But the theme that kept coming up over and over was that of bringing the country together with this holiday. Even as late as 1860 only 6 months before the outbreak of the Civil War she made a plea to her readers that on &quot;the last Thursday in November... if all the states and territories hold their Thanksgiving on that day, there will be a complete moral and social reunion of the people of America. Would not this be a good omen for the perpetual political union of the states?&quot; But it was not to be because not only did not everyone celebrate Thanksgiving at the same time that year but only a few months later in April of 1861 the South seceded from the Union and the Civil War began. Now I said that her original focus was on the governors to get the governors to all agree on Thanksgiving but she also wrote to the different presidents. She wrote to Zachary Taylor, Millard Filmore, Franklin Pierce, and James Buchanan and all of them declined her request. And it wasn't it needed to be left up to the states, that having the president dictate it would not be good. Franklin Pierce even said that &quot;I perceive serious objections.&quot; But even with the war raging on Sarah Hale would not be deterred from her cause, and in 1863 she wrote to President Abraham Lincoln and to his Secretary of State William Seward who was a former governor of New York was well acquainted with Thanksgiving already, and had fond memories of the holiday. Now by this time Sarah Hale was 74 years old so she didn't No, it was long it was forceful she demanded that this happen and she demanded that it happen next week, the week after she sent her letter and it shouldn't just &quot;it now needs National recognition and authoritive fixation, only, to become permanently, an American custom and institution.&quot; But this letter, a letter that Seward himself called &quot;interesting&quot;... actually worked. It was forceful but it worked. Even the timeline just a week after she had sent sent her letter President Abraham Lincoln issued his Thanksgiving Proclamation, and ever since the country has celebrated a national yearly day of Thanksgiving at the end of November. The date has changed a couple times in history but that's subject for a different video. And with the exception of football, the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, and the Peanuts Thanksgiving special it's celebrated in much the same way that it was 200 years ago when Hale wrote about it in Northwood. Just as then our tables today will be laden with turkey, and stuffing and pumpkin pie, and at least on mine a cranberry and apple tart. And here we are Sarah Josepha Hale's cranberry tart. It held together really well and the slice- it's sliced very nicely which made me happy. I am curious how much cranberry flavor there's going to be because that's a lot of apple to a little cranberry but I don't know. Let's give it a taste. Imma get some of that crust. [chomp] Hm. Hmm! It's really good. So the cranberry is plenty, you don't need any more cranberry. It's a strong flavor. And I don't know if you can see but the apples are kind of pink because the cranberry and the sugar, the syrup seeped through and pinkified the apples. That's a word. But it's that crust actually that's really good. Hmmm. So the crust is hard to work with because of all that butter but it's worth it. That's some good crust. I also I was going to say that it would probably need like cinnamon or some- benefit from some sort of spice and maybe it could but doesn't need it the sugar is enough. The flavor- if you get flavorful apples that's enough, which is fantastic. So I encourage you to put a picture up on Instagram, or my Reddit [r/tastinghistory] and share it with me. I love seeing what people make from the show especially around the holidays. [In bad semi-English accent] It's like I'm here at your Thanksgiving. Not sure why that was a semi- English accent but I love that so Instagram or Reddit any of those places, Facebook, tag me! I love seeing them. Make sure to watch the other Thanksgiving videos that I have. I'll put a playlist down here somewhere, and I will see you next time on Tasting History.