Are there serial killers in Antarctica? Who was the worst in Europe? Africa had more than you think might think As for North America, we struggled to pick Let's start with Oceania, the far-flung Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia. In terms of population, Oceania is small, in it. That doesn't mean the continent doesn't killers. Something we need to get straight at the beginning The meaning has changed over time, but according killing of two or more victims by the same This is not the same as a spree killer, even To meet the definition of a serial killer, between the crimes. One more thing we'll tell you before we is where the term serial killer came from. As you might know, centuries ago, such crimes were sometimes blamed on werewolves or vampires Later, we heard the term "lust killer" element. A German criminologist wrote in the 1930s the term also appeared in the 1966 book by In the 1970s, Robert Ressler, famous for his Science Unit - think, "Silence of the a lecture at a British police academy. This was when profiling was becoming all the The New York Times used the term an estimated estimated 2,514 times. The rest is history. The term serial killer became planted in our and the movie industry only ever seem to pick representing some of the very worst. Today, we hope to shed light on some of those Over the years, we've researched many killers, tell you which ones were the most terrifying. Bear in mind that this show is indeed about or most famous. We are talking about the scariest, the ones leave you both paralyzed with fear and perplexed Oceania sorcery murders in Papua New Guinea, also families were hacked apart just recently after Then, in the same country, there was Steven cult leader accused in the 2000s of murder But we have chosen Australia for our winning the country that has spawned countless outback backpackers. Such stories are based on the serial killer 90s, abducted backpackers and hitchhikers, His crimes were indeed terrifying. He tied up his victims and, in some cases, further prolonging the torture. In technical terms, he was a "hedonistic of some kind of mission (e.g., The fictional dead bodies (lust killers: Jeffrey Dahmer, Since he kept his victims alive and dominated of a "power/control" killer. He obviously enjoyed seeing people in pain, It's the sadistic thrill killers and also most. This now brings to us Oceania's most terrifying not a lust killer. His name was John Bunting. His crimes took place between August 1992 Adelaide, South Australia. We guess a few of you might already know his murders titled "The Snowtown Murders," disturbing that'll make you feel like having it. The crimes were so nasty that three of the to be removed from the case. They just couldn't handle it. To this day, journalists and jurors receive John Bunting traumatized an entire nation. Bunting was born on September 4, 1966, in To understand what shaped the man to come, when at the age of eight he was beaten by This older kid then sexually abused him. According to an academic paper on Bunting, or start fires everywhere, but he did torture These are three of the most common behaviours killers. He tortured ants with acid, and later, that dogs. It's said he had an unhealthy interest in At age 20, he found the perfect job at a crematorium, found work slaughtering animals at the company Unlike most people, he told friends he took Bunting needed to kill, but it seemed he needed His reason would be allegations of sexual himself. On August 31, 1992, he took a shovel and beat Bunting later told his friends and accomplices That was likely not true, but Bunting was He just wanted to kill. When Bunting got rid of the body, he employed a 40-year-old pre-op transgender woman, Vanessa Barry Lane. Lane and Wagner were in an intimate relationship After Bunting married a woman named Elizabeth boy named Jamie Vlassakis, he became the boy's Notably, one day, Vlassakis told Bunting that Troy Youde, had violated him. You can probably imagine what Bunting thought Bunting told him that very soon, Youde would Vlassakis soon discovered that Bunting had In fact, Vlassakis's mom had already helped Ray Allan Peter Davies. Davis, who had a very low IQ, was accused On Christmas 1995, Elizabeth Harvey stabbed by Wagner. They took Davis to another house, where they and beat him so hard in the genital area that Bunting now had a taste for torture. He loved it. Wagner loved it. To hurt someone like that and see the life It was exhilarating for the group of sadistic On the wall of a room in the house, Bunting names of various people were connected with Bunting told Vlassakis that these men were sleeping with other men. Each one of them, said Bunting, had to go. After two more murders, they killed Wagner's The two had already split up. Bunting had never liked Lane. He put up with her only because Lane was familiar occasionally gave names to Bunting. They tortured her in a bathtub, crushing her her with a cord, after which she finally died, While Bunting was a compulsive killer, he taking people's IDs, bank details and cards. Later, Bunting and his accomplices hanged from a tree. In such a depressed and impoverished area, the murder thoroughly. Soon after, Bunting was pricked by a needle He strangled him for that. Then they got Troy Youde, who was then 21. He might have been Vlassakis's half-brother, Bunting was intent on causing him the utmost They tortured him, crushing his toes, and a while on a recording. As things tend to happen in the killing world, Bunting would choose names from his spider whatever he'd accused them of, and abducted They took 18-year-old Frederick "Fred" thumb cuffs. They tortured him for hours, shoving things organs, and shocking the same place with electricity. Again, before they got what they wanted, they of their torture. Their last victim, 24-year-old David Johnson, Bunting was homophobic. He hated men he'd accused of touching people He even hated overweight people, who he called But with Johnson, he had no reason to feel He soon made one up, though. Bunting said Johnson was too tidy. He called him a yuppie, too posh, accusing While Bunting and his view had already dumped was the only victim actually killed in Snowtown. Another first with Johnson was that Bunting ate it. They were now cannibals. It was there in Snowtown where police later what was left of them. It was discovered that a man named Mark Ray One of the victims was actually Haydon's and killed, as usual, with songs blasting Bunting particularly liked the US band Live's while torturing his victims, making them call Due to this discovery, the case became known The Guardian reported on Wednesday, December Australia." The article stated, "The court heard how capable of giving electric shocks were unearthed A pathologist said about the bodies, "There The number of pieces the legs were reduced flesh off the bones." In court, Vlassakis wept and one time even He was given four consecutive life sentences ten life sentences and Bunting's eleven life Wagner, who was illiterate, said in court doing terrible things to children." He added, "The authorities didn't do anything I decided to take action. I took that action. Thank you." He failed to mention if these people were he'd obviously enjoyed torturing them. The judge, in response, told him: from the physical act of killing and the violence I am also satisfied you derived pleasure from the bodies." The court heard how Wagner and Bunting enjoyed sometimes taking the head of a victim and Now let's go to Africa and to a country the police enlisted the help of the serial Ressler. Africa choice when picking an African serial killer. We thought about Namibia's so-called B1 at least five people between 2005 and 2007 B1 national highway. There have been arrests in the past, but it Then there was the Hadj Mohammed Mesfewi, the early 1900s, would invite women to his them. But we've chosen a man named Moses Sithole, referred to as the Ted Bundy of Africa. He was born on November 17, 1964, in a town in South Africa. Wealthiest because about a quarter of South whom are residents of the country's largest Sithole's life was certainly not one of His father, Simon, died young, and his mother, years in the rough and ready township of Vosloorus. Since Moses' mother was unable to take care one day dumped at a police station. Her parting message to them all was: Please After that came the orphanage, where the adults He tried to run away on several occasions, From there, he earned a tough living in the odd jobs, often walking the streets helping He may have had a soft spot for such children, women. It seems he could never forgive his mother, Please don't give them my name. He despised women, but like Mr. Bundy, Sithole He was strong, handsome and very charming. Witnesses to his case would later come forward he was, and how he was able to gain the trust It helped, of course, that women often saw In 1994, his murder spree began. His method of luring victims was perhaps quite He'd approach women in the street and tell of children called "Youth Against Human It looked legit. He had documents. While working at a car wash, Sithole had asked documents. His charm certainly helped, so when he told A witness later explained how he approached "He promised her a job. A better job and money and benefits. He gave her forms for a job. She trusted him because she was excited. She said: 'I'm not coming to work tomorrow Johannesburg to have some lunch.'" He wasn't. The only place Youth Against Human Abuse existed That woman who'd been excited about the Her family became frantic, only to become body was found in a field. Later, more bodies were found. They soon stacked up. Cops couldn't keep up with it, especially on them. As time went on, the police noticed that the He spent more time with the bodies. He hurt the women in more creative ways. A newspaper explained, "The killer was evolving pain from his victims, assumedly increasing In fact, the bodies piled up so fast that the FBI profiler and serial killer expert As many as 30 bodies were found in a matter President Nelson Mandela had to cancel trips South Africa was in a state of panic. Matters were made more chaotic when bodies On one body, Sithole wrote in broken English, with you please [sic]," and "We must stay Were these messages for the cops? In 1995, police discovered that Sithole had his name already on file for a violent sexual to go on the run. That's when he called a journalist at The He said he was the killer, calling himself In a phone interview, he admitted to scores with the murder of a woman and her two-year-old In fact, he had killed the boy, hitting him the field from exposure. In a third call, cops tracked the number. It was a pay phone, but by the time they got Police soon discovered that this Mr. Magwena a number he'd given to some of his victims There was nowhere to run now. Sithole later got in touch with his brother-in-law When he met with the brother, who'd already The cops shot him twice, once in the abdomen with an axe. Sithole spent two days in critical condition, What's disturbing is that some reports say women, under the sheets, he was playing with This was one sick man. He explained to the investigators why he'd force a woman to go where I want, and when I was hurt, so I'm doing it now.' Then I kill them." So, he blamed his childhood maltreatment for He admitted to killing 29 women in the space the most prolific African serial killer in the murders were committed in. Police said they had him on 38 murders, which He was actually suspected of murdering 79 the busiest serial killer in African history. 79 in one year is a lot, but as you'll see fashion. In subsequent interviews, Sithole said he eyes bulge when he strangled them, often with The full extent of how he tortured his victims he put them through absolute horror and agony. A South African newspaper wrote, "The case of the existence of evil in our society." This man was hated all over South Africa, 4, 1997, he was sentenced to 2,410 years in years. He's still in prison today at the Mangaung Africa's so-called judicial capital. Let's now move to Asia, the largest continent Asia to choose one serial killer. We might have gone for Ahmad Suradji, the believed that their deaths would give him In terms of evil geniuses, the Vietnamese-French like no other, which included drugging and some of the most exceptional prison escapes In Japan, there was Tsutomu Miyazaki, the bodies and committed unspeakable acts with Then there was the Butcher of Rostov in Russia, 50 women from 1978 to 1990. And when we say brutal, we mean it with a he admitted that the "cries, the blood, certain pleasure." So-called lust killers, killers who mutilate, are scary, especially when some of them like alive. Then again, doing things with dead bodies baffling. You'll learn more about this later in the our number one pick from Asia, a case that history of the nation. The Japanese media at the time said that they they were too disturbing for human consumption. There were actually two killers. Futoshi Matsunaga, was born in the city of Junko Ogata, was born in the city of Kurume The two, who studied together in school in families, especially Ogata, whose family had They were both smart. They were both good-looking, and they showed of serial killer. Matsunaga was something of a playboy in school. He became a father at 19, at which point he That's when he met his school pal, Ogata, despite his marriage. This is why Ogata's mother, Shizumi, told The Japanese press doesn't give many details, engaged in sexual misconduct with Shizumi him. By this point, he'd already divorced his This was not a nice man. He enjoyed wrecking families. He was chaos walking, feeding from other people's Ogata, who was mentally unstable at times too, in these early days, completely under There's a good reason he became known as mean we can forgive Ogata for what happened Still, reports say he beat her. He branded her with cigarettes and, using tattoo his name on her thigh. Matsunaga ticked all the boxes for a psychopath. He was controlling. He showed no empathy. He oozed superficial charm, lied a lot, became self-worth. He was impulsive, parasitic, shallow, a cheat, But there are psychopaths everywhere. It's often said about one percent of the psychopath, and the vast majority of them On the outside, this charming fella looked He owned a futon firm he named "World" Little did people know that one way he had employees into the soundproof room above the This was 1980s Japan, where folks were generally The Japanese media later reported (translated "Employees were called there if they were if Matsunaga was in a bad mood. A senior employee held him down and wrapped his hands and ankles." One of those employees, who, with the other in a small wooden house, said years later, He explained to the press what the shocks had been hit with an iron rod. I lost consciousness for a moment, but I always At the time, Matsunaga told his employees, knew they had parents and sisters and that Those employees had no idea that their boss as part of fraud and blackmail schemes. His scheme fell apart when the cops started to go on the run. Both of them were then added to Japan's Most This is where things turned much darker. While on the run, Matsunaga met a woman he'd kids. She immediately fell for the charming Matsunaga He told her, "Divorce him and come to me, At this point, he already had a kid with Ogata, and the kid his niece. In September 1993, one of the woman's children She mysteriously died a year later, but not of 11.8 million yen (about US$145,510). The police have never been able to convict was the perpetrator. In 1994, he met an estate agent named Kumio daughter. The two talked about crimes they'd committed At the time, Ogata told Kumio she had experience What happened next is plain weird, but maybe Japan and the West. We should also understand that Matsunaga told him, but only if he could completely trust The Japanese press reported that on one of pulled out a form and told Kumio he'd have his criminal past. The form was titled "Certificate of Facts." Below was written, "I certify that I committed to write a signature. Kumio signed it, apparently under great pressure, This is when Matsunaga and Ogata took Kumio They demanded money, saying the two couldn't Kumio was then tied up, or, as the Japanese After being forced into a stress position, He was fed little to no food, sometimes being They even forced his daughter to bite him You can only imagine how distressing this Kumio died soon after, and Matsunaga managed He told her, "I couldn't take your father you made on him with your teeth. If I took him to the hospital, they'd immediately arrest him." She believed him. She was just a kid. The Japanese press explained, "Matsunaga the girl. The two dismembered the bodies using knives, the chunks into the ocean, and disposed of He then got the daughter to sign one of his I killed my biological father with murderous He then met a woman who'd worked for Kumio. As usual, he convinced her he was in love Kyoto University. She and her daughter moved in with Matsunaga, starved, and beaten, as she was forced to One day, she managed to get free after jumping a broken hip and a crushed lung. It's uncertain how much she suffered as to a mental institution. After this failed extortion and murder attempt, parents and relatives (the other Ogatas), In 1997, she went to work in a hostess bar, At this point, she lived in a busy house with Matsunaga knew she would have gone home to They arranged to meet him in his apartment. Junko's mother, Shizumi, her father, Homare, all went, as did Reiko and Kazuya's two Big mistake. The Japanese press said that he once again Junko turned up later, knowing he had her As soon as she stepped through the door, she this, he'd convinced her family that it deserved it. A Japanese news report stated, "At this not only took Matsunaga's side but also that being deceived." As time went by, Matsunaga convinced Reiko them they needed to strangle her. The story gets confusing here. A lot of money was talked about, and it seems they had enemies within their own family. He made them hate and distrust each other, It was about to become the home of a bloodbath. If this sounds unbelievable to you, it does he was named the Mind Control Killer. He was apparently excellent at his job. In December 1997, he convinced Junko to electrocute He forced the remaining members of the Ogata it. In January, he convinced Kazuya to strangle Aya. He killed his wife but not his daughter. Aya would succumb to depravity soon enough, Matsunaga then locked Kazuya in a bathroom, April 13, 1998. Soon after, Matsunaga convinced Junko to kill Talk about a house of horrors! Both he and Junko then tortured Aya. It was Kumio's daughter, who'd been with Aya, but under duress. The date was June 7, 1998. Now, the only survivors were Junko's own Matsunaga told Junko, "Because you ran away entire family. It's your fault." On January 30, 2002, Kumio's daughter managed back to the apartment, tied her up, and electrocuted She escaped again in March and, this time, The daughters were taken into care. Everyone testified as to the extreme things bodies were never found. Kumio explained how Matsunaga had made everyone When he killed her father, he made a stew some. She said he was absolutely "inhuman." A neighbor later testified in court, perhaps stating, "There was this vile smell that People couldn't believe what they were hearing, version of the story. In 2005, both Matsunaga and Junko were sentenced was commuted to life in prison. Just about everyone in Japan said death is Amen to that. Could there be anyone as demented as Mr. Matsunaga? Maybe. Let's now visit Europe. Europe Ripper (Peter Sutcliffe), the extremely creepy the German man Karl Denke, aka The Forgotten in the early 1900s and sold their meat as Then there was Harold Shipman, the British patients to sleep...forever, but his crimes killers' crimes do. Again, we have scores of people we could choose, day, but the killer we think needs to join referred to as The Terminator or the Beast By God, did he earn those very grim-sounding In March 1996, the Ukrainian authorities were which people had been massacred in their homes The killer indeed went through them like a Out of desperation, the country's security Yury Mozola, thinking it was him. It wasn't, and the resulting torture ended innocent man to the case. Soon after, the now-embarrassed and disgraced They were told the man they were looking for order, a cruel maniac if ever there was one. There have been few serial killers in world In 1989, he walked into a house. He'd already scoped the place. He knew how many people lived there and was houses that screams wouldn't be noticed. He could have chosen a family of 3 or 4 or a father, a mother, and eight children. He entered the home and, as planned, used He then shot the mother, and one by one, he each one. Hence his nickname, The Terminator. It's hard to even imagine what that scene started. Months later, he saw a Lada car parked off Five people were sleeping inside. He blasted them all through the window before He later said, "I just shot them. It's not that it gave me pleasure, but I felt From then on, it was almost like some game He also said he was angry ever since growing for wanting to cause harm to families. He also said he heard voices, too, but this That night, he got in the car with the dead Unlike some of the killers on this list, and was not fond of dead bodies. He later admitted, "The stink would send The smell was unbearable." A few months later, he massacred a family He then killed another family of four in their might have seen him leaving the house. In January 1996, he waited on the highway, waving as if he was in distress. When they stopped, he gunned them down. One of the victims was a chef, one a soldier, Two weeks later, he broke into another home When he left the house, he lit it on fire, worker and a 56-year-old pedestrian. He gunned both people down. He did something similar 13 days later to a father and son. He then bashed the mother to death in front When the daughter said she had no money, he This man was a thrill killer, a sadist, what There was no sexual motive. He was killing for killing's sake, albeit They'd have given him everything, anyway. He just loved killing. Just over a week later, he engaged in what He shot the parents, but with the kids, he again with an axe. An hour later, he saw a man near the house, body. He'd later tell cops he was just getting no need to kill every single person in those He enjoyed it, no doubt about that. In an interview, he said one time, after he'd a girl was praying. She hadn't properly seen his face. She was just praying to God that she wouldn't He told the investigators, "Seconds before me where they kept their money. She looked at me with an angry, defiant stare That strength was incredible. But I felt nothing." He later called it hunting, explaining, "I And then, suddenly, this idea would get into I would do everything to get it out of my It was stronger than me." This case is special because serial killers families. Sure, there were prolific axe murderers in in the 21st century, such massacres are rarely Had this crime been in the UK or US, there'd And yet, we imagine most of you have never During the trial, his lawyers argued that Half the time, he'd ramble to them about the CIA and Interpol. It was a bit late for MKUltra... "I'm not a maniac," he once said to an "If I were, I would have thrown myself onto I have been taken over by a higher force...I A part of an experiment to prove that man with his crimes." Other times, he said such things as, "I I looked those children I murdered in the For you, it's 52 murders, but for me, that's 52, that's the number of kills, and except in a space of around six months. Ukrainians were upset. It seemed to them the cops hadn't done enough, "People screamed so loudly that they could But nobody came to help them. Everybody went into hiding, like mice." He was given a death sentence, but after Ukraine was commuted to life. Would he kill again if he were ever released? He once said: again. But this time, it will be worse, ten times The urge is there. Seize this chance because I am being groomed After what I have learned out there, I have Err, well, let's just say South America Still, killing that many people in six months Now, let's head over to South America, the serial killers in modern history. South America Who to choose? We could go for "The Monster of the Andes," 110 girls and women from 1969 to 1980 throughout He claimed it was more like 300. Unbelievably, he was released from custody out there killing again. In terms of raw numbers, the South Americans another top ten killer, Pedro Alonso Lopez from Colombia, who brutally tortured and murdered biting, burning and doing all manner of other bound. It's believed his body count was 221 from So, a higher number than The Terminator's, But we've chosen Daniel Camargo Barbosa El Charquito." He was also from Colombia. We'll just add here, in case any Colombians serial killers in Argentina, Brazil, and Peru. In the 1970s and 1980s, this sadistic creature in Colombia and Ecuador. That's the lowest figure. He might well have murdered up to 180 girls. Like many or even most serial killers, Mr. His cruel mother dressed him up as a girl up and humiliated. He wanted payback. He started off by drugging girls he'd persuaded You can imagine what he did next. In the early days, he let them go once they about her experience, he was imprisoned in From here on in, he wouldn't leave any more This guy was like the pied piper, the boogeyman, as the press reported, he would do his worst an "extremely brutal death" often in the He once said he chose the purist victims, said, "they cried more," and he got off When his victims were young, he'd lure them of treat or snack, and when the victims were to get them to follow him. He was very successful at this. After he was caught, a Colombian journalist talked about good and evil like a philosopher, Freud, Garcia Marquez, and Friedrich Nietzsche. &quot;He had an answer for everything and was able said the journalist. When Barbosa was finally caught in 1986, inside by Fyodor Dostoyevsky. Like another killer we'll talk about soon, Barbosa admitted to killing 71 girls and women, much higher. We are not going to go through what happened and just too grim, but we will say police slashed, stabbed, strangled, and even crushed. His weapon of choice was often a machete. One time, an adult woman hit him on the head her and threw the head away like it was a With another victim, he cut out the lungs, a fish. Some serial killers, such as the Brit Dennis an infinitely unhealthy relationship with show the utmost amount of disrespect, or at He even sometimes made nasty, taunting phone His karma came knocking, but not until after After ten years in prison in Colombia, he he would have been eaten in the shark-infested That wasn't true. At this so-called Colombian Alcatraz, Barbosa into the water. He managed to get to Ecuador, where he carried cops to get him minutes after he'd killed Not only was he carrying that Dostoyevsky clothes and a part of her sliced-off sexual On November 13, 1994, at Quito's infamous 29-year-old Giovanny Arcesio Noguera Jaramillo, "It is the hour of vengeance." He stabbed him eight times and took an ear Noguera later told guards that he was avenging of this Sadist of El Charquito. Antarctica get pretty lonely, and people have been known While there have been violent attacks in the be turned into a movie like The Shining. Still, in 2018, media reported that one man desolation and cold." AP reported that a Russian researcher named breakdown" and stabbed a welder multiple The welder survived, and Savitsky was sent There have been a few cases of violence out but as yet, no serial killers...not like this of them. North America serial killers that have been documented in like this - bear in mind the FBI says there in the USA at any one time. United States -- 3,204 South Africa -- 117 Italy -- 97 Germany -- 85 India -- 80 The US might seem way ahead, but you also publishing information about serial killers Some countries that are somewhat closed off and Russia, have no doubt suppressed information You should also bear in mind the population some of the these countries' police forces as the US. The US isn't as bad then as the numbers quite a few serial killers. That might be because serial killers are so of celebrities, and there's evidence that In no other nation do killers get so much In the US, most often than not, they become Ok, so who'd be the worst in North America? We could, of course, have played it safe and he doesn't frighten us like some others. Sure, Bundy's creepy and charming personality to look elsewhere. We could have chosen Ed Kemper, the high-IQ, heads of his victims, or ED Gein, who doesn't making skin suits from his victims that he nipples. Jeffrey Dahmer slept with bodies and tried into his drugged victims' heads. Then you have the utterly depraved sadists, Killer, and one of the scariest men in history American press, Dean Corll, aka, The Candy boys on his torture wall in the early 70s candy. He fastened those teenagers to his infamous tool kit. After reading several books on North American depravity that shocked us the most. The man was just insanely cruel. Even so, we're not choosing him. We've decided on a sicko named Melvin Rees, because his story hasn't been as publicised His nickname was the "Sex Beast," which about to hear. His other nickname is perhaps more confusing. That was "The Bebop Nietzsche Necrophile." Peter Vronsky, an author we've mentioned serial killers, introduced us to Rees in one twisted" person with "monstrous impulses." He was indeed monstrous, and yet he looked being who you'd gladly invite over for dinner He wasn't creepy or slimey like Bundy, or This is one serial killer who, to everyone clever guy. For us, that makes him all the more terrifying. He could be your best buddy, your uncle, your We don't know much about his childhood, US Army and went to Europe, where he earned On his return, he studied at the University musician, notably with the saxophone, piano, Jazz music was his biggest love, well, we After dropping out of uni, playing jazz in Everything looked quite normal in his life. In 1954, he got married, and later, he and Things were not as normal as they seemed, In 1955, he attempted to abduct a 36-year-old However, she escaped before he could drive It seems the police got involved, but the a decision that might have cost quite a few Now we move to June 1, 1956, when 18-year-old were looking for a good time. These two youngsters are rebels without a They love hitchhiking, looking for music and This is an era of beat writing and jazz music. The girls don't want to be tied down. They want to discover America, like the author That night, they were waiting at a bus stop in Maryland when a blue sedan pulled up. The girls got in the car as if they knew the They then got out again to switch positions. They seemed very comfortable with this guy, young women with his deep talk about philosophy. It wasn't until June 14 that Shelby's at a place called Catoctin Creek in Virginia. Mary's body was found nearby. Both girls had died at the same time or thereabouts. Shelby had been strangled, and Mary's cause It was later discovered that the girls had jazz player at a club. His name was Melvin Rees. He was indeed a cool cat. That year, 16-year-old Nancy Shomette and missing. The two had taken a shortcut through the University report card from school. They never got there. Their bodies were found later by a dog walker. They'd been shot by a .22 rifle. In both these cases, pathologists said it motivated. The victims were young and without known enemies, in cold blood? It didn't make much sense, and in those common. The Golden Age of serial killing in the US This was one of the cases that kicked it off. Now we must go forward in time to June 26, 31-year-old Roy Hudson had turned down a small after having some food and beers earlier. They notice a car, after which a man walks He tells them, "What do you think this is, The man said it was his job to watch over He then asked the couple for a smoke and asked When the man got in the car, Roy shuffled well-spoken handsome man pulled out a snub-nosed The man was about to tie their hands when his cash if his hands were tied. The man replied, "Don't worry, I'll Boom. He then shot Margaret in the back of the head, Roy, seeing an opportunity, burst through He got to a farmhouse and called the police. When cops got back to the car, Margaret's The man who'd killed her, described as about her dead body, a pure sicko. Roy then told them he'd seen a green car the killer. The car was near a shack, said Roy, and when cord lying around. Worse, when they entered the rundown and dirty of a nightmare. The walls were covered with photos, horrid Scenes of death and torture taken from what these cops. This was the 1950s. They really didn't know what to think. We'll just say here that there were many and 70s who admitted after being caught they magazines that often depicted murder and cannibalism. They were a huge craze back then, in an era was involved in a paranoid and violent Cold Back to the scene, police then noticed another This time, it was a regular photo of a girl This was just shocking to them. Vronsky describes the scene as police walking Now, dear viewers, we think you can understand numerous Hollywood movies. Any number of films have depicted what the Actually, the rest of this story you've and again. Not long after this grisly and frankly weird walked into the police station looking like They said they'd just been parked in a quiet them with a .39 blue steel snub-nosed gun. The man managed to tie them up partly, but The man gave chase, but they managed to outrun It was around this time that police found lair. Her name was Wanda Tipton. They half-expected her to be dead, but she They asked her if she'd met any strange She was lying. She'd been dating this super cool cat, a But he was married, so she told police she'd Soon after, another couple in a car met a The man stuffed the male into the trunk and When he was done with her, he told her, "You're I'm glad this wasn't worse than it was." She was in shock. She didn't know what to say out of fear The man allowed them to run off into the nearby On Saturday, January 11, 1959, 29-year-old daughters, Susan (5) and Janet (18 months), parents in Louisa, Virginia. Their car was found about ten miles away at ignition. Soon, newspapers were all over the story, into thin air. Some talked about UFOs, and others mentioned Entire families didn't just vanish. The next March, two farmers were driving when When one of them went to put branches under ankle, and then a leg. It was Carroll. Police found that he'd been beaten badly The youngest daughter was found next to him. It was likely she'd been in his arms when when he fell into the mud. But where were the others? Later in March, two teenage boys, John and to that pervert's lair in Maryland when maybe a squirrel. They shot at it, only to realize this was They walked up to it and poked it. One of the boys later told police, "I thought Cops then gave this man the name the Beast. He'd done terrible things to the mother, He'd also beaten the girl to death. Not only that, he'd committed disgusting What kind of maniac would do such a thing? One of the reasons we're telling you this true crime tale because it was the first time killer. Up until then, they'd had no interest in Robert Ressler. Still, it seems the FBI was no better than at solving the case. It was plain good luck then that they got They spoke to his roommate, who'd contacted weird ways of looking at life. He told them that Rees, now divorced, a brilliant philosophy. The roommate said Rees often told him that "individual standards of right and wrong," ethics. "You can't say it's wrong to kill," he'd Rees seemed to be expressing the Nietzschean The masters, according to Nietzsche, make The slaves, Nietzsche said, resent the masters, What Nietzsche didn't say is it's okay to Hitler interpreted the precept. The roommate also said about Rees, "Anything He's a thrill-seeker, I guess." Ree's mother later said her son would often and no one had the right to take that away She made him sound like the killer from the her some "people in today's sick society" "There are some things I find pleasure in She later told police he cheated at games, She said he was fascinated by not just murders about Nazi atrocities. He liked Nietzsche but held to the views of philosophy kind of said life was so painful She said her son would stay up all night on these people, and worse, he was obsessed with de Sade. On June 20, 1960, police arrested him, a man According to Vronsky, there are varying stories a good kid who liked animals; he was clever His father said his son was always "kind thing." Apparently, Melvin's own son absolutely After his arrest, his fellow students came versatile, mild-mannered, intelligent, and Even his ex-wife said he was all those things, into any strange sexual stuff. He was a good husband, she said, but he left The B-movie actress and topless dancer Pat as Orgy of the Dead, The Satanist, and Hedonistic and it seems they got along just fine. But when the police raided his house, part diary." In it, he wrote such things as "Drove to baby. Now the mother were all mine!" He'd emphasized the "all mine" part. Police refused to make public what he'd but they did publish the part where he wrote, her. I was her master." This is why we've chosen his story. It's mind-boggling how such a clean-cut, no history of trauma or violence could become This was a Jekyll and Hyde case like no other. Such killers throughout history are very, At trial, he looked like a Hollywood movie in prison, he began to lose his mind. In 1985, he gave an interview to a journalist admitted to killing Mary Fellers and Shelby and Shomette. He died from heart issues in 1995 while serving Now you need to watch "Worst Serial Killers Or, have a look at "How These Sneaky Serial