Today let's talk about searchable drop-down lists in Excel. I already have a video on It's good for cases where or have a central filter but it can't be replicated Since that's the most common watch that video. Today I'm going to address that. I'll show you an easy method you can use to replicate your to multiple Excel rows. Let's get to it. This is where I want to validation lists. I want them to apply from Basically anywhere here, I characters, click on a drop that include these characters. Now this can be at the beginning, the middle or the end, The complete list of customers is sitting in the master data tab right here. In addition to their names, I also have the company this is formatted as an which is called, Table Customer. I'm quickly going to bring you up to speed on how the original solution worked, because that solution our today's solution as well. So that didn't use any VBA. Instead, it used the new available in Excel for office 365. The problem with this solution though, was it only worked for a replicated to multiple you typed in some characters, and then we use formulas preparation list that was So basically, we prepared we're going to feed that data validation. So let's do that really quickly Now I'll just work from the inside out. So the first thing I did, was I just typed in, in this list here. And to do that I use So, the text I'm looking for is the text that I just typed in. I'm looking for it, not in entire customer column I want to start looking? from the first corrector that's So close bracket, press Enter. What I get is a list Wherever there's a match, I get a number. That number can be different, depending on where those characters So I typed in RO in this case, it starts From the fifth character, it starts from the first character. And wherever I have hash value, it means it didn't find a match. So my next step was to turn and false values. So wherever there's a match, and wherever there isn't a match, we're going to get a false. The step after that was to filter for the true values, by using The D array is the list that which is a list of my customers. The next argument is include arguments. So what do I want to have included? By default, this includes I already have that outlined here. So anything that will included in my final array. The last argument is if empty, wondering when it would get not found, close bracket, press 'Enter'. That's my list. It's restricted to My end result was to get a So let's set that up. Let's Instead of any value, I want to list. And I want that list to D2 that's where my list starts. But I'm going to use the new the syntax for spilled so this will give me the and then click on OK. If I click on the drop down here, I get a list of names that But there is one little So if I change this to I get an error that to data validation restrictions. So there is one setting, I need to adjust in my data So let's go back, to data uncheck, show error alert and click on OK. Now if I type in an L and of names that include L. And if there is nothing in there, and I click on the drop down, And if there is something I see, 'not found here.' But the problem is that pointing to B5. How can I apply this My first idea was to use The problem that we currently have though, is that we can't use names that use dynamic array references So let me quickly demonstrate that. Let's go back to our RO here. I'm just going to reference this here. And what I'm going to do, is to create a dynamic named range out of this, but just so that we can visualize it, let me take this here and and switch this to this So basically, whatever we change here, we can see our spilled range here. Okay, now what I'm going out of this, let's just fix the E5, I want to fix the E but not the 5, because my idea would be to as well. Now let's copy this and go and create a new name. I'm going to paste that DV for data validation and click on OK, that formula that I have So if I close this, delete this, and instead replace this with If I change this to RO, If in the next cell, I would and I'm just going to copy this down. And now I'm going to move this down, okay? Because imagine this is it will work fine, right without problems. So in theory, I should be able that uses these names. So if I go to data, go to data validation, go to settings here, list, This is the error that I get the source currently evaluates an error. Whatever you Pick, it's not going to work. So then I thought instead of using a name, how about creating different of these cells? Well, let's see how we can set that up. Let's go back to master data. Now the problem is I because this is going to of another, just see if These are going to be spilled ranges. So I can't do it like this. But what I can do is So I'm going to put this before I pull this down. And now, I can pull this down. So as, to as many cells validation, think I had 15 cells there. So let's pull these down two more. And that's now separate every single cell, so notice that here, I get the entire list because those cells are currently empty. Now, one thing I forgot to 'cause it would be nice to have a sorted, filtered data validation list. So I'm going to put the as well as I can sort that filtered list. And let's just drag this down. Okay, so let's check all this. Let's first update the for our first data validation list. 'cause remember, originally, to D2. So I'm going to keep the D fixed now. But I'm not going to fix the to data validation, I wanted Now, let's click on OK, now validation set up properly, I'm right mouse click, paste As we just want to copy Okay, so now let's check for Miller. I have Gary Miller for RO, Robert bloom. Let's say if I don't type in anything, I'm going to get the complete list. And if I start typing like drop down, I get the list of Right, so that data work on all of these cells. Now, one last bonus formula have selected the customer. Now to get that set up really fast, I'm going to use the Look up the customer it up is in the customer column. What do I want to get back and in case it's not found, because I haven't finished typing in the name or the name doesn't exist. I'm going to put nothing there, And that's it. I don't need to fix anything here because I'm using table references. So I'm going to copy this down, and I get my searchable drop down list on every single line here that that customer works That's a simple method you can use to create multiple searchable in Excel on the same I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, give it a thumbs up. And if you're new here, if you haven't subscribed to this channel, consider subscribing.