You know, we power internet infrastructure the world and some of the smallest and fastest growing ones, sort of everybody wanted to be America, but China, what it felt different was that they wanted to beat America. It was incredulous to us on why is sitting there and software could be better, but nobody was doing anything. If somebody told us something like GBT four would be available in 2014. By 2024, we would say the world would have changed entirely. Where I see it all going is will actually happen. Why Tesla's literally the only in the real world with models. One Christmas, we just decided we're I think both of you know, one of the greatest things about San Francisco, especially a decade ago. Was it, you could literally cold email anyone and people would respond. Did you imagine Microsoft to be this successful? Yeah. Let me just stop you. Absolutely not. Have you considered a career in podcasting? You are so good at this. You should just join us. We can call it the Arthi, show. This is an episode with two surprises we have with us today. A longtime friend, Anil is the founder of a company called meter. If you don't know about them, trust me, you are probably using them right now. They power a lot of the networking internet work as it should. Now it turns out that they are also when it comes to designing experiences around what AI should look like. And in this conversation His amazing history with him and his brother. They have quite a unique childhood. They talked to us about his company and He shows us a fun little demo, but here's the two surprises. First, him and his brother have a fantastic. Uh, for finding and supporting great people. And we talked to him about how they do that. What are the signifiers of great young have supported some people you and I know really well, like Dorkesh Patel. But the real surprise is about third of the way left in the episode. Anil turns the tables on Aarti and me and starts asking us questions, things that we haven't been asked before. And it actually led to some very surprising places. Anil is one of a kind, and you are going to have a delight watching this episode. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an exciting you may not have heard from or seen before, and trust me, that's going to change starting today, and you're going to see this person everywhere as Paul Heyman says in WWE, that's not a prediction, that's a spoiler. Uh, we have the one and only, Anil Varanasi. Now, Anil is the founder, along with most exciting networking companies, and Anil is going to talk to you about why networking is the sexiest thing out there. But, this is not just a conversation. Uh, somebody in Silicon Valley who has built an interesting company. There's definitely a part of it, but and helpful people you can meet. And when I was preparing for this episode. I spoke to so many people, very well known figures in Silicon Valley, who had stories and questions and anecdotes about Anil, which we want to get into. And he is incredibly hard and elusive to pin down for this conversation. Uh, I remember talking to him And so we finally made this happen. After five years, Anil Woo! Welcome. Welcome Renu. Alright, thanks Srivam. Thank you for having us. Alright. Okay. So, we're going to get into networking and why networking may be some of the most interesting piece of But I also think we're going at the cutting edge of how user There's a lot of fun stuff there. Uh, I think you're one of the most talkative people on talent, uh, which I want to get into. But, uh, Since it's probably the first time we're having this conversation, I want to get into your origin story. So tell us a little bit about you, how you got here in the first place. Yeah. My brother and I grew up in Hyderabad until I was 12. He was 14. And then our family moved to Northern Virginia, seemingly for all the random reasons, immigrants move a certain Um, and that's, that's like the biggest reason, but probably the fortuitous thing that happened to us in Northern Virginia. Is one, we were next to this eclectic happy to go into, like, the history of it and why GMU is so interesting. Uh, and then two, uh, is minutes from where we grew up. And then three, about 70 to 74 percent of all internet traffic goes through Northern Virginia. For, again, for a lot Mm. Um, so. In India and Hyderabad, the Northern Virginia, we went to college there. We started a company there. Um, but I, I feel incredibly Uh, some sort of like Mayflower Plymouth thing for us, but, um, in Northern Virginia. You know, so I'm curious, like talk to us a little bit about Your parents and your upbringing because, uh, you folks and I kind of think your parents, uh, you know, treated you a little differently. There are a lot of parents with their kids. Yeah, we were fortunate on a few things. One, our parents were busy themselves. They had actual careers. They were super busy, so we parenting and things like that. But I think. Couple of things beyond that, where they were very open to and kind of push towards is what one of our common range kids, which is Hinkie's line. Um, uh, I think we were basically as long as we didn't hurt each other or somebody else growing up. And I think especially you guys grew up in India like me, um, you know, You do just get to like go and do whatever you want all the time. There are no restrictions. But I think that kind of seeped over even when we moved to America. And that was incredibly fortunate for us. But the other thing I think they did were probably since I was like 10 or an adult, which was very different than when I went over to my friend's house for dinner or something like that. Compared to how their parents how my parents treated us when my parents had dinner guests over. We were part of the table. We argued books. Um, you know, one of my dad's cousins is a professor, and he tells this, like, you know, endearing story of him mentioning something. And like, I Forget if it was like and suddenly the four of us just left own books to site saying this is the reason why I am right for all four of us. And none of us agreed with each other, which is also interesting. But I think we were always treated like adults. We were given any free reign to do. I feel like decisions that were made were okay for us to make. It didn't have to be that an adult had to make a decision. People become adults much Okay, can I ask you, what is the defining, uh, line or behavior that you think makes someone an adult versus a child? Because I've heard this before. And I think about, for example, uh, how someone like a Walt Disney, uh, was able to tap into his spirit of childhood for there are so many things that he does which are childlike, uh, and yeah, and I think that is a Part of modern life where, is probably about like 50, 60 years over what it was a thousand years ago. We have access to modern medical care. Uh, we live longer. And I sort of wonder whether not is just fundamentally Yeah, but before we kind of get into it, uh, in the United States, average life expectancy is going down, not up. And we can talk about it separately. Oh, wow. Fact check. Okay. Okay. Hold on. Uh, look, like, like we, the vice presidential debate a couple of weeks ago, no one's allowed to fact check on, Maybe like to directly answer your question. I think of that as like something very the consequences of your decisions. And that feels like culturally is pushed much later. You know, uh, society Your parents make decisions for you. Culture make decisions for you. And by the time you make That seems like it's much later. I've been tracking literature. We don't have any longitudinal Um, but it just feels that way. And I think, you know, one of the few Is India. India still feels like it's good. People just go do stuff, even when like bright for India because of that. Well, okay. So on the theme of doing stuff when you're younger, right? I want to come back and tie this Because, uh, you know, you get raised in Indian origin household. Um, but you go off, uh, you folks So could you just walk Like, you know, because you guys things, which I really want to get into. Yeah. I think our first love was actually film. Uh, and we spent a lot of time making a lot of film. Um, and we got really into it, um, like a crew of babies and there's, there's a lot of things we kind of were doing, uh, and at one point we were kind of deciding. If we should Make film forever. We should actually build all the And our calculus was this technology and we can kind of do that later. Probably it's I think I'd give majority of the credit to my brother. He's arguably, you know, One of the smartest people I've ever met, but incredibly kind, uh, down to the fact that if there were two of us, like there were two of me, one of us wouldn't have survived. It's that good that he's around. Um, and you know, we've now been working around that other than two prisoners that have shared a cell There's not that many people that have spent more time together than me and my brother Um, and I think what kind of started is he's just like more of a tinkerer And I think his greatest gift is the fact that he can just pick up and learn things on the fly so we ended up building all sorts to film to music to And once we really got into film, we started kind of really thinking about what is like, you know, physical theater design look like. And we started building those. Um, then, uh, I think we really got around like maybe 2003, 2004, mainly because of a lot of things we wanted to do in film needed better software. Uh, and you know, you kind of make your own plugins and Maya and shake and all those things you So it kind of started off that way. Then I think part of the entrepreneurial Northern Virginia, something like 40 Fairfax County and Loudoun County. Um, which are the two of the highest per capita income counties in the, in the country. At least one income in a household Uh, and so we were no different kind of growing up and hearing a lot of these conversations. And so we just started doing small Uh, and I kind of just describe it as a video game. That's like an M. M. O. You start beating a small boss and you beat a bigger boss over time. Uh, and that's kind of how it started. There was a time when both of to China and spent quite a bit of time in factories over there. Why, what happened and So we deliberately wanted to start meter and we were trying to figure out how the city of 800, 000 people figured out how So we're like, is it in the So one Christmas, we just decided So, we get to SF, we didn't know one of the greatest things about San Francisco, especially a decade ago, was that you could literally cold email anyone, and I mean the word literally in the actual sense, not in like, you people would actually just like respond and say, what's up, what do you need? Um, so, we had a deliberate